CvZ    Z~~; 7Z CG. I - 141
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
'; nlulVlv!C,l' {;(Xi'''                                           Report No. 9307-HA
^,i'l  , 't. /  t'Hp:,  ,     ,);.,  ', A;
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HAITI
FORESTRY AID ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
September 3, 1991
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Gourde (G)
Exchange Rate Effective May 1991
US$1.00 = G 5.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AOP         -      Agroforestry Outreach Project
BME         -      Bureau des Mines et de l'Energie
DRN         -      Direction des Ressources Naturelles (MARNDR)
EMAF        -      Ecole Moyenne d'Agroforesterie
ESMAP       -     Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FAMV        -      Faculte d'Agriculture et de Medecine V6terinaire
FAO         -      Food and Agriculture Organization
FEPP        -      Forestry and Environmental Protection Project
HA          -     Hect_.re
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
ISPAN       -      Institut de Sauvegarde de la Patrimoine Nationale
LCB         -      Local Competitive Bidding
LPG         -      Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MARNDR      -     Ministere de l'Agriculture. des Ressources Naturelles
et du Developpement Rural
NGO         -      Non-Governmental Organization
OLADE       -      Latin American Er.ergy Organization
PFN         -     Projet Forestier National
PPF         -      Project Preparation Facility
SDR         -     Special Drawing Right
SECID       -      South East Consortium for International Development
SPE         -     Service de Protection de l'Environnement (Environment
Protection Service of MARNDR)
SRF         -     Service des Ressources Forestieres (Fcrest Resources
Services of MARNDR)
TFAP        -      Tropical Forestry Action Plan
UNDP        -      United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -      U.S. Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL aEPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . .                     . . . .   1
II.   BACKGRMOUND  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
The Country..                    . .  * . . . .                3
The Economy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..        . .         3
The Agricultural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
The Forestry Subsector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
The Environment.. . . . .                      . . . . .       6
The Household Energy Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
III.   INSTITUTIONS. STRATEGIES & DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS FOR RENEWABLE
NATURAL RESOURCES AND HOUSEHOLD ENERGY . ..        . . . .     8
Institutional Responsibilities and Constraints . . . . . . .   8
Past Forest Development Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Household Energy Programs  ...   .......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  12
Government Objectives and Strategy . ...   . . . .  .  .  .  .   .   13
Rationale for IDA Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
IV.   THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... .   15
Objectives and Brief Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Detailed Features  . . .        . . . . . . . .. . . ....  16
Household Energy Conservation Subproject . . . . . . . . .    23
Project Cost and Financing. .                                 26
Procurement.    . . . .                       .28
Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Account and Audit        ..                                   30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Haiti in June/July 1990. The mission com7rised Mr. E. Goetz (Mission Leader),
Mr. R. Simeolo (Financial Analyst), Me. C. Shaw (Economist), Mr. .7. Leitmann
(Energy Economist), Messrs. A. White, G. Smucker, C. Woods, and Ms. F. Sergile
(Consultants). Peer reviewers for the project were Messrs. W. Beattie
(Forestry Specialist), C. Plaza (Environmental Officer) and M. Cernea (Senior
SociologiLt). The Department Director and Sector Division Chief were Messrs.
Yoshiaki Abe and Douglas A. Forno, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contenta (Cont'd)
Paae No.
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Organization and Management  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .    30
Technical Assistance and Consultancies . . . . .  .          31
Monitoring, Progress Reporting and Evaluation  . . . . . . .  32
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS. IMPACT AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  . .    . .  33
Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         35
Risks  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ...  .  .  .   ...    36
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .       . . . . . . . .   36
ANNEX 1
Tables on Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
ANNEX 2
Regulatory Framework for Natural Resources, Forest
Reserves and Parks   ... .  .  .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .   .  56
Appendix   I  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  68
ANNEX 3
Pine Forest Management ... .  .  .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .   .  73
Appendix I . .          .. . . . . . .                     80
Figure 1 . . . . . . . . . . .. .   . .  82
ANNEX 4
Forestry and Agroforestry Research . . . . . . . . . . . .  83
Appendix 1 to 7  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  91
ANNEX 5
Agroforestry Extension In and Near Forest Reserves
and National Parks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Tables 5.1 to 5.8  .......          ........    117
Appendix I to 4  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   ... .    125
ANNEx 6
Environmental Protection Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . 143
Appendix 1 to 4          .       .        ........ . 157
ANNEX 7
Training..                                .  . . . . .. .  165
Appendix 1 . . . . . . . . . .  .  .      . . . . . . . .  171



TAble of Contentg (Cgnt'd)
Page NQ.
ANNEX 
MARNDR Institutional Strengthening and Project
Implementation . . . . . .  .. . . . . . . .  174
Appendix I to 4  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . 178
Attachmento A to 8.. . .                        . .... . 187
ANNEX 9
Household Energy Conservation Subproject . . . . . . . . . 201
Table  1    .  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  210
Figure  1  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   211
Appent': I to 4  ..... .     . . . . . . .  .  .    ..... . 212
ANNEX -10
Charts 1 to 2  .. . . . . . .  #. ..  .. .  .  .  .  .  ...   . 224
Document 3 .       ...... .........  .. . . . ..  .  226
Chart 4  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  228
Document 5     .....  . .  .  .  ........... ...    235
Maps: IBRD No. 22561 and 22676



H4tTI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
I. CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Government of Haiti
Implementint       Directorate of Natural Resources (DRN) of the Ministry of
Afencios:          Minis.try of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural
Development (MARNDR); and
Bureau of Mines and Energy (BME) of the Ministry of Public
Works, Transport and Communications.
Beneficiaries:    Farmers within and in the surrounding buffer zones of
national parks and forests; urban consumers of wood-based
fuels; general population through the strengthening of
natural resource protection mechanisms.
Amount:            SDR 19.7 million (US$26.1 million equivalent).
Terms:             40 years, including 10 years of grace, with a 0.75% annual
service charge.
Project            The objective of the project would be to slow the pace of
Objectives:        degradation of Haiti's natural resources by: (a) protecting
the remaining forests and safeguarding vital ecosystems from
further destruction; (b) increasing wood production through
the promotion of agroforestry on farms, and improved
management of State Forest lands; and (c) reducing the
pressure on vegetation for charcoal production through
conservation of woodfuels used by urban households. The
project would build the institutional and policy framework
for Haiti's Tropical Forestry Action Plan through which
complementary efforts would be made to redress Haiti's
natural resource destruction, as implementation capacity
develops.
Brief              The project would provide technical and financial support
PescriDtion:       for:  (a) the institutional strengthening of the NARNDR's
Directorate of Natural Resources and its Forestry and
Environmental Protection Services, and for training in
forestry and agroforestry; (b) specific programs to promote
.:ee planting and soil conservation, improve the management
of forest reserves, expand forestry and agroforestry
research, establish and manage national parks and biosphere
reserves, and monitor land use in Haiti; and (c) promotion
by the Bureau of Mines and Energy of more efficient charcoal
stoves in urban areas.



Afnefita:         Project benefits consist of:  (i) Incremental aZroforestry
production (wood and crops) and income from the farms served
by the projet's extension services; (ii) maintenance and
development of timber resources in the Pine Forest Reserve,
which would virtually disappear without the type of support
provided by the project; and (iii) reduction of demand for
domestic charcoal, and thereby the pressure to cut trees in
Haiti, through the introduction of more efficient stoves.
In addition, the overall framework for the development and
protection of forest resources and forest ecosystems would
be improved, while the development of institutions,
technology and approach to agroforestry would lay the ground
for more ambitiius programs at a later stage.
Risks:            The main risks of the project relate to:  (i) uncertain
political stability which may impact on continued Government
commitment to its declared development strategy, project
funding, and efficient management of the implementing
agencies; and (ii) institutional weaknesses which would
constrain the ability to reform the regulatory framework.
To -inimiza the risks, the project's objectives and scale of
o;,rations have been kept in line with the institutional
reality in spite of the unquestionable need to progress more
vapidly; technical assistance would be hired where local
expertise is not available; funding of local salaries by the
project would be done Lin a declining basis; annual work
programs and budgets would be approved by IDA; and a mid-
term review of the project would be used to redesign the
project as required.
Project Cost and Financina: (in US$ millions, including contingencies)
Total     Govern-    IDA
Cost      ment       Credit
Instit. Support, Technical Assistance, Training  11.3        1.5        9.8
Agroforestry, incl. Water Resource Development    6.1         -         6.1
Forest Management                                  5.0       0.8        4.2
Forestry/Agroforestry Research                     2.2       0.4        1.8
Inventory/Management of Protected Areas            2.8       0.2        2.6
Household Energy Conservation                      0.8       ...        0.8
Project Preparation Facility                       0.8        -         0.8
Total (including contingencies)           29.0      2.9        26.1
Estimated Disbursements: ---------------------IDA Fiscal Yeat---------------
1991 1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
(PFF)
-------------------- US$ million------------------
Annual           0.3   0.7   2.1   4.7   7.3   5.2   3.7   1.8   0.3
Cumulative       0.3   1.0   3.1   7.8  15.1  20.3  24.0  25.8  26.1
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.



-3-
II.   BACKGROUND
The Country
2.01        Haiti covers the western third of the Hispaniola island in the
Caribbean, and has a land area of 27,700 km2. Much of the land is
mountainous, with steep slopes and rugged terrain restricting agriculture,
transport and communications. Only about 15% of the land areas is reasonably
flat. Climate is tropical, with temperatures averaging 240C. Rainfall is
irregular and generally occurs in two rainy seasons. It varies between 400 mm
in coastal and low lying areas and over 3,000 mm in the high mountains.
Periodic severe droughts and occasional hurricanes exacerbate the climatic
instability. In spite of the relative uniformity of Haiti's geology, soil
qualities vary widely and range from skeletal soils on steep slopes to deep
soils of several meters in the flat areas, in particular in the central
savanna.
2.02        Haiti is one of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere
with a per capita GNP of US$400 in 1989. It, population is estimated at
6.2 million (1987) and grows at an annual rate of 1.7Z. About 752 live in
rural areas, mostly employed in agricultural activities. The overall
population density is 223 persons per km2, one of the highest in the Western
Hemisphere. The main urban areas are the capital Port-au-Prince and Cap
Haitien in the north with combined population of about 1.2 million. The
population in the countryside is not evenly distributed. For historical and
land tenure reasons, some high potential areas in the plains are
underpopulated and underused, whereas population density is very heavy in
certain hilly and mountainous zones where soils are poor.
The Economy
2.03        Haiti's economy, after a decade of stagnation in real per capita
growth until 1985, improved its performance in 1986 and mos_: of 1987,
following a major change of political regime and structural economic reforms
supported by various donors including IDA. But since 1988, the country has
experienced a profound economic setback brought on by a series of political
crises. The political instability has impeded economic performance by way of
loss of investor confidence, work stoppages, distraction of Government from
economic policy reforms and slow disbursements, as well as suspension cf vital
external assistance. The current economic situation is characterized by
negative GDP growth, a high and increasing level of open unemployment,
especially in the urban areas, rising prices, large budgetary and balance of
payments gaps, and rapidly deteriorating provision of economic and social
services.
2.04        The major economic sector in Haiti is agriculture, which
contributes 35S of GNP and employs two thirds of the labor force, followed by
commerce (19% of GNP) and manufacturing (17%). Merchandise exports totalled
US$214 million on average of 1984-1988, and consisted mainly of manufactured
goods (61%), coffee (21X), and cocoa and essential oils (2% each).
Merchandise imports exceed the export value by about 50%, and food imports



-4-
alone consume 402 of total export earnings. Other featureo of Haiti's economy
include its relative opon access and the importance of non-regulated trade,
its dependency on transfer payme ,ts from Haitians living abroad, a high
unemployment rate of 252-302 of the labor force, and the export of labor to
neighboring countries for seasonal agricultural jobs such as cene cutting and
coffee harvesting.
The Agriculture Sector
2.05        Agriculture in terms of GDP contribution and employment remains
Haiti's most important economic sector, although its contribution has been
declining and is expected to continue its long-term decline. The decline is
explained by, among other factors, the relentless pressure of the population
on the country's very limited cultivable land resources, leading to decreasing
farm sizes, overexploitation of land, increases in the land values, and
declining productivity per hectare and per worker. These problems are
aggravated by a fluid and complex land tenure situ_tion which does not aliQw
rational use of the available land resources. On the one hand, large tracts
of land belonging to the Government or absentee landowners are underutilized,
while most small farms lack land titles or other securities, such as long-term
leases, that would promote intensive cultivation and investment. There is
also a large problem with overlapping land claims. In addition, Government
support services, which should promote technological change, are practically
non-existent (para. 3.04). Structural and policy changes in recent years
include the demise of the sugar industry, the removal of quantitative
protection for traditional crops such as maize and rice, and the reduction or
elimination of export taxes, now benefitting producers of coffee, sisal and
cocoa. Initernational market developments have generally negatively impacted
on Haiti, in particular the significant decline of coffee and cocoa prices
since early 1989.
2.06        Information on Haiti's resource base is limited to 1978 satellite
maps, which indicate that nearly 80S of Haiti's area is devoted to agriculture
in the broad sense, including 622 for crop use and 182 extensive grazing. The
net cultivated area represents 11,900 kn2, or 441 of Haiti's land area.
Twenty eight percent of the net cultivated area is in tree crops, 131 in
specialized crops, e.g., rice, and 592 in food crops mostly grown in the hilly
areasoll Against this pattern of extensive land use are the estimates of
BDPA that only 7,700 km2 (or 281 of the total land area) is cultivable.11
That would mean that cultivation on land unsuited for agriculture is occurring
on 20% to 302 of the country's land area, the consequence of which is serious
1/  BDPA-SCETAGRI:  Gestion des Ressources Naturelles en Vue d'un
D6veloppement Durable en Haiti, Rapport Final, Fevrier 1990. Table
on page 20.
2/ Source: BDPA-SCETAGRI: op.cit., page 27.



natural resource degrad&tion and extreme poverty for those who must farm such
areas.
2.07        The main crops in Haiti are:  coffee, the major export crop, and
cocoa, which are produced mairly in mountainous zonee; rice, which io produced
under irrigation, b : also imported in significant quantities; and a variety
of food crops including maize, millet, and [ aanas. The production of cotton,
sugar and sisal, which had some importance in earlier times is disappearing.
Haiti also is an important producer and exporter of mango fruits, and a
leading world producer of essential oils, in particular vetiver oil, which is
extracted by small farmers from the roots of a tropical grass. However, while
in other countries vetiver grass is used for soil conservation, the
cultivation and harvesting methods used in Haiti result in considerable soil
erosion.
The Forestry Subsector
2.08        Haiti's once abundant forest resources have diminished to a
remnant.3' In addiLion to the few remaining dense forests, the bulk of
Haiti's timber re-ources is scattered on land used for agriculture. Nearly a
third of the country's lumber now comes from fruit trees (mango, avocado,
breadfruit). The percentage of hardwood (mahagony, cedar, oak and others) is
steadily diminishing. Firewood and charcoal nowadays come mainly from bushy
thickets of Prosopis (mestique) which has replaced the overexploited forests,
and from foreut fallows.  The concept of "wood resources" today can therefore
3/ Source: BDPA-SCETAGRI: op.cit., page 33. Data on Haiti's wood resources
is conflicting and not up-to-date. The last inventory was made in 1978 by
FAO and estimated the natural forest -rea at about 1,210 ki2, down from
the 1956 inventory result of 1,900 km,, a reduction by 371 over 20 7ears.
The estimate for 1988 of the FAO/CP ptoject preparation mission is for
1,070 km2 of natural forest, or 42 of the land area, broken down as
follows:
Pine Forest dense             80 km2
degraded        200 kin
Leaf Forest dense            140 km2
degraded        500 kna
Mangroves                    150 ki
These figures are extrapolated from the 1978 inventory and a BDPA estimate
of 1989 that Haiti's forest resources had diminished by 32Z between 1978
and 1988.  In addition to those areas of "natural forest", BDPA-SCETAGRI
(Rapport Interimaire 1989, Annex 1, Tableau 1) has estimated. (i) 400 km2
of very open pine forest; (ii) 800 km2 of secondary broao leaf forest;
(iii) 2,900 km2 of degraded dryland forest (e.g., Prosopis and Acacia
ape.); (iv) 1,700 km2 of dense tree crops (e.g., coffee); and
(v) 4,000 km2 of open tree crops. The final environmental report by BDPA
of February 1990 does not give a detailed account of Haiti's forest areas.
For the location of Haiti's forest resources see Map IBRD 22676.



be equated with combustible biomass; all species and all diameters from a few
centimeters upwards are used.!'
he Environment
2.09        Few countries in the world face a worse degree of environmental
degradation than Haiti. The pressure to increase production of food crops has
resulted in tho e-.pansion of the cultivated area into marginal lands including
steep hills, the removal of treee and shrubs and the shortening of the fallow
periods. There is also a shift to production of annual food crops, away from
tree crops such as coffee, thereby exposing soil for longer periods to erosion
pressures as the need 'or subsiscence fooa grows. Until recently, a
zontributing factor waz the protected and i.4gh domestic price for cereal crops
relative to the prices of permanent c-rops such as coffee and cocoa, which were
subject to heavy export taxes. However, by far the greatest pressure on
Haiti's dwindling natural resources comes from the cutting vf trees and shrubs
for firewood and charcoal. Apart from being the major fuel source of Haiti,
comprising 761 of the total energy consumed, wood gathering and charcoal
production provide the last resort for gainful employment in the most
impoverished rural areas of Haiti. It is particularly severe in those areas
where unclear land ownership or lack of management favors short-term gains and
overexploitation. Some areas contain rare animal and plant species unique to
the island of Hispaniola, but some of the species are threatened by extinction
in the short term, unless appropriate and urgent protective measures are
taken.
2.10        Although Haiti has an impressive xrumber of laws and regulations
to protect natural resources, these are inconsistent and incomplete, and the
Government lacks the capacity to enforce them. The existing natural rescurce
legislation is poorly adapted to the socio-economic context of rural Haiti,
emphasizing prohibition with little attention to incentives. For example,
tree harvesting, even on private land, is prohibited, except by permit from
the MARNDR, thereby creating a disincentive for farmers to adopt agroforestry
practices. Also, in the same context, Government has sought to prohibit tree
cutting through the establishment by decree of two national parks, one forest
recerve and several nature sites. However, their delineation, inventory and
protection is incomplete, ineffective, and without the support of local
inhabitants who see such efforts as one more attempt to take land away from
them. MARNDR has the principal responsibility for protecting natural
resources, but conservation policy for the national domain (which includes
historic monuments and archeological sites in addition to nature sitee) rests
with ISPAN (Institut de Sauvegarde de la Patrimoine Nationale), an autonomous
agency created in 1979, that has passed from the Ministry of Planning and
External Cooperation to the Ministry of Education at present. In addition,
the Haitian Army has a mandate for establishing a special forestry guard corps
since 1987. Ntither ISPAN nor the Army, however, have had any significant
role or impact.
4/ Source: BDPA-SCETAGRI: op.cit., page 33.



-7
The Household Energy Sector
2.11       I14pr-ted petrofuels, valued at about US$45 million per year,
provide about 132 of Haiti's total energy demand. However, two thirds of
these imported fuels are consumed by the transport sector, and lees than 10Z
by residential householde. Domestic firewood and charcoal are by far the most
important energy source, providing 76Z of the 1.4 million tons of oil
equivalent of Haiti's total energy consumption. Woodfuel is consumed largely
by households In the cities and rural areas, while some 102 goes to sugar,
rum, oil factories, bakeries, dry cleaners and schools. Urban households hlve
increased their share from about 30Z in 1985 to an estimated 401 of total
wocdfuel consumed in 1990. The urban household demand is mainly for charcoal
that is produced from felled live trees, whereas rural dwellere cansume
primarily firewood from branches, bushes and dead wood.
2.12        The level of woodfuel use in Haiti is unsustainable.  Consumption
in 1990 of woodfuel has been estimated at 5.4 million m3/year, of which
1.1 million m3 in charcoal equivalent.1' This demand exceeds the sustainable
supply by about 1.6 million m3/year.61 If left unchecked, this will lead to
an ever increasing pace of degradation of Haiti's natural resources. As an
illustration, this level of overexploitation corresponds to what would be a
sustainable production from about 200,000 ha of well managed fuelwood
plantations. However, since such forests do not exist, these woodfuels come
largely from vast areas of degraded forests, forest fallows and agriculturally
used land (see para. 2.08). Haiti's other domestic energy resources
(agricultural/urban wastes, lignite, hydropower ar4 solar energy) are not
competitive or available in quantities which would justify their development
and use as woodfuel substitutes.
2.13        Government has enacted several policies aimed at relieving the
pressure on woodfuel and generating fiscal revenues, but these have not been
effective for lack of enforcement and in some cases impracticability. In
October 1987 a decree was issued forbidding the cutting of all trees without
prior authorizat.on by MARNDR. The decree also set a six-month deadline for
wood-burning industries to convert to alternative fuels, but no effective
mechanism was put in place to facilitate the conversion.
2.1/        The application of tax measures has also been inconsistent.
MAA1dl.)R taxes the transport of charcoal at one Gourde per sack of 38 kg, or 2%
of the Port-au-Prince retail price. Bulk commercial firewood is taxed at one
Gourde per piece, a very high rate relative to its value. Thkse taxes are
paid by the transporters to MARNDR district agents in the producing areas and
the receipts are checked at control posts at the main entrances to the cities.
However, in practice lower tax rates are often applied, and collections that
reach DRNIs Forestry Service which is administering the revenues, are
5/ Source: BDPA-SCETAGRI, 1990, op.cit., page 34.
6/ Source: FAO/CP Project Preparation Report, 1990, based on BDPA figures of
1989.



- 8 -
oxtremely low. In 1989 these collections represented only about 10Z of the
estimated amounts due.
2.15    Among imported fuels, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) has been the fuel
of choice by those relatively few households able to afford the more expensive
gas stove (US$40 per gas stove versus US$2 for the traditional charcoal
stove). However, the high capital cost, coupled with the expensive and
irregular supply of gas and spare parts due to the foreign exchange constraint
means that only a small percentage of households will be able to switch to
LPG. Even then, they retain back-up charcoal stove facilities. Neverthelass,
promotion of LPG stoves and gas is being actively pursued by a private
petroleum company, albeit with a limited market, and in support of this it is
exempt from import duties and is being given priority foreign exchange
allocation at the official rate. For small industries the irregularity of
supply is an even greater deterrent to switch to gas or oil-burning facilities
in place of woodfuels. Kerosene, another alternative energy source, has only
a small market potential for cooking (estimated at 101 of urban households),
based on recent market surveys conducted by ESMAP, because of its odor, and
because an acceptable stove is not available in Haiti. It is imported
primarily for transport in the form of diesel and is subjected to a tax of 74%
of its cif value. In economic terms, kerosene is not superior to LPG as a
household energy fuel. Therefore, while it would seem highly desirable to
move away from woodfuals towards alternative fuel sources to help reduce the
pressure on Haiti's natural resources, the prospects for this in the medium
term ara very limited. Rather, much greater efforts are needed to expand the
usage of more fuel efficient charcoal stoves which retail in Haiti for as
little as US$4 per stove and use 20-30S less charcoal relative to traditional
stoves.
_II. INSTITUTIONS . STRATEGIES AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
FOR RENEWABLE NATURAL RESOURCES AND HOUSEHOLD ENERGY
Institutional Responsibilities and Constraints
3.01        Ministry of Agriculture. Natural Resources and Rural Development
(MARNDR). The three principal objectives of IARNDR, as stated in its charter,
are to promote agriculture, conservation and utilization of natural resources,
and rural development. Currently, the central structure of the Ministry is
divided into four technical directorates (Livestock, Agriculture, Natural
Resources, Rural Development), and one for Administration. The Minister is
assisted by a Director General who also supervises a technical secretariat and
two other units: machinery park and control/evaluation/planning. In the
field, MARNDR is represented through 22 agricultural districts scattered over
the four main regions of the country. These field offices, staffed with
personnel of different subject matters, report to the Director General, and
not directly to the specialized directorates or services. Superimposed on
this structure are specialized semi-autonomous organizations which report
directly to the Minister: (i) regional development organizations: ODVA
(Artibonite Valley); ODPG (Gonaives Plain); ODN (INorthern Haiti); ODBFA
(Artibonite Watershed); and ODNO (North-West Haiti); and (ii) credit
institutione: BNDAI (Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank) and BCA



-9-
(Agricultural Credit Bureau) (see also the organization chart of MARNDR, at
the end of this report). In addition, the Faculty of Agriculture and
Veterinary Medicine (FAMV) and other educational facilities, including the
Technical School for Agroforestry (EMAF) receive financial support from the
Ministry.
3.02        Each directorate comprises a number of services for the different
activities it is supposed to provide. The Directorate of Natural Resources
(DRN) comprises the following six servicest Irrigation and Rural Engineering,
Watershed Management (including a separate technical office, STAB), Water
Resources, Forest Resources, Environmental Protection, Aquaculture and
Fishing. However, several of these services are neither fully staffed nor
funded, and are therefore unable to perform useful functions.
3.03        Because of its involvement in the previous Pilot Forestry Project
supported by IDA and other donors, the Forestry Service (SRF) is one of the
more active services. It is nominally subdivided into four aections:
management of natural forests, reforestation and agroforestry, forestry
statistics, and forestry research. The personnel of the SRE comprises a Head
of the Service, eight university graduates, mostly agriculturalists without
true forestry training, 34 forestry and a few agroforestry technicians and
22 support staff. In addition, there are 60 forestry agents posted in the
agricultural districts, but they report through the district head to MARNDR's
Director General.
3.04        This ministerial structure causes problems of coordination, in
particular between the agricultural districts, the regional development
organizations, and the various directorates of the central Ministry. Units
operate independently without clear lines of command and responsibilities.
Consequently, duplications of activities and waste of time and resources are
common. Decentralization has long been proposed as a means of increasing and
improving the delivery of services to the rural areas, and was, in fact,
included in a 1982 Law, and the 1986 Constitution. However, no serious
attempts have been made to streamline MARNDR's operations. Efforts are
stifled by the very high turn-over of ministers (12 in the ten years before
1990) and senior staff, and the resultant discontinuity of policies and strong
political focus of all activities. Other difficulties relate to problems of
attracting qualified and committed staff in view of non-competitive salaries
and poor working conditions, the near impossibility to dismiss long-term
staff, and the unwillingness of headquarters staff to move to rural
assignments. Any reform would also have to address the issue of rational
provision of budgetary funds for operations. Ninety six percent of the
MARNDR's 1989/90 operational budget of US$9.2 million was consumed by
salaries, leaving virtually nothing for operational expenses. The 1989/90
investment budget in the sector was for US$35.3 million, of which only
US$2.4 million would be Government's contribution and the bulk would be funded
by foreign donors. (There are also other projects in the sector that are
financed and implemented directly by donors so as to by-pass the Ministry.)
3.05         Institutions in the Energy Sector.  Th.e following institutions
have a direct or indirect impact on woodfuel consumption patterns: (i) The
Bureau of Mines and Energv (BME) of the Ministry of Public Works. Transport



- 10 -
and Communications. This agency, and more specifically its former Department
for Energy Resources (DRE, currently being reorganized), is responsible for
formulating national energy policy for biomass energy, petroleum products and
coal. DRE's specific mandate was to: (a) inventory, evaluate, develop and
conserve national energy resources in coordination with other concerned
sectors; (b) promote the utilization of all forms of energy potentially
contributing to the socio-economic development of the country; (c) recommend
measures for improved energy management and ensure their aoplication; and
(d) contribute to the protection of the environment; (ii)        Bureau for the
SupplY of Petroleum Products of the Ministry of Commerce ana industry. This
agency sets prices for getroleum products and is responsible for controlling
supplies; and (iii) Electricit6 t'Haiti, an autonomous Government authority
responsible for the production and distribution of electrical energy.
3.06        Miscellaneous Institutions.   Other institutional
responsibilities for the management of natural resources are as follows. The
impact of the institutions is marginal, however, because of lack of resources.
(i) The Ministry of Economv and Finance. Through its tax authority, Direction
G6n6rale des Imp8ts, the Ministry manages the "private domain of the state,"
i.e., state land that can be leased out, sold, donated or homesteaded to
individuals or corporations under contractual arrangements (this is in
contrast to the "public domain of the state", which is administered by other
ministries and can also be leased out but not alienated; national narks would
belong to this latter category of landholding); (ii) The Armed Forces of
Haiti. They exercise policing functions although as mentioned previously
(para. 2.10), were to have created a special Corps of Forestry Guards;
(iii) The Institute for the Safeguard of the National Patrimony (ISPAN). This
is a semi-autonomous Government agency under the Ministry of Education that
shares jurisdiction over national parks with the DRN; (iv) The National
Tcurism Office. This agency shares jurisdiction over parks; and (v) The
Ministry of Plan and External Cooperation. The Ministry is charged with
monitoring NGOs and policy on environmental protection.
3.07        Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs).  NGOs, of which there are
about 350, fill some of the gaps left by non-functioning public services in
Haiti. They serve as channels for external funding of services and
investments (about US$80 million per year, of which about US$20 million is for
the agricultural sector). NGOs can be national or foreign, but have to be
registered with the Haitian Government, which includes requirements to provide
certain guarantees and statements and allow periodic vetting by Government of
their organization and programs. NGOs are seldom used by the Government, but
rather have parallel activities. In agroforestry, NGOs contracted by an
external donor agency have been particularly successful in promoting tree
planting by farmers (para 3.09).
Past Forest Development Programs and Lessons Learned
3.08        Past efforts to develop forestry in Haiti have centered on two
major investment projects: the USAID supported Agroforestry Outreach Project
(AOP) (para. 3.09), and the National Forestry Project, which has been
supported by an IDA Credit and is further described in para. 3.10. External



- 11 -
funding for both projects closed at the end of 1989, but in both cases follow-
up operations are being implemented or prepared. These two projects provide
the main basis for the technical and administrative approaches to be pursued
under the proposed Forestry and Environmental Protection Project.
3.09       AMroforestry Outreach Proiect (AOP).   The objective of the AOP
was to promote commercial tree production on private farm land without
affecting food crop production. USAID contributed US$27 million to this
program between 1981 and 1989, which involved four contracts with different
NGOs for the provision of field services and a coordination and technical
support unit within USAID/Haiti. The AOP has been implemented without the
involvement of the HARNDR. The four NGOs, their activities and locations
were: (i) Operation Double Harvest: this was an unsuccessful attempt to
establish large-scale plantations around Port-au-Prince on lands belonging to
large landowners. Funding stoppid in 1987 in view of lack of interest by
large landowners; (ii) CARE: Care used its own local network to promote tree
planting with farmer groups in the North-West; (iii) Pan American Development
Foundation (PADF): PADF was contracted to implement "Project Pyebwa& and
worked through about 80 local NGOs which promoted tree planting by farmers in
the Southeast, Southwest, Central Plateau and North; aad (iv) SECID: was
contracted to implement the research part of AOP. Between 1982 and 1989 about
50 million tree seedlings have been distributed, involving more than 200,000
farms. Based on 12 months survival counts, the estimated tree survival rate
has been increasing over time and recently reached 452 two years after
planting. The success of the AOP has been attributed to the feature that NGOs
have been used to provyide support services to the farmers, and that the farmer
becomes the owner of the tree and decides about the management and harvest of
the trees. AOP's follow-up project, the Agroforestry II Project, uses a
similar administrative and financing approach as the AOP, but includes
extension advice for soil conservation and forage production, strengthening of
national NGOs, and awareness campaigns for environmental protection, in
addition to seedling production and tree planting.
3.10        National Forestry Prolect (PFN).  The National Forestry Project,
a pilot operation that was implemented by MARNDR between 1982 and 1989, was
financed jointly by IDA (Credit 1257-HA, with US$4.0 million disbursed), the
Government (US$0.75 million), the International Research Center
(US$0.3 r'llion), and the French Agency for Voluntary Services
(US$0.6 million). The objectives of the project weres (i) the strengthening
of the MARNDR's Forest Service; (ii) education and training in forestry;
(iii) species trials for the production of woodfuel on 350 ha; (iv) pilot
plantations for woodfuel production and a trial to determine the production
impact of protection measures for the local savanna vegetation; (v) partial
management of the Pine Forest on 5,750 ha; (vi) promotion of improved cooking
stoves for wood and charcoal; and (vii) the preparation of a large-scale
follow-up project. Policy objectives included: (a) building up the
operational capacity of the Forestry Service, including a strong extension
element; (b) enacting and applying new forestry legislation; and
(c) developing economically viable reforestation and forest management
practices. The project was also to design a long-term plan for forestry
development.



- 12 -
3.11        The project had a slow start, suffered from shortages of
counterpart funds and political disturbances, and to complete the project, the
IDA credit had to be extended by two and a half years. Nevertheless, the
project has largely achieved its quantitative targets, except for the primary
education component, and the introduction of improved cooking stoves. It was
less successful in realizing its policy objectives. The enactment of new
forest legislation and the preparation of a long-term forestry development
plan did not materialize. Extension activities were limited to a partial
census and some land leases in the Pine Forest. Certain technical results, in
particular those relating to the pilot plantations, require further
confirmation. In particular, the pilot plantings faced opposition and
intrusions from the local populations, and suffered from cattle damage and
erratic rainfall. The lessons identified in the Project Completion Report for
this project include: (i) a strategy for institutional development should be
in place before project implementation; (ii) the Government should commit
adequate budgetary resources for the financing of operational costs; (iii) a
clear national forestry policy should be spelled out before the project;
(iv) Government should be committed to enact and apply new forest legislation;
and (v) a purely technocratic approach to forestry development, i.e., without
due consideration of the social dimension and involvement of people, is not
feasible in Haiti.
3.12        Other Forestry and Environment Related Programs.  There are a
large number of ongoing and planned, smaller training, research, and
development projects in the areas of forestry, grazing management, watershed
protection, erosion control, and agroforestry that are supported by UNDP, FAO
and several bilateral donors. These programs are, if at all, only loosely
coordinated by the Government, and lack a common strategy.  However, UNDP/FAO
and the Government of Haiti have agreed to start implementation of the
Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP) through the preparation of a national
plan for the forestry subsector. Complementing these efforts has been the
Environmental Assessment and Strategy Review,'/ financed by IDA under the
Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 1786-HA). The study was completed in 1990
and, while general in its recommendations, it has heightened the awareness of
the seriousness of the environmental problems in Haiti. The proposed Forestry
and Environmental Project has been designed to provide the institutional
umbrella framework within which further support could be given under the TFAP
as implementation capacity is strengthened.
Household Energy Programs
3.13        The BYv has been primarily responsible for household energy
programs during t   1980s, in cooperation with international donors and NGOs.
Past and present   .orts have consisted of:  (a) a cookstove component
financed between 1983 and 1986 by the Canadian Center for Research and
International Development under the IDA-supported National Forestry Project
(para. 3.10) which provided training, the establishment of a stove-testing
laboratory, surveys and the desien of a prototype of an improved charcoal
stove ("BME model"); (b) an ong. ..g ILO-supported program to train artisans in
7/   BDPA-SCETAGRI:  op. cit.



13 -
Jacmel and Griagris to produce BHE stoves; (c) starting in 1989 with support
from the French Agency for Voluntary Services, training of ten stovemakers to
make elevated and standard versions of the BME stove for food vendors from
recycled metall (d) starting in 1989 with support from OLADE, the Latin
American Energy Organization, the pilot production and dissemination of 400
BME stoves made of new metal in three workshops that employ six artisans; and
(e) the installation in 1989/90 of efficient wood and charcoal-burning stoves
in several restaurants and institutional kitchens by a Swiss NGO. Over seven
years, these efforts have resulted in the dissemination of only 600 stovea.
Key lessons learned include: (i) the BME model is acceptable to consumers and
yields theoretical charcoal savings of 302 over the traditional stove (202-25Z
savings in practice); (ii) the French approach of using recycled material and
individual artisans results in a more affordable product than the BME system
relying on new metal and workshops (US$2.70 per stove versus US$4.70 per
stove); and (iii) a mass dissemination effort, with large-scale training and a
professional public relation campaign is needed, if improved stoves are to
achieve significant market penetration.
3.14        Since 1990 a National Energy Plan for Haiti has been under
preparation by the BME within the framework of the UNDP/OLADE/BME Energy
Sector Strengthening Project, ai.d the ESMAP/BME Household/Small Enterprises
Energy Strategy Study.1'  The Plan's recommended strategy with regard to
household energy, which is still under review, would include four elements:
Mi) introduction of improved charcoal stoves; (ii) streamlining of woodfuel
supply; (iii) further development of the LPG market; and (iv) institutional
and policy reforms. The first of these elements would be included as a sub-
project under the Forestry and Environmental Protection Project (para. 4.11),
because of its advanced stage of preparation, the positive results of prior
pilot programs, and its relatively low coordination requirements. The further
preparation and implementation of the other elements of the household energy
development strategy would be further pursued under ESMAP's country program
for Haiti.
Government Oblectives and Strategy
3.15        During the preparation of the proposed Forestry and Environmental
Project, the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared a draft policy statement on
the objectives and strategy for improving the living conditions of the
population on a sustained basis through interventions in the natural resources
subsector, which was confirmed by a policy letter signed by the Prime Minister
of Haiti in June 1991.!' The four general objectives aim at: (i) protecting
and increasing the value of national forest resources; (ii) increasing forest
and agroforestry production and thereby the incomes of the people involved;
8/    Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
(ESMAP), Republic of Haiti: Household Energy Strategy. June 1991.
91    See Annex 10, Document 3:  Letter dated June 25, 1991 from Hon. Ren6
Pr6val, Prime Minister of Haiti, to Mr. Barber Conable, President of
The World Bank.



- 14 -
(iii) ensuring the preservation of rare and endangered spepies; and (iv)
integrate the local population in the conservation and management of natural
resources and in the protection of the environment.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.16        The correction of the causes for Haiti's development problems
will take many years of sustained external support and political commitment
and stability. Coordination between bilateral and multilateral agencies will
be essential to bring about lasting benefits in the context of the very
limited human capital, weak institutions and the seriously depleted natural
resource base on which Haiti must build its future. Current trends of land
use in Haiti are not sustainable, and the environmenttal degradation has to be
slowed and eventually reversed.
3.17        Because of the political uncertainties, IDA's current lending
strategy for Haiti targets interventions in the social sectors, which would
benefit the urban poor and rural inhabitants. Within that country strategy,
the proposed Forestry and Environmental Project would largely benefit farmers
in and around forest reserves and national parks, and the poorer sections of
urban consumers of wood fuels. The project would emphasize institutional
development combined with limited investments. The project concept is based
on the collective experience from the IDA-supported Pilot Forestry Project
(paras. 3.10-3.11), the successful tree planting strategy under the USAID-
supported Agroforestry Outreach Project (para. 3.09), the recommended
approaches of the 1990 Environmental Assessment (para. 3.12), the Government's
strategy for natural resource development (para. 3.15), and Haiti's National
Energy Plan (in preparation; para. 3.14). The proposed Forestry and
Environmental Protection Project would emphasize institutional development,
continued and expanded trials and pilot activities involving farmers,
protection services for national parks and forest reserves, and agroforestry
extension services to farmers in and around the protected areas. It is
expected that these efforts would generate viable solutions for larger-scale
investment in reforestation and natural resource management. In addition to
addressing the causes for resource degradation at the supply (production)
level, the project would tackle the demand side for woodfuel by promoting
conservation of household energy. IDA's role in the proposed project, and
indeed the rationale for IDA's continued involvement with forestry and
environmental concerns, is to assist the Government in designing and
implementing consistent policies, institutional strengthening, and field
operations which make maximum use of the scarce human resources (Government,
NGOs and rural workers/farmers) to tackle the natural resource issues
countrywide. The project is designed to attract other donor agencies and to
provide an institutional framework within which to implement the TFAP. The
project would also complement other IDA-supported operations, including the
Industrial Restructuring and Development Project (Cr. 2071-HA, signed on
February 2, 1990), which inter alia, provides credit to small-scale industries
for the conversion from domestic woodfuels to imported energy fuels, and the
Economic and Social Fund Project (Cr. 2205-HA, signed on February 14, 1991)
which inter alia, supports the rehabilitation and development of small rural
roads through NGOs and local community groups. The project would be part of
longer-term Government programs to develop Haiti's natural resources, protect



- 15 -
its environment and improve energy use (paras. 3.14 and 3.15). It is
anticipated that the institutions and technologies that would be developed
under the project would provide the basis for successive projects.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01       The project is a follow-up operation to the IDA-supported Forestry
Development Project (Credit 1257-HA) that closed on December 31, 1989. It was
identified and prepared by the MARNDR's Forest Service and the FAO Investment
Center together with IDA staff. Funding for additional preparation work and
part of the start-up and maintenance operations of the Forest Service in
1990/91 were provided by a Japanese Grant for the Environment
(50.4 million Yen) and an advance under IDA's Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) (US$750,000). Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., in May 1991.
The Haitian delegation comprised Messrs. Frangois Severin, Minister of
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development; Alex Bellande, Member of
the Cabinet of the Minister, MARNDR; Paul Duret, Advisor to the Minister,
MARNDR; Louis Buteau, Deputy Director of Natural Resources, MARNDR; and Ms.
Monique Pierre-Antoine, Advisor, Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Objectives and Brief Description
4.02       Project Objectives.  The objective of the project would be to slow
the pace of degradation of Haiti's natural resources by: (a) protecting the
forests and safeguarding vital ecosystems from further destruction;
(b) increasing wood production through the promotion of agroforestry on farms
and the improved management of State forest lands; and (c) reducing the
pressure on vegetation for charcoal production through conservation of
woodfuels used by urban households.
4.03       Project objectives are consistent with the Government's sectoral
objectives and policies, and a policy statement towards developing Haiti's
renewable natural resources was signed by the Prime Minister on June 25, 1991
(para. 3.15 and Annex 10, Document 3).
4.04       Brief Project Description.  The project would provide technical and
financial support for: (a) the institutional strengthening of the MARNDR's
Directorate of Natural Resources (DRN) and its Forestry and Environmental
Protection Services, and for training in forestry and agroforestry;
(b) specific programs to promote tree planting, soil and water conservation,
improve the management of forest reserves, expand forestry and agroforestry
research; establish and manage national parks and biosphere reserves; and
monitor land use in Haiti; and (c) the promotion by the Bureau of Mines and
Energy of more efficient charcoal stoves in urban areas. Except for the
Household Energy Conservation Subproject (part (c) of the project), which
would be implemented by the BME, the project would be implemented by the
MARNDR through its DRN and the Forestry and Environmental Protection Services.



- 16 -
Detailed Features
4.05        Institutional Strengthening of MARNDR.  To strengthen MAR DR's
operations in the natural resources sector in general, the project would
improves  (a) the administrative facilities, staffing and operations of DRN
and its Forestry and Environmental Protection Services; (b) training in
forestry and agroforestry; tc) the regulatory framework for renewable natural
resources; and (d) the woodfuel taxation.
(a)   Improved Administrative Facilities. Staffin and OQerations. and
!anagement Assistance (Annex 8'.  Funds would be provided under
the project to improve and expand the physical facilities of DRN,
SRF and SPE. This would include the reconstruction of the first
floor of the MARNDR's headquarters building in Damien that was
destroyed by fire, and the purchase of furniture and office
equipment, vehicles, and other equipment (estimated investment
costs US$1.0 million -Lo). The project would also fund for the
duration of the project an internationally recruited management
firm through which four specialists would be provided as technical
coordinator and financial manager of DRN, forestry advisor to the
SRP, and resident ecologist in SPE (estimated cost:
US$3.6 million). With funding provided under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) prior to credit effectiveness, a
procurement consultant would assist DRN in the selection of the
mansgement firm as well as in the initiation of the bidding
process for agroforestry extension consultants and for the
procurement of goods and civil works.
Under the direction of the Director of Natural Resources, a
project management team, composed of Haitian professional staff,
including a project administrator and assisted by key specialists,
provided by the management firm, would carry out the dal to-day
implementation and management of the project. Haitian counterpart
staff would receive project financed allowances in addition to
their Government salary. The project management team would handle
procurement and supervision of civil works, equipment and
materials, of staff and consultants, including NGOs to provide
agroforestry extension services (para. 4.06). It would coordinate
project activities with those of other agencies directly or
indirectly involved in the project, prepare annual work programs
and budgets, and compile the project progress reports for
submission to the Government, IDA, and the external monitoring
agency (para. 5.07). Additional short-term consultancies
(estimated cost US$0.7 million) would also be provided through the
management firm as required by the project. In order to avoid
conflicts of interest, external monitoring and the mid-term
evaluation of the project (paras. 5.07 and 5.08) would be carried
out by staff/consultants of an independent external agency, and
10/   All costs are given in the section "Detailed Features" include
contingencies.



- 17 -
not through the management firm. Details of all consultancies are
compiled in Annex 10, Chart 4.  It would be conditions of
effectiveness of the credit that:  (i) a project administrator
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA had been
appointed (para. 7.03 (a)); and (ii) an internationally recruited
firm of management consultants, with terms of reference,
qualifications of proposed specialists, and conditions of
employment satisfactory to IDA, had been appointed to provide
specialists for the positions of financial manager and technical
coordinator for the DRN, of senior forestry advisor to the SRF,
and of resident ecologist for the SPE (para. 7.03 (b)). It was
also agreed at negotiationc that as part of the Implementation
Program of the projects (iii) the positions of Director of Natural
Resources, of project administrator, and of the Chiefs of the SRP
and SPE would be maintained throughout the project and staffed
with persons whose qualifications and experiences are acceptable
to IDA (para. 7.02 (b) (i)); and (iv) technical specialists with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA would be
maintained throughout the project for the positions of financial
mtnager and technical coordinator of DRN, senior forestry advisor
to the SRF and resident ecologist for the SPE
(para. 7.02 (c) (ii)). A summary of the terms of reference of the
technical specialists and other consultants required for the
implementation of the project and of the employment schedule is in
Annex 10, Chart 4.
(b)   Training (Annex 7).  The project would:  (1) finance six overseas
scholarships at the master's level for qualified staff of SRF and
SPE, and nine external short courses for the r.ction heads and
unit chiefs of SRP and SPE in specialized topics which correspond
to their work assignments. In accordance with existing
procedures, such staff would be required to sign contracts with
MARNDR guaranteeing their return to the Ministry for service
periods not less than three months for every month of training
received; (ii) establish a permanent core staff at the Technical
School for Agroforestry (EMAF) and provide teaching support from
the Faculty for Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine (FAMV) and
other training institutions; (iii) recruit through the project
management firm a training specialist for the first two years of
the project to assist EMUA staff in defining training needs,
designing the curricula and training materials, implementing the
training programs and in teaching; (iv) modify the basic training
curriculum of EMAP to include more courses on agriculture and
agroforestry, expand practical training, and supplement the
curriculum by specialty courses on tropical forestry,
agroforestry, and wildlife conservation and natural resource
management during the second year; (v) improve the training
facilities in Damien and the Pine Forest Reserve by repairing and
remodeling buildings, and financing vehicles, equipment and
operating costs; (vi) train a total of 40 agroforestry technicians
in two successive two-year cycles of 20 students each, including
re-training of selected MARNDR staff; (vii) hire additional local



- 18 -
and external short-term consultants as lecturers and resource
persons for annual in-service training for project staff; and
(viii) design curricula and provide basic training in two-week
cycles for law enforcement personnel. The estimated cost of the
training subcomponent would be US$1.9 million.
(c)   Regulatorv Framework Review and URdate (Annex 2).  Fund.- (about
US$100,000) would be provided under the project f consultants
to: (i) review all existing legislation and regulations governing
natural resource use, and of the current enforcement capability;
(ii) identify inconsistencies, gaps and unenforceable provisions
of the law and incompatibility with the overall policy framework;
(iii) prepare proposals for updating, amending and drafting new
legislation; and (iv) assist the Government in the design of the
institutional arrangements to implement the legislation. The
objective would be to create an appropriate regulatory framework,
including the legal and institutional capabilities, for impioving
management and development of natural resources in Haiti.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations of the project that
the Government would submit by Harch 30, 1993 for IDA's comments a
proposal for changes to its natural resource legislation aimed
inter alia at increasing the incentives for farmers to plant trees
by reducing the existing restrictions on harvesting and use,
making the legislation consistent with the objectives of the
Government's development strategy, and strengthening the
institutional capabilities for enforcing such legislation.
Assurances were also obtained that all measures, including
submission of draft bills to Congress if needed, which are
required for the implementation of the changes, would be taken no
later than December 31, 1993 (para. 7.01 (a); An-ex 10, Chart 4
sunmarizes the terms of reference and schedule of the consultants
to be employed).
(d)   Imorovement of the Woodfuels Taxation System (Annex 8).  Funds
(US$30,000) would be provided under the project for a short-term
consultancy to review and prepare recommendations for raising the
collection levels of the existing woodfuel taxes, as well as for
adjvuting tax levels in line with economic pricing of fuels, and
improving the accounting and budgeting procedures of the Special
Reforestation Fund. The objective would be to introduce a
rational and efficient taxation system, which in addition to
recovering part of the social costs of defLrestation, would
provide financing ^:or forestry development and environmental
protection activities on a continuing basis. It was agreed during
negotiations of the project that the Government would, as part of
the project's Implementation Program, submit by September 30, 1992
for IDA's comments a proposal for changes to its woodfuel taxation
system aimed inter alia at: improving the collection, reporting
and accounting of the woodfuel taxes; improving the enforcement
capabilities in the application of the woodfuel tax regulations;
and setting tax rates at the appropriate levels (paras. 2.14,
4.13 (e), and Annex 9, Appendix 4). It was also agreed that all



- 19 -
measures, including submission of legislation to Congreso, if
needed, which are required for the implementation of the changes,
would be taken no later than December 31, 1993 (para. 7.02 (a);
Annex 10, Chart 4 aummarizes the terms of reference and schedule
of the consultants to be employed).
4.06        Aaroforstrv Development (Annex 5).  The project would provide
agroforestry extension services to farmers living in and near protected                     f
ecosystems. The objective would be to both improve the income levels of
people living in !nd around endangered ecosystems, as well as to relieve the
pressure on such through land clearing and illegal tree harvesting.
Agroforestry extension services would be provided by NGOs as contractors of
DRN and under the technical supervision by either the SRF or SPE, depending on
the institutional responsibility for the area serviced (estimated cost
US$5.2 million). The use of NGOs as extension agents follows the successful
model of the USAID-supported Agroforestry Outreach Project. An important
modification, however, would be to have the Government as the contracting and
financing agency as opposed to having the NGO contracted directly by the
bilateral donor agency. DRN's capacity to implement such a program would be
strengthened as described in para. 4.05 (a). As DIN's experience and capacity
grows, it is possible that an expanded agroforestry program may be undertaken
with additional bilateral financing which could come in the context of the
TFAP for Haiti. Agroforestry extension under the project would be offered to
farmers in the Pine Forest Reserve, in the Pic Macaya and La Visite national
parks and their buffer zones, and in the Belle Anse area of Southeast Haiti.
In the reserve and park areas, a more intensive and integrated approach would
be used, providing multiple services to relatively small populations. These
would include support for tree planting for fruit and timber as an economic
endeavor, contour conservation treatments, and agricultural development in
general. Extension services would be targeted both to existing farmer groups
and individuals. Tree planting and soil conservation works would be done by
participating individuals and groups on privately held lands. A more
extensive approach would be used in the Belle Anse area, where tree seedlings,
hedgerow technology and technical assistance would be provided to a greater
area and population. In addition to its technical content, agroforestry
extension will have a social component as well, in that it will contribute to
identifying and strengthening of existing small peasant groups, and in
formalizing new groups. Small peasant groups will be assisted with education
in basic self-organization themes, training in agroforestry, soil
conservation, drinking and irrigation water supply (see para. 4.07 below), and
other resource conservation techniques, and in methods to initiate group
economic activities. In all areas, the contracted NGOs would design an
implementation strategy based on thei' appraisal of the local institutions,
resource availability, indigenous knowledge and technology base, that would
strengthen local institutions and technology and result in sustained benefits
beyond the project life. As part of the project's Implementation Program the
Government would enter into agreements with qualified and experienced NGOs
that would specify their rtspective rights and obligations under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 7.03 (d)), including inter al.a that  'le
NGO would: (i) prepare annual work programs and budget proposals that would
include readily monitored input and output data and be reviewed and authorized
for financing by DRN; (ii) submit semiannual progress reports to DRN; and



- 20 -
(lii) submit annual evaluation report. together with next year's program and
budget to DRN by June 30 of each year. The evaluations and programs would
also be reviewed by IDA and the external monitoring agency (para. 5.07) as
part of their review of the Annual Work Program and Budget of the project
(para. 5.02).
4.07        The agroforestry development component would include a two-year
pilot program of civil works for cisterns and other installations in the Pine
Forest extension area that would provide water for human and animal
consumption, and for the irrigation of nurseries and vegetable gardens
(estimated cost US$0.9 million). The design of the water development
activities would be evaluated in the context of subprojects to be approved by
IDA. The NGO contracted for providing agroforestry extension in the Pine
Forest areas, would identify the needs for such subprojects, mobilize the
commitment of the beneficiarins who would be expected to contribute a minimum
of 10% of the total costs in the form of free labor and local materials, and
arrange for the operation and maintenance by the beneficiaries after
completion of the works. The detailed programs would be ircluded in the NGO's
annual programs and reports (para. 4.06 atove). The preparation of the
subprojects, including the detailed technical designs, local competitive
bidding and construction supervision would be carried out by the DRN, who
would also draw on other MARNDR technicians experienced in water development
works. The implementation experience and the scope of the component would be
reviewed during the mid-term evaluation of the project (para. 5.08).
4.08        Forest Manazement (Annex 3).  The project would through SRR:
(a) improve the management of the existing Pine Forest Reserve; and (b) create
additional forest reserves (the estimated total cost of SRF's forest
management activities would be US$5.0 million).
(a)   Pine Forest Management activities would involve:  (i) completion
of the inventory of the Pine Forest Reserve over an area of
approximately 4,600 ha and the preparation of a detailed
implementation plan for the existing global forest management
plan; (ii) completion of the ongoing farm survey;
(iii) preparation of management land use zones: (iv) introduction
of long-term land lease contracts between SRF and the farmers,
acceptable to IDA, which would require that farmers pay an annual
lease fee and implement sound conservation/cultivation practices
as described in the farm-specific plans that would be developed
jointly between the SRF, the NGO providing agroforestry extension
services (para. 4.06 above) and the farmer; (v) all agricultural
lands within the perimeter of the Pine Forest Reserve would be
surveyed and marked to facilitate SRF managing the reserve;
(vi) reforestation of about 1,500 ha; (vii) protection of about
2,100 ha of natural regeneration sites from wildfire damage by
maintaining fire-breaks; (viii) establishment of a fire control
unit; (xi) thinning of natural stands and Christmas tree
production on reforested areas; and (x) provision of forest guard
services. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would take all measures, including submission of
legislation to Congress, if needed, to ensure HA NDR's control and



- 21
management of the Pine Forest Reserve by September 30, 1992
(para. 7.01 (b) (i)). As part of the project's Implemantation
Program, SRP woulds (1) carry out the required surveys in the Pine
Forest Reserve by June 30, 19921 (2) furnish to IDA a detailed
implementation plan, satisfactory to IDA, for the management of
the Pine Forest Reserve by September 30, 1993; and (3) sign land
lease contracts, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
with all farmers residing in the Pine Forest Reserve by
December 31, 1993 (para. 7.02 (e) and (f)).
(b)   Creation ofAddftional Forest Reserves.  On the basis of SPE9s
national inventory and identification if forest resources (see
para. 4.09 (a) below), SRF would select State land vith potential
for forest production and create additional forest reserves. This
would involve: (i) the transfer of identified State land under
control and management of MARNDR for its protection and
davelopment; (ii) the detailed inventory of existing resources and
use; (iii) the preparation and implementation of management plans
and land use zones; and (iv) demarcation and protection as forest
reserves. Assuranccs were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would take all measures, including submission of
legislation to Congress, if needed, to ensure MARNDR's control and
manage-ment of approximately 30,000 ha of new forest reserves,
incluling broadleaf forests, semi-arid forest, arid-land scrub,
and mangrove forests, and create such reserves by September 30,
1994 (pera. 7.01 (b) (ii)).
4.09        Forestry and Agroforestrv Research (Annex 4).  The project,
through SRF, would: (a) expand the existing forestry trials; (b) initiate
agroforestry research in the Pine Forest Reserve; (c) establish two pilot
programs for land management and forestry production; and (d) collect and
manage information on forestry/agroforestry research in Haiti. The objective
would be to develop technology to increase forestry production both on private
farm land and on State land. These research activities (estimated cost
US$2.2 million) would entails
(a)   Forestrv and Fuelvood Trials:  (i) continued fuelwood research on
the existing sites, increasingly integrating local farmers in the
research implementation and extending to them research results;
(ii) new research in the Pine Forest Reserve comprising tree
improvement, entomology research, comparative species trials and
thinning trials; and (iii) establishment of permanent plots for
forest ecosystems research in each of the forest reserves and
national parks to monitor species composition and growth (see also
para. 4.10 (b)).
(b)   Agroforestrv Research.  This would be conducted in collaboration
with the NGO selected for the implementation of the agroforestry
extension program in the Pine Forest Reserve (para. 4.06). The
objectives would be to investigate and develop sustainable land
use technologies appropriate for areas of high altitude.



22 -
(c)   Research for Land Ha amntJ an   orestrLI Poduti           This
component would include two pilot programs: (i) The Sekyane Diane
Reforestation  4ilot Progr  would have the objective of developing
a methodology to reforest the waste lands in the Central Plateau
and Northeast Haiti. Research would be implemented both on an
identified 200 ha station and with rarmers on adjacent farnms, to
whom technical assistance and tree seeditngs would be provided;
and (ii) The Dry Forest Manaeement Pilot Program would have the
objective of developing technology for increasing the production
from semi-arid forest areas. Since such areas are used for
uncontrolled grazing, the experiments would investigate mechanisms
for managing stocking levels with the view to increasing both wood
and livestock production. The experiments would be implemented
both on a research station and with farmers.
(d)   Research Data Collection and Management.  A data base/reference
library would be established in the SRF which would collect and
compile forestry and agroforestry research results in Haiti, and
exchange findings with other interested agencies.
4.10        Inventories and Management of Protected Areas (Annex 6).  Funds
would be provided under the project for the SPE tot (a) carry out a
nationwide inventory of forest resources, and identify potential new natic;ial
parks and forest reserves; (b) manage the two existing national parks and
create one additional park, and prGe~rve endangered species; and (c) establish
and manage a data base on renewable natural resources and monitor land use
trends in Haiti. Activities (a) and (b) would be implemented by SPE's two
existing sections for research and iniyentories, and for preservation and
national parks.  One new section i.  cartography and information services
would be created under the projeAt r: Implement activity (c).  SPE would be
strengthened by additi,nal staff, an :Lternationally recruited resident
ecologist provided through the mana6epvent firm as counterpart to the Service
heaed for five years (para. 4.05 (s)), a variety of short-term c nsultants
(Annex 6, and Axnex 10, Chart 4), sch.-arships, staff training, equipment
purchases and financial support to iti .perations (estimated cost of
US$2.3 million in"luded in the institvclonal strengthening program).  Project
supported specific activities (estimate- cost US$2.8 million) would be as
followus .
(a)   InventoUies would include:  (i) the assessment of national land
use through the use of satellite imagery, aerial photographs and
ground sunrey results; (il) the national inventory of forest
resources, including sociocultural surveys and the establishment
of permanent observation plots; and (iii) the identification of
additional national parks and fLrest reserves on the basis of the
data gathered during the above inventory and additional
sociocultural. inventories and environmental profiles that would be
prepared for each candidate area. As part of the project's
Implementation Program, SPE would prepare recommendations for the
creation of one additional national park by March 30, 1994
(para. 7.02 (e) (ii)). These recommendations would be reviewed
during the mid-term evaluation of the project (para. 5.08).



- 23 -
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would take all measures, including submission of legislation to
Congress, if needed, to ensure MARNDR's control and management of
the additional park lv' September 30, 1994 (para. 7.01 (b) (iii)).
(b)   Management of National Parks and Preservation of Endangered
Species would include: (i) delimitation of national parks by a
survey team of the General Tax Department of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance under a contract with DRN, and subsequent
demarcation by SPE; (ii) supervision and protection by a Park
Supervisor assisted by a forestry technician permnnently stationed
in each national park, a corps of civilian park rangers,
agroforestry extension services provided by NGOs (para. 4.06), and
through land leases to farmers; (iii) zoning and management of
land use with the objectives of preserving biological diversity
and ensuring rational land use; and (iv) preservation of
endangered species. The latter would be supported through
propagation of endangered species at a MARNDR owned farm (for
lowland endemic plants), at the forest nursery in the Pine Forest
Reserve in collaboration with the SRF (for highland species), and
by including special "recovery" programs for threatened animal
species in the management plans for the national parks and forest
reserves; for example, by providing nest boxes for birds. In
addition, endangered species and biological diversity would be
protected by the improved administration of current wildlife
regulations and laws, drafting additional legislation to protect
the native flora, fauna and threatened habitats of the country,
and seeking additional international assistance to purchase
special parcels of threatened ecosystems which serve as habitat
for rare, threatened, or endangered plants and animals. An
internationally recruited conservation expert would periodically
assist the SPE in the design and implementation of the
preservation program (for details of such assistance see Annex 6
and Annex 10, Chart 4). Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would take all measures,
including submission of legislation to Congress, if needed, to
ensure MARNDR's control and management of the La Visite and Pic
Macaya national parks by September 30, 1992 (para. 7.01 (b) (i)).
(c)   The Establishment and Management of Data Bases on renewable
natural resources would be implemented by a new SPE section for
cartography and information services. It would centralize the
inventory data collected under the project and other information
related to renewable natural resources in Haiti, and make it
available for general access in the form of data bases and
Geographic Information Systems (GIS). The data would be used to
constantly monitor and evaluate land use trends.
Household Energy Conservation Suboroject (Annex 9)
4.11        The household energy conservation subproject would implement over
three years the "improved charcoal stoves" element of Haiti's proposed



- 24 -
National Energy Plan, which is under preparation (para. 3.14). The component
would be implemented by the Director of BME's Energy Sector Management
Assistance Project and a conservation coordinator. As part of the project's
Implementation Program the Governmenit would maintain these positions
throughout the implementation period of the subproject staffed with persons
whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to IDA
(para. 7.02 (b) (ii)). It would be a condition of disbursement for the
household energy conservation subproject, that a Director of the Energy Sector
Nanagement Assistance Project and full-time conservation coordinator with
te-me of reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, had been
appointed in BNE to coordinate the activities under the subproject
(para. 7.04 (b) (i)).
4.12        The objective of the household energy conservation subproject
would be to achieve a 10Z reduction in the projected household demand for
charcoal by encouraging the use of energy-efficient charcoal stoves. The
target would be to have some 210,000 of such stoves in use by 1997. To
achieve this, the subproject would focus on the development by BME of an
improved larger stove (in addition to the existing "BME-model," see
para. 3.13), train private stovemakersa carry out publicity and education
campaigns9 monitor the quality and acceptance of the stoves produced by the
private sector, evaluate charcoal savings and benefits, and provide limited
institutional support to the BME. Artisan training, the publicity and
education campaign, and monitoring and evaluation activities would be carried
out by NG0O or contractors. As part of the Project's Implementation Program,
BME would, before commencing these activities, enter into agreements with NGOs
or contractors acceptable to IDA, and under terms and condicions acceptable to
IDA (para. 7.02 (d)).
4.13        The subproject, estimated to cost US$0.8 million, would consist of
the following five components:
(a)   New Product DeveloDment.  An improved, simple charcoal stove has
been developed and test-marketed successfully by the BME (para.
3.13), and would be promoted to replace the traditional small
inefficient stove used in most urban households. In addition,
efforts would be supported to develop a larger and more efficient
elevated stove. This improved larger model would be expected to
attract additional households to participate in the charcoal saving
effort. The existing BME stove testing laboratory would be
upgraded to facilitate the research and development work. It would
be carried out with existing staff at the BRE, with the short-term
technical assistance of a cookstove expert. As part of the
project's Implementation Program, the cookstove expert would be
internationally recruited by the BME by March 31, 1992 (para. 7.02
(c) (iv));
(b)   Artisan Training.  About 200 stovemakers and ironworkers from
Port-au-Prince and other major cities, i.e., about half of Haiti's
artisans presently involved in stove production, would be trained
in the construction and marketing of the two improved stove models
that would be promoted under the project. During training (courses



- 25 -
would run for one week), artisans would receive a per diem (US$10
equivalent) to compensate them for lost production time.
Participants who successfully complete the course would receive a
tool kit, templates for cutting the metal pieces of the improved
stove, fifty quality stickers and a graduation certificate. A EG0
would be contracted by the BHE to recruit participants and conduct
the training sessions. The cookstove expert (sub-para. (a) above)
would assist with the design and implementation of the first
sessions;
(c)   Publicity and Education Cami5ain.  A local public relations fins
would be contracted by the BHE to educate the public about tho
linkage between charcoal consumption and environmental degradation,
and to promote the purchase of the improved stove models by
households and food vendors;
(d)   Monitoring and Evaluation.  A NGO would be contracted by BME too
(i) conduct an initial consumer survey four months after the
beginning of stove sales and the promotion campaign to assess:
(1) whether the products are responding to consumer needs;
(2) whether they are being used properly8 and (3) whether other
officiency improvement measures included in the public education
campaign are being adopted; (ii) undertake quality control spot-
checks by periodically visiting all producers of the new stoves and
checking whether a bonafide improved modrl is being produced, and
if so, distributing to them quality control stickers to attach to
future stoves; (iii) collect data on stove production, sales and
selling prices that would be compiled in a quarterly report to the
BME; and (iv) prepare an interim evaluation report at the mid-term
of the subproject by Marcb 30, 1993, and a completion report of the
subproject by September 30, 1994, which estimate total charcoal
savings and other benefits due to use of the improved stoves, and
provide data on the percentage of improved stove users who switch
back to traditional cooking equipment or to petroleum products, and
the reasons why they did so; and
(e)   Institutional Supoort to BME.  To develop its institutional
capabilities, the BME would be supported through staff training,
equipment and hiring of fixed-term personnel. Training would
include a two-week study tour for two senior staff to visit
successful cookstove dissemination programs in other countries.
Equipment would consist of material to upgrade the stove testing
laboratory, a four-wheel-drive vehicle and funds for operating and
maintenance expenses, and at the end of the publicity campaign,
receipt of the stove promotion van used by the public relations
firm which would have been financed under the project. Additional
fixed-term personnel, which would be hired and financed under the
project, would include an energy economist, an administrative
assistant and one driver for the three-year life of the subproject.
In addition to conservation-related responsibilities, the energy
economist would periodically assess the economic value of wood and
charcoal, and provide this information to the MhARNDR, to guide them



- 26 -
in the setting and administration of the charcoal tax
(para. 4.05 (d)).
Proiect Cost and Financing
4.14       The total project cost is estimated at US$29.0 million equivalent
(US$25.3 million base cost plus US$1.2 million physical and US$2.4 million
price contingencies) including about US$0.8 million (2.7% of total costs)
advanced to the Government through the Project Preparation Facility. These
costs are allocated for: (i) institutional support, technical assistance and
training for the DRN and its Forestry and Environmental Protection Services
(US$10.0 million base cost, or 39.4% of project basa cost, of which training
US$1.7 million); (ii) specific program activitiess agroforestry extension
(US$5.1 million base cost, or 20.3% of project cost, including a water
resource development pilot program of US$0.7 million); forest management
(US$4.4 million base cost, or 17.5% of project cost), forestry/agroforestry
research (US$1.9 million base cost or 7.7% of project cost) and the
establishment and management of protected areas (US$2.4 million, or 9.5% of
project cost); and (iii) support to the BME for the implementation of the
program to conserve domestic wood energy (US$0.7 million base cost, or 2.7% of
project cost).  Pro4ect costs were based on projected January 1991 prices.
Because of macroeconomic instability and, until recently, an administered
exchange rate, costs are presented in US dollars; US dollars have been used
for costing all off-shore procurement and consultancy services; local costs
have been converted at the official exchange rate of early 1i9O of G 5/US$1.
Physical contingencies have been applied as follows: 152 for civil works, and
5% for all other cost items, except salaries, for which no physical
contingency has been included. Price contingencies are based on the Bank's
projections for international inflation (dated Hay 1991), estimated at an
average of 3.9% per annum for the period 1990 to 2000.
4.15       The proposed IDA credit of SDR19.7 million (US$26.1 million
equivalent) would finance 89.9% of total project cost; the balance of
SDR 2.2 million (US$2.9 million equivalent) would be financed by the
Government of Haiti (see para. 4.16 below). Because of Haiti's very limited
fiscal resources (para. 3.04), eligible local project costs would be financed
100% from the credit to ensure continuity of project operations. Without this
level of support, the project would not be feasible under the current
circumstances in Haiti.
4.16       The Government would continue to provide the staff required for the
implementation of the project that is already in post from the previous
project and financed from the MARNDR's regular budget. The average cost per
year of these salaries would amount to about US$0.4 million per year (details
see Table 1.16 in Annux 1). In addition, the Government would, over the life
of the project, gradually increase the annual budgetary contribution to MARNDR
to allow the phased incorporation of project funded permanent positions into
the regular MARNDR establishment and budget. As part of the project's
Implementation Program, the Government would: (i) make additional annual
allocations to the MARNDR regular budget to cover an increasing share of the
salaries for specified incremental staff that would be needed for the project
and its sustained operations thereafter, in accordance with the program given



27 
in Table 1.15 of Annex 1 (para. 7002 (g) (i)). The Goverrament'o share in '-8AL
funding of these incremental salaries would  uacrease from zero in year 1991/(.'
to: 9X (US$56,000) in 1992/93; 20Z (US$124,000) in 1993/94; 332 (US$209,000)
in 1994/95; 53X (US$335,000) in year 1995/96; and 1001 (US$630,000) from year
1996/97 onwards; and (ii) incorporate into IARNDR9s budget all other recurrent
project costs after year 5 (1996/97) of the project (para. 7.02 (g) (ii)).
The transfer to local funding of the project recurrent activities would be
facilitated by the reform of the woodfuels taxation system that would be
expected to yield additional revenues for forestry operations (para. 4.05 (c))
and the beginning sales of forestry products. The project's total annual
recurrent costs after year five of the project, in 1996/97 constant values,
are estimated at US$1.4 million per year, composed of US$0.8 million in
incremental salaries and allowances and US$0.6 million in incremental
operating expenditures. This would correspond to about 152 of HARNDR's
operational budget for 1990.
4.17        A condition of credit effectiveness would be that a DRN subproject
account had been established at a bank acceptable to IDA with an initial
deposit of US$0.35 million equivalent, to cover the estimated average local
funding requirement for project activities during a three-month period
(para. 7.03 (b)).
4.18        Total project costs and project financing are shown in Annex 1,
Tables 1.1 to 1.17, and are summarized in Table 1:
Table 1: Project Costs and Financing
(US$ million, including contingencies)
Total            Gover-  of Total       IDA   of Total
Cost  _           ment     Costs       Credit   Costs
PPF                            0.8    2.7         -          -          0.8      2.7
(i) Institutional
Strengthening
(a) Directorate of
Natural Resources        4.4   15.3        0.3        1.0         4.1     14.3
(b) Forestry Resources
Service                  2.8    9.5        0.8        2.6         2.0     6.9
(c) Environmental
Protection
Service                  2.3    7.9        0.3        1.1         2.0     6.8
(d) Training                 1.8    6.5        0.1        0.5         1.7      6.0
Subtotal             11.3   39.2        1.5        5.2         9.8     34.0
(ii) Specific ProRrams:
(a) Agroforestry Extension
Extension Services       5.2   17.9         -          -          5.2     17.9
Water Resource
Development              0.9    3.0         -          -          0.9      3.0
(b) Forest Management        5.0   17.3        0.8        2.7         4.2     14.6
(c) Forestry Research        2.2    7.6        0.4        1.3         1.8      6.3
(d) Protected Areas          2.8    9.6        0.2        0.7         2.6      8.9
Subtotal              16.1   55.4       1.4        4.7        14.7     50.7
(1li) Household Ener2M
Conservation             0.8    2.7        0.1 a/     0.2        0.7       2.5
Total                29.0  100.0        2.9       10.1        26.1     89.9
0=0=  00000       13000     BOOED       0000     00
a/ Rounded up from US$52,000.



- 28
PrEScuremen
4.19       Procurement arrangemento are summarized in Table 2:
Table 2s  P
(US$ million including contigencies)
Procurement Nethod              Total
Project  lement                    ILCB                  Other    .A.  Cost
Civil Works                       0.7          2.1        0.6              3.4
(0.7)       (2.1)      (0.6)            (3.4)
Vehicles, Equipment                2.1         0.2        0.1              2.4
(2.1)       (0.2)      (0.1)           (2.4)
Consulting Services:
Long-term Consultants            -                      4.8             4e8
(4.8)           (4.8)
Short-term Consultants/Studies  -                      2.0       -      2.0
(2.0)           (2.0)
Extension Consultants            -           -         5.2       -      5.2
(5.2)           (5.2)
Incremental Operating Costs:
DRN, SRF, SPE                                -                 9.9     9.9
(7.3)   (7.3)
BME                              -           -          -      0.1     0.1
(0.1)   (0.1)
Training                         -           -          -      1.2      1.2
(0.9)   (0.9)
Total                     2.8          2.3       12.7    11.2    29.0
(IDA Financed Amount)            (2.8)        (2.3)     (12.7)   (8.3)  (26.1)
(Percent IDA financed          (100S)       (100X)     (1001)   (74Z)   (901)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
4.20       Civil Works.  ICB, in accordance with Bank guidelines, would be
used for the procurement of civil works to reconstruct part of MARNDR's
headquarters building estimated to cost US$0.7 million. Domestic bidders for
such would be granted a margin of preference of 7.51. Other civil works,
e.g., school facilities in various places, water development subprojects, the
rehabilitation of the access and internal roads for the La Visite National
Park and in the Pine Forest Reserve and buildings in the national parks,
estimated to cost between US$50,000 and no more than US$250,000 each, and in
total not more than US$2.1 million, would be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Because of the minor scope
of these works and their scattered location, they would not attract
international contractors. Small works such as for nurseries and guard
houses, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each and in total not more than



- 29 -
US$0.6 million, would be procured by local shopping procedures acceptable to
IDA involving at least three quotations.  Vehicles andt Acuitmnt.  Vehicles9
estimated to cost about US$1.5 million in total, would be procured through ICB
in lots of at least US$500,000 each. Equipment contracts estimated to cost
more than US$100,000 each and US$0.6 million in total, would also be procured
under ICB. Small equipment contracts, estimated to cost between US$15,000 and
US$100,000 each, and US$0.2 million in total, would be procured under LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. Equipment contracts estimated to cost less than
US$15,000 each and not exceeding a total of US$0.1 million, would be procured
using local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA, based on at least three
price quotations. Consultants. IDA-financed consultants, including NGOs,
would be hired in accordance with the Auaust 1981 Guidelines-for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency
(para. 5.05).
4.21        All procurement activities under the project would be administered
by DRN's project unit headed by the project administrator and the financial
manager. Prior review and comment by IDA would be required for: (i) all ICB
procurement; (ii) all LCB contracts for civil works estimated to cost more
than US$100,000 each; and (iii) all LCB equipment contracts estimated to cost
more than US$50,000 each.
Disbursement
4.22       The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over
seven and one half years, in line with the disbursement profile of June 1991
for agriculture sector projects in Haiti against the following categories of
expenditure, all of which would be disbursed at 100% of expenditure, except
for imported items procured locally under category (b) which would be
disbursed at 85% of local expenditure: (a) contracts for civil works;
(b) equipment and vehicles; (c) increment.l salaries and allowances;
(d) recurrent costs; (e) consultants services, scholarships and overseas
training; (f) extension consultants; (g) water development subprojects; and
(h) refunding of a US$750,000 PPF. Categories (b), (d), and (e) would each be
divided between expenditures to be made by the DRN and the BME.
4.23       Disbursement against incremental salaries and allowances
(category (c)) would be subject to annual ceilings as follows:
Period of Payment by the Goverment            USS Equivalent
before September 30, 1992                        1,000,000
between October 1, 1992 and September 30, 1993  1,0009000
between October 1, 1993 and September 30, 1994    930,000
between October 1, 1994 and September 30, 1995    865,000
between October 1, 1995 and September 30, 1996    450,000
4.24       Disbursements against all contracts for civil works costing more
than US$1009000 each, and for equipment and vehicles costing more than $50,000
each, would be based on full documentation. For all other categories
disburseaments would be made against statements of expenditure, for which



- 30 -
supporting documents would be maintained by DRN and BNE and would be made
available for review by IDA staff.
4.25       It would be a condition of disbursement for the water development
subproject that IDA had approved the site selection, and the management and
implementation procedures (para. 4.07 and 7.04 (a)).
4.26       It would be conditions of disbursement for the household energy
conservation subproject that: (i) a Director of BME's Energy Sector
Management Assistance Project and a full-time conservation coordinator had
been appointed by the BME (see also para. 4.11); (ii) an account for the BME
subproject had been established at a bank acceptable to IDA; and (iii) an
initial deposit of the equivalent of US$50,000 had been made into the BME
subproject account (para. 7.04 (b)).
Accounts and Audit
4.27       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:  (i) separate
subproject accounts would be maintained by DRN and BHE to reflect all project
expenditure; (ii) these accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, with special opinion expressed on the statements
of expenditures; (iii) the audited accounts for each fiscal year would be
submitted to IDA no later than six months after the close of the fiscal year;
and (iv) additional audits of more limited scope, including a statement by the
auditors on the compliance with the covenants under the Development Credit
Agreement, would be prepared and submitted quarterly to IDA (para. 7.02 (h)).
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
5.01       Overall Coordination.  The principal organizational units involved
in the project include: (i) the Ministry of Economy and Finance as the
Borrower of the credit on behalf of Haiti; (ii) the MARNDR with its
Directorate of Natural Resources and the Forestry and Environmental Protection
Services; and (iii) the BME. Responsibility for the day-to-day coordination,
including the preparation end supervision of work programs, reporting and
overall technical aspects would rest with the implementing agencies. A
project administration unit located within DRN would coordinate the
institutional strengthening and the forestry and environmental programs in
HARNDR. The Director of the BME's Energy Sector Management Assistance
Project, assisted by a full-time conservation coordinator (para. 4.11) would
be responsible for the management and coordination of the household energy
conservation subproject.
5.02       Ministry of Agriculture. Natural Resources and Rural Develonment.
Management of the forestry and environmental protection components of the
project would be delegated by the Minister to the Director of Natural
Resources in the MARNDR. The management capacity of the office of the
Director of the DRN would be reinforced by a deputy director and a project
unit composed of a project administrator and two advisors recruited for the



- 31 -
duration of the project through an international firm of management
consultants, counterpart and support staff, transport, equipment and new
office facilities (para. 4.05). DRN would interact with other agencies of the
NARNDR that would be affected by project activities, in particular its
Director General who has the responsibility for MARNDR's field offices, and
the Director for Administration, who is responsible for staff recruitment and
administration. It was agreed during negotiations that: (i) project
implementation and financing would be on the basis of detailed annual work
programs and budgets that would be prepared by the project's implementing
services and compiled by DRN; (ii) DRN would submit to IDA the proposed annual
work programs and budgets no later than July 31 of each year for IDA's review
and comment; and (iii) advise IDA of any subsequent addition or modifications
in the program content, cost and scheduling and seek IDA approval
(para. 7.03 (i)). It was also agreed during negotiations that any changes to
the Organic Law of MARNDR that would materially and adversely affect the
project, will constitute an event of suspension (para. 7.05).
5.03       The day-to-day implementation of the annually specified work
programs of the DRN subproject would be the responsibility of the service
chiefs for Forestry and Environmental Protection, who would report to the
Director of the DRN. Within the services, specialized sections, whose heads
report to the Service Chiefs, would perform specific activities of the
forestry and environmental programs. The project would provide the material
and human resources to strengthen these two services and those sections that
implement project supported programs. These sections already exist, except
the proposed new section for cartography and information services in the SPE,
but are understaffed and underfunded.
5.04       Bureau of Mines and Energy.  Similar to DRN within the MARNDR, BME
would operate as part of the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Communications, implementing through its Energy Sector Management Assistance
Project and technical support from the project management firm or other
sources, the household energy conservation subproject on the basis of annual
work programs and budgets (para. 7.02 (i)). BME's management capacity would
also be strengthened by the appointment of a full-time conservation
coordinator (para. 4.11), a two-year assignment of a locally recruited energy
economics and planning advisor, vehicles and equipment, and short-term
consultants (paras. 4.11 and 4.13 (e)).
Technical Assistance and Consultancies
5.05       Project implementation would be ri cilitated by a large number of
both long- and short-term domestic and internationally recruited concultants.
A listing of project financed consultants, and studies and reports that would
be prepared under the project is in Annex 10, Chart 4. To the maximum extent
possible, technical specialists required for project implementation would be
hired by the firm selected as management consultants for the project
(para. 4.05 (a)). In order to avoid conflicts of interest, consultants for
monitoring and supervision functions, such as for the annual monitoring of the
environmental approaches and impact of project activities, as well as for the
preparation of the mid-term and end-evaluations of the project, would not be
recruited through the management firm (paras. 5.07 and 5.08). It was agreed



32 
during negotiations that the selection and appointment of the management firm,
and the specialists recruited through the firm, as well as individually hired
consultants or other firms/agencies/N4GOs, would be consistent with the
Aguaut 1981 Guidelines -for the Use-of Consultants bv World Bank Borrowers and
bv the World Bank as Executing Agency (paras. 4.20 and 7.02 (c) (i)).
Monitoring, Progress Reporting, and Evaluation
5.06       Continuous monitoring of the MARNDR project activities would be
carried out by the project unit in DRNI, which would undertake corrective
actions, advise the implementing units on necessary actions, and inform higher
levels of Government on project issues and performance. DRN's project unit
would prepare and submit to IDA by May 30 and November 30 of each year
semiannual progress reports on all activities carried out under the project,
including the household energy conservation subproject, based on the
individual reports from the implementing agencies and services both in DRN and
BME. The progress reports would compare actual project implementation with
the approved Annual Work Programs and Buugets9 and highlight issues and
problems of project implementation and outline possible corrective actions,
for comment by the Government, IDA and monitoring agencies.
5.07       To monitor the project's environmental aspects and support
implementation of the environmental protection prigrams, an experienced and
highly respected external agency, such as the University of Florida, which is
involved in implementing a USAID supported natural park management program in
Haiti, would 'be hired by DRNo This agency, through its specialized staff and
consultants, would provide comments and recommendations on the annual work
programs and budgets, review and comment on progress reports, and participate
in project evaluations. Agency staff would travel to Haiti at least once a
year during the third quarter to coincide with the preparation of the Annual
Work Programs.  As part of the project's Implementation Program, it was agreed
at negotiations that DRN would hire the external monitoring agency by March
31, 1992, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 7.02 (c) (vi)).
5.08       The Government, with assistance from independent consultants, would
also carry out a mid-term review of on project performance, the results of
which would provide the basis for necessary adjustments in project design and
funding allocation. It was agreed during negotiations that the mid-term
evaluation would be completed by March 31, 1994 (para. 7.02 (k)). To
accomplish this: (i) independent consultants to assist in the evaluation
would be hired by October 1, 1993; and (ii) the draft report would be
available for review by IDA by February 1, 1994. As a standard requirement of
IDA lending, the Borrower shall also prepare a Project Completion Report at
the end of the project investment period.
5.09       Project supervision b- IDA would require a larger than usual staff
input, estimated at about 18 staffweeks on mission per year (see Annex 10,
Chart 2)o Regular supervision missions should include an
agriculturalist/forester/environmentalist, a financial analyst, and an energy
planner.



- 33 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS. INPACT AND RISKS
enefits
6.01       The project wo-ld generate benefits froms  (a) timber production as
a result of the management of the Pine Forest5 (b) incremental crops and tree
production as a result of the agroforestry extension services; 'c) savings of
charcoal consumption as a result of the promotion of more efficient stoves;
and (d) institutional strengthening that would pave the way 7or Haiti to
oxpand its programs to improve its natural resource base.
6.02        The Pine Forest incremental production, both from existing stands
and plantations or natural regeneration and estimated over a period of
50 years, would irnclude about 765,000 ma of saw timber, 2.2 million poles of
20 cm diameter, 1.75 million poles of 10 cm diameter, 2.6 million bags of
charcoal, and 85,600 Christmas trees. It could be assumed that without tha
type of support provided under the project, the Pine Forest, one of the last
contiguous forested areas of the country, would disappear and the investments
made under the previous pilot project would be lost. The value of this forest
far exceeds the relative low returns obtained from its expected timber
production, and includes the conservation of an important watershed, habitat
for fauna and flora, and touristic potential, which are not quantified.
6.03        The agroforestry extension services provided would induce some
16. 000 farmers in the project areas to apply on-farm soil conservation
measures, mainly use of grasses and hedgerow cultivation, plant timber and
fruit trees, and use improved seed of maize and beans. The recommended
combination of these measures would vary according to the location and the
steepness of the slopes. The meacures would generally aim 9* stabilizing and
increasing gross farm income without a significant increase  n farm costs
apart from the incremental labor needed to plant trees and establish
hedgerows, and the relatively small effect of harvesting additional products
and a heavier crop. The project would, as an incenitive to farmers, and
because farm credit is not available, support the farmer's efforts by the
supply of tree seedlings and hedgerow seed, either free of charge or at a
nominal cost and, for the first year of the farmer's participation in the
program, of improved maize and bean seed.
6.04        The benefits the farmer obtains from the agroforestry extension
program would consist oft (i) stemming the future decline in soil fertility;
(ii) improving the current levels of soil fertility; (iii) acquiring tree
products (firewood, poles, fruits); (iv) increasing the availability of fodder
for livestock; and (v) harvesting larger crops by using improved seed
varieties. For highland farms on flatter land (up to a 302 slope), where the
erosion impact is less and the hedgerow cultivation not required, farmers
would be cxpected to increase their net income, with labor input costed at the
market price of US$1/day, between 10 and 202 over the without project
situation. Farms on steeper slopes (302-60%) who participate in the extension
program would be expected to stabilize their declining net incomes. If the
proposed measures to stop soil erosion are not taken on these farms, their net
income would be expected to decline by some 302-50%. For farmers only



- 34 -
adopting tree planting, such as expected in the Belle Anse area, benefits
would be much lower.
6.05        The value of investing in extension services for farmers in these
critical areas, which are to be protected, by far exceeds the incremental
production expected from these farms, which is attractive to individual
farmers but marginal overall. The provision of free technical assistance is
important to halt the decline in their productivity and incom2e due to
environmental degradation, and relieve the pressure on them to seek
alternative income, including from indiscriminate exploitation and destruction
of common (State) land, and to move towards the cities. Support services are
also needed to make the farmers cooperate in the effective implementation of
the restrictive land use regulation3 and land leases to be introduced in
protected areas, and to use them as allies of the administration and buffer
against illegal intruders from the outside.
6.06        The household energy conservation subproject has an estimated ERR
of 57Z, and the improved circular charcoal stove ("BME-model") has a simple
payback time of 55 days, based on savings of 9.8 kg of charcoal per month. By
1997, the subproject would result in annual savings of nearly 17,000 m ton of
charcoal, or over 102 of projected consumption. This would be equivalent to
135,000 m3 of wood, or the sustained production from about 17,000 ha of
fuelwood plantations. Even though the project would not include large-scale
reforestation, because the technologies and institutional arrangements are not
yet available, the project's incremental forest production, both from State
managed forests and from the private farms, will increase the sustainable
woodfuel supply for subsistence and for sale. On the demand side, charcoal
consumption in urban areas would be reduced by 10% following the large-scale
introduction of energy-efficient stoves. In addition, the policy planning,
legal framework review, and taxation measures would contribute to move towards
economic pricing of woodfuels (charcoal is currently grossly underpriced
financially) and the generation of revenues for continued investment in
forestry and environmental protection.
6.07        The institutional strengthening aspects of the project would lead
to improvements of the overall framework for the development and protection of
forest resources and natural parks through policy and legal reforms, training
of professionals, research and pilot projects, and demarcation, inventories
and guard services for protected areas. It would integrate agroforestry
extension activities into the functions of the Government and provide a
framework by which agroforestry could be expanded as capacity grows and
additional external support is forthcoming in the context of the TFAP. The
development of institutions and technologies under the project would lay the
ground for more ambitious programs at a later stage, including for larger-
scale reforestation and water development programs. The costs of not
undertaking the protective measures proposed under the project would be
extremely high. Without the type of assistance to be provided under the
project, the chance to preserve and develop the two national parks in the high
mountains, and to identify and create additional forest and biosphere reserves
could be missed in view of the strong pressure for cutting of fuelvood, crop
production and grazing.



- 35 _
Environmental Impact
6.08        The overall environmental impact of tho project would be to:
(i) reduce the speed of land degradation, in particular the decline in soil
productivity, los of land suitable for agriculture and foresery, and water
retention; and (ii) maintain the habitat for unique forest ecosystems with
rare or endangered species of f:ora and fauna, and for human settl6ment;
(iii) generate additional production on a sustained basis (fuelvood, poles,
fruits, food crops and fodder); and (iv) reduce the demand for charcoal. This
would be achieved through the following actions and their impact:
(a) taking stock of existing natutral resources in Haiti through
inventories, surveys an.- the creation of a data base. This would
provide a basis for settirg priorities and defining future policy
adjustments and investments;
(b) setting aside and restricting access to protect and manage forest
ecosystems and natural parks. This would tend to stem further
destruction of these areas by indiscriminating tree cutting,
grazing and agricultural uses
(c) zoning of land use in protected areas (biosphere concept). This
would improve land use by defining the optimal use of these
protected areas in balance between the interests of preservation of
ecosystems and the sustainable utilization of the resource for
forestry, agriculture, grazing and, potentially, tourism;
(d) implementing conservation measures, e.g., in the core zones of the
biosphere reserves (absolute protection), and on special sites to
preserve the gene stock and for multiplication. This would allow
the preservation of vital ecosystems, and rare and endangered plant
and animal species; and
(e)   regulating private land use in protected areas through:
(i) Government provided protective services (forest and park
rangers) for law enforcement; (ii) a land lease system which would
enhance land tenure security and private investment in conservation
measures, while providing a contractual relationship that would
allow the application of zoning regulations, and some cost
recovery; and (iii) the provision of agricultural support services
(exteriion, input supply, small civil works for water supply) that
would ;romote soil and water conservation, farm forestry, use of
improved seeds, and foster farmer organizations. The combined
impact of these measures would be to increase investment,
production and income on a sustained basis for the benefit of the
population already settled in these protected areas.
6.09       In addition, the project would improve soil productivity and the
cultivation of existing traditional crops by conservation measures and tree
planting, and not through the use of agrochemicals. Aside from some thinning
operations in the Pine Forest to enhance growth of the existing stands, no
logging would be undertaken during the implementation period of the project.



- 36 -
Existing roads in the Pine Forest would be maintained. Road access to the
La Visite Park would be improved, but only through an indirect route from the
South, which because of its distance from Port-au-Prince would not attract
visitors.
Risks
6.10       The main risks of the project relate tos  (i) uncertain political
stability which may impact on the management and functioning of the
implementing agencies; (ii) institutional weaknesses of Government agencies
and Government commitment to streamline the operations of DRN and BME and
implement the policy agenda. To minimize the risks, the project's objectives
and scale of operations have been kept in line with the institutional reality,
in spite of the unquestionable need to progress more rapidly; conditionality
for employment of senior staff in the implementing agencies would be
introduced; payment from the credit for incremental salaries and allowances
would be subject to ainual ceilings, and permanently required staff would be
gradually transferred from credit to Government funding to ensure
sustainability; technical assistance would be hired where local expertise is
not available; to alleviate the Government's management and supervision
.equirements, an international firm of consultants would be employed to
provide the technical assistance and virtually all consultants; contrectors
would be used wherever possible to avoid financially not sustainable build-up
of bureaucratic structures; work programs and budgets would be annually agreed
with IDA; and a mid-term review of the performance of the project would be
used to redesign the project as required.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01        During Negotiations of the proposed credit the following
assuranaces were obtained from the Government regarding the content of major
policy actions of the Government's program and their implementation under the
project:
(a)   Regulatory Framework.  The Government would submit by March 309
1993 for IDA's comments a proposal for changes to its natural
resource legislation aimed inter alia at increasir.g the incentives
for farmers to plant trees by reducing the existing restrictions
on harvesting and use, making the legislation consistent with the
objectives of the Government's development strategy, and
strengthening the institutional capabilities for enforcing such
legislation. Assurances were also obtained that all measuras,
including submission of draft bills to Congress if needed, which
are required for the implementation of the changes, would be taken
no later than December 31, 1993 (para. 4.05 (c)); and
(b)   Forestry Domain.  The Government would, following the completion
of the necessary surveys, take all measures, including submission
of legislation to Congress, if needed, to ensure MARNDR's control
and management of the following State lands for natural resource
protection and development: (i) the existing Pine Forest Reserve,



- 37 -
and the existing La Visite and Pic Macaya National Parks by
September 309 1992 (paras. 4.08 (a) and 4.10 (b))g (ii) additional
forest reserves totalling 30,000 ha by September 30, 1994
(paras 4.08 (b)); and (iii) one additional national park by
September 309 1994 (para. 4.10 (a)).
7.02        Puring Negottations of the proposed credit the following other
agreements and assurances were obtained from the Government as part of the
project's Implementation Program:
(a)   Woodfuels Taxation.  The Government would submit by
September 30, 1992 for IDA's comments a proposal for changes to
its woodfuel taxation system aimed inter alia at improving the
collection, reporting and accounting of the woodfuel taxes,
improving the enforcement capabilities in the application of the
woodfuel tax regulations, and setting tax rates at the appropriate
levels. It was also agreed that all measures, including
submission of legislation to Congress, if needed, which are
required for the implementation of the changes would be taken no
later than December 31, 1993 (para. 4.05 (d));
(b)   Staffing.  The following positions would be staffed and maintained
with persons whose qualifications and experiences are acceptable
to IDA: (i) in MARNDR the Director of Natural Resources, the
project administrator, and the Chiefs of the SRE and SPE for the
entire implementation period of the project
(para. 4.05 (a) (iii)); and (ii) in BME the Director of BME's
Energy Sector Management Assistance Project and a conservation
coordinator for the implementation period of the Household Energy
Conservation Subproject in BME (para 4.11);
(c)   Consultants.  (i) The selection and appointment of thd project
management firm, and of the specialists recruited through the
firm, as well as individually hired consultants or other
firms/agencies/NGOs, would be consistent with the August 1981
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency (paras. 4.20 and 5.05);
(ii) technical specialists with qualifications and experiences
satisfactory to IDA would be maintained throughout the project for
the positions of financial manager and technical coordinator of
DRN, senior forestry advisor to the SRP and resident ecologist for
the SPE (para. 4.05 (a) (iv)); (iii) a cooketove expert for BME
would be recruited by March 31, 1992 (para. 4.13 (a)); and
(iv) DRN would hire an external agency to monitor the project's
environmental aspects under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
by March 31, 1992 (para. 5.07);
(d)   NGO Consultants.  For the provision of agroforestry extension and
research services, as well as for the training of artisans and the
monitoring and evaluation of the household energy conservation
subproject, the Government would enter into agreements with
qualified and experienced NGOs that would specify their respective



- 38 -
rights and obligations under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA (para. 4.06 and 4.13 (b) and (d));
(e)    urveys anId IaneLtories.  (i)  The SRF would carry out the
required surveys in the Pine Forest Reserve by June 30, 1992
(para. 4.08 (a) (1)); and (ii) the SPE would prepare
recommendations for the creation of one additional national park
by March 30, 1994 (para. 4.10 (a));
(f)       Pine Fovest Reserve Nana2ement and Land Leases.  SRF would:
(i) furuish to IDA a detailed implementation plan, satisfactory to
IDA, for the management of the Pine Forest Reserve by
September 30, 1993; and (ii) sign land lease contracts, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA with all farmers residing
in the Pine Forest Reserve by December 31, 1993 (para. 4.08 (a)
(2) and (3));
(g)   Government Contribution.  The Government would:  (i) make
additional annual allocations to the MARNDR regular budget to
cover an increasing share of the salaries for specified
inv:remental staff that would be needed for the project and its
sustained operations thereafter, in accordance with the program
given in Table 1.15 of Annex 1 (para. 4.16 (i)); and
(ii) incorporate into '&ARNDR's budget all other recurrent project
costs after year 5 (1996/97) of the project (para. 4.16 (ii)).
(h)   Accounts and Audit.  (i) Separate subproject accounts in a bank
acceptable to IDA would be maintained by DRN and BME to reflect
all project expenditure; (ii) these accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, with special
opinion expressed on the statements of expenditure; (iii) the
audited accounts for each fiscal year would be submitted to IDA no
later than six months after the close of the fiscal year; and
(iv) additional audits of more limited scope, including a
statement by the auditors on the compliance with the covenants
under the Develoment Credit Agreement, would be prepared and
submitted quarterly to IDA (para. 4.27);
(i)   Annual Work ProRrams and Budget.  DRN and BME would:  (i) submit
to IDA their respective proposed annual work programs and budgets
no later than July 31 of each year for IDA's review and comment;
and (iii) advise IDA of additions or modifications in the program
content, cost and scheduling, and seek IDA's approval (para. 5.02
and 5.04); and
(j)   Mid-term Evaluation.  The mid-term evaluation of project
performance would be completed by March 31, 1994 (para. 5.07).
7.03        Conditions of Effectiveness of the proposed credit would be that:
(a)   a project administrator with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA had been appointed (para. 4.05 (a) (i));



- 39 -
(b)   an internationally recruited firm of management consultants, with
terms of reference, qualifications of specialists, and conditione
of employment satisfactory to IDA, had been appointed to provide
specialists for the positions of financial manager and technical
coordinator for the DRN, of senior forestry adviaor to the SRF,
and of resident ecologist for the SPE (pars. 4.05 (a) (fi)); and
(c)   a DRN subproject Account had been established at a bank acceptable
to IDA with an initial deposit of US$0.35 million equivalent, to
cover the estimated average local funding requirements for project
activities during a three-month period (para. 4.17).
7.04        Conditions of Disbursement would be:
(a)   for the Water Development Subproject that IDA had approved the
site selection, and the management and implementation procedures
(paras. 4.07 and 4.25 (a)); and
(b)   for the Household Energy Conservation Subproject that:  (i) a
Director of BME's Energy Sector Management Assistance Project and
a full-time conservation coordinator had been appointed by the BHE
(para. 4.11); (ii) an account for the BHE subproject had been
established at a bank acceptable to IDA (para. 4.26 (ii)); and
(iii) an initial deposit of the equivalent of US$50,000 had been
made into the BME subproject account (para. 4.26 (iii)).
7.05        A Special Event of Default was added, namely any changes to the
Organic Law of MARNDR that would materially and adversely affect the project,
will constitute an event of suspension (para. 5.02).
7.06        Recommendation.  The proposed project would constitute a suitable
basim for an IDA credit of SDR 19.7 million (US$26.1 million equivalent) to
the Government of Haiti on the terms and conditions set oat in Sections 1
through 7 of this report.



ANNEX 1
-40-                                                 Table  1.1
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
US$                           X Total
...........-.................   X  Foreign     Base
Local   Foreign     Total   Exchange    Costs
. ..... ......... .. ..,. .  ..................  ..... ......... ..........
A. PROJECT PREPAkATION FAC           470.3    275.7    746.0          37.0       2.9
B. NATURAL RESOURCES DIR            1024.3    2771.8    3796.1        73.0      15.0
C. FORESTRY RESOURCE SERV           2109.0    388.4    2497.4         15.6      9.9
D. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION          808.3    1202.0    2010.3       59.8        7.9
E. TRAINING                          847.2     828.1    1675.4       49.4       6.6
F AGRO FORESTRY EXTENSION            560.0    4584.7    5144.7       89.1      20.3
G. FOREST MANAGEMENT                2664.1    1762.9   4427.0        39.8      17.5
H. FORESTRY RESEARCH                1044.3    902.1    1946.4        46.3       7.7
I. PROTECTED AREAS                  1334.0   1069.6   2403.6         44.5       9.5
J. HOUSEHOLD ENERGY CONSERVA         445.6     243.5     689.1       35.3       2.7
...............................................  ....................
Total BASELINE COSTS               11307.0   14028.9   25335.9       55.4     100.0
Physical Contingencies            341.9     894.2    1236.2       72.3       4.9
Price Contingencies              1067.2    1371.5    2438.7       56.2       9.6
.............................. .............................................. .......
TotaL PROJECTS COSTS               12716.2   16294.6   29010.8       56.2     114.5
ValuesScaledby---1000.0=== 8//19   9:53
Vatues Scated by 1000.0 -8/8/1991 9:53



-41-                                   ANNEX 1
Table 1.2
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ProJects Cooponents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
US$
.. ............................................... ............................................................
91/92    92/93   93/94    94/95    95/96    Total
A. PROJECT PREPARATION FAC           782.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   782.8
S. NATURAL RESOURCES DIR            1525.2   532.1    647.8   1128.2    596.8  b430.1
C. FORESTRY RESOURCE SERV            588.0    505.6    513.8    627.7   542.2  2777.4
D. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION          504.0    432.8    451.6   477.0    417.8  2283.1
E. TRAINING                          761.3    483.2    284.8    179.0    167.6   1875.9
F. AGRO FORESTRY EXTENSION           431.4   1329.9   1727.7   1277.6   1314.2  6080.9
G. FOREST MANAGEMENT                1085.7  1072.3   894.6  1047.5   923.0  5023.1
H. FORESTRY RESEARCH                 681.2   333.9   302.0   504.4   373.2  2194.6
1. PROTECTED AREAS                   849.2   330.5   385.4   784.8   436.2  2786.0
J. HOUSEHOLD ENERGY CONSERVA         393.1    283.6    100.2      0.0      0.0    776.9
... ... ...............................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                7601.9   5303.8   5307.8   6026.3   4771.0  29010.8
Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/8/1991 9:54



HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMEUTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY
Detailed Cost Table
USS
Quantity     Unit Cost         Base Costs        Totals Includirng Continigenies
91-96 Total      91-96    91192 92-96 Total         91/92    92-96    Total
.................. .... .............. ............... ................................  ..............................
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
................
A. CIVIL   'RS-PINE FOREST
ACCESS ROADS                                         S.0   0.0   5.0           S.9       0.0      S.9
STAFF HOUSING                                       15.0   0.0  15.0          17.6      0.0      17.6
WATER SUPPLY                                 -       8.0   0.0   8.0           9.4       0.0      9.4
Sub-Total                                            28.0   0.0  28.0          32.8      0.0      32.8
B. CONSULTANTS
PROCUREMENT COSTANT              -                  75.0   0.0  75.0          80.3      0.0      80.3
SENIOR FORESTRY EXPERT        -        -            75.o   0.0  75.0          80.3      0.0      80.3
FORESTRM RESEARCH EXPERT    -    -           -      27.0   0.0  27.0          28.9      0.0      28.9
CHIEF ACCUINTANT                                    24.0   0.0  24.0          25.7      0.0      25.7
ARCHITECT/CIVIL ENGINEER    -                -       15.0   0.0  15.0         16.1       0.0     16.1
Sub-Total                                           216.0   0.0 216.0         231.2      0.0    231.2
C. TRtAINING
FOREST ANASIENT            -                        20.0   0.0  20.0          21.4      0.0      21.4
cIS s                                        -      20.0   0.0  20.0          21.4       0.0     21.4
Sib-Total                                            40.0   0.0  40.0          42.8      0.0      42.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                     2864.0   0.0  284.0       306.9      0.0    306.9
It. RECURENT COSTS
...............
A. SALARIES
FARM SURVEY                -    -            -      32.4   0.0  32.4          33.0      0.0      33.0
FOREST INVENTORY           -    -                   69.2   0.0  69.2          70.6      0.0      70.6
FIRE CONTROL               -    -                   26.8   0.0  26.8          27.3      0.0      27.3
FOREST SURVEILLANCE        -    -            -      30.4   0.0  30.4          31.0      0.0      31.0
PLATATION MAINTEAINCE      -    -            -       4.4   0.0   4.4           4.S      0.0       4.5
PINE FOREST ALLOWCES        -    -           -      41.2   0.0  41.2          42.0      0.0      42.0
FORESTRY R.S. ALLOWACES    -                 -     161.0   0.0  161.0        164.2      0.0    164.2
Sib-Total                                           36S5.   0.0  365.5        372.6      0.0    372.6
B. MAINTENANCE
PINE FOREST VEHICLES        -    .           -      18.5   0.0  18.5          19.8      0.0      19.8
FORESTRY RESOURCE SERVICE    -    -          -      15.0   0.0  15.0          16.1      0.0      16.1
Sib-Total                                            33.5   0.0  33.5          35.9      0.0      35.9
C. OPERATING COST
OFFICE SIPPLIES                                     15.0   0.0  15.0          16.1      0.0      16.1
LEASES                     -                 -      48.0   0.0  48.0          51.4      0.0      51.4
S-Total                                              63.0   0.0  63.0          67.4      0.0      67.4
......   ....... ......  .......... .............   ......... ....... .................. 
Total REORRENT COSTS                                       462.0   0.0 462.0        47S.9       0.0    475.9
=-=-Xs =cn  =v    aIlmotx  u_as
Total                                                   746.0   0.0  74.0         782.8      0.0    782.8
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 8/13/1991  11:15



HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
NATURAL RESOURCES DIRECTORATE
Detalted Cost TabLe
USS
Quantity              Unit Cost                     Base Costs
=u= =    5:5==~ =2u3==    =:===== _       c ==5C=C=2===_____________
91/92 92-94 94n95 95/96 Total     91-96     91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
DAMIEN BUILDING               -    -    -    -                -      600.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  600.0
S. FURNITURE & EQUIPMENT
FURNITURE                  24    0    0    0   24            5.0     120.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  120.0
COMWUTER EQUIPNENT         -    -    -    -    -              -       15.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   15.0
Sub-Total                                                             135.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  135.0
C. PICK-UP                       3    0    .    0    6           18.7      56.1    0.0    0.0   56.1    0.0  112.2
D. CONSULTAMTS
LEGAL COUNSEL                 -    -    -         -           -        6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   30.0
LEGAL REVIEW               -    -    -    -    -              -       50.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   50.0
WODFUELS TAXATION COLLCT   -    -    -    -    -              -       30.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   30.0                               1
EXTERNAL MONITORING         1    1    0    1    4           33.0      33.0   33.0   33.0    0.0   33.0  132.0
MID-TERN REVIEW                  -           -    -           -        0.0    0.0   75.0    0.0    0.0   75.0
CIVIL ENGINEER                -    -    -         -           -       15.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   15.3
FOLLOW-UP PJ PREPARATION   -    -    -    -    -              -        0.0    0.0    0.0  400.0    0.0  400.0
FINANCIAL MANAGER           1    1    1    1    5          150.0     150.0  150.0  150.0  150.0  150.0  750.0
TECHNICAL COORDINATOR       1    1    1    1    5          150.0     150.0  1,0.0  150.0  150.0  150.0  750.0
Sub-Total                                                             434.3  339.0  414.0  706.0  339.0 2232.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                      1225.4  339.0  414.0  762.1  339.0 3079.5
11. RECURRENT COSTS
........ ...............
A. SALARIES
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR          1    1    1    1    5           12.0      12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   60.0
SECRETARY/TYPIST            1    1    1    1    5           4.8        4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8   24.0
ANAGEBIENT ALLOWACE         1    1    1    1    5            7.0       7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0   35.0
UNIT HEAD ALLOWANCE         1    1    1    1    5           4.0        4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0   20.0
DIRECTOR                    1    1    1    1    5           24.0      24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0  120.0
PROJECT ADMINISTRATOR       1    1    1    1    5           6.0        6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   30.0
SECRETARY/TYPIST            3    3    3    3   15           4.8       14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   72.0
MESSENGER                   1    1    1    1    5            2.2       2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2   11.0
DRIVER                      1    1    1    1    5            3.2       3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2   16.0                               ,,3
FIELD TRIP ALLOWACES      150  150  150  150  750           0.0        4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5   22.5                                0 
Sub-Total                                                              82.1   82.1   82.1   82.1   82.1  410.5                                D X
S. VEHICLE MAINTENANCE          -    -    -    -    -             -        11.2   11.2   11.2   11.2   11.2   56.1
C. ADMINISTRATION               -    -    -    -    -             -        50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0  250.0
.......... ............    .........  .......    .........  .......    .........  4-.-->
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                        143.3  143.3  143.3  143.3  143.3  716.6
Total                                                                    1368.7  482.3  557.3  905.4  482.3 3796.1
Unit Costs S.a ed: 1i,30.0 - Values scaled by 0CG0.C  8/23/1991  11:37



HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
. FORESTRY RESOURCE SERVICE
Detailed Cost Table
USS
Quantity                  Unit Cost                        Base Costs
__=::=====__S__==2=      ===___s:==   =m=:- ==   __== -----------_--=-
91/92  92-94  94/95  95/96  Total        91-96      91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   Total
....... ............ ...    .. . ...   ..  .. .    .....   . . .... .. . . ... . ... . ...
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
DOUBLE CABIN PICK-UP         2      0      2      0       4        20.4       40.8      0.0     0.0    40.8      0.0    81.6
PICK-UP                      2      0      2      0       4        18.7       37.4      0.0     0.0    37.4     0.0    74.8
LIAISON VEHICLE              1      0      1      0       2        10.0       10.0      0.0     0.0    10.0     0.0    20.0
PHOTOCOPIERS                 1      1      1       1      5         1.5         1.5     1.5     1.5     1.5      1.5     7.5
CACIJLATORS                    -       -      -          -           -         1.5      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      1.5
Sub-Total                                                                      91.2      1.5     1.5    89.7      1.5   185.4
B. CONSULTANTS
COMPUTER PROGRAMERS         -      -      -      -       -                    10.0    10.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    20.0
C. SURVEYING COSTS                      -      -       -      -                     15.0    10.0    10.0     0.0      0.0    35.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                116.2    21.5    11.5    89.7      1.5   240.4                         4
4cs
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES
HEAD OF SERVICE              1      1      1      1       5        14.4       14.4    14.4    14.4    14.4    14.4    72.0
SECTION HEADS                2      2      2      2      10         7.2       14.4    14.4   14.4    14.4    14.4    72.0
AGRICULTLRALISTS             6      6      6      6      30         6.0       36.0    36.0   36.0    36.0    36.0  180.0
FORESTRY TECHNICIANS        10     10     10     10     50          2.4       24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0   120.0
SECRETARY/TYPISTS            4      4      4      4      20         4.8       19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2   96.0
DRIVERS                      2      2      2      2      10         3.2        6.4      6.4     6.4     6.4     6.4    32.0
MESSENGERS                   2      2      2      2      10         2.2        4.f'    4.4      4.4     4.4     4.4    22.0
CHIEF ACCOUNTANT             1      1      1      1       5        24.0       24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0   120.0
ACCOUNTANT                   4      4      4      4      20         6.0       24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0   120.0
MECHANICS/MAINTENANCE        4      4      4      4      20         3.6       14.4    14.4    14.4    14.4    14.4    72.0
COMPUTER OPERATOR            1      1      1      1       5         6.0        6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0    30.0
MESSENGER                    1      1      1       1      5         2.2        2.2      2.2     2.2     2.2     2.2    11.0
DRIVERS                      3      3      3      3      15         3.2        9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6     9.6    48.0
RANGER SUPERVISOR            5      5      5      5      25         3.0       15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    75.0           ,
FORESTRY RANGERS            12     12     12     12     60          1.8       21.6    21.6    21.6    21.6    21.6   108.0         
MANAGEMENT ALLOWANCES        1      1      1      1       5         7.0        7.0      7.0     7.0     7.0     7.0    35.0                     F Z
UNIT HEADS ALLOWANCES        2      2      2      2      10         4.0        8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0     8.0    40.0                     M X
FIELD ALLOWANCES           48      48     48     48    240          2.4      115.2   115.2   115.2   115.2   115.2   576.0
FIELD TRIP ALLOWANCES     600    600    600    600   3000           0.0       18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    90.0
Sub-Total                                                                     383.8  383.8  383.8   383.8  383.8  1919.0
B. VEHICLE 0 & M                        -      -       .      -           -        17.6    17.6    17.6    17.6    17.6    88.0
C. ADMINISTRATION                 1      1      1       1      5        50.0       50.0    50.0   50.0    50.0    50.0  250.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                451.4  451.4  451.4  451.4   451.4  2257.0
g=====  M==== ===== =____=3 15=X== : ==1==
Total                                                                             567.6   472.9  462.9  541.1   452.9  2497.4
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  8/8/1991  9:46



HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIROMiEUTAI. PROTECTION PROJECT
ENVIROlNERTAL PROTECTION SERVICE
Detalted Cost Table
Ust
Quantity                   Unit Cost                     9ase Costs
AO==5=0020=:__==20E ==1501 ==  Cauc==                    -   --- - ------
912 92/93  93n4  94/95 95/96 Total          91-96     91/92  92/93  93/4  94/95  95f96  Totat
.  ... ....... .. .... _.......... .................  ---------  ...............  ............... ........ ........... .. .. _._
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VERICLES&EWQIPMENT
OLIBLE CABIN PICK-tUP        1     0      0      1     0      2       20.4      20.4    0.0    0.0   20.4    0.0   40.8
PICl-UP                      1     0      1     0      0     2        18.7      18.7    0.0   18.7    0.0    0.0   37.4
COIWlER PWER StPLIES         3     0      0     2      0     5         0.5       1.5    0.0    0.0    1.0    0.0    2.5
CONPUTERS                   -     -      -     -      -      -          -       12.0    0.0    3.0    0.0    5.0   20.0
SCANER                       1     0      0     0      0     1         2.0       2.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.0
PRINTERS                                    -      -         -          -        3.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.2
FAtINE                      -            .     .      -                          1.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.9
PLOTTER                      1     0      0     0      0      1        3.5       3.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.S
COPIER                       I     0      0     0      0      1        1.S       1.S    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.5
TYPE9RITER                   1     0      0     0      0     1         2.0       2.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.0
FURNITURE                                                                       40.0    0.0    0.0    .0    0.0   45.0
CtMTER SOFTWARE             -     -      -     -      -     -           -        5.0    0.0    0.0    1.0    0.0    6.0
Suh-total                                                                       111.7    0.0   21.7   27.4    S.0  165.8
B. LONG TERM CONSULTAT
RESIDENT ECOLOGIST           1     1      1     t      1     5       150.0     150.0  150.0  150.0  1SO.0  150.0  750.0
C. SNRT-TERN CONSULTANTS
CONSERVATION EXPERT          1     1      1     1      0     4        10.0      10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    0.0   40.0
PHOTO-INTERPRETATION         0     3      2     2      0     7        10.0       0.0   30.0   20.0   20.0    0.0   70.0
WTHROtGIST/SOCtOtOGST        1     1      0     1      0     3        10.0      10.0   10.0    0.0   10.0    0.0   30.0
Su-Total                                                                         2.0   50.0   30.0   40.0    0.0  140.0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                                281.7  200.0  201.7  217.4  155.0 1055.8
ll. REtORRENI COSTS
A. SALARIES
NEAD OF SERVICE              1     I      I     1      1     5        14.4      14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   72.0
SECTION NEADS                3     3      3     3      3    1S        7.2       21.6   21.6   21.6   21.6   21.6  108.0
AGRONOMIST                   2     2      2     2      2    10        6.0       12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   60.0
SECRETARYITYPIST             1     1      1     1      1     5        4.8        4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8   24.0
COMPIJTER OERATOR            1     1      1     1      1     5        6.0        6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   30.0
SECRETART/TYPIST             2     2      2     2      2    10        4.6        9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6   48.0
SECtURITY GUARO/JANITOR      2     2      2     0      0     6        2.2        4.4    4.4    4.4    0.0    0.0   13.2
NOUSEKEEPER/GUARDIAMS        4     4      4     6      6    24        2.2        8.8    8.8    8.8   13.2   13.2   52.8
KANAGEMENT.ALLWANCE          1     1      I     1      1     5        7.0        7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0   35.0
SECTION HEADS ALLOSWAE       4     4      4     5      5    22        4.0       16.0   16.0   16.0   20.0   20.0   88.0
FIELD TRIP ALLOIUICES      300   300   300   300   300  1500          0.0       9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0   43.0
SttrTotat                                                                       113.6  113.6  113.6  117.6  117 6  576.0
B. RENTAL AND UTILITIES         -      -            -              -                13.0   13.0   13.0    0.0    0.0   39.0
C. SUPLIES                                                                           5.0    5.0    5.0    S.O    SO   25.0 5  .
D. ADNINISTRATION                I      I     1      1     1      5       50.0      SO.0   50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0  250.0
E. MAINTENANCE
VEIICLES OUN                -     -      -                  -          -         8.3    8.3    8.3    8.3    8.3   41.5
EWIPUN   MAINTENANJCE       .     .      .     .            -                   4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6   23.0
StbTotsl                                                                         12.9   12.9   12.9   12.9   12.9   64.5
Total RECJURENT COSTS                                                                 194.5  194.5  194.5  185.S  185.5  954.5
rma    am"= a    m    -xf  gam    -
Total                                                                              476.2  394.5  396.2  402.9  340.5 2010.3
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values sealed by 1000.0 8/8/1991 9:47



HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
TRAINING
Detalted Cost Table
M8$
Quantity                     Unit Cost                        Base Costs
==IU=====S== =a=2=2==a=:-_==:=ll2===U    ==ZGr              =t=3=                    ::
91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  959/6  Total        91-96      91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   Total
............................. .............   .........   ........................................ ..... ...... 
t. INVESTUENT COSTS
................
A. CIVIL WORKS
FORET DES PINS FACILITY                          -             -               -       150.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   150.0
EMAF REHCELING                               -      -          -         -              50.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   50.0
Sub-Total                                                                               200.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0  200.0
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIPENENT
BUs                             1      0      0      0      0       1        50.0       50.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    50.0
PICK-LP                         1      0      0      1      0       2        18.7       18.7     0.0      0.0    18.7     0.0   37.4
VEHICLE 4WD                     1      0      0      0       0      1        15.0       15.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    15.0
TECHNICAL EQWIPHENT            -      -      -      -       -      -                    25.0     5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0   45.0
Sub-Total                                                                               108.7     5.0      5.0    23.7     5.0  147.4
C. CONSULTANTS
SHORT TERN CONSULTANTS          1      1      1      1      2       4        10.0        5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0    15.0   35.0
TRAINING SPECIALIST             1      1      0      0      0       2       120.0      120.0   120.0     0.0      0.0     0.0  240.0
Sub-Total                                                                               125.0  125.0       5.0     5.0    15.0  275.0
P. TRAINING
GRADUATE SCHOLARSHIPS           2      1      1      0      0       4        20.0       40.0   20.0    20.0       0.0     0.0    80.0
SHORT COLUSES                   3      2      2      2      0       9         3.0        9.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     0.0    27.0
STLOENTS LIVING EXPENSES       -      -      -      -       -      -           -        65.0   130.0    65.0      0.0     0.0  260.0
RANGER ORIENTATION             -      -      -      -       .      -           -        24.0   24.0    18.0       6.0     6.0    78.0
STAFF IN-SERVICE TRAINING      -      -      -      -       .      -           -        11.0    15.0    18.0    18.0   18.0   80.0
.............  ..... ....... ..... .......... .... ......  _  .. ....... .......
Sub-Total                                                                               149.0   195 0   127.0    30.0   24.0  525.0
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                         582.7  325.0   137.0    58.I    44.0  1147.4
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. SALARIES
TRAINING DIRECTOR               1      1      1      1      1       5        14.4       14.4   14.4   14.4    14.4   14.4    72.0
AMANGEMENT ALLCMUACE            1      1      1      1       1      5         7.0        7.0     7.0      T.0     7.0     7.0    35.0
GRADUATE PROFESsOR              1      1      1      0      0       3        12.0       12.0   12.0    12.0       0.0     0.0    36.0
TECHNICIAN                      1      1      1      0      0      3          4.8        4.8     4.8     4.8      0.0     0.0    14.4
ADJUNCT TRAINERS               -      -      -      -       -      -           -        10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0   50.0
SECRETARY                       1      1      1      1      1      5          6.0        6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0    30.0
DRIVERS                         2      2      2      1       1     8          3.2        6.4     6.4     6.4      3.2     3.2    25.6
PER DIEM                     900    900    900    900    90    4500           0.0       27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0  135.0
SUb-Total                                                                                87.6    87.6    87.6    67.6    6.6  398.0
B. MAINTEANCE                                                                                                                                          cr
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE                                                                     2 -   -  -  -  -  21.0    21.0    21.0    21.0    21.0  105.0  b-ct,
C. ADNINISTRATION
SCHOOLS ADNINISTRATION         -             -                                           5.0     5.0     S.0      5.0     5.0   25.0              g-
....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... 
Total RECUMRENT COSTS                                                                          113.6   113.6   113.6   93.6   93.6   528.0
Total                                                                                       696.3  438.6  250.6   152.3  137.6  1675.4
3====w32==_B=_=#B=_SS3IISS:|251==_ _=x _ _ 
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 8/8/1991 9:51



HAITI
FORESTRY AID ENVIROMENTAL PROTECTION POJECT
AGROFORESTRY EXTENSION
Detailed Cost Table
US,
Quwitity                   Unit Cost                            Base Costs
91/92 92/93 93/94 94-96 Total             91-96        91/92   92n93   93/94   94/5   95/96   Total
........................................................ ......... .............   ................................................
1. INVSTNENT COSTS
................
A. CIVIL WRK, IATER PROGRM
INDIVIDUAL CISTERNS                0   100   350        0   450            1.3         0.0    125.0   437.5         0.0      0.0   562.5
COLLECTIVE CISTERNS                0      2      2      0      4          34.4          0.0     66.8    68.8        0.0      0.0   137.5
..... . ....... .....  ~~~~~~~. ....... ... . ...  .
Sub-Total                                                                                0.0   193.8   506.3         0.0      0.0   700.0
S. EXTENSION CON1TRACTS
PINE FOREST                          -      -          -      -             -        212.0   231.0   278.2   334.0   259.7  1314.9
LA VISITE                                   -      -              -                  191.0   208.3   216.5   271.9   219.2  1106.9
PIC MACAYA                               -         -          -             -           0.0   263.4   170.5   170.6   226.5   831.0
BELLE ANSE                                         -       -                -           0.0   280.8   275.4   287.6   348.1  1191.9
.......   ......... .......   .......... .......   ..................................
Stt-Total                                                                             403.0   983.5   940.6  1064.1  1053.S  44.7
..       .. . ..     .    . .. ..              ..... ... .... ... ----------- ............ 
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                        403.0  1177.2  1446.8  1064.1  1053.5  5144.?
Total                                                                                      403.0  1177.2  1446.8  1064.1  1053.5  S144.7
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scated by 1000.0  8/8/1991  9:49
I0



-48-                                               ANNEX 1
Tabie I I.9
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
FOREST MANAGEMENT
Oetailed Cost Table
US$
Quantity                 Unit Cost                      Oase Costa
91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 Total     91-96      91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96   Total
...................................................................... ......... .............  ................................................
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
....... .......... 
A. CIVIL WORKS
BLOGS REHABILITATION        -    -    .                  -           -        15.0   15.0   15.0    0.0    0.0   45.0
STORE, GARAGE, OFFICE       -    -            -                               20.0   40.0   20.0    0.0    0.0   80.0
FIRE WATCH TOWER                                    -    -                    10.0   10.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   20.0
GUARD HOUSE                 -                                        -         8.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    8.0
ACCESS ROADS                -                          -                      25.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   25.0
PINE NURSERY                -                                                 30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0  150.0
WATER SUPPLY CATCHMENTS        -        -                                     40.0   32.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.o
SURVEY/DELIMITATION         -                            -           -        25.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   25.0
Sub-Total                                                                     173.0  127.0   65.0   30.0   30.0  425.0
B. VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT
DOUBLE CABIN PICK-UP         3    0    0    3    0    6            20.4       61.2    0.0    0.0   61.2    0.0  122.4
PICK UP                      2    0    0    2    0    4            18.7       37.4    0.0    0.0   37.4    0.0   74.8
TRUCK                        0    1    0       1    0    2         35.0        0.0   35.0    0.0   35.0    0.0   70.0
MOTOCYCLES                   3    0    3    0    3    9             3.0        9.0    0.0    9.0    0.0    9.0   27.0
HORSES                       8    0    C    8    0   16             1.0        8.0    0.0    0.0    8.0    0.0   16.0
CHAIN SAWS                   2    2    0    2    2    a             2.0        4.0    4.0    0.0    4.0    4.0   16.0
GENERATORS                  -    -    .    -    -    -                         0.0    8.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    8.0
RADIO ECUIPMENT             -        -              -                -         0.0   40.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   58.0
FURNITURE                   -    -    -          -       -           -         0.0   50.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   50.0
TOOLS                       -                 -    -    -                     30.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   30.0
COMPUTERS                    2    0    0    0    0    2             3.0        6.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.0
.......    ......... .......    .......... .......    .......... ... ................ ...
Sub Total                                                                    .155.6  137.0   15.0  151.6   19.0  478.2
C. CONSULTANT
SENIOR FORESTRY ADVISOR      1    1    1    1    1    5           150.0      150.0  150.0  150.0  150.0  150.0  750.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                               478.6  414.0  230.0  331.6  199.0  1653.2
iI. RECURRENT COSTS
............. ..............
A. SALARIES
UNIT HEAD                    1    1    1    1    1    5             7.2        7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2    7.2   36.0
FORESTER                     2    2    2    2    2    10            6.0       12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   60.0
AGRONOMIST                   1    1    1    1    1    5             6.0        6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   30.0
FORESTRY TECHNICIAN         18   18   18   18   18   90             2.4       43.2   43.2   43.2   43.2   43.2  216.0
SENIOR RANGE SUPERVISOR      2    2    2    2    2    10            6.0       12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   60.0
FOREST RANGER               30   30   30   30   30  150             1.8       54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0  270.0
FIRE CHIEF                   1    1    1    1    1    5             3.0        3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0   15.0
FIREMEN                     70   70   70   70   70  350             1.      126.0  126.0  126.0  126.0  126.0  630.0
HIRED LABOR                                - -      .    -                   120.0  120.0  120.0  120.0  120.0  600.0
DRIVERS                      2    2    2    2    2    10            3.2        6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4   32.0
UNIT HEAD ALLOWANCES         3    3    3    3    3    15            4.0       12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   60.0
FIELD ALLOWACES             11   11   11   11   11   55             2.4       26.4   26.4   26.4   26.4   26.4  132.0
FIELD TRIP ALLOWCES        100  100  100  100  100  500             0.0        3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0   15.0
Sub-Total                                                                     431.2  431.2  431.2   31.2  41.2  2156.0
0. MAINTENANCE
VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT MTN    -                                                25.0   38.3   38.3   38.3   38.3  178.3
BUILDINGS MAINTENANCE       -    -    -           -      -           -        13.5   19.0   19.0   19.0   19.0   89.5
TOOLS RENEWAL AND INVNT.   -    *    *    *    *                     -        20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  100.0
Sub-Total                                                                      58.5    7.3   77.3   n.3   77.3  367.8
C. ADMINISTRATION                      -    -            -                -        50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0  250.0
.......  ......... .......  .......... .......  ......... ........ ..............
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                539.7  558.5  558.5  558.5  558.5  2M.8
---u-m - --uumu-----a  anuu ===Ran mumum.
Total                                                                            1018.3  972.5  788.5  890.1  757.5  427.0
unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 8/8/1991  9:49



HAITI
FORESTRY AND EMNIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
FORESTRY RESEARCH
Detdlled Cost Table
US
Quantity                Unit Cost                      Base Costs
91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 Total     91-96     91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  Totat
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
LAATORY                                                                     35.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   35.0
STORE                               -    -              -           -       10.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   10.0         -
NOUSIUC                     -    -    -    -    -    -              -       45.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   45.0
SITE SURVEY                      -    .    - '                               5.0    5.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   10.0
Sub-Total                                                                    95.0    5.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  100.0
S. VEHICLES AND EQUIPNENT
WAUBLE CABIN PICK-UP         2    1    0    1    1    5           20.4      40.8   20.4    0.0   20.4   20.4  102.0
MOTORCYCLES                  5    5    5    5    5   25            3.0      15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   75.0
PICK-UPS                    2    1    0    2    1    6            21.0      42.0   21.0    0.0   42.0   21.0  126.0
LABORATORY EQUIPMENT        -    -    -    -    -    -                      35.0    0.0    5.0    0.0    0.0   40.0
COKPUTER                     1    0    0    0    0    1            3.0       3.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.0
OFFICE FURNITURE            -    -    -    .    -    .              -       40.0    6.0    4.0    4.0    4.0   58.0
NURSERY INVESTMENTS         -    -    -          -     -      -             20.0    0.0    5.0    0.0    0.0   25.0
FENCING                    -    -    -    -    -                            30.0    5.0    5.0    0.0    0.0   40.0
Sub-Total                                                                   225.8   67.4   34.0   81.4   60.4  469.0
C. EXTERNAL CONSULTANTS
SOCIOLG0;ST                 -    -    -          -     '     '              20.0    0.0    0.0   2M0D    0.0   40.n
FORESTER (PINUS)            -    -    -    -    -    -              -       20.0    0.0    0.0   20.0    0.0   40.0
SAVANNA AND OTHERS          -    -    -            -    -           .       20.0    0.0    0.0   20.0    0.0   40.0                                 0
ORYLAND FORESTRY            -    -    -    .    -    -              -       20.0    0.0    0.0   20.0    0.0   40.0
AGROFORESTRY                -    -    -    .    -                           20.0    0.0    0.0   20.0    0.0   40.0
Sub-Total                                                                   100.0    0.0    0.0  100.0    0.0  200.0
Totat INVESTNENT COSTS                                                             420.8   72.4   34.0  181.4   60.4  769.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES
UNIT HEAD                    1            1    1    1    I    5   36.0      36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0  180.0
FOREST RANGERS              14   14   14   14   14   70            2.2      30.8   30.8   30.8   30.8   30.8  154.0
SOCIOLOGIST                  1    1    1    1    1    5           16.0      16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   80.0
FORESTRY TECHNICIANS       11   11   11   16   16   65             2.4      26.4   26.4   26.4   38.4   38.4  156.0
DRIVER                      2    2    2    2    2   10             3.2       6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4   32.0
AGROFORESTRY RES. COORD.     1    1    1    1    1    5            9.0       9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0   45.0
SECRETARY/ACCOUNTANT        2    2    2    2    2   10             4.8       9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6   48.0
FORESTRY RESEARCH C00RD.    1    1    1    1    1    5             9.0       9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0   45.0
- SAVANNA FORESTER          1    1    1    1    1    5            6.0        6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   30.0
DRY FOREST RESEARCH COORD    1    1    1    1    1    5            9.0       9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0   45.0
S b-Total                                                                   158.2  158.2 i58.2  170.2  170.2  81s.0
6. VEHICLE AN                   -    -    .    -    .    -               -       10.0   30.8   30.8   30.8   30.8  133.4                F' '
C. EQUIPMENT MAINTEbAICE        -    -    -    -    -    -               -        3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8   19.0
D. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS         -    .    -           -     -                     2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   10.0                 0
E. OPERATING COSTS              -    .                                           40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0  200.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                              214.0  234.8  234.8  246.8  246.8 1177.4
a=x== == _   Cr222 c233 mc            3ZU2
Total                                                                           634.8  307.2  268.8  428.2  307.2 1946.4
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0  Values scaled by 1000.0 8/8/1991  9:50



-49-                                                   AN=i   1
Table 1.11
HAItI
FORESTRY MID ENVISONTAL PTECTION PROJECT
PROTECTED AREAS
Datalled Cost Table
U#.
@uanttty               ULft Cost                      Base Costs
91/92 92M9 93/96 94/95 ff/96 Total     91-96     91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. VEHICLES&EQUIPESNT
DOU8LE CABIN PICK-UP        1    0    0    1    0    2          20.4      20.4    0.0    0.0   20.4    0.0   40.8
PICK-UP                     3    0    1    3    0    7          18.7      56.1    0.0   18.7   56.1    0.0  130.9
MOTOCYCLES                  5    0    S    0    5   15           3.0       15.0    C.0   15.0    0.0   15.0   45.0
HORSES                      8    0    0    8    0   16           1.0       8.0    0.0    0.0    8.0    0.0   16.0
SOLAR UNITS                 2    0    0    2    0    4           2.5       5.0    0.0    0.0    5.0    0.0   10.0
RADIOS                     10    2    4    4    4   24           0.8       8.0    1.6    3.2    3.2    3.2   19.2
TOOLS                                 -                -          -       40.0    0.0    0.0    5.0    0.0   45.0
GI$ SOFTWARE               -    -    *    *    *    -             -       25.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   25.0
PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT     *         -     -     -     -     *             5.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.0
B10, SURVEY & FIELD EQPT    *        -     -     *     *     -             9.3    0.0    4.3    0.0    3.5   17.1
BOAT, TRAILER, MOTOR       -    *    -    -    -    -             -        5.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.5
GENERATORS 20 KW            2    0    0    0    0    2           4.0       8.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    8.0
Sub-Total                                                                 205.3    1.6   41.2   97.7   21.7  367.5
B. GIS, SURVEYS & G. TRUTH
AIRSURVEYS,MAPS ('000K2)    1    1    0    1    0    3          13.0       13.0   13.0    0.0   13.0    0.0   39.0
AIR PHOTOS ('00002        10    0   10    0   10   30           5.0       S0.0    0.0   50.0    0.0   50.0  150.0
SATELLITE IMAGERY (TN)      1    0    0    1    0    2          45.0      45.0    0.0    0.0   45.0    0.0   90.0
SPOT SATELLITE              1    0    0    1    0    2          10.0       10.0    0.0    0.0   10.0    0.0   20.0
SATELLITE IMAGE ANALYSIS    1    0    0    1    0    2          50.0      50.0    0.0    0.0   50.0    0.0  100.0
Sub-Total                                                                  168.0   13.0   50.0  118.0   S0.0  399.0
C. CIVIL WORKS
BLDG REHABILITATION        -    -    -    -    -    -             -        5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0   25.0
PARKS HEADOWARTERS          2    0    0    1    0    3          45.0      90.0    0.0    0.0   45.0    0.0  135.0
GUARD HOUSES                3    3    0    3    0    9           2.0       6.0    6.0    0.0    6.0    0.0   18.0
ROAD IMPROVEMENT (VISITE)   35    5    0    0    2   40          3.0      105.0   1S.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  120.0
ROAD IMPROVEMENT (MACAVA)    0   10    2    2    2   16          3.0       0.0   30.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   48.0
BRIDGE REPAIR (VISITE)      1    1    0    0    0    2           S.0       5.0    5.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   10.0
SURVEY COSTS                6    5    0   40   10   59           2.0       8.0   10.0    0.0   80.0   20.0  118.0
FENCING COSTS              20   20   10   30   20  100           0.5      10.0   10.0    5.0   1S.0   10.0   50.0
ECOSYSTEM CONSERV. COSTS    10   20   30   40   10  110          1.0       10.0   20.0   30.0   40.0   10.0  110.0
SihTotal                                                                  239.0  101 0   46.0  197 0   S1.0  634.0
Total INVESTMENT C5STS                                                           612.3  115.6  137.2  412.7  122.7 1400.5
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. SALARIES
AGRONOMIST                  2    2    2    2    2   10           6.0       12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   60.0
AGROFORESTRY TECHNICIAuS    2    2    7    8    8   27           2.4       4.8    4.8   16.8   19.2   19.2   64.8
RANGER SUPERVISORS          0    0    3    4    4   11           3.0       0.0    0.0    9.0   12.0   12.0   33.0
FOREST RANGERS             16   24   24   32   32  128           1.8      28.8   43.2   43.2   57.6   5T.6  230.4
DRIVERS                     2    2    2    2    2   10           3.2       6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4   32.0
GIS TECHNICIAS              4    4    4    4    4   20           6.0      24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0  120.0
GIS SUPERVISOR              0    0    0    1    1    2           7.2       0.0    0.0    0.0    7.2    7.2   14.4
HIRED LABOR                10   10   10   10   10   50           1.0      10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   50.0
PLANT PROPAGATORS           2    2    2    2    2   10           2.4       4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8   24.0
FIELD ALLOWNCES           12   12   12   12   12   60            2.4      28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8  144.0
Sub-Total                                                                  119.6  134.0  155.0  182.0  182.0  m.6
B. MAINTENANCE
VEHICLES *                      - * - *                - -                 17.8   17.8   17.8   17.1   17.8   89.0
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE      -    -           -    -    -           .        6.9    6.9    6.9    6."1   6.9   34.5
CIVIL WORKS MAINTENANCE    -         -     *     -     -     -             9.6    9.6    9.6   14.;   14.1   57.0
NURSERY                    *    *                                          10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   50.0
Sub-Total                                                                  64.3   44.3   44.3   48.8   48.8  230.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                            163.9  178.3  199.3  230.8  230.8  1003.1
Total                                                                         776.2  293.9  336.5  643.5  353.5 2603.6
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 8/8/1991 9:53



HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
HOUSEHOLD ENERGY CONSERVATION
Oetailed Cost Table
uS,
Quantity            Unit Cost                 Base Costs                  Totals Inctuding Contingencies
91/92 92-94 94-96 Totat       91-96     91/92  92/3  93/94  94-96  Total      91/92 92/93  93/94  94-9S  Total
........................ ......... ...................................   ...................................
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
VEHICLE                            -    -            -             35.0   0.0   0.0    0.0  35.0         37.5   0.0    0.0    0.0  37.5
LABORATORY EQUIPMENT         -     -    -      -           -        1.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    1.0         1.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.1
PROTOTYPE TESTING            -    -    -                            1.2   0.0   0.0    0.0    1.2         1.3   0.0   0.0    0.0    1.3
.. ...... ...... ......... ...... ......    ..... . .. ...... ........ .. .. ..... ........ ....
Sub-TotaL                                                           37.2   0.0   0.0    0.0  37.2         39.9   0.0   0.0    0.0  39.9
B. CONSULTANTS AND SERVICES
COOKSTOVE EXPERT                -    -      -              -       36.0   0.0   0.0    0.0  36.0         38.5   0.0    0.0    0.0  38.5
ARTISAN TRAINING CONTRACT    -     -    -      -           -       50.0   17.2   0.0    0.0  67.2        56.1   20.0   0.0    0.0  76.1
PUBLICITY CAMPAIGN CNTRCT    -     -    -      -           -      130.0  163.0   0.0    0.0 293.0    145.8  189.9   0.0    0.'k 335.7
MoNITORING CONTRACT          -     -     -     -           -       35.0  32.0  41.0    0.0  108.0        39.3  37.3   49.6    0.0  126.2
ESMAP SPN                    -     -     -     -           -       20.0   19.0  30.0    0.0   69.0       21.4  21.1   34.7    0.0   77.2
.. ..   . . . ....   . ....  . ....   .. . . . ...     . ...    . . .. . . .
Sub-Total                                                          271.0  231.2  71.0    0.0 573.2       301.1  268.4  84.3    0.0 653.7
C. TRAINING STUDY TOURS           -     -    -         -                10.0   0.0   0.0    0.0  10.0         11.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  11.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                    318.2  231.2  71.0   0.0 620.4        352.1  268.4   84.3    0.0  704.8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. VEHICLE W)M-                               -     -           -        3.5    0.0   0.0    0.0   3.5         3.7   0.0    0.0    0.0   3.7
B. SALARIES
ENERGY ECONOMIST                 -       -     -                   12.0  12.0  12.0   0.0   36.0         12.2  12.7  13.2    0.0  38.2
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSIST.        1    0      0     1         6.0       6.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   6.0         6.1    0.0   0.0    0.0   6.1
DRIVER                        1     1    0      3         2.4       2.4   2.4   2.4    0.0    7.2         2.4   2.5    2.6    0.0    7.6
......  ......   ..  ..  ....     ....  ....     ......  ......  .........
Sub-Total                                                           20.4  14.4  14.4   0.0   49.2         20.8  15.3  15.8    0.0   51.9
C. FIELD EXPENSES                                - -  -  -      -       14.0   0.0   0.0    0.0  14.0         14.3    0.0    0.0    0.0  14.3
0. OFFICE SUPPLIES                            -     -                    2.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    2.0         2.1    0.0    0.0    0.0   2.1        b
Total RECLRRENT COSTS                                                      39.9  14.4  14.4   0.0  68.7          41.0  15.3  15.8    0.0  72.1 i          x
Total                                                                  358.1  245.6  85.4    0.0 689.1       393.1  283.6  100.2   0.0 776.9
Un=_ Cst_=  cte==    100. -VaLesscte= =b               = 8= 8    ===8 9==
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  8/8/1991  9:51 



-51-                                         ANNEX  1
Table 1.13
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Financing Plan by Project Components
Uss
IDA           Govermient         Total                 Local
..------------------ ..............................   For.    (Exct.  Duties
Amount     X     Amount           Amount     X       Exch.   Taxes)   8 Tax.
A. PROJECT PREPARATION FAC        782.8   100.0       0.0     0.0    782.8     2.7    296.7   486.1       0.0
S. NATURAL RESOURCES DIR         4155.6    93.8    274.4      6.2   4430.1    15.3   3253.9   1176.2      0.0
C. FORESTRY RESOURCE SERV        2011.9    72.4    765.5    27.6   277.4       9.6   441.5  2335.9        0.0
D. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION      1964.8    86.1    318.3    13.9  2283.1       7.9   1380.0   903.1       0.0
E. TRAINING                      1733.7    92.4    142.2      7.6   1875.9     6.5    929.6    946.3      0.0
F. AGRO FORESTRY EXTENSION       6080.9   100.0      0.0     0.0   6080.9    21.0   5379.4    701.4       0.0
G. FOREST MANAGEMENT             4232.9    84.3    790.2    15.7   5023.1    17.3   2050.6   2972.5       0.0
H. FORESTRY RESEARCH             1800.2    82.0    394.4    18.0   2194.6      7.6   1033.8   1160.8      0.0
1. PROTECTED AREAS               2591.7    93.0    194.3     7.0   2786.0      9.6   1258.3   1527.8      0.0
J. HOUSEHOLD ENERGY               725.0    93.3     51.9      6.7    776.9     2.7    270.9   506.0       0.0
Total Disbursement              26079.6    89.9   2931.2    10.1  29010.8   100.0  16294.6  12716.2       0.0
........... ...................... ......... ..................................................................  
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0 8/8/1991 9:54



-52-                                         ANNEX  1
Page 1. 14
NAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Disbursemeint by Financier by Semester
USS
Goverrwn
IDA      ent     Total
.............. ............................
Amount  Amount   Amount
aa=sauntnesalf33na:  a:zumU
Semester
1   3596.5    204.4   3800.9
2   3596.5    204.4   3800.9
3   2408.3    243.7   2651.9
4   2408.3    243.7   2651.9
5   2358.4    295.5   2653.9
6   2358.4    295.5   2653.9
7   2678.1    335.1   3013.1
8   2678.1    335.1   3013.1
9   1998.6    386.9   2385.5
10   1998.6    386.9   2385.5
. ................. .......... ........... 
TOTAL      26079.6   2931.2  29010.8
Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/8/1991 9:54
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Financring Plan by Foreign Exchange / Local / Taxes
US$
IDA     Goverment        Total
....................................
Amount      Amount      Amount
I   ForeIgn                     16294.6          0.0     16294.6
II  Local (ExcL. Taxes)          9785.0       2931.2     12716.2
III Tax,.s                          0.0          0.0         0.0
....................................
Totel Project                    26079.6      2931.2     29010.8
CCC3 =E CCCC*3 UUa=UUUUUU-I====3flu
Vl.u.e .................0  8/8/1991  9:
Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/8/1991 9:54



HAITI - FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Incremental Staff To Be Taken Over by the MARNDR Budget
Salary    Incremental Staff
Cost     Employed under the Project         Project Staff To Be Taken Over By NARNDR Budget   From
1990     Yr.1  Yr.2  Yr.3  Yr.4  Yr.5         Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Year 6
US$'000    No.   No.   No.   No.   No.       No. US$'000 No. US$'000 No. US$'000 No. US$8000 No. US$'000
Forestry Resources Service Staff:
Chief Accountant        24.0       1     1      1     1     1                                                          1    29.0
Accountant               6.0       4     4      4     4     4                                              2    14.1   2    14.5
Mechanic                 3.6       4     4      4     4     4                                                          4    17.4
Computer Operator        6.0       1     1      1     1     1                                                          1     7.2
Messenger                2.2       1     1      1     1     1                                                          1     2.7
Driver                   2.2       3     3      3     3     3                     1     2.4   2      5.0   3     7.8   3     8.0
Ranger Supervisor        3.0       5     5      5     5     5        1      3.2   2     6.6   3    10.2   5    17.6   5    18.1
Forest Ranger            1.8      12    12    12    12    12         3      5.7   6    11.8   9    18.4  12    25.4  12    26.1
SUBTOTAL              31    31    31    31    31         4     8.9   9    20.8  14    33.5  22    64.9  29   123.0
Increase over previous year:   4      8.9   5    11.9   5    12.8   8    31.3   7    58.;
Pine Forest Management Staff:
Agronomist               6.0       1     1      1     1     1                                                          1     7.2
Sr. Ranger Supervisor   6.0        2     2      2     2     2                     1     6.6   1      6.8   2    14.1   2    14.5
Forest Ranger            1.8      30    30    30    30    30         6    11.4  12    23.6  18    36.7  24    50.8  30    65.2
Chief Fire Brigade       3.0       1     1      1     1     1                                              1     3.5   1     3.6
Firemen                  1.8      70    70    70    70    70        14    26.6  28    55.1  42    85.7  56   118.4  70   152.2
Driver                   3.2       2     2      2     2     2                                                          2     7.7
SUBTOTAL            106   106   106   106   106         20    38.0  41    85.3  61   129.2  83   186.8 106   250.5
Increase over previous year:  20    38.0  21    47.4  20    43.8  22    57.7  23    63.7
Forestry Research Staff:
________________________
Forest Ranger            2.2      14    14    14    14    14                                                          14    37.2
Research Coordinator    9.0        1     1      1     1     1                                 1    10.2   1    10.6   1    10.9
Secretary/Accountant    4.8        2     2      2     2     2                                 1      5.4   2    11.3   2    11.6
Savanna Forester         6.0       1     1      1     1     1                                              1     7.1   1     7.2
DryForest Coordinator   9.0        1     1      1     1     1                                              1    10.6   1    10.9
SUBTOTAL              19    19    19    19    19                                  2    15.6   5    39.5  19    77.8
Increase over previous years                             2    15.6   3    23.8  14    38.3
t0.1
OQ C 2
fD 1X



HAITI - FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Incremental Staff To Be Taken Over by the MARNDR Budget
Salary    Incremental Staff
Cost     Employed under the Project         Project Staff To Be Taken Over By MARNDR Budget   From
1990     Yr.1  Yr.2  Yr.3  Yr.4  Yr.5         Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Year 6
US$,000    No.   No.   No.   No.   No.       No. US$'000 No. US$1000 No. US$1000 No. US$'000 No. USS'00
Environmental Protection Service Staffs
Computer Operator        6.0       1     1      1     1     1                                                          1     7.2
Secretary/Typist         4.8       2     2      2     2     2                                                          2    11.6
Guard                    2.2       6     6      6     6     6         1     2.3   2     4.8   4    10.0   6    15.5   6    15.9
SUBTOTAL              9      9     9     9      9        1     2.3   2      4.8   4    10.0   6     155  9    u4.8
Increase over prevlous year:   1      2.3   1     2.5   2      5.2   2     5.5   3    19.3
Protected Areas Staff:
______________________
Ranqer Supervisor        3.0                    3     4     4                                                          4    14.5
Park Ranger              1.8      16    24    24    32    32                                                          32    69.6
Driver                   3.2       2     2      2     2     2                                                          2     7.7
GIS Technician           6.0       4     4      4     4     4         1     6.3   2    13.1   3    20.4   4    28.2   4    29.0
GIS Supervisor           7.2                          1     1                                                          2    17.4
Plant Propagator         2.4       2     2      2     2     2                                                          2     5.8
SUBTOTAL             24    32    35    45    45          1     6.3   2    13.1   3    20.4   4    28.2  46   144.0
Increase over previous yeart   1      6.3   1     6.8   1      7.3   1     7.8  42   115.8
TOTAL            189   197   200   210   210         26    55.5  54   124.1  84   208.7 120   334.9 209   630.1
Price Contingency Factor (1990 - 1.0)    1.055         1.094       1.133        1.175       1.208
0
VIe
a-.
U' w
ND 



-55-
ANZNX 1
Table 1.16
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Government Contribution to Project Financing
(current US'OO0, including prlce contLngencLes)
Agency/Program                    Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year S         Total
Directorate of Natural Resource:s
Base Staff a/              50.7      S2.5     54.4      56.4      58.4         272.4
Forestry Resource Services
Base Staff a/             120.9    125.2    129.7    134.5    139.3            649.6
Staff AdditLons b/                    8.9     20.8      33.5      64.9         128.1
Pine Forest Managements
Base Staff a/              63.S      65.9     68.2      70.7      73.2         341.5
Staff AdditLons b/                   38.0     85.3    129.2    186.8           439.3
Forestry Research:
Base Staff a/              49.7      51.4     60.1      75.7      78.2         315.1
Staff AdditLons b/                                      15.6      39.5          55.1
EnvLronmental Protection Service:
Base Staff a/              53.8      55.8     57.7      59.7      61.9         288.9
Staff Additions b/                    2.3      4.8      10.0      15.5          32.6
Protected Areas:
Base Staff a/              17.1      17.8     31.5      35.3      36.6         138.3
Staff Additions b/                    6.3     13.1      20.4      28.2          68.0
Training:
Base Staff a/              31.8      28.0     34.0      16.3      16.9         127.0
Household Energy Component (BME):
Basw Staff a/              20.8      15.2     15.7                              51.7
TOTALS:
Base Staff a/             408.3    411.8    451.3    448.6    464.5           2184.5
Staff Additions b/                   55.5    124.0    208.7    334.9           723.1
Total Government Contributions    408.3    467.3    575.3    657.3    799.4             2907.6
Notes:   a/ Value of salaries of project staff that are already pald from
Government's regular budget.
b/ Salaries of lncremental project staff that are to be taken over by
the MARNDR budget during the implementation period of the project.



-56-
Page 1 of 12
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Regulatorv Framework for Natural Resources. Forest Reserves and Parks
Present Situation
1.          Jurisdictions.  According to statute, the Ministry of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR) has primary responsibility
for management of national parks and forest lands. Within the agricultural
ministry, the Directorate of Natural Resources (DRN) is charged with
responsibility for national forest reserves and natural parks. The DRN houses
the following natural resource and environmental services:
Forestry Resources Service (SRF)
Environmental Protection Service (SPE)
Technical Secretariat for Watershed Management (STABV)
Watershed Management Service (SABV)
Service of Aquaculture and Maritime Fishing
Water Resources Service (SRE)
Irrigation and Rural Engineering Service (SIG)
2.          The Forest Resources Service (SRF) manages forest reserves and
parks. It is also charged with collection of wood related taxes,
authorizatica of tree cutting on private lands and management of the Special
Reforestation Fund. The Envirormental Protection Service (SPE) is charged
with parks management and natural resource inventories; however, it does not
have staff or program funds to carry out these functions. Two semi-autonomous
Government agencies also have responsibility for parks:
Institute for the Safeguard of the National Patrimony (ISPAN)
National Office of Tourism and Public Relations (ONTRP)
ISPAN has served as a channel for USAID funding to two natural parks, La
Visite and Pic Macaya. In 1988 ISPAN relinquished this funding and
transferred its responsibility to the SRF. This transfer took place through
an exchange of letters between ISPAN and the SRF. ISPAN retains primary
responsibility for national historic parks and monuments, including the
Citadelle fortress. ONTRP does not actively manage natural parks nor any
other protected areas. MARNDR is the only Government agency with active
responsibility for national natural parks.



-57-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 12
3.           Parks and Reserves.  Three major natural sites have been set
aside by law as protected areass the Pine Forest Reserve (27,871 ha), Morne
La Visite National Park (3,000 ha), and Pic Macaya National Park (5,500 ha).
The Pine Forest Reserve is managed by the SRF as a forestry production site.
Two other high mountain sites, Pic Macaya and Morne La Visite, were granted
the status of "national natural parks" by the Decree of June 18, 1983.  The
two mountain parks are under the jurisdiction of the agricultural ministry and
assigned to the forest service. The 1983 law also named eight other "national
parks" and "natural sites" including three springs, four historic monuments
and Lake Peligre. With the exception of the Citadelle and Lake Peligre, these
sites are composed of only a few hectares each. Historic monuments and their
restoration are under the management of ISPAN. Lake Peligre and other water
parks are not actively managed as protected areas.
4.          The SRI provides services in the Pine Forest and the two mountain
parks. The SRI initiated direct management of the Pine Forest Reserve under
the Pilot Forestry Project (1982-1989). The SRF carries out classic forest
management functions and employs civilian and military guards to protect the
forest. This level of public management on state land is without precedent in
Haiti, but it is not yet sufficient to prevent agricultural encroachment and
illicit harvest. The SRF also maintains civilian guards in Morne La Visite
and Pic Macaya Hatioral Parks, but it is unable to field a parks management
team and other technical services. In Pic Macaya Park, the University of
Florida operates a non-governmental project emphasizing park protection and
extension services to local farmers. Horne La Visite Park is the most
vulnerable of the three sites due to the absence of both technical staff and
site-based supervision of park guards.
s.          Legal Framework and Enforcement.  Since the 1920s there have been
numerous laws which reinforce the Ministry of Agriculture and strengthen legal
protection of forests and other natural resources. Current forest law is
articulated in the Law of August 17, 1955, which regulates cutting, transport
and commerce in wood, and the Rural Code of 1962. The Rural Code serves as
the primary regulatory framework for rural Haiti. The Decree of
November 20, 1972, created the Special Reforestation Fund which serves as the
legal basis for the forest service to collect taxes on wood products, levy
fines and confiscate illicit wood products. The Constitution of 1987 provides
for protection of the national patrimony including the natural environment,
natural sites, flora and fauna, and the ecological balance. The Decree of
July 7, 1987, establishes current guidelines for enforcement. This decree
prohibits tree cutting and transport of wood products except by permission of
the Ministry of Agriculture. Cutting authorization is to be sought from an
agent of the ministry. These civilian agents are empowered to collect taxes,
arrest violators and confiscate illegal wood products.
6.          The law has ample provisions to create protected areas.  There is
a longstanding body of law which provides for the creation of "reserved zones"
and "zones under protection". Zones under protection are defined as sites
where use is regulated by the agricultural ministry, and reserved zones are



-58-
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 12
defined as sites withdrawn from all forms of production. The Rural Code of
1962 provides that all state forest reserves are to be administered by the
agricultural ministry. Laws and decrees on national parks also assign land
management responsibility to the agricultural ministry.
7.          In terms of enforcement, the agricultural ministry supervises a
corps of 60 Forestry Agents charged with collection of wood transport taxes
and authorization of tree cutting on private lands. The Forestry Agents are
attached to MARNDR agricultural districts dispersed throughout the country.
Another 30 Forestry Agents are known as Wood Products Controllers. These
agents are directly supervised by the SRF. They are responsible for verifying
payment of wood transport taxes at checkpoints along major roadways and ports
entering Port-au-Prince. The tax collection rate for wood transport taxes is
estimated at about 102 of total volume. The SRF also hires Park Agents for
enforcement of tree cutting and agricultural regulations in Park Pic Macaya
and Park Morne La Visite. These civilian park agents are not trained and they
are poorly supervised. The SRF has a corps of civilian forestry guards in
both units of the Pine Forest Reserve. Park agents and forestry guards have
tended to fluctuate in number. Their recruitment and salary payment have been
dependent on external sources of funding. Since February 1988 the Haitian
Armed Forces have seconded a corporal and two soldiers to the Pine Forest
Reserve under direct MARNDR command for assistance in enforcement activities
in the forest. The army also assigned an army major as liaison officer for
the SRF. The SRF pays expenses and transport costs for the seconded army
personnel and liaison officer.
8.          Land Tenure.  Haiti has important forest resources in both public
and private sectors. The state owns all offshore islands. The state also has
large holdings in high mountain zones, plateau areas, barren savannas and arid
coastal plains. The full extent of state holdings is unknown. Relatively
little state land has been surveyed and demarcated.
9.          State lands are held under distinctly contrasting forms of public
management. The state uses two basic systems of classification: (a) public
domain of the state; and (b) private domain of the state. The Ministry of
Finance is charged with management of the private domain of the state,
including land leasing to small farmers and to holders of large corporate
concessions. Other ministries are assigned management of public domain lands.
The Ministry of Agriculture is charged with management of forest reserves and
natural park preserves as public domain of the state.
10.         In some areas of Haiti there are large amounts of unassigned
(unleased) state lands in both the public and private domains of the state.
Such unoccupied state lands are open to all, and wood resources are simply
mined. Most of the unassigned state lands fall within the private domain of
the state managed by the Ministry of Finance. In areas of dry forest,
unassigned lands are commonly used for open range grazing. In general,
unassigned lands are subject to illegal and uncontrolled usage for
agriculture, grazing and harvest of forest products. Unassigned lands are
particularly subject to uncontrolled fires.



-59-
6NNE 2
Page 4 of 12
II.         Haitian land tenure is a private property system based on a dual
system of arrangements--customary usage as well as the formal legal framework.
A considerable proportion of the land is held without the benefit of cadastre
and updated title. Most private agricultural land in Haiti is owned or
occupied by small peasant farmers--especially in the mountainous zones which
constitute the vast majority of the nation's territory. Peasant farm units
are generally composed of several small dispersed plots. Peasant farmland is
held through a pattern of mixed tenure whereby farmers aimultaneously rent,
sharecrop, own and lease out plots to other peasant farmers. Land in low-
lying plains--about one-fourth of the national territory--is held by a mix of
large and small holders, but large holdings tend to predominate. Large
holdings are generally controlled by absentee landlords. Many large holdings
are subdivided into small parcels farmed by sharecroppers.
12.         Land Leases on State Land.  Land falling within the public domain
may be leased out, but such lands are inalienable--unlike the private domain
of the state which may be leased, sold, donated or homesteaded. The Decree of
July 27, 1989, establishes leaseholders in the private domain of the state as
users rather than renters. It establishes a nine year renewable contract
rather than the annual renewable lease which has otherwise been standard
practice in the private domain of the state. This decree has the force of law
but the Ministry of Finance has not taken concrete steps tc implement the new
law. Many state leaseholders in the private domain of the state have ceased
to pay annual rents since the 1989 law was publicized. In general, there has
been a significant decrease in state rental collections since 1986.
13.         The Pine Forest Reserve is managed by the Forest Service as public
domain. Pine Forest leaseholders continue to pay annual rents. Longstanding
leaseholders in Morne La Visite Park have not beer required to pay rents since
1983 when MARNDR announced a policy of eviction on park lands slated for
preservation. Evicted leaseholders were offered access to farmland on other
sites as compensation. This policy has not been fully implemented, and old
leaseholders still maintain agricultural and grazing activities in the park.
In Pic Macaya Park the Ministry of Finance has ceased to collect rents. The
Ministry of Agriculture has evicted farmers from some areas, but it has not
introduced new leasing policies. The Ministry of Agriculture has the
authority to implement site management plans, multiple year lease contracts
and variable conditions for retaining leases. It also has the authority to
rescind leases and establish specialized land use zones and restricted areas.
The ministry has a broad base of authority, but it lacks the means to
establish a proper parks management system and to implement new leasing
policies on park lands.
Constraints
14.         Ecoloaical Crisis.  (a) Haiti's natural resource base is heavily
stressed. Wood based energy supplies are diminishing. Natural forest has
nearly disappeared, and rare species of flora and fauna are on the verge of
extinction. The scope and extreme urgency of the situation make it difficult



-60-
ANNHIL&
Page 5 of 12
to intervene effectively; (b) long-range policies of natural resource
conservation compete with urgent human needs for food, fuel and agricultural
livelihoodsl and (a) national philosophies of nature preservation and
environmental concern are at an embryonic stage of development.
15.         Natural Resource Information and fonitorina.  Despite the extreme
gravity of its ecological problems, Haiti has never undertaken a thoroub.i
invento.y of forestry resources and related ecosystems:  (a) there is only an
incomplete understanding of the location and magnitude of Haitian forests;
(b) the borders of most state lands are not delineated and marked. The full
extent of state ownership of forest resources is unknown; and (c) there is no
Government agency with the institutional capacity to monitor Haiti's natural
ecosystems and genetic stock.
16.         Jurisdictions.  There are jurisdictional problems in managing
state lands: (a) important forest ecosystems exist on land controlled by the
Ministry of Finance as private domain of the state. These forest ecosystems
are unmanaged and unprotected; and (b) the Pine Forest Reserve and the two
major natural parks are not served by civil and military jurisdictions which
correspond with the borders of these protected areas. Law enforcement in each
forest reserve and park is assured by a multiplicity of local jurisdictions -
military posts, rural sections and court jurisdictions under the authority of
officials based in distant municipalities.
17.         Legislation and Enforcement.  The body of law governing forestry
and natural resources is characterized by the following problems: (a) the law
is poorly enforced. The Government does not have the institutional means to
implement forestry and natural resource law; (b) the law is contradictory and
poorly adapted to the socioeconomic context of rural Haiti. It is to a
considerahle extent unenforceable; (c) the law emphasizes prohibitions with
little attention to incentives. The law does not adequately protect the tree
harvest rights of peasant tree planters; (d) these characteristics of the law
promote non-compliance and serve as disincentives to protection of trees and
forests; (e) forestry agents charged vith tax collection on wood products are
poorly trained and inadequately supervised. The Special Reforestation Fund is
non-fiscalized and administered without the benefit of modern tools of
information management, accounting, budgeting and program planning; (f) there
is a general lack of knowledge of the larw among the citizenry as well as local
authorities responsible for law enforcement; and (g) natural resource law is
not linked to a clear national policy on forestry and natural resources.
18.         Land Tenure.  There are important land tenure constraints to
managing forestry and natural resources in Haiti:  (a) on private lands,
farmers are unwilling to plant trees on plots where they cannot be assured of
harvest control over the trees. Rational management of natural resources is
limited by the fragmented character of peasant landholding, absentee
landholding and subleasing. Most peasant farmers do not have access to
agricultural extension and agroforestry extension services; (b) important
forest ecosystems on state lands remain outside of the formal protective
framework offered by the option of reclassification into the public domain as



-61-
&uIX 2
Page 6 of 12
forest reserves and park preserves; and (a) national parks and forest reserves
are subject to agricultural use, grazing and wood cutting by local residents
and non-residents.
19.         Lease k_anaaement.  Leasing practices on state lands serve as a
constraint to rational land management: (a) leases are generally written as
annual contracts without assurance of long-term access; (b) leased plots are
unverified by site visits or survey; (c) management of state leases is not
supported by modern information management systems and procedural
accountability; (d) the practice of absentee lease-holding and subleasing
interferes with rational land use on state lands; (e) rental collection on
state lands is inconsistent; (f) unassigned land is characterized by
destructive land use practices based on unregulated free access; and (g) the
MARNDR eviction policy in natural parks has not been fully Implemented.
20.         Institutional Constraints.  Institutional weaknesses are the key
limiting factor in protecting Haiti's natural resources: (a) state lands are
essentially unmanaged. Formal responsibility for public lands is not matched
by the institutional capability to implement programs; (b) Haiti has important
human resources, but there are significant gaps in training. Few Haitians are
trained in ecology, wildlife conservation, natural resource planning, forest
management, land use monitoring or remote sensing; (c) the formal creation of
forest reserves and park preserves is a very recent development. There is no
tradition of rational land management on state lands; (d) technical services
of the Government have limited reach. This has fostered the emergence of non-
governmental alternatives and parallel systems. Government has little
experience in collaborating with non-governmental organizations or
coordinating joint public-private efforts. The Natural Resource Department
has little direct experience with extension, or supervision of contracts for
extension services; and (e) there is little Government funding to carry out
programs in forestry and natural resource conservation. The DRN is poorly
equipped and unable to make optimal use of its trained people. This
perpetuates a lack of program continuity and inhibits the development of
sustainable institutions for natural resource management.
21.         Persnectives.  The ecological crisis in Haiti argues strongly in
favor of investments targeted at protection and management of the country's
dwindling natural resources. The problem of competing short-range and long-
term needs can be addressed by incorporating the needs of local populations
into the overall system for regulating and managing key natural resources. It
is feasible to assist the Government of Haiti in formulating natural resource
policies, strengthening local institutions devoted to natural resource
management and identifying priorities for intervention. It is feasible to
carry out a national inventory of forestry resources and create a mechanism
for monitoring land use.
22.         Jurisdictional constraints cannot be fully addressed.
Jurisdictional problems can be improved by transferring management control of
priority sites to the Ministry of Agriculture, and by creating a coherent
approach to regulation and management of state lands. The law on forestry and



-62-
ANESt 2
Page 7 of 12
natural resource protectiun could be Improved by linking it to national policy
commitments, and recommending revisions to law based on pragmatic analysis of
the social and institutional context of law enforcement. The Special
Reforestation Vund could be improved as a tool for implementing forest policy,
and generating revenues to cover recurring costs of forest and parks
management.
23.         Land tenure constraints to rational forest and natural resource
management cannot be fully r3solved. It is neither feasible nor desirable to
underwrite the cost of a national cadastre at this time. It is possible to
create enhanced incentives for peasants to plant trees through the instruments
of taxation, lease management on state lands and targeted extension services.
It is feasible to improve the management of selected public lands through land
use planning, zoning, boundary surveys, visible demarcation and law
enforcement.
24.         In terms of the institutional constraints, it is not feasible to
underwrite the cost of strengthening the entire Ministry of Agriculture nor
even its Department of Natural Resources at this time. It is feasible to
enhance the DRN's ability to regulate and manage national parks and forest
reserves, and to develop a long-range strategy for rational management of the
country's natural resources.
Project Comionents Relatinx to the Reaulatorv Framework
25.         In terms of overall strategy, the project would make use of the
concept of Biosphere Reserves as a guiding motif for natural resource
management. This would provide for multipla land use strategies including
production goals as well as preservation. The project would seek to establish
balanced relationships between people and natural ecosystems; designate land
use zones for specified uses such as forestry, preservation of biodiversity,
agriculture, agroforestry and controlled grazing, and take the needs of local
agrarian population into account while enforcing forestry laws and zoning
restrictions.
26.         Lesal Services.  Legal counsel to the project would be provided
for review of project related contracts, and legal representation of the
MARNDR in matters pertaining to land tenure, enforcement of forest legislation
and the establishment of national forest reserves and parks. Two MARNDR
lawyers would be retained for these functions. Project support for DRN would
also include three short-term consultancies (two months) for social and legal
review of the law on forestry and natural resources, and of the prevailing
system of law enforcement (see Appendix to Annex 2 for consultant terms of
reference).
27.         Legal and Social Review of Legislation and Law Enforcement.  This
review would generate recommendations for revisions in the law, and
recommendations regarding the institutional requirements for implementing the
law and carrying out law enforcement. The social and legal review would be
guided by Haitian governmental policy on forestry and natural resources. The



-63-
Page 8 of 12
review would also be informed by needs and concerns raised by the DRN Director
and the staff of the SRP and the SPE. The recommendations of the legal and
social review would serve as a basis for the DRN Director to draft new
legislation for enactment through the legislative process or presidential
decree. The Minister of Agriculture would present draft legislation to the
Council of Ministers and actively promote its enactment into law. The legal
and social review would have been completed by the second year of the project.
The enactment of amendments, new provisions and repeals to law would have been
accomplished by the midpoint of the 5-year project (30 months). Enactment of
revisions to law would be followed by implementation of the law by Government
authorities and institutions during the third year of the project.
28.         Social and legal review of forcestry and natural resource
legislation would be undertaken by a team of four specialists (see Appendix to
Annex 2) including two internationally recruited consultants--a legal
specialist in forestry and environmental legislation, and a social scientist
with experience in forestry, natural resource management and peasant farm
systems; and two Haitian specialists including an SRP staff forester or
agronomist familiar with peasant agricultural systems, forestry and natural
resource issues in Haiti, and a local lawyer with experience in Haitian land
tenure issues, forestry and natural resource legislation, law enforcement, and
legal proceedings in rural Haiti including the coexistence of law end
customary practice.
29.         Transfer of State Land.  The DRN Director would oversee the
process of transferring jurisdiction over state lands targeted for MARNDR
protection and management as public domain of the state. State lands would be
transferred out of the private domain of the state managed by the tax office,
the Direction G6n6rale des Impots (DGI) of the Ministry of Finance.
30.         The procedure for reclassification of state lands would require
the following steps: upon approval of recommendations made by the DRN
Director, the Minister of Agriculture would initiate the transfer of state
land into public domain assigned to MARNDR. The Minister would prepare a
draft decree for consideration and approval by the Council of Ministers. Upon
approval the decree would be signed into law by the president and published in
Le Moniteur, the official organ of the Government. The decree would identify
the site or sites to be transferrQd including location, purpose of transfer
and size (area). The Ministry of Agriculture would be named as the authority
aseuming responIIbiiity for the site under the rule. o; public domaiua.  The
Ministry of Agriculture would assign site management redponsibility to the DRN
and its constituent services, the SRP or the SPE.
31.         The DGI is legally responsible for survey of state land.  The SRI
and SPE woulJ initiate the process of delineating borders on sites assigned to
them by addressing a request for land survey to the Survey Service (Service
d'Arpentage) of rbr- "CI. The pr.oject would cover survey costs and establish
survey contrecte w th iurveycrs designated by the DGI Survey Service.  The SRP
and SPE would hold public meetings and address written and radio communiques



-64-
ANEX 2
Page 9 of 12
to the local population and local authorities to inform them of the survey,
and invite them to show documentation of ownership in areas bordering state
land to be surveyed. The SRP and SPE would .tsign staff to accompany DGI
surveyors in the field, monitor the sarvey team and assure good working
relations with the local population. In the event of conflict over borders,
the SRF and SPE would make every effort to mediate conflicts, and respond to
the concerns of the local population. In the event of land litigation, the
SPE and SRF would be represented by MARNDR legal counsel retained by the
project. In tandem with the survey, the project would assure clear and
permanent demarcation of borders.
32.         Lease Administration.  Reclassification of state land would
inclv.de transfer of responsibility for land leases held under land contracts
with the Ministr"v of Finance a: the time of transfer.  The Ministry of Finance
would relinquish any further Tesponsibility for land leasing on these public
domain sites. The SRP and SPE would establish land leasing policies in forest
reserves and parks as prescribed by site management plans and zoning
restrictions established for each park and preserve. Lease administration
would be used as a tool for rational land management of parks and preserves.
33.         The project would carry out a census of farmers and farm plots at
each park and reserve. In areas zoned for agricultural use, new lease
contracts would be established for 10 year periods to provide incentives for
rational land management and conservation farming. Old lease contracta in
areas zoned out of agricultural use would be terminated in keeping with MARNDR
policy for preservation of natural parks. Evicted farmers able to show bona
fide lease contracts, and evidence of direct continuous occupancy for at leaot
five years, would be offered alternative agricultural sites within the park or
reserve, or the financial equivalent (one year's rent). The SRF land rent is
25 gourdes per carreaul pa: year in the Pine Forest Reserve.
34.         Long-term leases would be renewed on an annual basis upon payment
of the lease price. Contract renewal would be conditional upon adherence to
conservation practices prescribed in farm plans written for each documented
plot. Implementation of farm plans would be supported by extension services
provided by NGO agroforestry extension contractors. Farm plans T'rould be
jointly developed by the farmer and the NGO, and approved by the SRF or the
SPE. Implementation of farm plans would be verified by site visits. Park and
forest rangers would assist the SPE/SRF in collecting annual rents. SRF and
SPE receipts from leasing would be fiscalized through the Special
Reforestation Fund.
35.         SPE and SRE  leasing policies would require the leaseholder to
reside within the park or reserve and work the land directly. There would be
no subleasing arravgements or absentee leaseholders. Annual lease renewal
would be contingent upon maintenance of approved garden perimeters (no
expansion of existing garden borders, no new establishment of unregulated
1/ 1 carreau - 1.29 ha.



-65-
NN%2
Page 10 of 12
garden plots), suspension of the use of fire for land clearing, use of
specified conservation practices, maintenance of agroforestry plantings,
protection of boundary markers, and adherence to clearly stated restrictions
on grazing outside of garden sites, tree cutting, burning of forested areas
and unregulated harvest of polewood and fatwood. Lease conditions and
restrictions would be discussed with the planter and clearly specified in land
lease contracts written in Haitian Creole.
36.         Law Enforcement Services.  Enforcement of forestry laws and land
use regue.ations would be assured by park rangers in national parks under SPE
management, forest rangers in forest reserves und r SRI management, a small
corps of military forestry guards assigned to the Pine Forest Reserve, and
forestry agents charged with collection of forestry taxes in the 22
Agricultural Districts of the Ministry of Agriculture.
37.         The project would create a civilian corps of 30 park rangers under
the SPE, and 60 forest rangers under the SRE. The park rangers and forest
rangers would have similar core training. They would receive additional on-
the-job training adapted to the special needs of parks management and forest
reserva management in accord with their specific assignments. In general, the
ranger corps would be a key element in the overall management of national
parks mnd reserves. They would assist in land lease administration,
implementation of special land use zones, protection of borders, enforcement
of forestry laws and land use restrictions, arrest of violators, confiscation
of illegal wood products and collection cf fines and wood transport taxes.
38.         Each park and forest reserve would have a Ranger Unit directly
employed and supervised by the SPE or the SRF. Rangers would be under the
immediate supervision of ranger supervisors for each Ranger Unit. Ranger
Units and Ranger Supervisors would be under the authority of SPE and SRF
professional personnel (agronomists or foresters) assigned as site managers
for each park and forest reserve. Ranger services in the Pine Forest Reserve
would build upon the existing corps of civilian guards. The Pine Forest would
require two Ranger Units, one for Unit 1 (20 rangers and a unit leader), and
the other for Unit 2 (10 rangers and a unit leader). Both Pine Forest Ranger
Units would be under the overall supervision of the Unit 1 ranger supervisor.
Ranger logistics and radio-communications would allow close supervision,
regular patrols and rapid deployment of rangers to deal with violations,
arrests and confiscation of illicit wood products.
39.         The basic law enforcement orientation of rangers would be to
stress prevention. They would disseminate information to the local population
in matters of the law, and park and reserve regulations. They would be
instructed in due process for carrying out arrests, levying fines and wood
taxes, and confiscation of illicit wood products. They would be required to
seek formal warrants from the local Peace Court (Tribunal de Paix) for the
arrest of violators. In the case of arrests en flagrant deli, they would
prepare a formal report (process-verbal) and turn violators over to army
personnel until the case could be heard in the Peace Court. Rangers would be
prepared to participate in court hearings when alleged violators are judged.



-66-
2EX 2
Page ll ox 12
Rangers would maintain courteous and professional relations with local
authorities including Section Chiefs, court personnel and army personnel.
Ranger functions would be limited to enforcement of forestry laws and MA NDR
land use regulations. Other law enforcement functions in parks and reserves
would be retained by rural Section Chiefs.
40.         Rangers would be carefully screened and selected on the basis of
competence and reliability. Rangers would have reading and writing skills
sufficient to write notes, fill out forms, prepare formal reports of
violations and arrests (process-verbals) and read program-related texts and
regulations. The rangers would be given appropriate uniforms, SRF and SPE
identification cardo, radio communications and horses. Rangers would be
assigned to specified zones, and checkpoints along major roadways of parks and
reserves. There would be no solitary assignments without access to other
rangers or supervisors. Head rangers would make frequent supervisory visits
to all rangers under their command.
41.         The SRP would retain its special relationship with a Liaison
Officer of the Haitian Armed Forces. Through the auspices of the Liaison
Officer, the SRP would initiate requests for transfer of unqualified soldiers
front the Pine Fo:es. Reserve, and requests for replacements. The army Liaison
Officer would be posted at army staff headquarters in Port-au-Prince. The
MARNDR counterpart to the army Liaison Officer would be the SRP Chief.
42.         The SRP would supervise six soldiers seconded ("en detachement")
to the Pine Forest Reserve. Such soldiers would continue to be under the
direct authority of the MAARNDR Pine Forest director. Their mission would be
to assist and protect SRP Forest Rangers, carry out patrols as directed by
MARNDR, carry out arrests together with forest rangers and serve at three
jointly manned checkpoints (two soldiers per post in addition tei SRF forest
rangers) along the major roadway going through the Pine Forest Reserve.
43.         EMAF would train park and forest rangers, seconded army personnel
and forestry agents (collectors of wood taxes) in two-week orientation
sessions given by EMAP at the onset of employment, and further in-service
training consisting of annual three-day seminars (see Annex 7 for training).
Training content would include knowledge of the law, due process, procedures
for arrest, procedures for confiscation of illicit material, rules of
evidence, citizen's rights and forestry and natural resource legislation.
Forest and park rangers would be trained in the basic principles of
environmental protection, the purpose of natural parks and forest reserves,
and basic technical matters such as fire control and management of natural
regeneration. As site plans are developed, rangers would be carefully trained
in the goals and content of site management plan and special land use zones.
44.         Revenues.  The SPE and SRP would collect certain revenues as a
function of park and forest reserve management, including rents from land
leases, sale of thinning. and Christmas trees in the Pine Forest, rental of
cott:ses (tosi?tsm) in the Pine Forest, sale of confiscated wood products,
fines and wood tr6nsport taxes. In addition, the SRF would collect and manage



-67-
ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 12
revenues received by Forestry Agents assigned to MARNDR Agricultural Districts
throughout the country (wood transport taxes, fines and confiscated wood
products). The bulk of these revenues derive from the SRF mandate to enforce
forestry legislation and tree cutting laws, and to manage the Special
Reforestation Fund which is based prlmarily on transport taxes on charcoal and
fuelwood. Under the project the SPE would collect fund tased revenues and
turn them over to the SRF for posting. All revenues frcea SRF and SPE leasing,
thinning, fines, taxes and confiscation would be fiscalized, budgeted and
disbursed for payment of recurrent costs directly associated with management
of parks and reserves. This system would anticipate future SRF requirements
for managing significantly higher harveet revenues from the Pine Forest
Reserve in post-project years.
45.         The Project Coordination Unit would aesure rationalization and
fiscalization of all s menue accounts and make use of consulting support to
establish modern information systems, computerized accounting, verifiable
procedures and on-the-job staff training. The Project Coordination Unit would
assess the national collection system for woodfuel and wood products taxes,
and take steps to Ii crease the level of tax collections (see Annex 8).



-68-
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 5
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROCTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference: Review of Legislation and Law Enforcement
A. Strateav
1.          Three outside consultants and a SRE staff m'mber would be
recruited to carry out a two-month legal and social review of Haitian law on
forestry and natural resources, and of the prevailing system of law
enforcement. This review would generate a team report including the
following:
(a)  recomiendations and justifications for revisions in the law;
(b) draft texts of proposed legislation; and
(c) recommendations regarding the institutional requirements for
implementing the law and carrying out law enforcement.
2.          The social and legal review would be guided by Haitian
governmental policy on forestry and natural resources.
3.          The review would be informed by needs and concerns raised by the
Minister and Director-General of the Ministry of Agriculture, the DRN Director
and the Project Coordination Unit, SRE and SPE management and field staff;
MARNDR legal counsel; local authorities responsible for implementing forestry
laws; peasant farmers on private holdings, and leaseholders on state lands.
4.          The review process would be conducted in a spirit of teamwork
under the guidance of a team leader. The team leader would be selected by the
DRN Director from one of the three consultants recruited. The team leader
woulds (i) assure that team members are properly oriented to their
assignments and carry out their tasks; (ii) arrange periodic meetings as a
team to exchange information, make plans and monitor the team's progress in
achieving shared objectives; (iii) serve as the team's spokesperson in
relations with the Ministry and the Project Coordination Unit. The team
leader would be selected on the basis oft (a) eemonstrated leadership
ability; (b) experience in working together with colleagues as a team member
and (c) prior experience in Haiti; and (iv) language skills in French and
Haitian Creole.
5.          The DRN Director, in consultation with the SRI Chief, would
identify a member of the SRP professional staff to participate on the team.
The DRN Director would also organize orientation and wrap-up briefings for the



-69-
NNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 2 of 5
team. SRI, SPF and MARNDR officials would participate in a team presentation
of findings and recommendations, and round table discussion. The DRN Director
would take initiative to seek the Minister's approval of consultant
recommendations, and aictively promote enactment and implementation of proposed
revisions to law.
B. Personnel
One Internationally Recruited Leaal Specialist in Forest and Natural Resource
Lexislationt
Duties:
(a) to wurk in partnership with the Haitian lawyer assigned to the
social and legal review, and jointly carry out the following
tasks;
(b)   to review and assess the law on forestry and natural resources;
(c)   to assess prior efforts to reform forestry laws, and reasons for
the failure of these efforts (FAO 1975, SRI 1985);
(d)   to attain familiarity with Government policy on forestry and
natural resources, and assess current law and proposed revisions
in light of stated policy goals;
(e)   to carry out interviews and consult with MARNDR officials and law
colleagues including members of the bar association, Ministry of
Justice, legislators, human rights associations and NGOs engaged
in popular legal education, e.g., NAVA and IHRED;
(f)   to carry out a needs assessment in order to propose revisions to
law in light of clearly stated needs and objectives;
(g)   to take into ascount the Haitian socio-cultural context and the
findings and recommendations of other team members when preparing
draft legal texts;
(h)   to prepare pertinent sections of the team's report including
findings, recommendations and justifications for revisions to law;
and
(i)   to draft, together with the Haitian lawyer on the team, the text
of proposed legislation.
gualificationss (i) graduate degree in law; (ii) 6xpertise in forest
legislation and natural resource law; (iii) knowledge of such laws in
developing countries and tropical regions; (iv) ten years of professional
experience including work experience in developing countries; (v) ability to



- 70
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 5
work closely together with colleagues as a team member, (vi) fluent knowledge
of French; and (vii) it would also be desirable for the candidate to have
prior experience in Haitil, and knowledge of Haitian institutions.
One Locally Recruited Haitian Legal Specialist:
Duties:
(a)   to work in close partnership with the international legal
specialist, and jointly carry out all tasks described for that
position;
(b)   to assist in introductions and making contact with Haitian lawyers
and other colleagues;
(c)   to arrange access to law libraries in Haiti, assure that all
pertinent Haitian laws and decrees are reviewed during the legal
research phase of the assignment, serve generally as the team's
specialist in Haitian law;
(d)   to advise and inform the team in matters pertaining to
institutional arrangements and the administration of justice in
Haitil and
(e)   to play a key role in drafting the text of proposed revisions to
law in the French language.
Oualificationes (i) a graduate degree in law; (ii) experience in Haitian land
tenure issues, and forestry and natural resource legislation; (iii) knowledge
of law enforcement institutions and legal proceedings in rural Haiti;
(iv) familiarity with the dynamics of law versus customary practice; and
(v) ten years of professional experience.
One Internationally Recruited Social Scientist:
Duties:
(a)   to work in partnership with the SRF agronomist assigned to the
social and legal review, and jointly carry out the following
tasks;
(b)   to review and assess the law on forestry and natural resources
from the standpoint of enforcement, existing law enforcement
institutions, and socio-cultural practices in rural Haitil
(c)   to review and assess previous draft revisions to forest law (FAO
1975, SRF 1985) in light of Haitian law enforcement institutions,
peasant agriculture and the socio-cultural context;



-71-
ANN - 2
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 5
(d)   to propose changes In the legal framework and enforcement system
which are adapted to institutional realities and the Haitian
*ocio-cultural context;
(e)   to advise other team members in socio-cultural matters, and review
draft versions of proposed legal texts in terms of feasibility,
soclo-cultural adaptability and the peasant economy;
(f)   to assess institutional arrangements for law enforcement in the
Pine Forest Reserve, Inclading the role of judicial, military and
sectional jurisdictionsa
(g)   to assess the role and effectiveness of forestry agents in MARNDR
Agricultural Districts, and the role and effectiveness of other
local Govermnent officials in enforcing forestry laws and
regulations in rural Haiti;
(h)   to recommend changes in the regulatory framework in order to
protect the vested interests of peasant tree planters, and provide
increased incentive for tree planting and conservation farming;
and
(i)   to prepare pertinent sections of the team's report including
findings and recommendations pertaining to law enforcement
Institutions and the interests of peasant farmers.
oualificatlons: (i) a graduate degree in cultural anthropology or a closely
related field; (ii) prior working experience with peasant farmers in Haiti;
(iii) knowledge of peasant farm systems, land tenure and patterns of land use
in Haiti; (lv) experience with forestry or agroforestry projects and/or
natural resource management; (v) fluency in Haitian Creole, and a working
knowledge of French; and (vi) it would be useful for the candidate to have a
background in legal anthropology.
One SRF Staff Forester or ARronomist:
Duties$
(a)   to participate as a team member under the supervision of the team
leader; to work in close partnership with the international social
scientist, and assist in carrying out the tasks described for that
positiong
(b)   to assist in making contacts for field interviews in the Pine
Forest Reserve and rural Agricultural Districts, and interviews
with SRP and SPE staff members;



-72-
Appendix 1
Page 5 of S
(c) to advise and inform the team in matters pertaining to MAUDR
programs and procedure., and reprasent program concerns of the SRF
and SPE in the review of forest legislation; and
(d)   to assist in preparing pertinent sections of the team's report.
Oualifications: (i) a university degree in agronomy; (ii) at least 5 years of
work experience in forestry; (Cii) familiarity with peasant agricultural
systems; (iv) knowledge of forestry lavs and regulations in Haiti$
(v) commitment to continue working on project related programs of tha SRI
following completion of the review of legislation and (vi) It would be useful
for the candidate to have graduate training in forestry.



-73-                      AMA I
Page I of 7
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Pine Forest  -aaament,
I. Present Situation
1.         'The Pine Forest Reserve Is located approximately 100 km southeast
of Port-au-Prince along the crest of the La Selle Massif. Natural Pinus
occidentalls forests originally covered much of the mountainous and central
plateau areas of Haiti. A FAO inventory in 1977 found a total of 38,646 ha
remaining in the La Selle area. Bota the standing volume and the surface area
forested are steadily diminishing as the pine stands are regularly threatened
by clearing for agricultural purposes, illegal log and resinous fatwood
harvesting, and wildfires. The vildfires are especially abusive as they
eliminate the often profuse natural regeneration and expose the pole-sized
stems to unregulated harvesting. Approximately 6,500 peasants live within the
Reserve and actively cultivate approximately 1,500 agricultural parcels
totaling 8,560 ha. Because of the insecure nature of their tenure, and the
prevailing official treatment of peasants as obstacles to forest management; a
tenuous and often antagonistic relationship exists between Government
officials and local populations.
2.          The "Projet Porestier National" (PPN) initiated Pine Forest
management In 1983. The work of the PPM consisted of: the delimitation and
marking of the Reserve, an inventory of 11,400 ha, studies of growth and
volume, the preparation of a general Forest Management Plan for 1990-93,
reforestation of 320 ha with various trial species, a census of 500 farmers
within the Reserve and regulation of 300 land leases for 400 ha, and the
preparation of forest type, potential erosion and land utilization maps. The
forest was found to be very heterogenous; basal area varying from 0 to 30 mt
per hectare and annual growth from 2 to 9 mh per hectare per year. Following
the Reserve delimitation, the total Reserve area was found to be 27,871 ha.
The PFN had a traditional "western" forest management orientation and did not
adequately adapt forest management strategy to include the needs and concerns
of local populations.
II. Pronosed Obiectives and Strateev
Obiectives
3.    The objectives of the Pine Forest Management component are to:
(a)   ensure the security and integrity of the remaining pine forest
stands by protecting the forest from fire, agricultural
encroachment, and illegal harvesting;



-74-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
(b)   complete the collection of basic forest management information
(e.g., forest inventory, stand exams and maps, and growth and
yield tables);
(c)   prepare a comprehensive, multiple-use oriented, Pine Forest
Management Plan;
(d)   establish the SRF's capacity to regulate and manage the Pine
Forest Reserve for sustained yield of wood products and the
protection of biological diversity;
(e)   complete the census of farmers inhabiting the Reserve, survey
their land holdings and regulate their land leases; and
(f)   establish the Pine Forest Reserve as a permanent entity vhich
vould be professionally managed by the SRF and include the local
population as integral and productive parAcipants in the
management, protection and benefits of the Reserve.
Strateag
4.    Ca)   The SRP would complete the work begun by the PFN in inventory,
farmer census, agricultural land regulation, and reforestation,
and initiate new efforts in the protection of natural
regeneration, thinning, forest protection and fire control. The
purpose of this second phase of Pine Forest Management is to
prepare both the forest and the Forest Service for full forest
management and commercial harvesting. The commercial harvesting
of saw logs (which is scheduled for eight years after project
initiation) would not be authorized until the above objectives of
this project have been fully met; and
Cb)   A NGO would be contracted by the Project Director to provide
comprehensive agroforestry services to the peasant population
within the Reserve and within the surrounding buffer zone (as per
Annex 5). These support services would be engaged in conjunction
with the SRI farmer census and lease regulation activities. SRI
staff would supervise and periodically evaluate the field work of
the NGO.
III. Proiect Components
Forest Inventory and Manatement Plan
5.          Inventors. Stand Examination and Zonint.  Of the approximately
16,000 forested hectares within the Pine Forest, 11,400 have been inventoried
to date. The SRP would complete the inventory on the remaining forested areas
and subsequently refine the volume and growth tables. Upon completion of the
forest inventory, the technical team would begin the examination and mapping
of all ecologically and geographically distinct forest stands vithin the
Reserve. Information including location, age, history, edaphic site
conditions, endemic flora and fauna would be collected for each stand. This



-75-                        M 3
Page 3 of 7
information would be used in the preparation of the forest management plan.
The Pine Foret Management team would also collaborate with specialists from
the Environmental Protection Service (SPE) to identify and delineate
conservation zones within the Pine Forest Reserve where wood production would
be excluded. Such conservation zones would include those reserved for the
protection of threatened flora and fauna, unique habitats, and fragile lands.
6.          Forest Managgament Plan.  The 1990-93 Forest Management Plan
prepared by the Senior Forestry Consultant would be enhanced and expanded with
the completion of the forest inventory, stand examination and conservation
zone identification. In addition to the description of overall forest
management and administration components, this Plan would include:
(a) forest stand-type specific management plans and maps;
(b)   land use plans and maps for the conservation zones identified with
the SPE; and
(c)   a complete description of the organizational arrangements planned
for the administration of commercial harvesting contracts.
Farmer Census and Boundary Survey
7.          Census and Land Leases.   The Project would complete the farmer
census, inventory and survey of the approximately 1,500 agricultural parcels
within Units 1 and 2 of the Reserve. This work would conclude with new land
lease contracts with each farmer concerned. New lease length would vary from
5 to 10 years and the leases would be renewed on an annual basis upon payment
of the lease price. Contract renewal would be conditional upon the
Implementation of conservationist treatments as described in a parcel specific
farm plan. Lease contracts could be canceled at any time the contract
specifications are breached. Farm plans would be jointly developed by the
farmer and the NGO with authorization from the SRF. The character and phasing
of these treatments would be mutually agreed upon by the SRF and the NGO
implementing the agroforestry extension sub-project. All annual cropping
agricultural activity on land deemed inappropriate by the SRF (e.g., lands
with slopes greater than 602) would be suspended. This land would then be
reforested at the expense of the SRF.
8.          Boundary Survey.  The SRP would survey and monument the boundaries
of agricultural lands within the perimeter of the Pine Forest Reserve. The
approximately 200 km of boundary between leased agricultural land and Forest
Reserve would be marked regularly with posts grounded in cement and metallic
signs on trees. The SRF would also refine the Forest Reserve pe-imeter survey
conducted by the Dlrectlon Gdn6rale des Impots (DGI) in 1989. A survey team
would be contracted to place boundary markers approximately every 100 metors
between the reference points established by DGI. This work would clarify the
irregular boundary and clearly establish property lines. A crew of locally
knowledgeable SRP personnel would work alongside the contract survey crew to
ensure the recognition of the existing property boundaries.



-76-                       ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
Reforestation
9.          An estimated 1,500 ha of land with slopes greater that 60Z, and
other cleared land would be reforested. The taungya reforestation system is
proposed of cleared or under-stocked stands which are currently utilized for
agricultural purposes. Upon the achievement of adequate stocking, the SRF
would provide the farmer with another parcel of under-stocked forest. The
principal species utilized would be Pinus occidentalis. Nursery stock would
supplement the stock of widlings collect6d on site. The tree nursery located
in Grenier (75 km from the Reserve) would be transferred to the Pine Forest
Reserve area. Annual nursery production would average 350,000 seedlings.
Protection of Natural Regeneration
10.         Pinus occidentalis is a prolific seeder and the natural
regeneration is vigorous. Very susceptible to wildfire damage from ages 0 to
15, an estimated 2,100 ha of natural regeneration in this age class require
protection. The project would identify all sites of substantial natural
regeneration and protect them with a 3 meter wide fire-break. These fire-
breaks would be maintained until the stand reached the age of 15 and each
stand would be patrolled regularly during the fire season.
Fire Control
11.         The project would establish a fire control unit which would enable
rapid fire detection, and successful intervention. This service would be
facilitated by the use of FM portable radios, and coordinated by a fire
control leader stationed at the SRF office in the "Foret des Pins" village.
Watchtowers would be constructed on La Selle, Mare Rouge and Vincent mountains
and manned with firemen and radios during the fire season. Volunteer fire
brigades would be established in each of the ten villages within the Reserve.
A radio operator would be stationed full-time at the SRF office.
Forest Protection and Other Revenues
12.         Thinnine.  Natural stands would be thinned to the levels
recommended in the 1990-93 Forest Management Plan (approximately 250 trees
per ha by stand age 30). It is estimated that for the next 15 years it would
be desirable to cut stems/ha on 100 ha/year. This estimate will be refined
following the completed forest inventory.
13.         Christmas Tree Production.  An incipient and illicit Christmas
tree market already exists in the Pine Forest. An allowable harvest of
200 trees per year for the next eight years is estimated. When the
reforestation plantations reach age eight, two hectares per year will be
harvested (producing 2,000 trees per year).
14.         Tourism.  Tourism in the Pine Forest is becoming more popular and
weekend visitors frequently rent one of the seven bungalows available for
tourists. The cost per night varies between US$10 and US$15 dependent upon
the bungalow. 500 person-nights are expected annually.



-77-                    AE
Page 5 of 7
15.         Land Rents.  The official land rent is US$5.0/carreauxlyear for
cultivated land within the Pine Forest Reserve. The total number of
cultivated carreaux within t:..a Reserve is 8,560, which indicates that total
receipts could equal US$40,000 per yea.. A fraction of this amount ts
currently collected. The project would reinforce the rent collection system,
using the new, long-term land leases and the subsequent guaranteed land
security as incentive for payment. The receipts would be fiecalized by the
SRP administ"ator and would be deposited in the existing "Reforestation Fund"
to support local project financing (see Annex 8).
16.         Local Enmlgyet.  To provide the local population with a greater
stake in the management ot the Reserve, the project would increase the use of
local workers. Workers would be used in the thinning, protection of natural
regeneration, tree nur-ary, reforestation, road maintenance, survey and Forest
Ranger programs.
IV. Production Benefits
17.         Prodution From Plantations and Natural Regeneration.  A total of
4,000 ha of plantations and natural regeneration wil? be managed. Per ha
production estimates for these stands follow.'
Ats   5 years      Christmas trees
10 years    100 poles of 10 cm in diameter
10 bags of charcoal
20 years    75 trees of 20 cm in diameter
75 trees each producing .2 m' of saw timber and 1 bag
of charcoal
30 years    25 trees of 20 cm in diameter
,5 trees each producing .2 m' of saw timber and 1 bag
of charcoal
50 years    100 ma of saw timber
25 trees of 20 cm in diameter
20 bags of charcoal
The actual sustainable yield per hectare will be refined with the completion
of the forest inventory and the data analysis. A calendar describing the
phasing of all productive activities is presented in Table 5.1.
18.         Produition From Existipg Stands.  The following per ha production
estimates assumk that the composition of the entire forest has the same
X As cited ins PAO, Proiet Forets et Protection de L'Environnment:
Ravyort de P^-evaration. Annexe 3, Page 7. 21/90 CP-HAJ 19, 14 f6vrier
1990.



-78-                     ANNE% 3
Page 6 of 7
characteristics as that which has been inventoried to date.2 Only the
initiel thinning (A) vould be conducted during the life of the project. These
thinnings would be contracted out to local bidder. and closely supervised by
the SRI staff. Stumpage would be set at roughly 25Z of the local supply price
of the tree's potential end use. No commercial log harveuting would take
place until the next phase of forest management.
Thinning A:       100 trees per hectare of 20 cm in diameter
Thinning Bs       150 trees per hectare of 20 cm in diameter
150 trees each producing .4 e' of saw timber
Final Harvest:    250 trees per hectare producing 200 a' of saW timber
25 trees of 20 cm In diameter
20 bags of charcoal
V. Prolect Oreanization and Manaaement
19.         Oraanization and Personnel.  All proposed activities would be
implemented by a Pine Forest Reserve Management Unit located at the SRP office
in the "Foret des Pins" village. Management Unit staff would include the
Forest Management Section Read, two Foresters (each responsible for one Forest
Reserve Unit), one Agronomist, and one Forest Ranger Supervisor. Personnel
would include Forestry Technicians, Forest Rangers, Fire Brigades, and
occasional, task specific unskilled labor. A brief description of the major
roles follow:
(a)   Section Head.  The Section Head would be responsible for the
security and management of the entire Pine Forest Leserve and
would report directly to the Chief of the SRF. He would also be
responsible for the preparation of all periodic internal
evaluations and plans. The internationally recruited Senior
Forestry Advisor would assist the Head in the preparation of the
Forest Management Plan. The Head would be responsible for
collaboration with all organizations associated with the
management of the Pine Forest including; SPE, DGI, and the NGO
implementing the local agroforestry services contract. The
incumbent should have an advanced degree in Forest Management;
(b)   Foresters (2).  One Forester would be responsible for each of the
two Forest Units (located in "Mare Rouge", and "Foret des Pins").
Each would report directly to the Unit Head and would supervise
teams of technicians responsible for: reforestation, plantation
management, nursery production, Reserve perimeter survey and
delimitation; forest inventory, and fire control. Each wou
also assist the Chief Forest Ranger in the supervision of Rangers
in their respective Unit. The incumal%tts should have advanced
degrees in Forest Management; and
2 Ibid.



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
(c)   Agronomist (1).  The Agronomist would be responsible for on-the-
ground liaison with the contracting NGO, and for the team of
technicians responsiUle for the survey of agricultural lands and
the regulation of land leases.
20.         Administration. Evaluation and Planning.  The Forest Management
Unit would be initially administratively supported from the central SRF
office. All payrolls, fiscalization of the land lease receipts and service
contracts would be administered by the project administrator. The local
capability for contract administration would be developed during the life of
the project. An annual internal program evaluation and planning session would
be held in the Management Unit office at the Foret des Pins village. This two
day event would be attended by the senior Forest Management Unit staff who
would collectively evaluate the past year's accomplishments, weaknesses, and
prepare program targets and plans for the oncoming year. A comprehensive
output monitoring program would also be initiated which would permit the
periodic assessment of performance for all levels of personnel. An annual
technical retreat would also be held where the senior Pine Forest Management
staff would be presented with and debate new technical topics.



-80-
ANNEX 3
Appendix I
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Senior Forestry Advisor
1.          Duties:  The incumbent would undertake a three-year assignment,
extendable to five years, in support of the Forestry Resoarce Service (SRF) to
give such advice, information and guidance as may be necessary for the
successful implementation of the Forestry and Environmental Protection Project
(FEPP). He will have an office at the SRF headquarters and will deal directly
with the Chief of the SRP on all aspects of the FEPP related to the SRE. He
will be part of a technical assistance team of five experts. The incumbent
will:
(a)   provide technical input to the Chief of the Forestry Resource
Service for whom he be the counterpart (SRF) and to the separate
Section Heads (I-Forestry Research, 2-Agroforestry Support, 3-Pine
Forest Management, and 4-Forest Statistics). As the number and
complexity of activities are greater in the Pine Forest Section
than the others, the advisor would devote approximately 75% cf his
time on that Section;
(b)   report in personnel administration matters to the leader of the
international assistance team, of which he would be a member;
(c) recommend the use of short-term consultants by the SRF,
receiving/commenting on the terms of reference drafted by the
sep&:ate Seation Heads and the nominated candidates, and ensuring
that specified outputs are produced;
(d)   ensure SRF collaboration with the Environmental Protection Service
(SPE) on the design and implementation of the national land use
assessment and forest inventory, and on the establishment of new
biosphere and forestry reserves;
(e)   assist the Director of the Technical School for Agroforestry
(ENAF) and the affiliated training consultants in designing the
forestry and agrofor2stry curricula, and in implementing a
pragmatic techniciau training program;



-81-
Appendix I
Page 2 of 2
(f)   assist the SRF Chief in liaison with other national and
international organizations which could positively impact the
status of forestry development in Haiti or the SRF. This task
would include preparing cooperative agreements on forestry
research and development activities and seeking international
funds for the support of SRI programs;
(g)   contribute to the preparation of semi-annual progress reports for
the SRI and to the preparation of annual vork program and budgets;
and
(h)   assist the SRI in becoming a successful and sustainable
institution. This goal would be achieved when the SRI gains the
capability to pay its recurrent costs, to attract and manage
international funds, and efficiently and effectively administer
project activities either directly or through qualified NCOe.
2.          Outputs:  The incumbent would prepare and present:
(a)   a comprehensive forest management plan for the Pine Forest Reserve
as detailed in the PEPP Appraisal Report, Annex 3;
(b)   quarterly personal progress reports and activity plans and submit
them to the SRI Chief and the FEPP Technical Coordinator; and
(c)   a comprehensive third-phase forestry project, developed with the
full participation of the senior SRI staff.
3.          Oualifications:  The candidate must be able to comprehend written
and spoken French and speak either French or Haitian Creole fluently. She/he
must have a graduate degree in forestry and have had at least 10 years'
professional experience, at least five of which in developing countries. A
candidate with previous, long-term Haitian experience would be preferred.
She/he must have special expertise 'n forest management. Knovledge and
experience in biomass inventory, biosphere reserves, agroforestry, forest
policy and law and rural development would be desirable and an added
advantage. The candidate must have excellene personal relations and
communication skills and be able to work effectively with people of various
backgrounds and at all levels of administration. She/he must also have strong
participatory management skills and be able to lead group evaluations and
program planning sessions.



H A I T I
PROJET FORETS ET PROTECTION DE L ENVIRONNERENT
CIHRONOGRAMME DES OPERATIONS DANS LA FORET DES PINS
OPERATItNS                                                                    ANNEE
I20            30         O        5
Installation de la r6g*n*ratiqn naturelle                                                    I      -                             -
Plantation de ZO ha/an
Exploitation d'arbres de Noel
- dans Les rtg6n6rations naturelles actuelles                                             e
- dans les plantations et Les r#gtntrations b venir
Eclaircies dens les peuplementt irrfguliers actuels
- eclaircies de type A (psr.94)         150 halon
- eclaircies de type B (par.94)         100 ha/an
Ectaircies dans let ptantations
- 1lre ecla rcie a 10 ans revolus   2O  ha/an                                        u
- 2exe   .       20                                                             /O                  211     Zs 
- 2&me              30  20
-3&sae             30 
Ectaircies dans les r6g*n6rations natureltes
- 1Wre Oclaircie a 10 ans rkvolus    300 ha/an
- Z2ae      "     t 20  "                                                                 I   t  _
- 3eae            to 30                                                             /2
Realisation des peuplements
- peuplements issus de r6gWn&rations naturelles  3explotation
- peiplctents issus des plantations                  h btanc ktoc
- peuplements irregutiers actuels (exploitation setective)
_                                                              - /                             ( _  bD W



-83-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 8
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
FORESTRY AND AGROFORESTRY RESEARCH
I. Present Situation
l.          Important forestry and agroforestry research has been implemented
by various organizations in Haiti, most notably by the grantees of USAID, FAO
and the SRF. Research is not coordinated on a national scale and the
protocols and results not commonly shared as no institution formally collects
and manages research information.
2.          The rFN initiated research towards the identification of
appropriate exotic species for fuel production on three semi-arid sites (Jean
Rabel, Cabaret, Miragoane). SRF activity on these and other plantation sites
(Colora and Colladere) has been beset by social problems (including regular
sabotage of trials) with the local communities. These problems are due to a
large extent to SRF's ignorance of local concerns and previous utilization of
the appropriated research lands. On-farm, agroforestry demonstrations were
conducted on three sites of varying ecologic conditions.
3.          Though commonly accessed semi-arid forests have historically been
the major source of charcoal products and areas of forest degradation, little
technical or social research activity has been executed in these domains.
Forestry development planners thus understand neither the techniques or social
arrangements required to enhance the productivity of these areas. Large,
under-utilized savannas with apparent substantial forestry potential exist in
central and northern Haiti. No formal research activity has been conducted in
these areas.
II. Proposed Oblectives and Strateav
Objectives
4.          The objective of the forestry and agroforestry research component
is to increase the overall understanding of methods and technologies which
enable the:
(a)   protection and propagation of selected indigenous forest species;
(b)   increased and sustained productivity of Pinus occidentalis within
the Pine Forest Reserve;
(c)   increased and sustained prodtctivity of high altitude agricultural
lands within and adjacent to the La Visite and Pic Nacaya National
?arkG, and the Pine Forest Reserve; and



-84-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 8
(d)   increased and sustained productivity of public lands with forestry
vocation (generally savannas and semi-arid forests dominated by
Prosoois and Acacia ape.).
Strategy
5.          The Research Section of the SRF will directly implement forestry
research in semi-arid, savanna and pine forest areas. The Section will
collaborate on the adaptive, on-farm agroforestry research implemented by the
NGOs receiving agroforestry contracts (see Annex 5). The Section would also
collaborate to the extent possible on research directed by other NGOs and
interested international environmental research organizations, and collect
copies of protocols and results of all pertinent research activity being
conducted within the country. The Research Section will complement the
conventional biophysical research efforts with social science research. This
applied research will inform forestry planners as to the social context of the
investigated forestry technologies and the institutional mechanisms required
for technology adoption.
III. Pro1ect Components
Forestry Research
6.          Pine Forest Research.  The following research activities would be
conducted in the Pine Forest Reserve by the Forest Management staff (see
Annex 3) under the supervision of the Forestry Research Section:
(a) a tree improvement program would be initiated with Pinus
occidentalis in collaboration with the SECID Seed and Germplasm
Project, including provenance trials;
(b)   entomology research would be initiated towards identification of
appzopriate integrated pest management methods to control the
defoliating Saturn moth;
(c)   comparative species trials would be initiated with Pinus sp. from
similar ecologic sites (as initiated by the SECID project near
Kenscoff in 1989);
(d) P. occidentalis seed conservation, treatment and scarification
trials would be conducted;
(e)   thinning trials would be initiated on naturally regenerated P.
occidentalis stands to determine optimal thinning regimes; and
(f) permanent plots would be established to monitor stand growth and
mortality.



-85-
Page 3 of 8
Agroforestrv Research
7.          Aaroforestry Research in the Pine Forest.  The objectives of this
research would be to investigate and develop sustainable land use technologies
appropriate for areas of high elevation (800-1,500 m). Special emphasis
would be placed on identifying interventions for steep slopes (30-60Z). The
SRF Research Unit would collaborate with the NGO implementing the agroforestry
subproject in the Pine Forest Reserve to conduct the research. The precise
role and responsibility of each agency would be determined during the
MARNDR/NGO contract negotiation process.
8.          Agroforestry research in the Pine Forest would be initiated with a
formal assessment of local agricultural technology, knowledge and attitudes.
The research agenda would be de'eloped with local farmers based upon their
identified agricultural needs. It should include investigation of shade
tolerant crops, multiple-use perennials and fruit tree species and would be
generally transferable to other high elevation areas in Haiti. The Unit would
promote and complement local technological innovation and independent farmer
experimentation.
Land Management for Forestry Production Research
9.          Fuelwood Production Research.  Ongoing fuelwood production
research on the existing Cabaret, Jean Rabel, Miragoane, Colora and Colladere
stations would be continued. In addition to this technical research, social
research would be initiated where local farmers would be integrated into the
management of the research lands (as has been initiated on the Colora
station). The purpose of this social research would be to learn of the
strengths and weaknesses of various management options for public lands.
Results from the technical research would be extended to interested adjacent
farmers with adaptive, on-farm forestry trials. This effort would be
conducted as "adaptive research", the purpose being to 'Learn of the
opportunities and constraints of the technologies generated, and of the
extension of those technologies.
10          Savanna Reforestation Pilot Proaram.  Approximately 30,000 ha of
under-utilized public savanna lands exist in the Central Plateau. Roughly
another 10,000 ha are located in northeastern Haiti. These lands are
characterized by low population density, negligible agronomic activity,
seasonal and limited livestock grazing, annual fires, and apparent forestry
potential. The purpose of the reforestation would be to produce wood products
at amounts exceeding local demand. The excess production could thus be
exp%.rted to urban markets. It is expected that charcoal would be made of the
waste materials from the production of primary products. The direct
conversion of trees to charcoal might be desirable if reforesetation costs are
comparatively low, propagation techniques are simple and easily adopted, and
charcoal prices rise significantly in the near-term.
11.         Objectives:  The objectives of the Savanna Pilot Research Program
are tot



-86-
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 8
(a)   initiate SRP presence and technical reforestation research in the
Savanna Diane and Manigat de Clay savanna areas; and
(b)   learn of the institutional mechanisms required to achieve
reforestation in the savanna areas beyond the immediate research
site (extension methods, land tenure arrangements, incentives).
12.         Methodt    The Research Section would select approximately 200 ha
of land in the Biliguy area of Savanna Diane and another 200 ha on the Savanna
Manigat de Clay. The Section would initially conduct formal aGsessments of
the patterns, rights and duties of local access and utilization of the
proximate savanna lands on State lands. A site would then be selected,
surveyed, and delimited. The project would conduct the research activities in
a manner that integrates rather than repudiates previous local access and use.
The project would utilize local labor sources for the station research. The
SRI Research Unit would directly implement the technical research activities
both on the identified station and on adjacent farms. Technical assistance
and tree seedlings would be provided to interested, adjacent farmers.
13.         Research:
(a)   technical:  the Research Section would conduct species and
provenance trials at various densities and configurations, and
with various site preparation treatments. Trial tree species
would be chosen upon their potential to produce high valued wood
products (posta, poles, lumber). Trials would thus include both
indigenous and exotic species such as Swietenia mahoaani.
Swietenia mahogani x Swietenia macroDhvlla, Cuazama ulmifolia,
Simarouba SpB., Cassia siamea, Azadirachta indica, Acacia
auriculiformis, Eucalvytus aps., Casuarina sps., Leucaena
leucocephala, Leucasena leucoceDhala x Leucaena diversifolia, and;
(b)   social:  the Section would experiment with several different
tenurial arrangements with local farmers within the research site.
These arrangements would include: provision of long-term leases to
defined blocks of land, and the collective management of land
units. These provisions would be made on the condition of
reforestation efforts by the lessee. Methods of managing the
leases and use of incentives would be investigated thoroughly.
14.         Semi-Arid Forest Management Research.  Natural Prosonis 1uliflora
stands dominate approximately 300,000 ha of degraded, semi-arid, public and
private forest land in Haiti. Major stands are located in the northwest,
south-central, and southwest areas of the country. Presence of authority is
often very limited and thus the lands are often commonly accessed and
exploited.
15.         Though they have historically accounted for a majority of the wood
used for charcoal production, foresters have largely ignored P. iuliflora and
its common companion species, Acacia tortuosa. Preliminary evidence indicates



-87-
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 8
that on average sites, production from the xerophytic stands average
1.5 m/ha/year without management and 5 m3/ha/year with management.
Successful management of P. 1ulif1ota in sylvopastoral systems for post
products, forage  nd livestock shelter is found in proximity to farmer homes
in several areas of Haiti.
16.         The semi-arid forests are one of Haiti's last renewable resources
with substantial productive potential. As stems readily coppice and extensive
native stands exist, no planting or site preparation costs are required.
Semi-arid forest management presents then a low cost option for increasing and
sustaining the production of wood products in Haiti.
17.         Objectives:  The objectives of the Semi-Arid Forest Management
Pilot Program are to:
(a)   conduct forest management experiments toward increasing the
production of wood biomass and high valued economic products from
semi-arid forests;
(b)   determine the social institution mechanisms which would enable the
sustained productivity of the commonly accessed semi-arid stands
in both the private and public domains; and
(c)   conduct sylvopastoral experiments toward the determination of
optimum management systems and stocking levels which increase both
wood and livestock production from the dry land forests.
18.         Method:   In the first year of the project, ihe SRF Research Unit
would icentify and investigate candidate research sites. If the
identification of an adequate site where both social and technical research
could be conducted proves problematic, two sites could be selected, one for
the technical research (which would require regular monitoring) and another
site for the social research. Both sites chosen should meet the following
criteria:
(a)   total approximately 200 ha and contain natural semi-arid forest
cover which is representative of semi-arid forest formations that
remain on public lands in Haiti (e.g., stand age, 3-5 years; 4-5
coppice stems (of 5-10 cm) per stump; 10-16 stumps per 100 m2);
and
(b)   be in the state domain (public or private) and be free of official
leaseholders.
The site chosen for the technical research should be regularly accessible by
4-wheel drive vehicle. The Cul de Sac Plain and Conaives areas should be
investigated for this site. The island of La Gonave, Gonaives, and the
Northwestern area of Haiti should be investigated for placement of the site.
19.         The Unit would initially conduct formal socio-economic assessments
of the site and adjacent areas to understand the dynamics of current access



-88-
AfNNEX 4
Page 6 of 8
and land use. Both technical and social research agendas and protocols would
correspond directly to the patterns of land use, knowledge and technology
evidenced by the assessment. In addition to direct research, in time the
project would also work directly with adjacent farmers, providing technical
assistance. SRP would directly implement research and also collaborate with
other institutions working on dry land forest management such as FONDEV, and
Texas A & I University.
20.         Research:
(a)   technical:   biomase volume, coppice management and other
pertinent research would be conducted. The Unit would also
initiate sylvopastoral trials, using different stocking,
management and pasture improvement schemes. Research would
include the investigation of traditional semi-arid forest
management for livestock shelter, post products and charcoal.
Examples of these "home-garden" management systems are found in
the Cul de Sac Plain near Thomazeau. The project would support
the P. iuliflora genetic improvement work implemented by Texas
A & I University, establishing on-station trials and reproduction
centers; and
(b)   social:  the project would research existing semi-arid forest use
patterns and initiate various land management schemes towards the
improvement of forest productivity. These trials would include
the provision of long-term leases, fencing and the collective
management of lands by organizat4.ons of current users. Incentives
such as land leases could be conditional upon participating
farmers utilization of authorized land management practices. The
SRF would also continue the ongoing biomass study with
P. iuliflora and Acacia spa. in Jean Rabel and Cabaret.
Research Document Collection and Management
21.         The SRP Research Unit would collaborate with all other
institutions conducting forestry and agroforestry research in Haiti. This
collaboration would entail active cooperation on the development of protocols,
analysis of findings and the preparation of research agendas. The Unit woAld
collect and manage all pertinent research information.
IV.  Orfanizatior and Manaxement
22.         Organization and Personnel.  The SRP Research Section would be
directed by an internationally recruited forestry research specialist. This
Head would supervise the work of one Social Scientist and three Unit
Coordinators who are responsible for the Agroforestry, Forest Management and
Semi-Arid Forest Management Research Sub-Sections. The terms of reference for
the Section Head is presented in Appendix 2. A brief description of the
remaining senior staff roles follows



-89-
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 8
(a)   Social Scientists The Social Scientist would work under the
direct supervision of the Section Head and be responsible fort
the design of the socio-economic assessments for the new research
stations (assisted by an expert consultant); preparing social
science research protocols for the Savanna Pilot Stations, the
Semi-Arid Forest Station, and the established stations;
establishing and regularly monitoring the all social science
experiments; and writing annual reports describing experiment
status and findings.
(b)   Agroforestry Research Coordinator:  The incumbent would respond
directly to tha Section Read and be responsible for: the
agroforestry research program implemented cooperatively in the
Pine Forest Reserve with the N00 contractor; writing annual
reports describing experiment status and findings; preparing draft
terms of reference for required consultantst liaison with all
other organizations conducting agroforestry research in Haiti.
The incumbent would prepare an annual report briefly describing
the status, major findings and prominent research questions facing
agroforestry resAarch in Haiti. An annual program plan would also
be written whicl. describes related research activities for the new
year. The incumbent would also be charged with the collection and
management of forestry research documents for all forestry domains
pertinent to Haiti. The Coordinator would supervise one
technician who would serve as field represmntative of the Research
Section with the NCO contractor in the Pine Forest Reserve.
(c)   Forest Management Research Coordinator:  The incumbent would
report directly to the Section Head and be responsible for all
forestry research activities in the Pine Forest Reserve and the
Savanna Pilot Research Program. The coordinator would establish
the Savanna research stations, prepare all related technical
protocols, establish and monitor the research And prepare an
annual status report and program plan. The Coordinator would be
assisted by an Agronomist who would be responsible for the Savanna
station field activities, four agroforestry technicians (two on
each Savanna station), and four rangers (two on each Savanna
station).
(d)   Semi-Arid Forest Management Research Coordinator:  The incumbent
would report directly to the Section Head and be responsible for
the establishment and management of the new Semi-Arid Research
Station and the established SRP research stations (Jean Rabel,
Colora, Colladere, Cabaret, Miragoane). The coordinator would
prepare all related technical protocols, establish and monitor all
research and prepare an annual status report and program plan.
The coordinator would supervise two agroforestry technicians
assigned to the Semi-Arid Station, and one technician for each
established station. These technicians would be responsible for
daily station management, monitoring, guard supervision, and



-90-
Page 8 of 8
limited tenhnical assistance to adjacent farmers. Two guards
would be assigned to each station.
23.         Internal Evaluation and Planning.  A semi-annual, internal program
evaluation and planning session would be held and attended by the senior
Research Unit staff. The purpose of this two-day event would be to
collectively evaluate the past year's accomplishments and failures, and
prepare program targets and plans for the oncoming year. A comprehensive
output monitoring prcgrsm would also be initiated which would permit the
periodic assessment of performance for all programs and levels of personnel.



-91-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
z(AITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
New Forest Res arch Station-to-be Established
Savanna Diane Pilot Research Site Location
1.          The proposed site for the pilot research station is located
approximately 14 km southeast of St. Michel de L'Attallaye in the vicinity of
Habitation Casseus. The exact location of this site will be contingent upon
detailed on-site studies which would determine if local soils and topography
are representative of state lands in Savanna Diane. Site selection will also
depend upon existing land tenure and utilization situation as identified in
the initial socio-economic assessment. The Casseus area is promising because
of its relative accessibility and its diverse soil types. In this arer it is
possible to delineate a 200 ha block of land that encompasses 5-6 soil
groups/subgroups (as described by the Carte de Sols-Savanna Diane/SCET
International/PNUD/OPE/Janvier 1990) and three major bioclimatic zones (as
described by the Carte Bioclimatic in the FAO project report, Projet Forets et
Protection de L'Environnement, Annexe 4, Carte 3) which are representative of
much of the land available for forestry plantations.
Savanna Manigat de Clay Pilot Research Site Location
2.          The proposed site for the research station is located
approximately 14 km south of Fort Liberte near the village of Acul Samedi.
The exact location of this site will be contingent upon detailed on-site
studies which would determine if site soils and topography are representative
of the Manigat de Clay savanna lands within the public domain. Site selection
will also depend upon the existing land tenure and utilization patterns as
identified in the initial socio-economic assessment.



-92-
MNEX 4
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 2
RAITI
FORESTRY AND ENRONMENTAL PROTECTION POJECT
Terms of Reference for Interngtionally Recrulted Staff
Forestry Research Setion Hegd
1.        Duties:  The incumbent would undertake a five year assignment in
support of the Forestry Research Section of the Forestry Resource Service
(SRP) to work under the supervision of the Chief of the SRF. The incumbent
would have an office in the Research Section bureau within the SRI
headquarters. In addition to the above, the incumbent would:
(a) be responsible for the planning, coordination, execution, and
reporting of all forestry research activities implemented under the
auspices of the FEPP;
(b) supervise the Section Social Scientist and the Research
Coordinators of the three Research Sub-Sections within the Research
Section (1-Agroforestry Research, 2-Forestry Research, 3-Semi-Arid
Forest Management Research), approving all work plans, experimental
protocols, and thu treatment and evaluation of the experimental
results;
(c) coordinate the work of the short-term consultants associated with
the Research Section, preparing the terms of reference and
recommending payment upon review of contract outputs;
(d) supervise the site selection and establishment of the new Diane
Savanna, Manigat de Clay Savanna and Dry Forest Management Research
Stations;
(e) supervise the collection and management of forestry related
research documentation to develop a reference library for forestry
research in Haiti;
(f) establish working relations with other agencies conducting foreatry
research in Haiti, including international and local non-
governmental organizations;
(g) conduct an annual internal evaluation and program planning session,
and an annual retreat for the presentation and discussion of
technical topics for Research Section personnel;



-93-
ANNEX 4
AppenJix 2
Page 2 of 2
(h) assist the Director and other SNAP staff to develop the
agroforestry and forestry curricula and training aganda; and
(i) enhance the skills of the Research Coordinators In experimental
desigr, establishment, statistical analysis and presentation.
2.        Outnuts:  The incumbent would preparet
(a) semi-annual reports which describe Research Section progress and
detailed program plans for the next period; and
(b) a series of working papers which present individual experiments,
the rationale, method, results, and potential implications for
forestry development in Haiti.
3.        Qualifications:  The candidate must be able to comprehend written
and spoken French and speak either French or Haitian Creole fluently. She/he
must have a graduate degree in forestry and have had at least ten years'
professional .xperience, at least five of which involved leading forestry
research in developing countries. A candidate with previous, long-term
Haitian experience would be preferred. She/he must be strongly conversant on
agroforestry research, dry forest Lanagement, pine forest research, land
tenure considerations in land management and social science research methods.
The candidate must have excellent personal relations and communication skills
and be able to work effectively with people of various backgrounds and at all
levels of administration. She/he must also have strong participatory
management skills and be able to lead group evaluations and program planning
sessions.



-94-
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 2
FORESTRM AD ENVIRONWENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Internationally Recruited Staff
Social Scientist: Expert In Social Forestry Research
1.          Dutiest  The incumbent would undertake a two month assignment to
assist the Forestry Research Section of the Forestry Resource Service (SRF) In
selecting and establishing new forestry research stations, and initiating
forestry development oriented social science research. This research would
provide answers to the essential questions of: "What social arrangements must
be made to improve and sustain the productivity of t:he State lands with a
forestry vocation? And, What method should the State employ to realize those
social arrangements?" The incumbent would be supervised by the Head of the
Forestry Research Section, work directly with the Research Section Social
Scientist, and be assisted by the Forestry Research and the Semi-Arid Forest
Management Research Coordinators. The incumbent's work would center on three
principal tasks: (i) an analysis of Research Section alternatives in
conducting the social forestry research and the preparation of preliminary
recommendationrs (ii) comprihensive socio-economic assessments of the
candidate Research Station sites and the final selection of those sites, and;
(iii) preparation of social science protocols for implementation by the SRP on
the identified sites. Towards the fulfillment of these three tasks, the
incumbent wouldt
(a)   analyze the goals, methods and general sites proposed in the FEPP
document for the implementation of the social forestry, state land
management research with the Research Read and Research
Sociologist, and make preliminary recommendations as to which
sites merit intensive assessment, and what general approach should
be taken towards the establishment of the Research Stations and
experiments. Approximately one week would be allocated to this
task;
(b)   conduct socio-economic assessments of the candidate Diane Savanna,
Manigat de Clay Savanna, and Semi-Arid Forest Management Research
Station sites. These assessments would includet a thorough
description and analysis of the current land tenure and land use
patterns on and adjacent to the candidate sites; an analysis of
the existing social arrangements which govern the local use of the
candidate state lands (i.e., individual rights and duties to
certain land resources, formal or informal institutions which
determine privileges and sanctions); and finally, recommendations
to the SRF as to exact Research Station location, and the specific



-95-
ANNX 4
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 2
process by which each site should be established. Approximately
five weeks would be allocated to this task; and
(c)   prepare specific protocols for social science research to be
conducted on each of the three categories of Research Station
(Semi-Arid Forest, Savanna, previoualy established stationsl).
These protocols would include the testing oft various land tenure
arrangements with participating farmers (e.g., the establishment
of long-term leases to individuals, development of common property
and collective management systems, enhanced central governance by
official authorities); various incentive packages which would
result in the adoption of improved forest management practices,
and; various methods of mobilizing or organizing the users of the
State lands to ensure stable and rationale land utilization.
2.          Outputs:  During the contract period the incumbent would prepare
and present:
(a)   comprehensive social assessment reports for each of the three new
forestry research stations as detailed in I (b) above; and
(b)   complete experiment protocols for the proposed social forestry
research (as detailed in 1 (c) above) which include statements of
research rationale and research hypotheses, and explicit plans for
research implementation.
3.          Qualificationst  The candidate must be able to comprehend written
and spoken French and speak either French or Haitian Creole fluently. Shelhe
must have a graduate degree in anthropology or sociology and have had at least
10 years' professional experience investigating agrarian societies in
developing countries. The incumbent must have focussed on peasant farm
strategies and social forestry research during at least five of these ten
years. A candidate with previous, long-term field experience in Haiti will be
preferred. She/he must be strongly converoant on land tenure considerations
in land management, common property dilemmas and management, and methods and
characteristics of peasant organization.
Research Stations are established in: Colora, Colladere, Cabaret,
Jean Rabel and Hiragoane.



-96-
QNEX 4
Appendix 4
RAITI1
FORESTRY AND EUVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Internationally Recruited Staff
Forester: Expert in Pine Forest Silviculture and Research
1.          Dutiest The incumbent would undertake a two-month assignment to
assist the Forestry Research Section of the Forestry Resource Service (SRP) in
selecting and establishing new pine silviculture research. The incumbent
would be supervised by the Read of the Forestry Research Section and the
Senior Forestry Advisor, and work directly with the Forestry Research
Coordinator who id charged with implementing pine forest research. The
incumbent's principal tasks would be to: (i) assist the SRF Research Section
assess research neede for successful pine forest management; and (ii) prepare
protocols for the proposed experiments. Towards the fulfillment of these
tasks, the incumbent would:
(a)   aosess the proposed forestry research activities (listed in
Annex 4, para. 6) with the Senior Forestry, the Forestry Research
Section Head, and the Forestry Research Coordinator to determine
research priorities and general methods; and
(b)   prepare specific protocols for the proposed research.  These
protocols would include statements of research rationale and
research hypotheses, and explicit plans for research
implementation.
2.          Outputs:  Prior to the termination of the contract period, the
incumbent would prepare and present:
(a)   complete protocols for the proposed forestry research to be
implemented in the Pine Forest Reserve.
3.          Qualifications:  The candidate must be able to comprehend  -itten
and spoken French and speak either French or Haitian Creole fluently. Sh.L!he
must have a graduate degree in forestry and have had at least ten years'
professional experience in the management of natural pine forests. The
incumbent must have focussed on tropical pine forest research during at least
five of these ten years. A candidate with previous, long-term field
experience in Haiti will be preferred. She/he must have strong experience in
pine forest thinning regimes and silvicultural treatments for multi-aged
forests. Previous experience in forest management for non-traditional
products and forest based micro-enterprise development is required.



-97-
ANRX4
Appendix 5
Page 1 of 2
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Tenms of Reference for Internationally Recrulted Staff
Forester:  Exlert in Semi-Arid Forest Manatement Research
1.          Duties:  The incumbent would undertake a two-month assignment to
assist the Forestry Researcb 'ction of the Forestry Resource Service (SRF) in
establishing a new semi-arid forest research station and research. The
incumbent would be supervised by the Hetd of the Forestry Research Section and
the Senior Forestry Advisory, and work directly with the SRP Social Scientist
and Semi-Arid Forest Management Research Coordinator who is charged with
implementing the research. The incumbent's principal tasks would be to:
(i) assist the SRI in the establishment of the Semi-Arid Forest Management
Research Station; and (ii) prepare protocols for the proposed experiments.
The Station site would have been identified and surveyed prior to the
engagement of the incumbent. Towards the fulfillment of the two tasks, the
incumbent would:
(a)   provide recommendations concerning Research Station design and
assist in the establishment of the Station. The recommendations
would include Station and experiment layout, and guidelines for
Station management; and
(b)   prepare specific protocols for the technical, semi-arid forestry
research to be conducted on and off the Station (as listed in
Annex 4, paras. 19-20). These protocols would include statements
of research rationale and research hypotheses, and explicit plans
for research implementation.
2.          Out2uts:  Prior to the termination of the contract period, the
incumbent would prepare and present:
(a)   a comprehensive five-year management plan for the Semi-Arid Forest
Management Station; and
(b)   complete protocols for the proposed forestry research to be
implemented on and off the Station by the Semi-Arid Forest
Management Research Section.
3.          gualifications:  The candidate must be able to comprehend written
and spoken French and speak either French or Haitian Creole fluently. She/he
must have a graduate degree in forestry and have had at least 10 years'
professional experience in the study of semi-arid forests and related
sylvopastoral systems. The incumbent must have focussed on tropical forest



-98-
ANNEX 4
Appendix 5
Page 2 of 2
research duriug at least five of these ten years. A candidate with previous,
long-term field experience in Haiti will be preferred. She/he must have
strong familiarity with Proovos and Acscia species and forest management for
rpst, roundwood and charcoal production.



-99-
Appendix 6
Page 1 of 2
HRITI
FORESJTRY AND ENVIBONMENTL PROTECTION PROJECT
Ter-me of RBefren2e for XnternatLonally Recruited Stagff
Fyorester: Expert in Sayanna Ref'2jestAtion and Reoearch
1.          Dutien: The incumbent would undertake a two-month assignment to
assist the Forestry Research Section of the Forestry Resource Service (SRF) in
establishing new savanna reforestation research stations and related research.
The incumbent would be supervised by the Head of the Forestry Research Section
and the Senior Forestry Adviecr, and ;ork directly with the SRF Social
Scientist and Forestry Resea..ch Coordinator who is charged with implementing
the research. The incumbent's principal tasks would be to: (i) assist the
SRF in establishing the SavAnna Reforestation Research Stations; and
(ii) prepare protocols for the proposed experiments. The Station sites would
have been identified and surveyee prior to the en3agement of the incumbent.
Towards the fulfillment of the two tasks, the incumbent would:
(a)   provide recommendations concerning Research Station design and
assist in the establishment of the Stations (one located in the
Diane savanna and the other in the Manigat de Clay savanna). The
recommendations would include Station and experiment layout, and
guidelines for Station management; and
(b)   prepare specific protocols for the technical reforestation
research to be conducted on and off the Station (as listed in
Annex 3, paras. 11-13). These protocols would include statements
of research rationale and research hypotheses, and explicit plans
for research implementation.
2.         Ogtnuts  Prior to the termination of the contract period, the
incumbent would prepare and present:
(a)   a comprehensive five-year management plan for the Savanna
Reforestation Research Stations; and
(b)   complete protocols for the proposed forestry research to be
implemented on and off the Stations by the Forest Management
Research Section.



-100-
ANEEX 4
Appendix 6
Page 2 of 2
3.          Oualificatlon:s  The candidate must be able to comprehend written
and spoken French and speak either French or Haitian Creole fluently. Shb'/he
must have a graduate degree in forestry and have had at least 10 years'
professional experience in the study of savanna reforestation. The incumbent
must have focuLsed on tropical forest renearch during at least five of these
ten years. A candidate with previous, long-term field experience in Haiti
will be preferred.



-101-
ANNX -4
Appendix 7
Page 1 of 2
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Internationally Recruited Staff
Agroforesters Expert in ARroforestry Research
1.         .Dutiess The incumbent would undertake a two-month assignment to
assist the Forestry Research Section of the Forestry Resource Service (SRF) in
selecting and establishing new high-elevation agroforestry research. The
incumbent would be supervised by the Head of the Forestry Research Section and
the Senior Forestry Advisor, and work directly with the Agroforestry Research
Coordinator and a representative from the NGO Agroforestry Extension
contractor in the Pine Forest Reserve. The incumbent's principal tasks would
be to: (i) assist the SRI Research Sub-Section and the concerned NGO assess
agroforestry research needs; (ii) prepare protocols for the proposed
experiments; and (iii) prepare a research implementation plan. Towards the
fulfillment of these tasks, the incumbent would:
(a)   assess the proposed agroforestry research activities (listed in
FEPP SAR Annex 4, paras. 7-8) with the Senior Forestry Advisor,
the Forestry Research Section Head, the Forestry Research
Coordinator, and a representative of the NGO agroforestry
contractor to determine research priorities and general methods;
(b)   prepare specific protocols for the proposed research.  These
protocols would include statements of research rationale and
research hypotheses; and
(c)   prepare a research implementation plan which specifies the roles,
experiments and methods agreed to by the SRF and NGO
representatives.
2.          Outputs:  Prior to the termination of the contract period, the
incumbent would prepare and present:
(a)   complete protocols for the proposed agroforestry research to be
implemented in the Pine Forest Reserve.
3.          Qualifications:  The candidate must be able to comprehend written
and spoken French and speak either French or Haitian Creole fluently. She/he



-102-
ANMA 4
Appendix 7
Page 2 of 2
must have a graduate degree in forestry end have had at least ten years'
professional experience tropical agriculture and forestry. The incumbent mu6t
have focussed on researching high-elevation, sustainab- land management
systems during at least flive of these ten years. A caxadidate with previous,
long-term field experience In Haiti will be preferred. She/he must have
strong experience in leguminous and fruit trees species adapted to high
elevations.



-103-
Page 1 of 14
FO TRSTY AND ENVIRONMNTAL PROTETIO  PRUOJECT
Asroforestrv REtencIn
I.  Present Sitation IL and Rear Prems
1.          Forest ecosystem In Haiti are under regular oncroachment pressure
from adjacont farmers. This situation is especially precarious in the cases
of the Pic Macaya and La Visits National Park. and the Pine Forest Reserve
where lands within the reserve boundaries can be agriculturally productive.
Principal causes for this encroachment are diminishing agricultural yields and
population growth in adjacent areas. The Oovernmont of Haiti has maintained a
policy and small police force which ostensibly exclude encroachers from the
legally protected areas. This approach, which treats adjacent populations as
adversaries rather than partners has had limited success. Adjacent
populations will continue to threaten Important ecosystems until their
livelihood is enhanced and they gain a direct benefit in the protection of the
ecosystems.
II. Progosed Objectives and Strategy
Obi ectives
2.          The objectives of the agroforaw try production component are to:
(a)   stabilize and increase agricultural production on adjacent
holdings so as to limit agricultural expansion into the reserve
and preserve areas and improve the quality of life of rural
peoples who live in proximity to such protective areas;
(b)   increase the supply of wood products to both local and urban
marketst and
(c)   institutionalize KARKDR/NGO cooperation on forestry projects and
simultaneously increase HARNDR capabilities to plan, coordinate
and monitor natural resource development activities in Haiti.
Strateev
3.          The provision of agroforestry production services to peasants
farming in and near protected reserve and preserve areas would be contracted
to qualified NGOs.  Ministry of Agriculture representatives would monitor and             L
evaluate sub-project activities as per the negotiated contract agreement. As
contractors, the NGOs would operate independently of MAUDR, submitting annual
reports and program plans for authorization by FEPP officials. Upon contract
approval, the contractor would receive a mobilization advance to permit the



-104-
Page 2 of 14
acquisition of equipment and the location of personnel. Regular withdraw
requests would be submitted to the PePP adminiotrator for expense
reimbursement.
LII1. Prolect Comnent
4.          Four sub-projects would be contracted to qualified
non-governmental organizations for Implementation during the PEPP. NGOs eousld
bid on one or more sub-project, and combine sub-projects into a single project
as they deem appropriate. In this case, O Ns would describe this combination
in their project proposalo The sub-projects are as follow.s
(a)   agroforestry extension, including the promotion of a pilot program
for cistern construction, in the Pine Forest Reserve and adjacent
buffer zonel
(b)   agroforestry extension In the Pic Macaya National Park and
the Northern adjacent buffer zone;                                           r
(c)   agroforestry extension in the La Visite National P&rk and
adjacent buffer zones and
(d)   agroforeetry extension In the Belle Anse region of Southeast
Haiti.
5.          The Pine Forest Reserve and La Visite ?ark projects are planned as
five-year projects, beginning in Year 1 of tCe PEPP. The Pic Macaya Park and
the Belle Anse Region agroforestry projects are planned as four-year projects,
beginning in Year 2 of the PBPP. The Euvironmental Protection Service (SPE),
responsible for all National Park activities, would supervise the sub-projects
in and around both National Parks. The Forestry Resource Service (SRP) would
supervise the Pine Forest and Belle Anse sub-projects. The agroforestry
extension projects in and around the Pine Forest Reserve and the National
Parks would b: intensive and integrative In approach, providing multiple
services to resatively small populations. The Belle Anse Region extension
project would use a more extensive approach, providing limited so.vices (tree
seedlings, hedgerow technology and technical assistance) to a greater
population in the higher elevations. Terms of reference for each st..-project
are in the Appendices 1 to 4 to this Annex.
Deagriotion of Pro1ect Areas and Farmin Svstems
6.          Pine Forest and La Visite project areas share many of the same
ecological and climatic conditions. Consequently, their agricultural
production systems are, quite similar. Taking advantage of the cool moist
conditions as well as access to markets in Port-au-Prince peasant farmers are
progressively shifting from cultivation of traditional crops (corn, beans,
sweet potatoes) to higher valued market vegetables (potatoes, onions, cabbage,
carrots, loeks). While the cultivation of these new crops generate greater



-105-
Page 3 of 14
revenues for the farmer, they also require greater expenditures, in both labor
and capital. Increasingly farmers are utilizing expensive external inputs,
such as chaemicl and organic fertilizer, seed, and pestlides, and are
contracting additional labor to establish and maintain these crops. Despite
the increased prevalence of market vegetable cropping, most farmers are forced
by economic constraints end risk management to keop a good portion of their
land in traditional crops, grain and legume crops.
7.          Farmers market most of their vegetable production and some of
their other crops in Port-au-Prince or other less distant market centers.
While the La Visit. project area is closer to the capital, lack of a direct
road access requires that crops be transported on foot or by animal to
Kenskoff or south to Harigot.
8.          As is the case throughout Haiti, farmers in the project areas
typically own or utilize several parcels of land and manage crop production
across all the plots. The primary plot, which contains the farmers house,
often is utilized as a household garden producing small amounts of coffee,
fruit, vegetables, plantains, yams, etc. Fields close to the house are often
planted to higher valued and management intensive crops such as potatoes and
onions. Fields far from the compound are typically planted to corn and beans
and are periodically put under fallow. Land tenure in the Pine Forest and La
Visite areas varies considerably. A majority of land surrounding the Pine
Forest Reserve is private land ("to don" or "te eritaj"), while except for a
small number of private holdings in the Seguin area, the vast majority of land
surrounding the La Visits Park is state land. This land is currently leased
to small Uolders by the Direction G6n6rale des Imp8ts.
9.          Declining farm productivity is a critical problem faced by farmers
in all project areas. Inappropriate farming practices lead to soil
exhaustion, bigh levels of pest damage, and high rates of soil erosion.
According to A0, 60S of agricultural land in the Pine Forest is over 30S
slope (32Z of the land is over 452 slope).1' Lack of soil conservation
technologies result in heavy soil loss and declining crop yields, thereby
increasing expansion of the agricultural frontier and perpetuating low
standards of living.
10.         Livestock is an Important element of the peasant farming system in
all project areas. In the Pine Forest over 80S of farm households practice
animal husbandry, with cattle, sheep, goats and pigs comprising the most.11
Grazing of livestock generally is done on land under fallow or on state land.
)1 lAO Rapport de Pr6paration, Projet ForOta et Protection de
L'Environnoment, Annex 5, Appendice 1, Tableau 3. 21/90/CP-HlAI 19.
14 f6vrier 1990.
2/ Ibid. Annee 5, Appendice 2, Tableau 7.



-106-
Page 4 of 14
Lack of forage is common, especially in the dry season, and farmers must
expend considerable time and energy searching for adequate sites to tie their
animals. Another constraint to improving livestock production are reliable
supplies of water for the animals.
11.         Farmers in the project areas exert considerable pressure on
adjacent Reserve and Preserve lands. The expansion of farm plots contributes
significantly to loss of forest cover. Inappropriate use of fire on-farm
often leads to uncontrolled grass and forest fires, damaging adult trees and
eliminating natural regeneration. Pine post and poles which are used for
fences and buildings are in short supply but high demand in both the Pine
Forest and La Visite areas. There are restrictions on the harvest of live
but not dead trees. This policy provides incentive for the setting of
wildfires which kill the imiature trees of post size. The illegal cutting of
pine trees for timber is most frequently financed by wealthier Individuals
living outside of the forested areas. The harvesting of bwa gra or pine
fatwood severely damages trees and contributes to windthrow. This practice is
likewise dominated by outsiders but poorer local fumilies may participate
during the dry season. High livestock stocking levels in several areas result
in overgrazing and site degradation through erosion. Animals also inhibit
natural regeneration of pines and other species on state and private land.
12.         Farm production in Pic Macava National Park project area is based
predominantly on beans, sweet potatoes, corn and yams. Other crops include
cassava, malanga, plantains, coffee and some vegetables. Crop yields tend to
be low, especially for corn which is often severely damaged by a fungal
infection (Phvllachora Maydis), Poor access to markets is a major constraint
faced by farmers in the park and buffer zone area. Most produce is carried to
Lee Cayes or other markets by pack animal or porter, reducing farmgate prices
and limiting crops that can be marketed.
13.         The Belle Anse area encompasses a wide variety of climatic and
soil types, and consequently, several cropping systems are found. At the low
elevations (below 200 i), settlements are concentrated along the coast (e.g.,
the town of Belle Anse), the climate is semi-arid and inhabitants depend to a
large extent on fishing (and more recently charcoal production) for their
livelihood but also plant sorghum and pigeon pea on land cleared of the thorny
vegetation. Irregular rainfall, however, reduces crop yields and often causes
total crop failure. Above 200 m rainfall increases and agriculture becomes
more stable. With increasing elevation sorghum cultivation gives way to corn,
beans and root crops. Coffee cultivation likewise increases with elevation,
reaching a maximum at 800-900 m in the area of Tiotte. In this coffee belt
yams and beans are also planted in small clearings. Steeper hillsides are
often planted to annual crops such as corn and sorghum. Increasingly farmers
are converting coffee lands to annual crop production because of declining
coffee prices and yields, and rising charcoal prices. Upon clearing the
coffee and shade trees, yams and beans are typically planted to take advantage



-107-
Page 5 of 14
of the high organic content and fertility of the soils. Erosion and heavy
cropping reduce yields quickly and result in a shift to grains and legumes.
Above 1,000 m production of market vegetables is more common where there is
access to markets (close to roads).
14.         The Belle Ans  agroforestry project would concentrate it.
intervention in the higher elevationa in areas adjacent to those which are
targeted by the La Visits and Pine Forest projects. These areas can be
accessed by the roads leading to the Baie %;'Orange, B1l Airs, and Corail
eommunities from the town of Belle Anse. The Mapou and Bodarie communities
(along the road from Thiotte to Belle Anse) are other access points to the
upper elevation areas.
Potential for Development
15.         In order to abhieve the objectives of alleviating pressure on
ilaiti's national parka and other critical ecosystem areas, it is crucial that
programs be developed to help farmers in targeted areas to rationalize the
natural resource use through improved agricultural development. Local farmers
must be provided with technologies and training which will both improve their
steadily deteriorating economic situation on-farm and reduce their negative
impact on protected resources off-farm. If it is to be effective, this
technological package must progressively lead to:
(a)   a reversal of soil productivity declines through soil conservation
measures and improved farming systems;
(b)   the adoption of agroforestry systems that increase on-farm
production of forest products and agricultural crops;
(c)   increased farm productivity through improved crop husbandry,
harvesting and storage techniques, improved crop varieties and
better marketing;
(d)   improved animal husbandry through increased forage production,
better disease control, and livestock management; and
(e)   the construction of reliable water supplies for human and animal
consumption and the irrigation of nurseries and vegetable gardens.
16.         Soil Conservation and Management.  Farmers in the targeted project
areas could benefit greatly from the adoption of biological soil conservation
measures, such as contour hedgerows (with grass or woody species), check dams



-108-
Page 6 of 14
in ravines (using live posts or rocks), and the use of cover crops. These
technologies have been successfully promoted by NGOs throughout Raiti.1'
Given the proper training and germplasm support farmers have adopted these
techniques whi:h have helped control soil losses, increase soil structure and
fertility, and provide animal fodder. These technologies, which are low cost
and relatively simple to manage, Improve the sustainability of project
initiated benefits, and the potential adoption and diffusion of techniques
beyond the iediate project borders.
17.         Agroforestr=.  Trees should play a contral role in developing
sustainable and productive farming systems within project areas. Border
planting of fast growing hardwood trees will provide farmers with new cash
crops which complement, rather than displace, ongoing agricultural activities.
Trees can provide the farmer with a flexible income source, hervested or left
to grow, if need be. In addition to increasing income, on-farm wood
production can reduce pressure on nearby natural forests for fuel and building
materials. Farmers will be provided training on appropriate planting patterns
and management techniques that will minimize tree competition with
agricultural crops. Border tree plantings will also provide protection from
strong winds that are common in the high elevation project areas. Improved
varieties of fruit trees will provide farmers with fruit for household
consumption and for off-farm marketing.
18.         Improved Crop Productivitv.  Low yields of traditional crops will
be addressed through the provision of training on improved cultivation
techniques (contour furrowing, "pike te" or deep soil cultivation, organic
matter and mulch additions) and through the introduction of improved varieties
of traditional crops as well as trial introduction of new crops (vegetables,
fruit, spices). Farmers will be trained in improved storage techniques that
can reduce post-harvest losses which currently are significant. Improved
storage capacity will enable farmers to hold some farm products off the market
until periods of lower supply, and hence, higher prices.
19.         Improved Anlmal Husbandrv.  The adoption of the soil conservation
(hedgerows) and agrow.restry interventions will significantly ir.crease the
supply of forage and thereby increase the carrying capacity of the farmers'
land holdings. As part of the training package, farmers will be encouraged to
begin stall feeding efforts for household livestock. This practice can
provide benefits in terms of higher animal productivity, production of manure
for application to vegetable crops, and a general lessening of grazing
pressure on state lands. To improve the general efficiency of animal
3/ Hedgerow. - (a) Pvoje Sove Te (ORE, UNICORS, DRI, ARD, DCCH) in the
South; (b) Pan American Development Foundation (PADF) through Haiti;
(c) CARE in the northwest; (d) Save the Children Federation - Maissade;
and (e) Pond Agricole - in the North; (f) MCC - Central Plateau. Check
dams - PADF9 Save the Children, CARE, ORE.  Cover crops - MCC, ARD, ORE.



-109-
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 14
husbandry efforts, extension efforts will promote low cost, yet highly
effective practiesl, such as the control of internal parasites.
20.          aterSULiolies.  Improving the reliability and convenience of
water supplies for human and animal consumption, and the watering of nurseries
and vegetable gardens, will contribute to incroase production and reduce
risks, save time spent on fetching water, and Improve living conditions and
health of the population. In one pilot area, the Pine Forest Reserve and
buffer zones, individual cisterns, about 12 m$, serving groups of about three
farmers each, and collective cisterns, about 150 e', would be constructed.
The extension NC0 would be involved in the identificat4on and planning of the
works, the mobilization of the participation of the benfi^Iaries, who would be
expected to contribute 10-152 of the total cost in free labor and/or
materials, and the organization of operation and maintenance. The cisterns
would be constructed by contractors hired by the DRN.
Proaram Develoyment Strategy
21.         The agroforesty extension programs will be based on the following
design considerations:
(a)   agroforestry extension programs would utilize and promote local
personnel to as great extent as feasible to ensure that extension,
technical and management skills remain in the communities beyond
the project term;
(b)   programs would identify and work through existing farmer and
community groups or associations. Efforts should be made to
strengthen these groups, involving them In problem solving,
technology development and program planning, implementation and
evaluation processes;
(c)   special attention should be given to the development of
appropriate and sustainable incentive packages for farmers (e.g.,
encourage investment in hedgerows). Programs will focus on
creating a local demand for technologies rather than relying on
monetary or commodity incentives for adoption. While it will be
necessary at the outset to provide farmers with the necessary
germplasm to - tablish border plantings and hedgerows, attempts
must be made    .y in the project to encourage sustainable on-farm
production of germplasm inputs, l.e., on-farm tree seedling
production, improved fruit trees through on-site grafting, and
production and maintenance of improved crop germplasm; and
(d)   reforestation and revegetat1 ' efforts within the National Parks
would be consistent with tht goals of natural ecosystem protection
and thus focus on the utilization '0 endemic species (e.g.,
Ji&Mgerus eckmanii). Threatened bu. economically valuable species
would also be promoted in the buffer areas of both the parks and
the Pine Forest Reserve.



-110-
Page 8 of 14
22.         Tradiltonal PaLsant Groups. Agricultural task-based peasant
groupingag, of various functions and titleas, are a common traditional and
current feature of rural Raiti. These groups are generally "informal," yet
rules and sanctions concerning participation are frequently established.
Groups associated with exchange labor for land clearing, planting, weeding and
harvesting tasks are of great prevalence and renown in Haiti. Other groups
exist to execute single or periodic collective tasks such as manioc
processing, house ralsing, irrigation canal building, etc. Market women also
sometimes transport goods together, or provide monetary support to one
another. Groups function for reasons of both member utility and solidarity,
as periodic labor scarcity, decreasing disposable income, and social
approbation are strong motivations to work collectively rather than
individually.
23.         Grouo Extension Exberience in Previous Natural Resource
Conservation Projects. Since the early 1980a rural development projects1'
have mobilized peasants for development activities via peasant organization
strategies. These projects have generally Initiated activities by identifying
the frequency and nature of traditional peasant groupings and then sought to
"formalize" them with training In basic organizational skills. These groups
also become active participants In the agriculture, soil conservation, or
forestry activities. Such projects also encourage the formation of new groups
where conditions are propitious. The reported advantages of a group-based
extension strategy are several and include the following: (i) the group is an
active, problem solving forum which can simultaneously educate and motivate
membersl (ii) group dynamics can facilitate farmer's authentic participation
in project activities and a sense of "ownership' in those activities;
(III) groups are not only efficient vehicles for extension themes, but can
positively affect technique adoption rates as collective adoption diminishes
the perceived risk to the individual member; (iv) extension through groups
increaoses cooperation and coordination skills which subsequently increase the
probability that labor intensive measures such as ravine check-dams will be
adopted; and complex social dilemmas such as common property and trans-
boundary soil erosion problem can be solved; and (v) groups are "sustainable"
A/ The Catholic Relief Service, Gros Morne Project and the "Moveman
Paysan Papay" (MPP) Project pioneered group-based extension and
group formation methods. More recently other NGOs such as the
Mennonite Central Comittes (MCC), CARE, Helvetas, and Save the
Children Federation (SCF) have used peasant groups both as vehicles
for the extension of technical innovations and as the foundations
for community development activities. Some projects have more
recently noticed the spontaneous formation of social innovations,
such as the "brigad" in the MPP area which are self-selected
and self-named farmer groups who share labor strictly for the
establishment of soil conservation and agroforestry measures.



-111-
NEX 5
Page 9 of 14
organizations which can facilitate the continued adoption and diffusion of
project promoted behaviors and the development of innovations beyond project
termination.
24.         The Role of Farmer Grouns in the Agroforestrv Extension Programs.
The Pic Macaya Park, La Visite Park and Pine Forest Reserve projects would use
a group-oriented extension strategy, using groups as the principal vehicles
for extension messages and the basic units for other promoted development
activities. Though groups should be targeted, projects would also provide
extension services to individuals and would not base access to project benefit
upon group membership. Trees would be planted and soil conservation
structures would be installed by participating individuals or groups on
privately held lands or agricultural lands leased from the State. Individual
peasants would be guaranteed all harvest, usufruct and propagation rights to
the trees, planted during the life of their lease. If a lease was canceled,
the farmer would lose rights to the trees planted. The projects would not
promote collective tree ownership or management except if in future the SRE
chooses to allocate Pine Forest Reserve tracts to local management for local
benefit. The role of the groups would be to inform the project as to local
prerogatives, participate in the development and extension of the promoted
technologies and activities, seek the resolution of local problems, and assist
in project evaluations. In the Pine Forest area, particular focus would be
given to a pilot program for improvement of water supplies by farmer groups.
The Belle Anse Agroforestry project would not directly target farmer groups or
explicitly encourage the formation of new groups. This project would follow
the USAID Agroforestry Outreach Project model, extending limited, and clearly
defined agroforestry services to a large area.   Its explicit goal is the
planting of trees and the installment of agroforestry measures on private
lands by individual farmers. The project would implicitly support local
organizations to the extent feasible by actively encouraging the establishment
of local tree nurseries and farmer cooperation on the installment of labor
intensive techniques.
25.         Aaroforestry Extension and Peasant Oraanization Strategv.  The
NGOs implementing the La Visite Park, Pic Macaya Park and the Pine Forest
Reserve Programs would generally follow the integrated resource conservation
project models provided by Helvetas/MPP, CARE/Leger, MCC, and SCF/Iaissade.
The NGOs would be granted flexibility in their establishment of extension and
organization strategies as they will undoubtedly had previous experience in
extension and peasant organization, and as strategies should correspond both
to local conditions and to NGO characteristics. The following agroforestry
extension and peasant organization method is presented as a general guide and
a suggested point of departure for more detailed and site specific schemes.
NGO would detail their specific methods in their separate project proposals.
(a)   Each program would initially conduct a rapid rural assessment to
identify salient local physical and social parameters including
the type and patterns of peasant groupings.



-112-
Page 10 of 14
(b)   Programs would identify local candidates for exten.ion positions
("animate") either by local popular election or by direct project
selection. These individuals would be trained in peasant
organization and/or agroforestry techniques.
(c)   Extension agents would return to their respective communities to
conduct participatory local appraisals to identify and diagnose
local production, marketing and consumption patterns, and
constraints to development. Appraisals would also include the
discussion of preliminary local solutions and strategies for the
resolution of local problems.
(d)   Agents would identify existing local social groups (including
labor exchange groups, pre-established farmer groups, and
community associations) and provide education on basic
organizational themes, and methods to initiate collective economic
activities. Technical assistance to the groups would begin only
after groups have thoroughly examined local needs and requested
project assistance. Extension agents would not actively "create"
new groups, but would assist self-formed groups formalize. Other
new groups would spontaneously form in successive years as they
witness the activities and benefits gained through greater
cooperation and implementation of project techniques.
(e)   Groups or representatives from them would be given training in
agroforestry, soil conservation techniques as well as other
agricultural training deemed appropriate by the project.
(f)   Projects would continue to strengthen the groups (both pre-
existent and newly formed) encouraging their association and
advancement to more complex resource conservation and community
development projects. These participating groups would also be
encouraged to extend the messages beyond project boundaries.
IV. Farm Models and Production Imnact
Farm Model Description
26.         Within the four project areas two major cropping systems were
identified and utilized to build economic farm models:
M/B/SP    Maize and bean intercropping (0.7 ha) with additional land
planted to sweet potatoes (0.3 ha).
H/B/MV    Maize and be^n intercropping (0.5 ha) with market vegetable
production, potatoes (0.3 ha) and onions (0.2 ha).



-113-
Page 11 of 14
27.         From these cropping syetems the following six farm models were
developed based on different site conditions (slope) and Intensity of
extension services provided farmerst
CROPPING
MODEL       SYSTEM        PROJECT INTERVENTION
Model 1    M/B/MV   soil conservation, tree cropping, crop improvement;
Model IA    M/B/MV   tree cropping, crop improvement;
Model 2     M/BISP   soil conservation, tree cropping, crop Improvement;
Model 2A    MIB/SP   tree cropping, crop improvement;
Model 3     M/B/SP   soil conservation, tree cropping;
Model 3A    M/B/SP   tree cropping only.
Technical Interventions and Model Assumptions
28.         Soil Conservation.  For slopes up to 20S specific soil
conservation measures are not economical.11 It is assumed that slopes of
less than 301 would not be targeted directly by the hedgerow interventions.
Farmers on these slopes will be trained in basic contour farming techniques,
green manure and other improved agricultural practices which should edequately
control erosion and fertility-related productivity declines.
29.         Targeted hillside farms in the extension areas are assumed to be
located on high and steep slopes (30-60X) that are rapidly being degraded by
erosion. Because of slope and soil conditions crop yields on these farms are
40-77Z of similar flatland farms;/ in the farm models for steep slopes the
productivity level of the base year was assumed to be 601 of that on nearby
flatter land. The farms on steep slopes would be treated with contour grass
and tree hedgerows.   The hedges will be spaced 10 m apart and would have a
total length of 1,000 m/ha. According to early estimates by BDPA 7/ sheet
erosion on cultivated slopes of 45-601 results in the decrease of crop yields
by 2.51 each year. Ravines caused by erosion also lead to the loss of 0.31 of
5/    Sheet erosion on flat land up to 201 is insignificant and specific
conservation measures are not required. See BDPA-SCETAGRI: Gestion des
Ressources Naturelles en Vue d'un D6veloppement Durable en Haiti.
Rapport Final, 14 f6vrier 1990, Page 96.
/    See BDPA-SCETAGRI, op.cit., page 98.
Z/   Quoted froms PAO Rapport de Preparation, Projet P8rets et Protection de
l'Environnement, Annex. 5, page 8, para. 45. F6vrier 1990.



-114-
Page 12 of 14
the productive land each year, resulting in a total lose of productivity of
2.82 each year.1l This figure of a further linear production decline of 2.82
per year has been assumed for the without project situation, and against which
the incremental production and returns have been measured. Approximately 601
of agricultural land In the project areas is over 301 slope, while 321 is over
451 slope. Project outreach efforts will give priority to farmers on the
steepest slopes (451 - 601) so as to maximize return on investment.
30.         Soil conservation measures (contour hodgerow. of grasses and tree
species)1' greatly reduce erosion, increases yield due to increased water
infiltration and retention, and improves s4l fertility and structure due to
additions of hedgerow biomass. In these models it is assumed that with the
project yields of all crops in relation to the base year will increase by 1O0
the first year (due primarily to increased water availability) and 15S the
second year (reflecting an improved microsite due to greater Soil accumulation
behind the hedgerow) and that this level will be maintained into the future.
31.         Once established, hedgerows will produce significant quantities of
biomass for use as green manure and fodder for animals. It is estimated that
at project area elevations elephant grase hedges cut three times per year will
produce 320 kg of usable dry forage matter per year ~L (total production is
640 kg/year with 501 of biomass being returned to the soil as green manure to
maintain soil fertility). This amount of fodder will support approximately
8/    The assumed rate of production decline appears high in comparison to the
average rate of annual erosion in Haiti, which on slopes between 20 and
501 has been estimated in the final report of BDPA-SCETAGRI at 0.31 for
annual crops, based on a remaining soil depth of 400 mm. See BDPA-
SCETAGRI, op. cit., page 98. However, given that BDPA estimates that
production declines on slopes over 501 averages 71 per year, and that
extension efforts will target hillside farms on very steep slopes, the
resultant higher annual rates of production decline is justifiable.
9/    High elevation (over 600 m) species could Include unidentified endemic
species as well as: (a) Grasses: Elephant grass (Pennisetum purpureum),
Guatemala grass (Tripsacum laxum) and other varieties such as Pennisetum
RD22; (b) leguminous forages: Centrosema sp., Teramnus sp, (see Dean
Treadwell, ARD, Camp Perrin); and (c) Treest Juniperus eckmanii,
Calliandra calothrysus, Leucaena diversifolia. Below 600 m species
could include Elephant grass, Guinea grass (Panicum maximum), leguminous
forage., Leucaena leucocaphala, Gliricidia sepium, and Erythrina ep.
10/ Based on research done by Dean Treadwell, Associates in Rural
Development, in the Pwoje Save To, Camp Perrin, Haiti.



-115-
Page 13 of 14
one adult goat for one year (the value of which was estimated at $31 per
year) .l'
32.         Croo Imnrovemsnt.  All extension projects, with the excepti,  of
Belle Anse, would provide farmers with improved maize and bean seed during
their first year of participation. Other crops are not considered because of
the difficulty of propagation and disemoination of the crop (sweet potatoes)
or because of the relatively sophisticated level of production (fertilizers,
pesticides and Improved seed) for the market vegetables. Farmers provided
with improved maize and bean seed can expect to increase yields on these crops
by 202 in the first year of use.
33.         Tree Cronping.  It is assumed that farmers participating in the
agroforestry extension programs would plant 125 fast-growing trees along the
borders of their fields (2.5 m apart). These trees would have a 60X survival
rate and be harvested at Year 5 for poles and charcoal. Harvests would yield
75 poles (3 m, valued at US$0.40 each) and a total of 96 kg (2.5 sacks) of
charcoal. At lower elevations (Belle Anse area) growth rates will increase to
produce 1.5 kg charcoal per tree at harvest. Trees will resprout and be
harvested again at year 10 and 15.21 It is assumed that competition by
border trees with field crops will be offset by a reduction in wind-related
desiccation and crop damage.
34.         Participating farmers in project areas would receive 10 grafted
fruit trees ranging from citrus and avocado to improved fruits such as peaches
and apples. These trees will begin to bear fruit after three years and be in
full production around seven years.  Their value at maturity is estimated at
$2.50/year per tree.
Analysis of Farm Models
35.         Farm Models.  Prices of farm inputs and outputs and production
costs per ha and per crop are presented in Table 5.1 of this Annex. Detailed
analyses of the six models are in Tables 5.2 to 5.7 of this Annex. The
financial impact of the proposed project interventions on the different farm
models varies considerably. The incremental net incomes depend much on the
11/ Based on the experience of ORE in Pwoje Sove Te (see ORE Annual Report
1989). Estimated costs for these seeds are based on estimates by Sean
Finnegan, project leader and reflect the value of returned seed/grain by
the farmer at the end of each season (sold as food in local markets).
12/   Information on tree survival was obtained from PADF and other NGOs in
the field and reflects the relatively better environmental conditions
found in the project area (high elevation - cooler temperature and
higher rainfall). Growth data Was obtained from SECID field research at
Bombardopolis and Mirebalais as well as personal communication with
technicians in the field.



-116-
Page 14 of 14
assumptions on the speed of the further degradation of the soils due to
progressing erosion. The technical package with tree cropping only (Farm
Model 3A has the lowest returns, due to the long gestation period of the
trees, but also has the lowest project cost per farmer. All models are
characterized by the introduction of low cost improvements relying mainly on
the use of increased labor use and improved inputs (seeds, seedlings) that are
initially subsidized by the project, which do not negatively affect the
farmers's cash flow and thus do not require credit. The returns to farmers
under these models are probably understated. All labor Inputs are valued at
market value (US$1.00/man-day) when in practice a significant proportion of
labor inputs can be applied during periods of low labor demand when wages are
lower. The projection that hedgerow interventions would not be installed on
slopes less than 30S is also conservative as is the 10 crop production
increase. Tree cropping calculations assume that trees will be harvested at
Year 5 for pole and charcoal production. It is often the case that farmers
will postpone harvest in order to produce posts, timber or ether higher valued
wood products. Were these benefits, or reduced costs, to be quantified, they
would provide greater insight into why farmers throughout Haiti have
undertaken tree planting and soil conservation efforts.
36.         Adoption Rates.  The estimated adoption rates for the different
farm models by extension area is in Table 5.8 of this Annex. The extension
programs in the Pine Forest and La Visit Park areas would start in Year one of
the project, while the programs for the Pic Macaya Park and the Belle Anse
area would start in Year 2, because lead time is needed to prepare the
institutional capacity in the Ministry to supervise the programs. A total of
about 16,400 farmers out of a total estimated farm number of 45,200 in the
program areas are expected to adopt the farm improvements. This corresponds
to about 36X of the farmers in the extension areas.
37.         Production ImDact and Prolect Benefits.  Because of the
uncertainties regarding the assumption of production declines without the
project on these particular farms, and regarding the estimated adoption rates,
a detailed analysis of the production impact and the incremental financial and
economic benefits is highly speculative.



-117-
HAITI                                           ANNEX 6
-                                               Table 6.1
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
AGROFORESTRY EXTENSION SERVICES
OUTPUT PRICES AND ZhPUT COSTS (US$)
FIN.               ECON.         COMMENT ON
UiNIT  PRICE              PRICE  1/    ECON. PRICE
-----------------------------------------------------------------__--------
OUTPUT PRICES
Beans              KG      1.0                 0.07       Non-tradeable due to Quantity
Maize              KO      0.4                 0.27       Non-tradeable due to Quality
Potatoes           KG      0.8                 0.20       Non-tradeablo due to Quality
Onion              KO      0.8                 0.20       Non-tradeable due to Quallty
Sweet Potatoes     KG      0.1                 0.20       Non-tradeable due to Quality
Charcoal          SACK    2.0                  2.60       Economic Net Back Value 2/
Poles             EACH    0.4                  0.40        Tradeable
INPUT COSTS
Fortilizor Inorgan SACK   16.0                16.00        Imported
Organic SACK    2.0                 1.84
Seed:                   Tradit.Ioprovd       Tradit.Improvd
Boans        KG      1.2   4.0            0.8  4.00
Maize        KG      0.6   0.6            0.8  0.60
potato"s     KG      1.4                 0.94
Onion        HA    76.0                 64.28
Sweet Potato HA   150.0                100.60
Labor            MAN-DAY   1.0                0.886       Shadow Wage Rate S0 and
Standard Converalon Factor 0.67
1/ All Non-Tradeable It em have been converted at the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.67
reflecting the B0O overvaluation of the domestic currency In mid 1990
2/ See Annex 9, Table 
PRODUCTION COSTS (FINANCIAL)
SEED             FERTILIZER         PESTI-    LABOR             TOTAL
PER HA      ORGANIC      INORGANIC   CIDES    PER HA            PER HA
K4  S COST SACK I COST SACK S COST S COST MANDAY S COST           I COST
PRODUCTION COSTS PER HECTARE WITHOUT THE PROJECT
Maize Intercrop        85  17.6                                        80    90          107.5
Beane Tntercrop        17  20.4                                        90    90          110.4
Potatoes             1000  1400    10    20    10   16O    60   200   200               1840.0
Onion                         78    10    20    10   160    60   802   802               620.0
Sw"et Potato                 150                                      100   100          250.0
ADDITIONAL ANNUAL PRODUCTION COST PER HECTARE WITH THE PROJECT
_______________________________ _________________________.__ -_
Improved Sed: Mailze   3    8.6                                                            8.5
BeOns   17  47.6                                                           47.8
Hedgerows Estoblishment                                                so    B6           68.0
Annual Cost                                                   9      9           9.0
Tree: Planting                                                          6      6           6.0
Harvesting (yr. 6 A 10)                                       10.2  10.2           10.2



-1 18-
HAtTI                                           ANNEX 5
-                                               Table 6.2
FORESTRY AND ENVRONMENTAL PROTECIYON PROJECT
AGROFORESTRY EXTENSION SERVtCES
FARM MODEL 1:       MAIZE/BEANS/MARKET VEGETABLES ON STEEP SLOPE (8"O
tNTRODUCTION OF EDGEOW CULTIVATIO, tMPROVED SEEDS AND TREE PUNTING
WITHOUT PROJECT:   YIELDS, LAND USE, PRODUCTION AND INCOME PER FARM BSE YEAR)
CROP YIELD   LAND USE      PROD.COST    PRODUCTION        INCOME PER FARM
PER HA (KG)  PER FARM (HA) PER FARM (8) PER FARM (KO)   (6)  GROSS  NET
Maize Intercrop        600          0.6          58.8           260                100.0  46.8
Beans Intercrop        200          0.6          65.2           100                100.0  44.8
Potatoes              8000          0.8         562.0          2400                720.0  186.0
Onion                7000           0.2         124.0          1400                420.0  290.0
TOTAL                 1.0         785.0                             1840.0 656.1
Erosion Impact: .    YR O   YR 1   YR 2  YR 8   YR 4  YR 6  YR 6   YR 7   YR 8   YR 9  YR 10
0.028 ------------ -_-_-_-_______- --___ _____
PRODUCTION LEVEL o   100.0  97.2  94.4  91.6  88.8  96.0  88.2   80.4   7.6  74.8   72.0
GROSS INCOME (8)    1840.0 1802.5 1265.0 1227.4 1189.9 1162.4 1114.9 1077.4 1089.8 1002.8  964.8
PRODUCTION COSTS (6) 786.0  785.0 786.0 785.0  786.C  785.0  785.0  785.0  786.0  785.0  785.0
NET INCOME (8)       556.1  517.6 480.0 442.6 405.0 887.5  829.9 292.4  264.9  217.4  179.9
s Estimated production level due to erosion, relative to base yer * 100
WITH THE PROJECTs  YIELD INCREASES, ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION LINES AND PRODUCTION COSTS:
YRO   YR I   YR 2  YR a  YR 4  YR 6   YR O   TR 7  YR 8   YR         I YR lo
RELATIVE CROP YIELD:-- -  -  ------------   - - - - - ------
DUE TO IMPRVD SEED    100   120   120   120   120   120   120   120   120   120   120
DUE TO HEDGEROWS      100   110   115   115   116   115   115   115    115   116   116
POLES (POLES)           0                                 75                                 75
CHARCOAL (SACKS)        0                                2.6                                2.6
INCREMENTAL COSTS (8) FORt
IMPROVED SEED  a/     0 -19.0  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  26.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  26.6
HEDOEROWS b/          0   60.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0
TREES b/               0   6.0                        10.2                               10.2
TOTAL INCREMENTAL     0  48.1   84.6  84.6  84.6  44.8   4.6   84.6  84.6  84.6  44.8
a/ During year 1 Improved sed would be distributed froe of charge to partlcipating farmers.
b/ Labor cost only.  Hdgerow seed and tree sedlings would be distributed fre of charge.
TOTAL PRODUCTN COSTS 785.0  828.0  819.6  619.5  819.5 829.7  819.5  819.5  619.5  819.6 829.7
INCREMENTAL GROSS INCOME (8) OVER BASE YEAR DUE TO:
IMPROVED SEED         0   40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0
HEDGEROWS              0  134.0 201.0 201.0 201.0 201.0 201.0  201.0  201.0  201.0  201.0
TREES                  0                              b5.0                               85.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL      0  174.0 241.0  241.0 241.0 276.0  241.0 241.0  241.0  241.0  276.0
INCREMEkTAL NET INCOME (8) OVER WITHOUT RROJECT NET tNCOME:
0  168.5  281.5  819.0  866.6 418.9 481.6  469.1  506.6  544.1 606.4
TOTAL INCOME (S) WITH PROJECT:
GROSS INCOME      1840.0 1614.0 1581.0 1581.0 1581.0 1018.0 1581.0 1651.0 1581.0 1681.0 1616.0
NET INCOME         555.1  680.0  761.5  761.6 701.6  780.8  761.5  761.6 761.6 761.5  786.8



-119-
HAM                                             ANNEX 6
U                                               Table 6.8
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
AGROFORESTRY EXTENSION SERVICES
FRM MODEL lAs      MAIZE/DEANS/M    T VEGETABLES ON SLIGHT SLOPE (LbSS THAN 80)
INTRODUCTION OF IPROVED SEED AND TREE PLNTING (INCU4ING FRUIT TREES)
WIHOUT PROJECT:   YIELDS, LAND USE, PROUCTION AND INCOME PER FARM (BASE YEAR)
cm= -- ---- ---e----
CROP YIELD   LAND USE      PROD.COST    PRODUCTION       INCOME PER FARU
PER HA (KG)  PER FARM (HA) PER FARM (I) PER FARM (KG)   (8) GROSS  NET
Malao Intercrop       880           0.6          68.6          416                168.0  112.8
Bean Intercrop        a80           0.6          65.2           165               165.0  109.8
Potatoes            10000           0.8         662.0         8000                900.0  848.0
Onion                8760           0.2         124.0         1760                625.0  401.0
TOTAL                 1.0         786.0                            1760.0  971.1
Erosion Impact: s    YR O   YR 1  YR 2  YR 8   YR 4  YR 6  YR 6   YR 7  YR 8  YR 9  YR 10
0  -------- ---             ---------________- ------
PRODUCTION LEVEL*  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
GROSS INCOME (S)    1756.0 1756.0 1756.0 1756.0 1768.0 1756.0 17U6.0 1756.0 176B.0 1756.0 1756.0
PRODUCTION COSTS (6) 786.0  786.0  786.0  785.0  786.0 765.0  786.0 786.0  786.0  78E.0  786.0
NET INCOME (6)      971.1  971.1  971.1  971.1  971.1  971.1  971.1  971.1  971.1  971.1  971.1
* Estimted production level due to erosion, relativ, to base year a 100
WITH THE PROJECT:  YIELD INCREASES, ADDITIONAL PRODUXlON LINES AND PRODUCTION COSTS:
YR O   YR 1  YR 2  YR 8  YR 4  YRS   YR 6   YR 7  YR 8  YR 9  YR 1o
RELATIVE CROP YIELDs-                   -------                     -  --------- - - ----------
DUE TO IMPRVD SEED    100   120   120   120   ? EV   120   120   120   120   120   120
POLES (POLES)           0                                 75                                75
CHARCOAL (SACKS)        0                               2.6                                2.5
INCREMENTAL COSTS (8) FOR:
IMPROVED SEED 1/      0 -19.0  25.6  26.6  26.6  t36   25.8  26.6  26.6  26.6  25.6
TREES b/              0   6.0                         11.2                              10.2
TOTAL INCREMENTAl.    0 -18.0  25.6  25.6  25.6   U."  26.6  25.6  25.6  25.6  85.8
*/ During yer 1 Improved sed would be distributed free oi v aarge to participating farmers.
b/ Labor cost only.  Tre **dlln&s would be distributed froem     charge.
TOTAL PRODUCTN COSTS 785.0  772.0 810.5 810.5 810.5 820.7  010.6 810.5  810.6 810.5 820.7
INCREMENTAL GROSS INCOME (S) OVER BASE YEAR DUE TO:
IMPROVED SEED         0  66.2  66.2  66.2  6.2  68.2  66.2  66.2  66.2  66.2  66.2
FRUIT TREES           0                               25.0  25.0  25.0  26.0  25.0  25.0
POLES AND CHARCOAL    0                               85.0                              85.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL     0   66.2  86.2  66.2  66.2  126.2  91.2  91.2  91.2  91.2  126.2
INCREMENTAL NET INCOME (8) OVER WITHO T PROJECT NET INCOMEt
0   79.2  40.7  40.7  40.7  90.5  865.7   65.7  86.7  65.7  90.5
TOTAL INCOME (9) WITH PROJECT:
GROSS INCOME     1766.0 1822.2 1822.2 1822.2 1022.2 1882.2 1847.2 1847.2 1847.2 1847.2 1882.2
NET INCOME        971.1 1060.2 1011.7 1011.7 1011.7 1061.6 1038.7 10t8.7 1088.7 1036.7 1061.6



-120-
HAITI                                            ANNEX 6
lsma                                             Table 6.4
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONM   AL PROTECTION PROJECT
AGROFORESTRY EENSION SVRXCES
FARU MODEL 2:       MAIZE/BEANS/SWEET POTATOES ON STEEP SLOPE (80-60S)
_19:Z1Z:=ZZCtCt=CM  INTRODUCTION OF HEDOEROW CULTIVATION, IMPROVED SEEDS AND TREE PLANTING
WITHOUT PROJECTs   YIELDS, LAND USE, PRODUCTION AND INCOME PER FARM (BASE YEAR)
CROP YIELD    LAND USE      PROD.COST    PRODUCTION        INCOME PER FARM
PER HA (KO)  PER FARM (HA) PER FARM (6) PER FARM (KG)    (6)  GROSS   NET
Maize Intercrop        600           0.7          76.8           850                140.0  04.8
Beans Intercrop        200           0.7          77.8           140                140.0  62.7
Sweet Potato          6000           0.8          76.0          1600                180.0  105.0
TOTAL                  1.0         227.6                              460.0  282.6
Erouion Impact: o    YR O   YR I   YR 2   YR 8   YR 4   YR C   YR O   YR7   YR8  YR 9   YR 10
0.028 ------ -  -- -------- ------
PRODUCTION LEVEL a   100.0   97.2   04.4   91.6   66.6   66.0  68.2   80.4   77.6   74.8   72.0
GROSS INCOME (1)     460.0 447.1  484.2 421.4  408.5  895.6  882.7  869.8  857.0  844.1  881.2
PRODUCTION COSTS (8) 227.6  227.6  227.5  227.5  227.5  227.5  227.6  227.5  227.6  227.6  227.6
NET INCOME (S)       232.6  219.6  206.7  198.8  161.0  16.1  166.2  142.8  129.4  116.6  108.7
* Estimated production level due to *ro lon, relative to base year * 100
WITH THE PROJECT:  YIELD INCREASES, ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION ULNES AND PRODUCTION COSTS:
YR O   YR 1  YR 2   YR 8   YR 4   YR 5   YR 6   YR 7   YR8   YR 9   YR 10
RELATIVE CROP YIELD:-----  -    --
DUE TO IMPRVD SEED    100    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120
DUE TO HEDOEROWS      100    110    116   116    115    115    115    115    115    11S    115
FORAGE (KG D.M.)         0    400   620   620    620   620    620   620   620    620   620
POLES (POLES)            0                                 75                                 76
CHARCOAL (SACKS)         0                                2.5                                2.5
INCREMENTAL COSTS (8) FOR:
IMPROVED SEED a/       0  -20.5   86.8   86.8   85.6   85.8   85.8   86b.    85.6   85.8   86.8
HEDGEROWS b/           0   56.0    9.0    0.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
TREES b/               0    0.0                        10.2                               10.2
TOTAL INCREMENTAL      0   85.6   44.6  44.8   44.8  56.0  44.8   44.8   44.8   44.8   65.0
____________________
c/ During year 1 improved seed would be distributed free of charge to participating farmers.
d/ Labor cost only.  Hedgerow seed and tree seedlings would be distributed free of charge.
TOTAL PRODUCTN COSTS 227.6  268.0  272.8  272.8  272.8  262.6  272.8  272.8  272.8  272.8  282.6
INCREMENTAL GROSS INCOME (8) OVER BASE YEAR DUE TOs
IMPROVED SEED          0   56.0   56.0   U6.0  56.0  56.0  6B.0  68.0  66.0  68.0  66.0
HED8EROWS              0   46.0  69.0  69.0  09.0   69.0   60.0   69.0   60.0   69.0  69.0
FORAGE PRODUCTION      0   20.0   81.0   81.0   81.0   81.0   81.0   81.0   81.0   81.0   81.0
FRUIT TREES            0                               26.0  26.0  25.0   25.0   25.0   26.0
POLES AND CHARCOAL     0                               85.0                               86.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL      0  122.0  168.0  16B.0  16B.0  216.0  161.0  181.0  181.0  181.0  216.0
INCREMENTAL NET INCOME (8) OVER WITHOUT PROJECT NET INCOMEs
0   09.4  187.0  149.9  162.7  225.4  218.5  226.4  289.8  262.1  289.8
TOTAL INCOME (8) WITH PROJECT:
GROSS INCOME       460.0  682.0  016.0  616.0  610.0 876.0  641.0  B41.0  641.0  641.0  676.0
NET INCOME         282.E  819.0  848.7  848.7  848.7  808.6 $86.7  868.7  868.7  868.7  898.6



-121-
HAITI                                          ANC  5
._.                                            Table 5.6
FORESTRY AND ENVIRNMWAL PROTECTION PROJECT
AGROFORESTRY EXTENSION SERVICES
FARM MODEL 2A:     MAIZEBEANS/SWEET POTATOES ON SLIGHT SLOPE (0-S0N)
_s10               INTOCTION OF IMPOVD SEEDS AND TR  PLANTING
WITHOUT PROJECT&   YIELDS, UND USE, PROUTION AND INCOME PER FARM (A   YEAR)
CROP YIELD   LAND USE      PROD.COST    PRODUCTION       INCOME PER FARM
PER HA (KG)  PER FARM (HA) PER FARM (S) PER FARM (KG)   (S) GROSS  NET
Maize Intercrop       680           0.7         75.8        5683.8               288.8  168.1
Bens Intercrop        UO            0.7         77.8        288.88               288.8  165.1
Sweet Potato        1oo0            0.8         76.0          8000               800.0 226.0
TOTAL                 1.0         227.6                             788.7  689.1
Eroslon Impacts     YR O   YR1   YR 2  YR J  YR 4  YR C  YR    YE?  YR 8  YR 9  YR 1O
0  -
PRODUCTION LEVEL .   100.0  100.0  100.0 100.0 100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
IROSS INCOME (8)    766.7 786.7 788.7 78W.7 768.7 7"8.7 788.7 788.7 760.7 788.7 766.7
PRODUCTION COSTS (3) 227.6 227.6 227.5 227.6 227.6 227.6 227.5 227.6 227.6 227.6 227.5
NET INCOME (8)      689.1 689.1 689.1 689.1 689.1 689.1 689.1 589.1 589.1 689.1 539.1
* Eatlmated production level due to erosion, relative to base ye a  100
WITH THE PROJECT:  YIELD INCREASES, ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION LINES AND PRODUCTION COSTS:
YR O   YR 1  YR 2  YR E    YR 4  YR B  YR 6  YR 7  YR 8  VA 9  YR 10
RELATIVE CROP YIELD:------- --           -                                                  -
DUE TO IMPRVD SEED   100   120   120   120   120   120   120   120   120   120   120
POLES (POLES)           0                                75                                75
CHARCOAL (SACKS)        0                               2.6                               2.6
INCREMENTAL COSTS (8) FOR:
IMPROVED SEED */      0 -26.5  85.6  8C6.6   8.8  86.8  8C5.   85.8  85.9  86.8  86.6
TREES b/              0   6.0                        10.2                              10.2
TOTAL INCREMENTAL     0 -20.5  85.8  85.8  86.8  48.0  85.8  85.6  85.8  85.8  46.0
a/ Durlng year 1 tiproved meed would be distributed free of charge to participating farmers.
b/ Labor cost only.  Tre seedlings would be distributed free of charge.
TOTAL PRODUCTN COSTS 227.5 207.0 268.8 268.8  268.8 278.6 268.8  268.8  268.8 268.8 278.5
INCREMENTAL OROSS INCOME (8) OVER BASE YEAR DUE TO:
SIPROVED SEED         0  98.8  98.8  98.8  98.8  98.8  98.8  98.8  98.8  98.8  98.8
FRUIT TREES           0                              25.0  26.0  25.0  26.0  25.0  25.0
POLES AND CHARCOAL    0                              86.0                              86.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL     0  98.8  98.8  98.8  98.8  168.3  118.8 116.8  118.8  118.8  168.8
INCREMENTAL NET INCOME (8) OVER WITHOUT PROJECT NET INCOME:
0  118.9  67.6  57.6  57.6 107.4  82.6  82.6  62.6  82.8  107.4
TOTAL INCOME (S) WITH PROJECT:
GROSS INCOME      766.7  660.0 660.0  660.0 86.0 920.0  05.0 965.0 886.0 086.0  920.0
NET INCOME        589.1 658.0 60.7 596.7 596.7 646.5 621.7 621.7 621.7 621.7 646.5



-122-
HAITI                                          ANEX 5
_                                              Table 6.6
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
AGROFORESTRY EXTENSION SERVICES
FARM MODEL-S:      MAIZE/BEANS/SWEET POTATOES ON STEEP SLOPE (8.M
INTRODUCTION OF HEDGEROW CULTIVATION AND TREE CROPPIN
WITHOUT PROJECT:   YIELDS, LAND USE, PRODUCTION AND INCOME PER FARM (BASE YEAR)
_ _ __*----- ------ ------ -    ---   -___________________-_ ___
CROP YIELD   LAND USE      PROD.COST    PRODUCTION       INCOME PER FARM
PER HA (KG)  PER FARM (HA) PER FARM (8) PER FARM (KG)   (0) GROSS  NET
Maixe Intercrop       60O           0.7         76.8           860               140.0  64.8
Beans Intercrop       200           0.7         77.8           140               140.0  62.7
Swet Potato          6000           0.8         76.0          1800               180.0  105.0
TOTAL                 1.0         227.6                            400.0 282.6
Eroslon Impacts *   YR O   YR 1   YR 2  YR S   YR 4  YR 6  YR O  YR 7  YR 8  YR 9  YR 10
0.028 - _          - - ---_-
PRODUCTION LEVEL *  100.0  97.2  04.4  01.6  68.8  86.0  88.2  80.4  77.6  74.8  72.0
CROSS INCOME (3)    460.0 447.1 484.2 421.4 408.6 806.6  882.7 869.8 867.0 844.1 881.2
PRODUCTION COSTS (8) 227.5 227.5 227.6 227.6 227.6 227.6 227.5 227.6 227.5 227.6 227.6
NET INCOME (6)      282.6  219.6 206.7 198.0 181.0 168.1  166.2  142.8  129.4 116.6  108.7
____________________
* Estimated production level due to eroslon, relative to base yer a 100
----  -  ----- -  ----
WITH THE PROJECT:  YIELD INCREASES, ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION LINES AND PRODUC.ION COSTS:
YR O   YR 1  YR 2  YR E    YR 4  YR 6  YR E    YR E    YR 8  YR 9  YR 10
RELATIVE CROP YIELD :-----     -------
DUE TO NEDGEROWS     100   110   116   116   115   115   115   116   115   115   116
FORAGE (KG D.M.)        0   400   620   620   620   620   620   620   620   620   620
POLES (POLES)           0                                75                                76
CHARCOAL (SACKS)        0                               2.6                               2.5
INCREMENTAL COSTS (8) FOR:
HEDGEROWS b/          0  6B.0   0.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
TREES b/              0   6.0                        10.2                              10.2
TOTAL INCREMENTAL     0  62.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  19.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   9.0  19.2
b/ Labor cost only.  Hedgerow seed and tree seedlings would be dlstrlbutOd free of charge.
TOTAL PRODUCTN COSTS 227.5 289.6 286.5 286.6 286.6 246.7 286.5 286.6 286.6 286.5 246.7
INCREMENTAL GROSS INCOME (3) OVER BASE YEAR DUE TO:
HEDGEROWS             0  46.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0  69.0
FORAGE PRODUCTION     0  20.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0
rRUIT TREES           0                              25.0  26.0  26.0  26.0  25.0  26.0
PLQES AND CHARCOAL    0                              85.0                          ,   85.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL     0  66.0  100.0 100.0  100.0 160.0  126.0  126.0  125.0  126.0 160.0
INCREMENTAL NET INCOME (3) OVER WITHOUT PROJECT NET INCOME:
0   16.9 116.8 129.6  142.6 205.2  198.8  206.2 219.0  281.0  269.6
TOTAL INCOME (8) WITH PROJECT:
GROSS INCOME      480.0  526.0  560.0 560.0  560.0 620.0  685.0  586.0 685.0  585.0 620.0
NET INCOME        282.5 286.5  828.5 268.5  828.5  878.8  848.6  848.5  848.5  848.5  878.8



-123-
HAITI                                          ANNEX 5
-                                              Table 5.7
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ACROFORESTRY EXTENSION SERVICES
FARM MODEL SA:     MAIZE/DEANS/SWEET POTATOES ON SLIGHT SLOPE (0-80)
INTRODUCTION OF TREE PLANTING ONLY
WITHOUT PROJECT:   YIELDS, LAND USE, PRODUCTION AND INCOME PER FARM (BASE YEAR)
CROP YIELD   LAND USE      PROD.COST    PRODUCTION       INCOME PER FARM
PER HA (KG)  PER FARM (HA) PER FARM (8) PER FARM (KG)   (8) GROSS  NET
Maize Intercrop       880           0.7         76.8           581               282.4 167.2
Beans Intercrop       880           0.7         77.8           281               281.0 168.7
Swet Potato         10000           0.8         75.0          8000               800.0  225.0
TOTAL                 1.0         227.6                             763.4 585.9
Erosion Impact:     YR O   YR 1   YR 2  YR 8   YR 4  YR 5   YR 6  YR 7  YR 8   YR 9  YR 10
0   --  -  -  -_------_-_-_-  --------------  --------------------------
PRODUCTION LEVEL *  100.0 100.0 100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0 100.0  100.0
GROSS INCOME (6)    768.4 768.4 768.4 768.4 788.4 768.4 768.4 768.4  708.4 768.4 768.4
PRODUCTION COSTS (8) 227.6 227.6 227.5 227.6 227.6 227.5 227.6 227.6 227.5  227.6 227.5
NET INCOME (5)      585.9 686.9 586.9 685.9 585.9  685.9 b65.9 656.9 586.9 686.9 656.9
____________________
* Estimated productlon level due to eroslon, relative to base year = 100
WITH THE PROJECT:  YIELD INCREASES, ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION LINES AND PRODUCTION COSTS:
R O   YR1   YR 2  YR 8   YR 4  YR t  YR 8  YR 7  YR 8  YR 9  YR 10
RELATIVE CROP YIELD:------ -- - ---------------------------------                          -
100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100
POLES (POLES)           0                                75                                76
CHARCOAL (SACKS)        0                                 4                                 4
INCREMENTAL COSTS (3) FOR:
TREES b/              0   6.0                        11.7                              11.7
TOTAL INCREMENTAL     0   6.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  11.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  11.7
b/ Labor cost only. Tree sedlings would be distributed free of charge.
TOTAL PRODUCTN COSTS 227.5 288.6 227.5 227.5 227.5 289.2 227.6 227.6 227.5  227.6 289.2
INCREMENTAL GROSS INCOME (8) OVER BASE YEAR DUE TO:
POLES AND CHARCOAL    0                              88.0                              88.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL     0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  88.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  88.0
INCREMENTAL NET INCOME (8) OVER WITHOUT PROJECT NET INCOME:
0   4.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  26.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  26.8
TOTAL INCOME (8) WITH PROJECT:
GROSS INCOME      768.4  768.4  708.4  768.4  768.4  801.4  768.4  788.4  768.4  768.4  801.4
NET INCOME        585.9 529.9 586.9  585.9 685.9 662.2  686.9 585.9 656.9 686.9  562.2



-124-
HAITI                            ANNEX 6
steam                            Table 6.8
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ACROFOREStRY EXTENSION SERVICES
ADWTION RATES
Extension Area     Pine      La       Plc       .llo   Total
Forest  Visits  Macay&   Anse
Duration of Projoct Extension Program  Yr 1-6   Yr 1-6  Yr 2-5  Yr 2-6
Total Number of Existing Farm:          8,600    8,200    2,600  86,000  45,200
Total Number of Adopting Farms:          1,760    1,800     860   12,000   16,410
1. Model I Total                        1,000      600        0        0    1,600
of which:
Year                    60      80
Year 2                 200     120
Year 8                260      15O
Year 4                260    10
Year 6                260      10
2. Model IA Total                         760      700        0        0    1,460
of which:
Year                   100      70
Year 2                 100      80
Year 8                 160     150
Year 4                200      200
Year 6                200      200
8. Model 2 Total                            0        0      460        0      450
of whlch:
Year 1                                    0
Year 2                                   s0
Year 8                                  180
Year 4                                  180
Yar 6                                   180
4. Model 2A Total                           0        0      410        0      410
of which:
Year 1                                    0
Yer 2                                    s0
Yer 8                                   120
Year 4                                  120
Year 5                                  120
6. Model 8 Total                            0        0        0    2,820    2,820
of which:
Year 1                                             0
Yer 2                                            120
Year 8                                           600
Year 4                                           00
Year 5                                         1,200
S. Model BA Total                           0       500       0   9,180   9,680
of which:
Yea I                           100                0
Year 2                          100            1,080
Year 8                          100            8,000
Yer 4                           100            2,700
Year 5                          100            2,400



-125-
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 5
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Aaroforestrv Extension In th fine Forest
Reserve and Adlacent Buffer Area
Terms of Regferteo
1.        Purnoses  Enhancement of local welfare and the control of
agricultural expansion. This project would Increase aSriculture and wood
production on state lands leased by peasants within Unit 1 of the Pine Forest
Reserve and on private lands in the adjacent buffer area. The project would
serve to catalyze the local capacity to sustain increases in local
agricultural productivity beyond project life and, simultaneously develop the
capability of local institutions to manage local development activities. It
would also implement a pilot program for water resource development in the
extension areas (construction of cisterns), using construction contractors
hired by the Natural Resources Directorate (DRN), and contributions in labor
and/or local materials by the benefitting farmers.
2.        The extension contractor would work independent of, but under the
supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture's Directorate of Natural Resources
(DRN) and its Forestry Resource Service (SRP). The contractor would also
collaborate at the field level with the SRP Pine Forest Reserve Management
Unit. This SRF Unit, charged with ensuring the security and proper management
of the Forest is also charged with the administration of Reserve lands leased
to peasants. The contractor would complement the SRF technical forest
management by providing agroforestry extension services to peasant farmers
within and adjacent to the Pine Forest Reserve. The extension contractor
would also identify potential water development subprojects, mobilize the
beneficiaries, contribute to planning and construction supervision, and assist
the beneficiaries in the later operation and maintenance of the cisterns.
3.        Duration:  The project would be implemented for five years,
beginning in FY 1991/92 and terminating 1996. The contract would be initially
for three years, extendable to five years, subject to the results of the mid-
term evaluation of the entire Forestry and Environmental Protection Project.
4.        Locations  Unit I of the Pine Forest Reserve is approximately 75 km
southeast of Port-au-Prince and situated along the crest of the Massif de La
Selle. The village of "Foret des Pins" is located near the center of Unit 1.
The buffer zone would include areas within approximately .5 miles of the
Reserve boundary and include the communities of Burassa, Savane Mouton,
Oriani, and Gros Cheval.



-126-
ANNL 5
Appendix I
Page 2 of 5
5.        ProblelM Satement:  The total population vithin the Unit 1 of the
Pine Forest Roserve is approximately 6,500. Another 5,000 are estimated to
live within .5 miles of the Reserve boundary. Approximately 1,500 parcels of
Reserve lands are leased to farmers yet regular encroachment beyond these
parcels into the forest zones destroys the natural forest stands and further
degrades the soil resources. Until recently, great irregularity existed in
lease conditions and officially, each lease vas to be renewed annually upon
rent payment. This situation resulted in an Insecure land tenure situation,
and scarce incentive existed for the lessees to invest in substantial
conservationist treatments and the planting of perennials. Reserve
inhabitants have also until recently received no legal direct benefit from the
Pine Forest or technical and development assistance from the government. A
generally antagonistic relationship exists between the inhabitants and the
Forestry Resources Service.
6.        Since 1989 the Pine Forest Management Unit has conducted a program
to survey leased lands and establish formal contracts with lessees. Leases
can now be set for up to 10 years. These contracts would not be renewed
unless the lessee adopts appropriate land use practices. The contractor would
provide extension services and limited agricultural inputs to the lessees
(primarily) and then to the adjacent farmers of private lands.
7.        Methods
(a)  the contractor would initially identify and appraise
local social institutions (including farmer groups and
externally supported organizations), the nature and
availability of resources (financial, physical, human),
and the indigenous agricultural knowledge and technology
base;
(b)  the contractor would design an implementation strategy
which would strengthen and complement the local
institutions and technology, and result in the sustained
adoption and diffusion of initiated benefits beyond the
project life; and
(c)  the contractor would work through the identified local
institutions to provide a range of technical assistance
services including: agroforestry, soil conservation,
basic animal huobandry, crop diversification, crop
storage and marketing, water development, and
organizational skills.
8.        Proiect Guidelines:
(a)  the contractor would strengthen and encourage the formation of
peasant groups as described in para. 9 below. The contractor would
also develop local group linkages with external development



-127-
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 5
agencies providing other services not included in the project (such
as credit, water supply) to ensure that local institutions are not
dependent solely on the contractor for development assistance;
(b)  the contractor would focus on creating a local demand for
technologies and organizational skills rather than relying on
monetary or commodity incentives;
(c) the contractor would promote tree planting as an economic endeavor
in which the farmers are full owners of the trees and where the
trees serve as a cash crops and savingo banks to reduce local
vulnerability to cash contingencies;
(d) the contractor would promote agricultural development in a problem
solving context, enabling farmers and institutions to utilize a
problem identification, analysis and resolution strategy
formulation process;
(e) the contractor would encourage local innovation, the adaptation of
promoted technologies to individual farmer objectives and site
requirements, and the diffusion of interventions beyond the Reserve
area via social and economic linkages to other regionsa
(f) the contractor would collaborate with the Agroforestry Research
Section of the SRI to generate a body of locally specific
agricultural development information which would indicate
agricultural yields with and without interventions, and the
economic benefits of the agroforestry technologies utilized. The
Research Section would be responsible for the treatment and
publication of experiment results. On-farm, adaptive research
methods would be utilized;
(g) the contractor would identify and assist farmer groups/communities
interested in Improving their water supply in mobilizing funds
provided under the project for this purpose. Potential bene-
ficiaries would be expected to contribute a minimum of IOZ of the
total subproject cost in the form of free labor and/or local
materials; and
(h) the contractor would investigate and seek to develop local, pine
based micro-enterprises (such as furniture construction of pre-
commercially thinned polewood) which provide local employment and
generate revenues, and peasant collaborative ventures which seek
contracts from the SRI for forest management work.
9.        General Extension and Peasant Ornanization Guidelines.  The
contractor would generally follow the integrated resource conservation project
models provided by Helvetas/MPP, CARE/Leger, MCC, and SCF/Maissade.  The
contractor would be granted flexibility in the establishment of extension and



-128-
ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 5
organization strategies. The following agroforestry extension and peasant
organization method is presented as a goneral guide and a suggested point of
departure for more detailed and site specific schemes. The contractor would
detail the specific methods in the project proposal.
(a) each program would initially conduct a rapid rural assessment to
identify salient local physical and social parameters including the
type and patterns of peasant groupings;
(b) programs would identify local candidates for extension positions
("animate") either by local popular election or by direct project
selection. These individuals would be trained in peasant
organization and/or agroforestry techniques;
(c)  extension agents would return to their respective communities to
conduct participatory local appraisals to identify and diagnose
local production, marketing and consumption patterns, and
constraints to development. Appraisals would also include the
discussion of preliminary local solutions and strategies for the
resolution of local problems;
(d) agents would identify existing local social groups (including labor
exchange groups, pre-established farmer groups, and community
associations) and provide education on basic organizational themes,
and methods to initiate collective economic activities. Technical
assistance to the groups would begin only after groups have
thoroughly examined local needs and requested project assistance.
Extension agents would not actively "create" new groups, but would
assist self-formed groups formalize. Other new groups would
spontaneously form in successive years as they witness the
activities and benefits gained through greater cooperation and
implementation of project techniques;
(e) groups or representatives from them would be given training in
agroforestry, soil conservation techniques rs well as other
agricultural training deemed appropriate by the project; and
(f) projects would continue to strengthen the groups (both pre-existent
and newly formed) encouraging their association and advancement to
more complex resource conservation and community development
projects. These participating groups would also be encouraged to
extend the messages beyond project boundaries.
10.       Contract OutDutss
(a) at least 1,750 farmers will have planted tree seedlings in
agroforectry configurations (this total can include repeat
planters);



-129-
MX 5,
Appendix I
Page 5 of S
(b) at least 1,000 farmers vill have initiated contour soil
conservation treatments on their land., and at least 500 will have
adopted crop diversification or improved crop storage techniques;
(c) at least 220,000 timber and 15,000 grafted fruit trees will have
been planted;
(d) at least 2,000 agricultural parcels will have been affected with
contour conservation treatments;
(e) at least 50 farmer groups which can Independently execute small
collective projects will be formed or improved through the
provision of organizational assistance;
(f) about 450 individual cisterns (serving two to three farm families
each), and about 4 collective cisterns (about 40,000 gallons each)
will be identified for construction in Year 2 and 3; and
(g) at least 15 local farmers will have received training in basic
animal husbandry techniques (Including nutrition and parasite
control), and provide regular technical assistance to their
respective communities.
Prolect Management
11.       The contractor would hold semi-annual internal evaluations and
program planning sessions. The contractor would also identify and monitor
indicators of benefit sustainability (e.g., levels of farmer innovation,
tecbnology adoption and diffusion rates, levels of farmer participation in
programs, ability of farmer groups to exploit external resources). The
contractor will be expected to be programmatically flexible, responding to the
sustainability indicators, and dynamic local needs. The contractor would
submit annual progrese reports, and an annual work plan and budget to the
Ministry of Agriculture on mutually agreed dates. A mobilization credit would
be advanced upon contract approval and regular withdrawal requests would be
made to the DRN. Disbursemento would be made, amounts again contingent upon
the negotiated contract agreement. An annual meeting between representatives
of the DRN and the contractor would be held prior to the authorization to
review progress and revise if necessary the stated contract guidelines and
outputs.
12.       Budaet:  The total budget for the initial three years would not
exceed US$800,000 including overhead costs and all contingencies.



-130-
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 5
OEMS=R  AND ENVIRONNEMEN    PRTCION PROJECT
agroforeatrv ExtensLgn La PLc Macava National Park
and Adiacent Buffer Areas
Terms of Reference
1.        Pungs  Towards the enhancement of local welfare and the control
of agricultural expansion, this project would increase agriculture and wood
production on authorized peasant holdings within the Pic Macaya National Park
and in the adjacent northern buffer area. The project would serve to catalyze
local capacity to sustain increases in local productivity beyond project life,
and simultaneously develop the capability of local institutions to manage
local development activities. The contractor would work independently, but
under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture's Directorate of Natural
Resources (DRN) and ito Envlronmental Protection Service (SPE). The
contractor would complement the ongoing Pic Macaya Biosphere Reserve effort
coordinated by the University of Florida.
2.        Duration:  The project would be funded for four years, beginning
1992 and terminating 1996.  The NGO contract would be initially for two years,
extendable to four years, subject to the results of the mid-term evalu.Aon of
the entire Forestry and Environmental Protection Project.
3.        Location:  The Pic Macaya National Park is located 195 km southwest
of Port-au-Prince and 36 km north of Les Cayes on the Nassif de la Hotte. The
"core" preserved area totals 5,500 ha and the surrounding "buffer zone"
15,000. Target communities include Duchiti and Beaumont. It is suggested
that the contractor base its field operations in the community of Des
Barriers. The contractor would collaborate with SPE field teams which are
charged with Park delineation, inventory and protection and the regulation of
farmlands within the Park.
4.        Problem Statements  The Pic Macaya National Park area contains
important and unique vestiges of high altitude wildlife and vegetation species
and habitat. Agricultural encroachment into the Park has threatened genetic
diversity and resulted in the elimination of some species. Important
watershed areas are also damaged causing significant damage downstream.
Farmers in the adjacent areas are faced with unstable and declining yields,
use few agricultural inputs or substantial conservationist technique. Farmers
are also largely unorganized, engage in little community development activity,
and have limited ability to exploit external development resources for local
benefit. Local residents have also received little legal, direct benefit from
the Park or technical assistance and development assiatance from the
Government.



-131-
AN HELi
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 5
5.   Method:
(a) the contractor would initially identify and appralse local social
inotitutlons (including farmer groups and externally supported
organizatLons), the nature and availablilty of resourcoo
(financial, physical, human), and the indLgenous agricultural
knowledge and technology bases
(b) the contractor would deslgn an implementation strategy which would
strengthen and complement local institutions and technology and
result in the sustained Lmprovement and diffusLon of initiated
benefits beyond the project life; and
(c) the contractor would work through the identified local inotitutions
to provlde a range of technLcal aseistance services including
agroforestry, soil conservation, animal husbandry, crop
diversification, crop storage and marketing, and organizational
sklle.
6. ProiRCt Guidelines:
(a) the contractor would strengthen and encourage the formatlon of
peasant groups as desecribd La para. 7 below. The contractor would
also develop local group 1Lnkages wlth external development
agencies provlding other servicees not included in the project (such
as credit) to ensure that local institutions are not dependent
solely on the contractor for development assiLtance;
(b) the contractor would focus on creating a local demand for
technologLes and organizational skills rather than relying on
monetary or commodity lncentives;
(c) the contractor would promote tree plantlng as an economlc endeavor
in which the farmers are full owners of the trees and where the
trees serve as a cash crops and savings banks to reduce local
vulnerability to cash contingencies;
(d) the contractor would promote agricultural development in a problem
solving context, enabling farmers and institutions to utilize a
problem Ldentification, analyais and resolution strategy
formulation process;
(e) the contractor would encourage local lnnovatlon, the adaptation of
promoted technologies to indLvLdual farmer objectives and site
requirements, and the dLffusion of lnterventions beyond the Reserve
area vLa social and economlc linkages to other regions. Adaptive,
on-farm, farmer-centered agrlcultural experimentation would be
promoted; and



-132-
M E E
Appendix 2
Page 3 of 5
(f) the contractor would Lnvestigate and meek to develop local natural
based mLcro-enterprises which provide local employment and generate
revenues, and peasant collaborative ventures whlch seek contracts
from the SPE for Park management work.
7.        general Extension and PeA.ant Oyganization guidelines.  The
contractor would generally follow the integrated resource conservation project
models provided by Helvetas/ZPP, CARE/Leger, ACC, and SCP/Maissade. The
contractor would be granted flexibility in the establishment of extension and
organization strategies. The following agroforestry extension and peasant
organization method is presented as a general guide and a suggested point of
departure for more detailed and site specific schema. The contractor would
detail the specifiC methodo in the project proposal.
(a) each program would initially conduct a rapid rural assessment to
identify salient local physical and social parameters including the
type and patterns of peasant groupings;
(b) programs would identify local candidates for extension positions
("animate") either by local popular election or by direct project
selection. These individuals would be trained in peasant
organization and/or agroforestry techniques;
(c) extension agents would return to their respective communitieo to
conduct participatory local appraioals to identify and diagnose
local production, marketing and consumption patterns, and
constraints to development. Appraisals would also include the
discussion of preliminary local solutions and strategies for the
resolution of local problems;
(d) agents would identify existing local social groups (including labor
exchange groups, pre-established farmer groups, and comunity
aesociations) and provide education on basic organizational themes,
and methods to initiate collective economic activities. Technical
assistance to the groups would begin only after groups have
thoroughly examii . I local needs and requested project assistance.
Extension agents would not actively wcreatew new groups, but would
assist self-formed groups formalize. Other new groups would
spontaneously form in successive years as they witness the
activities and benefits gained through greater cooperation and
implementation of project techniques;
(e) groups or representativea from them would be given training in
agroforestry, soil conservation techniques as well as other
agricultural training deemed appropriate by the project; and



-133-
ANNEX I
Appendix 2
Page 4 of 5
(f) project. would continue to strengthen the groups (both pre-existent
and newly formed) encouraging their association and advancement to
more complex resource conservation and community development
projects. These partLicpating groups would also be encouraged to
extend the messages beyond project boundtries.
S.   92atract Outp.Mts
(a) at least 900 farmers wlll have planted tree seedlings ln
agroforestry configurations (thls total can include repeat
planters);
(b) at least 450 farmers will have initiated contour soil conservation
treatments on their lands, and at least 250 will have adopted crop
diversifLcation or improved crop storage techniques;
(c) at least 75,000 timber and 8,500 grafted fruit trees will have been
planted;
(d) at least 1,500 agricultural parcels will have been affected with
contour conservation treatments;
(e)  at least 25 ,'armer groups which can independently execute small
collective projects wlll be formed or improved through the
provision of organizational assistance; and
(f) at least ten local farmers will have received training in basic
animal husbandry techniques (including nutrition and parasLte
control), and provide regular technical assistance to their
respective communitLes.
Prrjec Manaament
9.        The contractor would hold semi-annual internal evaluatLons and
program planning sessions. The contractor would also identify and monitor
indlcators of benefit oustainability (e.g., levels of farmer lnnovation,
technology adoptlon and diffusLon rates, levels of farmer particLpation in
programs, abillty of farmer groups to explolt external resources). The
contractor will be expected to be programmatLcally flexible, responding to the
sustaLrobillity LndLcators, and dynamlc local needs. The contractor would
submLt annual progress reports, and an annual work plan and budget to the
Mlnletry of Agrlculture on mutually agreed dates. A mobilization credit would
be advanced upon contract approval and regular wlthdrawal requests would be
made to the DRN. DLibursements would be made in the currencLes in which the
expendltures are lncurred, amounts again contingent upon the negotlated
-ontract agreement. An annual meeting between representatives of the DRN and
the contractor would be held prior to the authorLzation to review progress and
revise if necessary the stated contract guLdelLneo and outputs.



-134-
ANIX 5
Appendix 2
Page 5 of 5
10.       Ngnggt: The budget for the initial two years would not exceed
US$490,000 including overhead costs and contlngenclee.



-135-
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 5
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Aaroforestry Production In La Visite National Park
and Adlacent Buffer Areas
Terms of Reference
1.        Purnose:  Towards the enhencement of local welfare and the control
of agricultural expansion, this project would incresse agriculture and wood
production on authorized peasant holdings within the La Visit. National Park,
Unit 2 of the Pine Forest Reserve and in the adjacent buffer areas. The
project would serve to catalyze local capacity to sustain increases in local
productivity beyond project life and, simultaneously develop the capability of
local institutions to manage local development activities. The contractor
would work independently of, but under the supervision of the Ministry of
Agriculture's Directorate of Natural Resources (DRN) and its Environmental
Protection Service (SPE).
2.    Dluratj t The project would be implemented for five years,
beginning in FY91/92 and terminating 1996. The contract would be initially
for three years, extendable to five years, subject to the results of the mid-
term evaluation of the entire Forestry and Environmental Protection Project.
3.        Lqcation: The La Visite National Park is located 22 km south of
Port-au-Prince and approximately 50 km northeast of Jacmel in the Massif de 18
Sells. Unit 2 of the Pine Forest Reserve is located approximately 25 km East
of La Visite at the terminus of an unimproved road. Communities within the La
Visite "buffer zone" would be targeted for project intervention and would
include: Tet Opak, Swa Koden, Swa Pen Mawon, Chaudry, Twa Ma, Seguin,
Kolonie, Kase Dan. Ray Jak and the habitations north of the La Visite ridge.
Communities within the Unit 2 "buffer zone" would include: Boukan Danjou,
Bado, Savan Laj, Diaman ard upper Pichon. The approximate population within
the Park is 900 and witbin Unit 2 of the Pine Forest Reserve 3200. The
contractor would also collaborate with the SPE field teams which are charged
with Park delineation, inventory and protection, and the regulation of
l1ndholdings within the Park.
4.        Problem Statements  The La Visite National Park area contains
important and unique vestiges of high altitude wildlife and vegetation species
and habitat. Agricultural oncroachment into the Park has threatened genetic
diversity and resulted in the elimination of some species. Important
watershed areas are also damaged causing significant damage downstream.
Farners in the adjacent areas are faced with unstable and declining yields,
use few agricultural inputs or substantial conservationist technique. Farmers
are also largely unorganized, engage in little community development activity,



-136-
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 5
and have limited ability to exploit external development resources for local
benefit. Local residents have also received little legal, direct benefit from
the Park or technical assistance and development assistance from the
Government.
5.  Method:
(a) the contractor would initially identify and appraise local social
institutions (including former groups and externally supported
erganizations), the nature and availability of resources
(financial, physical, human), and the Indigenous agricultural
knowledge and technology basel
(b) the contractor would design en implementation strategy which would
strengthen and complment local institutions and technology and
result in the sustained impravement and diffusion of initiated
benefits beyond project life; and
(c) the contractor would work through the identified local institutions
to provide a range of technical assistance services including
agroforestry, soil conservation, animal husbandry, crop
diversification, crop storage and marketing, and organizational
s..ills.
6.   froject Guidelines:
(a) the contractor would strengthen and encourage the formation of
peasant groups as described in para. 7 below. The contractor would
also develop local group linkages with external development
agencies providing other services not included in the project (such
as credit) to ensure that local iastitutions are not dependent
solely on the contractor for development assistance;
(b) the contractor would focus on creating a local demand for
technologies and organizational skills rather than relying on
monetary or commoditS incentivess
(c) the contractor would promote tree planting as an economic endeavor
in which the farmers are full owners of the trees and where the
trees serve as a cash crops and savings banks to reduce local
vulnerability to cash contingenciesr
(d) the contractor would promote agricultural development in a problem
solving context, enabling farmers and institutions to utilize a
problem identification, analysis and resolution strategy
formulation processt
(e) the contractor would encourage local innovation, the adaptation of
promoted technologies to individual farmer objectives and site



-137-
Appendix 3
Page 3 of 5
requirements, and the diffusion of interventions beyond the Reserve
area via social and economic linkages to other regions. Adaptive,
on-farm, farmer-contered agricultural experimentation vould be
promoted; and
(f) the contractor would investigate and seek to develop local natural
based micro-enterprises which provide local employment and generate
revenues, and peasant collaborative ventures which seek contracts
from the SPE for Park management work.
7.        General Eltension and Peasgnt Or2anization Guidelines.  The
contractor would generally follow the integrated resource conservation project
models provided by Helvetas/MPP, CARE/Lager, 1CC, and SCI/Haissade.  The
contractor would be grantod flexibility in the establishment of extension and
organization strategies. The following agroforestry extension and peasant
organization method is presented as a general guide and a suggested point of
departure for more detailod and site specific schemes. The contractor would
detail the specific methods in the project proposal.
(a) each program would initially conduct a rapid rural assessment to
identify salient local physical and social parameters including the
type and patterns of peasant groupings;
(b) programs would identify local candidates for extension positions
("animate") either by local popular election or by direct project
selection. These Individuals would be trained in peasant
organization and/or agroforestry techniques;
(c) extension agents would return to their respective communities to
conduct participatory local appraisals to identify and diagnose
local production, marketing and consumption patterns, and
constraints to development. Appraisals would also include the
discussion of preliminary local solutions and strategies for the
resolution of local problems;
(d)  agents would identify existing local social groups ,including labor
exchange groups, pro-established farmer groups, and community
associations) and provide education on basic organizational themes,
and methods to initiate collective economic activities. Technical
assistance to the groups would begin only after groups have
thoroughly examined local needs and requested project assistance.
Extension agonts would not actively "create" new groups, but would
assist solf-formed groups formalize. Other new groups would
spontaneously form in successive years as they witness the
activities and benefits gained through greater cooperation and
implementation of project techniques;



-138-
AMN S
Appendix 3
Page 4 of 5
(e) groups or representatives from them would be given training in
agroforestry, soil conservation techniques as wll as other
agricultural training deemed appropriate by the project; and
(f) projects would continue to strengthen the groups (both pro-existent
and newly formed) encouraging hieir association and advancement to
more complex resource conservacion and comunity development
projects. These participating groups would also be encouraged to
extend the messages beyond project boundaries.
8.   Contract Outguts:
(a) at least 1,800 farmers will have planted tree seedlings in
agroforestry configurations (this total cen include repeat
planters);
(b) at least 600 farmers will have initiated contour soil conservation
treatments on their lands, and at least 300 will have adopted crop
diversification or improved crop storage techniques;
(c) at least 225,000 timber and 15,000 grafted fruit trees will have
been planted;
(d) at least 1,500 agricultural parcels will have been affected with
contour conservation trestments;
(e) at least 25 farmer groups which can independently execute small
collective projects will be formed or improved through the
provision of orgeanizational assistance; and
(f) at least ten local farmers will have received training in basic
enimal husbandry techniques (including nutrition and parasite
control), end provide regular technical assistance to their
respective communities.
Progect M&natement
9.        The contractor would hold semi-annual internal evaluations and
program planning sessions. The contractor would also identify and monitor
indicators of benefit sustainability (e.g., levels of farmer innovation,
technology adoption and diffusion rates, levels of farmer participation in
programs, ability of farmer groups to exploit external resources). The
contractor will be expected to be progrommatically flexible, responding to the
sustainability indicators, end dynamic local needs. The contractor would
submit annual progress reports, end an annual work plan end budget to the
Ministry of Agriculture on mutually agreed dates. A mobilization credit would
be advanced upon contract approval end regular withdrawal requests would be
made to the DRN. Disbursements would be made in the currencies in which the
expenditures are occurred, amounts again contingent upon the negotiated



-139-
Appendix 3
Page 5 of 5
contract agreement. An annual meeting between representatives of the DRN and
the contractor would be held prior to the authorization to review progress and
revise if necessary the stated contract guidelines and outputs.
10.       Budelt:  The budget for the initial three years would not exceed
US$680,000 including overhead costs and contingencies.



-140-
Appendix 4
Page 1 of 3
FORESXRY AND ENVIRONMENTAl  PRECTCION PROJECT
Aaroforestrv,Production In the Belle hAse
Reaion of Southeast Haiti
1.        Purnoses  The purpose of this project is to increase agriculture
and wood production on peasant lands to enhance local welfare and decrease the
rate of agricultural expansion. The project will serve to catalyze local
capacity to sustain increases in local productivity beyond project life. The
contractor would work under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture's
Directorate of Natural Resources (DRN) and its Forestry Resource Service
(SRI).
2.        Duration:  The project would be implemented for four years,
beginning in 1992 and terminating 1996. The NGO contract would be initially
for two years, extendable to four years, subject to the results of the mid-
term evaluation of the entire Forestry and Environmental Protection Project.
3.        Location   The project would target the upper elevations of the
Belle Anse Region in southeast Haiti, south of the La Visite National Park and
Pine Forest Preserves, east of the village of Seguin and west of the town of
Thiotte.
4.        Problem Statements  The area targeted Is mountainous, ranging from
300 to 2,000 m in elevation with 600 to 1,400 mm of annual rainfall. Most of
the land is cropped annually with little or no conservationist measures or
agricultural inputs utilized. Declining agricultural yields and land sub-
division cause the expansion of agricultural activity to new, more fragile
lands. These new lands are frequently located in or near the protected Pine
Forest Reserve or La Visite National Park.
S.        Method:
(a) the contractor would initially identify and appraise local
institutions, the nature and availability of resources, and the
indigenous agriculture knowledge and technology base;
(b) the contractor would design and implementation strategy which would
strengthen and complement local institutions and technology and
result in the sustained improvement and diffusion of initiated
benefits beyond project life;
(c) the contractor would support the delivery of tree seedlings and
other perennial germplasm and technical assistance in agroforestry
to local farmers. The project would focus on the promotion of two
principal technologies; tree planting in agroforestry



-141-
Appendix 4
Page 2 of 3
configurations (Cog., boundary, hom, garden., contour), and the
iv'tallation of contour soil conservation hedgerow.; and
(d) to assure continued adoption and diffusion of agroforestry
technologies and benefits beyond GO intervention, the contractor
would encourage local propagation of plant materials with
appropriate, low coat methods (e.g., group and household nurseries,
direct seeding, and wildling transplantation).
6.        Project Guidelinegs
(a) the contractor would use an education approach, focusing on
creating a local demand for technologies rather than relying on
monetary or commodity incentives for adoptiont
(b) the contractor would promote tree planting as an economic endeavor
in which the farmers are full owners of the trees and where the
trees serve as a cash crops and savings banks to reduce local
vulnerability to cash contingenciest and
(c) the contractor would train eand utilize local residents as extension
agents and employ incentive packages which assure that the agents
would continue to live and passively promote the agroforestry
interventions beyond project termination.
7.        Proiect Outnut&:
(a) at least 12,000 farmers will have planted project delivered tree
seedlings (this total can include repeat planters);
(b) at least 2,000 farmers will have propagated tree seedlings without
project subsidy (this sum can be included in the 12,000 total
planter target);
(c) at least 2,820 farmers will have installed contour conservation
techniques; and
(d) at least 2,500,000 trees will have been planted by farmers on their
private parcels.
Prolect Manaaement
8.        The contractor would hold semi-annual internal evaluation and
program planning sessions. The contractor would also identify and monitur
indicators of benefit sustainability (e.g., levels of farmer innovation,
technology adoption and diffusion rates, levels of farmer participation in
programs). The contractor will be expected to be programatically flexible,
responding to the sustainability indicators, and dynamic local needs. The
contractor would submit annual progress reports, end an annual work plan and
budget to the Ministry of Agriculture on mutually agreed dates. A



-142-
Appendix 4
Page 3 of 3
mobilization credit would be dvancod upon contract approval and regular
withdrawal request would be made to the DRN. Disbursements would be made In
the currencies In which the expenditures are occurred, amounts again
contingent upon the negotiated contract agroement. An annual meeting between
representatives of the DRN and the contractor would be hold prior to the
authorization to review progress and revise if necessary the stated contract
guidelinea and outputs.
9.        budet   The budget for the first two years would not exceed
US$630,000 including overhead costs and contingencies.



-143-
AMNER 6
Page 1 of 14
EQOESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Environmental Protection Servlo
I. Present Situati2o
1.        Due to the great variation in altitude, rainfall, soil type, and a
70 million year history of geographical separation, Haiti is characterized by
a large diversity of plant and animal species and an unusually high number of
important ecologic sites. Consequently, Haiti possesses a high number of
endemic plant and animal species.
2.        The intense exploitation of the land and vegetation resources since
the arrival of humans in Haiti 7,000 years ago has destroyed most natural
habitats and permanently altered much of the Haitian landscape. Vestiges of
the original forest ecosystems exist in only a few areas and almost all of
their associated plant and animal species are now threatened. Because Haiti
is an island, when the habitats are destroyed there cannot be any
recolonization of its fragile ecosystems by extirpated plant and animal
species because there are no adjacent areas to serve as refuges. Many species
disappear forever with the destruction of their particular ecosystems. A
large number of species are now classified as "rare" or "endangered" by
international conservation organizations. An unknown number of species have
already become extinct, and in especially vulnerable groups, such as land
mAimnals, 89Z of all known species are now extinct.
3.        The most recent aerial inventory of vegetation and land use of the
entire country was completed in 1978, and no current information is available
to indicate the status of the remainiug forest resources, ecosystems and
species of the country except for the regions of the national parks at Pic
Macaya and Horne La Visite that were established by Presidential decree in
April 1983. As a result, there is a paucity of information on the status of
natural resources in the country, and almost no information as to which
ecosystems are healthy and capable of supporting commercial activities such as
sustainable forestry or intensive fisheries, and which ecosystems are severely
damaged and in need of immediate protection and long-term management. There
is no reliable information on productivity, trends, and total amount of forest
products which is important to know when addressing the country's fuelwood
problems.
4.        In the 1980's several agencies initiated programs aimed at
protecting Haiti's forest ecosystems and promoting biodiversity. Though the
legal and planning framework has been written for the protection of Pic Macaya
and Morn. La Visits National Parks, major protection efforts have been slow to
be initiated (and have been nearly ineffective) because sufficient funding has



-144-
ANhI A
Page 2 of 14
not been available. Confusion over which govearmental organization is
responsible for the national parks has also complicated the estdbleb!nnt of
an effective stewardship program. The original 1983 Decree establishing the
national parka at La 7isite and Pic Macaya was not specific as to which GOR
organization was to take primary responsibility for the administration of the
parks. USAID developed a program with the Institut de Sauvegarde du
Patrimoine National (ISPAN), and provided ISPAN with a grant to develop a
management plan for the national parks at La Vilito and Macaya. However,
ISPAN did not develop the infrastructure necessary to manage the parks on a
long-term basis, and has not been directly involved with the management of the
national parks at La Visits and Pic Nacaya since 1988. In 1988, ISPAN
contacted the Service of Forest Resources (SRP) by letter and asked it SRP
would pay for some national park related expenses at La Visite, including
salaries for the park guard&. The SRI agreed to do this, and to assume the
responsibility for the management of the parks. Therefore, while the
administrative status of the national parks is vague, it is clear that DRN is
legally responsible for the parks, and that ISPAN has notified SRI that it
wishes for It to assume responsibility for the park at La Visite. SRI has
done this. ISPAN currently lacks any funding for the administration of the
national "natural" parkes vor does it have any staff assigned to these
national parks, although it continues to manage the national historic parks of
Haiti (especially the 2,200 ha Parc National Historique la Citadelle
established in 1968).
5.        In this document a national park is a "preserve", in which the
primary objective is the management of the area for the preservation of
biological diversity. A "reserve" is a forest area in which the primary
objective is the management of the area for the harvest of forest resources.
A "biosphere reserve" is a combination of both objectives, with the activities
designated by "zones". In a typical biosphere reserve the core zones, which
emphasize preservation, are found mostly within a national park. The core
zone is surrounded by other zones including: (i) rehabilitation zones;
(ii) forestry zones; (III) agroforestry zones; (iv) agricultural zones;
(v) multiple use zonesl and (vi) research zones. Active interventions such as
lease management and the utilization of extension services are appropriate in
zones other than the core zone. The term "national parks" within Haiti is
confusing because of the presence of national historic parks managed by ISPAN,
and national "natural" parks managed by MARNDR. In this document whenever the
term "national park" is used it refers only to the national "natural" parks
under the administrative control of MARNDR.
6.        The University of Florida Macaya Biosphere Reserve Project (UF-
MBRP) has worked as a NGO contractor of USAID in the buffer zone south and
west of Pic Macaya National Park, and in the southern half of the park itself.
This project was initiated on October 1, 1987, and is expected to continue
receiving fu..ing from USAID through August 1993. However, political
guidelines of USAID have prevented the UP-MBRP from working in association
with the Government of Haiti (GOH) for most of the life of the project. The
activities of the UF-MBRP includet (i) sociocultural inventories of the
southern district of the park and adjacent districts (buffer zone);



-145-
AIDIA
Page 3 of 14
(ii) zoning the southern regions of the park and buffer zone; (Lit) analysis
of land use trends; and (iv) development of an agricultural and agroforestry
extension progrtn in the southern Macaya region. Since the GOB has the
administrative responsibility for *1I state lando, and since Parc National Pic
Macaya is on public domain state lands under the administrative control of
MARNDR, the management of the Ple Macaya Project has been complex (and
flawed). The situation is further complicated by the mission of the USAID
project, which defines the geographical limits of its Targeted Watershed
Management Project as south of Pic Macaya. The existing UP-MBRP, therefore,
is technically only concerned with half of the existing national park and
associated buffer zone.
II. The Environmental Protection Service
7.        The Service de la Protection de l'Enlvironnoment (SPE) was first
created by Administrative order in 1984, and legally recognized by the
"Conseil National de Couvernement" Decree of 1987. The intention of DRN was
to place the supervision of the parks under the SPE, but this was not done
earlier because of the lack of resources available to the SPE. For example,
it was the SRP that assumed responsibility for the park at La Visite in 1988
instead of SPE because SRI had funds available and SPE did not.
S.        The SPE in 1990 had three professional staff (including the chief)
who were assigned to two sections:
(a) Section on Research and Inventories.
(b) Section on Preservation and National Parks.
The project would enhance these existing two sections, and add one additional
section:
(c)  Section on Cartography and Information Services.
The new section would be responsible for centralizing the data collected by
the inventories, and the information collected by the other two sections, and
making it available in the form of data bases and Geographic Information
Systems (GIS).
9.        One additional section of the SPE existed on paper (Section on the
Prevention of Pollution), but did not have any staff members assigned to it in
1990. This section would not be enhanced as part of the project.
10.       Although two of SPE's three professional staff members have
training in conservation and management of natural resources, the SPE does not
have the financial resources and staff number necessary to initiate and
complete an inventory of Haiti's fragile ecosystems, develop the decision
making skills necessary to manage these fragile ecosystems, and supervise
staff that would be assigned to remote locations in the existing national



-146-
!-NIzI
Page 4 of 14
parks. As a reoult, SPE has not yet been able to assume full responsibility
for the management of the existing national parks. It is important,
therefore, that SPE be strengthened as a Servi:e so that it has the resources
to assume all of its assigned duties in managing parks and protecting the
onvironment.
III. Objectives and Strateag
A. Obiectives
11.       The objectives of the  nvironmental protection component of the
Forestry and Environmental Protection Project are to strengthen the Service de
la Protection de l'Environnement (SPE) to enable it to:
(a)  Generate Data on Rational Land Use Patterns.  Data collected by
aerial photography, satellite Imagery, and ground survey teams
would be used to evaluate land use trends, and to identify areas of
special concern.
(b)  Inventorv Forest Resources on a National Scale.  Forest areas would
be surveyed throughout the country to compile data on the forest
resources, remaining areas of forest cover, the total available
forest biomass, end the rate of deforestation.
(c) Identify New Natiolg ParXka and Forest Reserves. Data gathered by
the land use survey and the inventory of forest resources would be
used to identify candidate ecosystems for a new national park, as
well as identify forests which should be designated as forest
reserves to be managed by the SRF.
(d)  MNnage the Two Existing National Parks end Create One New National
"ark.  SPE would assume lamediate responsibility for the management
of the existing national parks at Horne La Visite and Pic Macaya,
and would complete the activities necessary to add one additional
national park to the system by year four of the project.
(e) Preserve Endgnagred Plant an Animal Snecies. SPE would compile
data on threatened, rare, and endangered species, and establish a
program to protect these species.
(f)  getablish and Manaae Data Bases on Renewable Natural Resources.
SIB would enter the data from baseline sociocultural and
environmental profiles of candidate ecosystems, as well as other
data on the environment and the status of forest resources gathered
in the course of the project, into various data bases for general
accJss.
(g)  Monitor Long-term Land Use Trends Throu2hout the Country.  SPE
would use its role as the information center on renewable natural



-147-
e- 6
Page 5 of 14
resources, and its trained staff and available data bses to
constantly monitor and evaluate land use trends throughout the
country.
B. 8trgteirv
12.            The above objectives would be achieved through the following
project actions.
(a)  SPE would be provided with offices and buildings (central office,
Macaya field office, and La Visite field office), transportation,
equipment, training, operating funds, and salaries (on a declining
basis)5
(b)  An internationally recruited "Resident Ecologist" (as full time
consultant for five years) would assist the Chief of Service of SPE
and other SPE staff members in the implementation of all programs
assigned to the SPE. Short-term consultants would be fianmced
under the project for up to a total of 15 manmonths in the areas
oft (i) anthropology/sociology; (ii) conservation biology; and
(iii) remote sensing (aerial photography and satellite Imagery) to
assist SPE carry out various special survey and management tasks;
(c)  SPE would conduct inventories of renewable natural resources to
identify candidate areas for the establishment of one additional
national park and of future forest reserves to be managed by the
SRF;
(d) SFE would immediately assume administrative responsibility for the
national parks at Pic Macaya and Morne La Visite, and implement the
management plans by: (1) assigning supervisory staff and
establishing local facilitlesg (ii) employing park rangers to
prevent illegal exploitation; and (iii) create land use zones;
(e)  for the management of the park areas and surrounding buffer zones,
the concept of "biosphere reserves" would be implemented (para. 5);
(f)  endangered species of plants and animals would be protected by:
(i) better administration of current laws reqtiiring permits to
collect and/or export plants and animals; (ii) better cooperatio17
and communication between SPE and enforcement agencies;
(iii) establishing nursery programs to propagate and grow
endangered plant species from both lowland and upland habitats;
and (iv) providing habitat for threatened animals in the national
parks;
(g)  access by the public to the parks would initially be discouraged by
not improving roads linking the parks to major population areas
during the life of the projects and



-148-
ANN"X 
Page 6 of 14
(h) SPE would develop a data basa on the natural resources of Haiti
that would allow the Service to document the status of present
environmental conditions, and track future changes. Some of the
activities that would allow SPE to fulfil this mission would be:
(i) inventories of ecosystems and forest resources of Haiti via
aerial photography, satellite imagery, and ground surveys; (i1)
sociocultural inventories and environmental profiles of specially
designated areas; and (iii) inventories of forest biomass and
potential productivity.
IV. Prolect Components
13.       Details of the project activities that would be undertaken by the
SPE are as follows:
A.  National Land Use Assessment
14.       Satellite imagery would be utilized to periodically monitor country
wide land use trends, and the distribution of ecosystems. The Landsat (EOSAT)
Thematic Mapper (TM) as well as the SPOT system will be used. The Landsat
system has a greater spectral range and provides the required information at
lower costs (TM: US$.105/kma, SPOT: US$.64/ke?). The Imagery from EOSAT would
be hard copy ls50,000 imagery prepared from a 3-band composite that would
emphasize vegetative cover. This would provide a fairly detailed inventory of
land use patterns, and land resources. Manual interpretation of these images
would includos "geocoding" the images, and entering data on urban areas, barren
ground, brush lands, major rivers, coastal wetlands, roads, forest cover
(three crown density measures), sand, agricultural areas, water, wetlands, and
rural vAl1ages. Because the topography in Haiti is so steep, and the area of
the country is relatively small, resolution becomes an important
consideration. The SPOT system provides higher resolution, and it therefore
will be used (along with aerial photography) for more detailed analyses. The
ground truthing for the analysis of the satellite images will be conducted by
the SPE inventory team. The local SPE staff would be trained in
interpretation and validation with the assistance from a short-term
consultant.
15.       Flight surveys (aerial pnotography) would be utilized to determine
local land use patterns, the locations of specific renewable natural
resources, and to document activities in areas of special concern such as core
zones in national parks and inventory areas. Some aerial photographs exist,
such as the outdated photographs in Geodetic Institute, and the photographs of
the Pine Forest Reserve obtained by the SRF which include a small section of
the national park at La Visite. These existing photographs would not be
recant enough, nor cover are-s of primary concern by the SPE (La Visite,
Macaya, Environmental Profile Areas). Additional aerial photographs and
flight surveys will be contracted by SPE to fill in the gaps in the available
data, and to provide additional data needed to identify candidate areas, study
forest resources and document land use trends. These aerial photographs would



-149-
Page 7 of 14
be interpreted initially by the firm as part of the contract, but later by the
staff of the SPE once they have the proper training to do so.
D. Forest ResourceJ Inventorv
16.       Forst Attributes.  The forest types delineated on the satellite
images would be subsampled to produce more specific information on the forest
resources (crown cover, species, density, and biomass volumes). An aerial
survey and ground inventory of the chosen forest types would provide data on
forest cover and density attributes. $PE would produce biomass tables for
every forest class. Biomass and area totals for all classes would be summed
to represent total biomass availability.
17.       Patterns and Nature of Wood Harvestint and Utilization.  An
essential question for forestry planners in Haiti for each forest type is -
What level and for what products is current wood harvesting sustainable? Data
generated by aerial photographs and satellite images (land use and forest
type) provide valuable information on proper forest classifications. Biomass
tables for each forest substratum provide information on potential wood
availability. This information alone, however, presents an inaccurate picture
of actual wood use, wood production, and true trends in the availability of
forest resources, and additional sociocultural inventories would therefore be
carried out under the project (para. 18).
18.   . ociocultural Inventories of Forest Resource Utilization.
Sociocultural surveys in selected regions would be used to inform planners of
the level at which wood harvesting is sustainable by documenting rates of wood
production, patterns of harvesting and utilization, all of which are
geographically and forest type specific. Sociocultural surveys of wood use
would be carried out with the assistance of short-term consultants for each
forest stratum to describe local wood consumption patterns; specifying the
types, amounts, and purposes of wood utilized, and the use of other tree
products and utilizations (shade, forage, medicinal, etc.). The sociocultural
information would help planners document the causes and rates of forest
depletion and degradation. Upon the completion of the inventory by SPE, SRF
staff would continue a more detailed analysis of national wood production and
consumption patterns, and initiate planning activities for future forestry
investments.
19.       Lont-Term Forest Inventories on Observation Plots (Ecosystem
Monitoring). Permanent plots would be installed in ecologically
representative sites in each of the forest reserves and national parks. These
would be designated as "research zones". The goal is to establish at least
one research zone of 100 ha in each national park and forest reserve. The
research zones will be fenced and/or guarded to protect them from illegal
exploitation. Data on species composition, growth, natural succession, and
the propagation of indigenous species would be gathered and monitored.



-150-
Page 8 of 14
C. Identification of a New NAtional Park and Additional forest Reserves
20.       SPE would identify approximately 30,000 ha that would be suitable
as candidate areas for the new national park to be established in the fourth
year of the project, and as candidate areas for future forest reserves. The
method of selection and establishment of these areas is described in detail in
para. 23. The major ecosystems to be investigated are as follows:
(a) Manarovess Because of their inter-tidal location, mangrove
ecosystems play an essential role in the reproductive cycles of
numerous aquatic species, and provide habitat for economically
important species of crustaceans. In addition threatened species
such as the Greater Flamingo and West Indian manatee occur in bays
and lagoons associated with mangrove habitats. Although a majority
of the original mangrove stands have been eliminated, forests
remain in the bays of Acul and Caracol (near Cap-Haltian), the
Cayes region (Aquin Bay, Ile & Vache), the north coast of the
southern peninsula (BaradAres and Corail). The most substantial
remaining forest is in the Artibonite River Delta (south of
Gonaives and west of l'Estare). Though mangrove forests are within
the public domain, rights of access and harvest are often allocated
between private individuals. Preliminary studies indicate that the
Caracol and Artibonite areas are the best candidates for protection
because they have the largest concentrations of threatened and
endangered species. Preliminary plans by SPE indicate that this
ecosystem has the highest priority as a candidate for the new
national park.
(b) Broadleaf Forest: Though much of Haiti was originally covered with
this forest type, most of the broadleaf stands have been converted
to coffee plantations and multi-purpose agricultural plots.
Important broadleaf forests remain south of the tvwn of Borgne, on
the Morne Brigand and Boucan Michel and west to the headwaters of
the Anse-&-Foleur watershed and in the Pic Macaya area. Some of
these are on state land, especially west of Pic Hacaya, and could
be attached to the Macaya Biosphere Reserve as part of Parc
National Pic Macaya.
(c) Semi-arid Forest: This forest community, which is characterized by
the dominance of Prosoiis, has historically been the source of most
of the charcoal produced in Haiti, and vast areas of semi-arid
forest have become degraded through over-harvesting. Remnants of
natural stands remain on the edges of the Etang SaumAtre (in the
Cul-de-Sac plain), Grand Gosier (southeast Haiti) and near Cates de
Fer (southern coast of Haiti), and on the western end of Ile de la
Gonave. All of these lands are within the public domain.
(d)  Arid-land scrub:  This ecosystem is characterized by cactus,
succulents and thorny shrubs. The zone which most characterizes



-151-
Page 9 of 14
this vegetation type Is found along the coast between the tomns of
Anse Rouge and Gonalves (Savane Desol6e). The cactus and scrub
resources are rapidly being depleted for charcoal and fuel uses.
This land is apparently within the public domain.
21.       gociocultural Inventory of Candidate Areas.  SPE staff would carry
out the sociocultural inventory of each candidate area using the Rapid Rural
Assessment method. The Information to be gatherad would include:
(i) demographics of the population living within and adjacent to the proposed
reserve or preserve; (li) the nature of the use of natural resources;
(iii) patterns of access and authority on the site; (iv) land tenure
arrangements; (v) ownership of the resources; (vi) the economic benefits
accrued by user populations; and (vii) descriptions of local agricultural
strategies. The inventory would also identify existing or potential conflicts
that might result from management interventions, and recommend alternative
methods that should be used to mitigate or avoid conflict, maintain user
welfare, and integrate users and local residents Into the plan for the
protection of the ecosystem. A social science specialist would assist in
these aspects of the sociocultural inventory as a short-term consultant.
22.       Environmentgl Profiles of Candidate Areas.  The purpose of the
environmental profile would be to establish baseline environmental Information
on each area that is being considered as the future national park, or as a
forest reserve. Each profile would describe the major biotic and abiotic
features, their status, and recommend measures to preserve biological
diversity.
23.       Creation of a Ne  National Park.  The procedure for establishing
the new national park and future forest reserves would be as follows: (i) SPE
would conduct intensive sociocultural surveys and environmental profiles to
determine the suitability of each candidate area (para. 21-22); (ii) SPE would
prepare a document describing and summarizing the information on forest cover,
forestry potential, natural resource components, status of important endemic
flora and fauna, existing patterns of human occupancy and land use, and land
tenure characteristics for each candidate area. The document would include a
recommendation as to the best land use strategy for each candidate area (i.e.,
national park or forest reserve); (Iii) the Director of DRN would review the
recommendatins with SRP and SPE and decide which recommendations would be
implemented under the project. SRF would manage areas designated as forest
reserves. SPE would manage all national parks; (iv) the designation of the
area as an official national park would occur after MARNDR prepares a draft
Decree for consideration by the Council of Ministers. The Decree would
identify which sites would be transferred Into the public domain as national
parks or forest reserves under MUhDR. Following the approval of the Decree
by the Council, it would be published in La Moniteur and become official; and
(v) SPE would arrange for the delimitation of the designated national park
area, and the legal transfer of the ourveyed area under the jurisdiction of
MAUDR.



-152-
Page 10 of 14
D. &anSement of National Parke
24.       Haiti's existing natural national parka and forest reserves ares
Pare National Pic Macaya (5,500 ha), Pare National La Visite (3,000 ha) and
the Pine Forest Reserve (27,871 ha), 8P would manage the two national parks
(which are "preserves"), while the management of the Pine Forest Reserve
(which is a multi-use "reserve") would remain under SRI. The following
activities would be implementod by aPE under the project for each of the two
existing national parka, and for the one additional national park that would
be established by year four.
25.       Delimitation of National Park..  1PE would contract the Direction
Generale des Impoto (DGI) for a survey to delimit each national park with
funding provided under the project. A technician from SPE would accompany the
DGI survey team to advise the DOI as to where the boundary should be located
relative to existing natural and man-made features of the area (i e., avoid
problems of including existing farms or excluding ecologically Important
features). SPE would offer to provide DWI survey team with tents, camping
equipment, and logistical support while the team is in the field. SRF would
be responsible for making arrangements to survey and delineate forest
reserves.
26.       Demarcation of Rational Park.  SPE work teams, under the
supervision of the park supervisor, would place concrete monuments and
metallic signs at regular intervals along the perimeter of each national park.
Signs would be posted at the junctions of major trails and access roads.
Three guard houses would be built In each national park to shelter the park
rangers, and provide a symbolic presence for the authority of SF3 in the
management of the parka. A total of 18 km of fences would be erected in
vulnerable or exposed areas to protect core and research zones. Part of the
process of demarcation would also be the establishment of clearly marked land
use zones where management activities will be undertaken by SF. The
boundaries of zones would be marked by paint on trees or wooden posts.
27.       Supervislon of the National Parks.  For each park an agronomist
would be assigned as the park supervisor. The park supervisor would be
responsible for all activities in the park, and would also supervise the
activities of the NGO Agroforestry Extension project In the area (para. 33).
A forest technician would be appointed as the supervisor of the park rangers.
This technician would have received training in ecology, flora and fauna, and
park management in order to qualify him to supervise the activities of the
rangers.
28.       Protection of the Resources of the National Parks.  SPE would
employ park rangers who would be carefully selected, appropriately trained by
EMAP (Annex 7), regularly paid, and consistently supervised. These conditions
would be similar to those of the forest rangers of SRP. The park rangers
would patrol the lands within the park boundaries, control the entrance and
exit of vehicles and pedestrian traffic, and encourage the compliance with
park regulations, laws, and zoning guidelines. Park rangers would undertake



-153-
6M  6
Page 11 of 14
other protective services as designated by the supervisors of each national
park, and would stay in regular contact with their supervisors via radio-
communications. At the completion of the project a total of 32 park rangers
would be employed.
29.       Limitation of Access Roads ag a Hanaaement Tool. Access to the
parks via wvll developed and direct roads would be discouraged during the
project in order to provide an extra measure of protection for the parks until
an adequate protective infrastructure is established. The national parks have
potential as tourist attractions, especially La Visite. However, access roads
are necessary before this potential can be realized. The existing road from
Port-au-Prince to Morne La Visits provides the most direct access to the park,
however, it has been impassible to vehicles since 1988. SPE has determined
that this road should not be rebuilt during the period of the project, and
that it is necessary to keep this road closed to vehicles until the park
infrastructure is well established. Otherwise, irreparable harm could be done
by illegal wood harvesters and transient cultivators who make seasonal
gardens. SPE would rebuild the access road from the south of the park at La
Visits because access via the town of Seguin can be controlled, and would
rebuild the service roads through the park and to Unit II of the Pine Forest
Reserve at Morne Rouge. SPE would not build a major access road into the
north side of Parc National Pic Macaya because of the same concerns. The
strategy is to develop the infrastructure of each national park before
developing easy access to the parks.
30.       Manaaeme't of "Occubied" Lands within Park Boundaries.  One of the
major problems faced by SPE is the presence of farms within the boundaries of
the national parks. Some of the problems created by the presence of farms in
the parks aret (i) farmers who expand existing gardens into new areas;
(ii) livestock which are grazed in inappropriate areas; (iii) slash and burn
garden plots in remote areas; and (iv) the introduction of dogs, cats, rats,
and mongoose, all of which follow humans into a region and do great harm to
endemic animals. These problems are most significant at La Visits National
Park, where farmers living within the park were given a letter from MARNDR in
1983 notifying them that they were to leave the park by 1985. Farmers in
La Visits Park have not paid leases on the land they occupy since that date.
The relocation of these farmers was not carried out because they were notified
that they would receive land outside the park in exchange for the land they
currently occupied. Under the project, SPE would resolve this problem as
follows. Leases would not be collected from any farmers who have already
received a relocation notice. The land within the boundaries of each park
would be zoned for its proper land use at the earliest possible date. Some
lands within the boundaries of the parks would be determined to be suitable
for agriculture, and would be zoned as "agricultural zones" or "multiple use
zones". Peasants who live and farm in these areas would be allowed to remain
there. In areas within the national parks which are zoned for preservation
(i.e, "core zones" and "research zones"), peasants would receive a letter
similar to the one that was used by MARNDR at La Visite notifying them that
they would be relocated (para. 30). In the special case where a farmer living
within the boundaries of the La Visits Park National, he received an eviction



-154-
AXLX 6
Page 12 of 14
notice in 1983, but the land he occupies is zoned for agriculture by SPE under
this project, then the eviction notice would be voided and a new lease
agreement written using the above guidelines.
31.       Relocation of Peasants frcm Core Zonoe.  It is important that the
letter of eviction is accompanied by a detailed proposal for compensation for
the lose of the lcnd(s) that is currently occupied. SPE favors paying the
peasants a one-time payment for "damages", and thus providing them with the
means to lease lands at another location. Payments will only be made to
farmers vho can show documentation that they were holders of leases for the
land, or occupied the site for at least five years in order to prevent the
public from perceiving that they can gain land and money by occupying national
park lands, as has been the case in the national parks program in the
Dominican Republic.
32.       Manaaement of Leases.  In areas of the national parks zoned for
agriculture, agroforestry, or multiple use, land leases would be used by SPE
as a management tool. Leases would be written by SPE with the assistance of
legal counsel, and would define which land use activities are allowed and
which not. Leases would initially be for periods of one year, and would not
commit SPE to allowe the peasants to lease the land indefinitely. If a farmer
is found to occupy land in an area that is zoned for agriculture,
agroforestry, or multiple use activities, and if the park supervisor feels
that the presence of the farmer does not compromise the management plan for
the park, a long-term lease would be established. Long- term leases would
encourage farmers to invest into their holdings and take advantage of the
extension services provided by the project. These long-term leases would be
for ten years, but would give SPE the authority to cancel the lease annually
if the land use conditions of the lease were violated by the farmer (Annex 3,
para. 7). The superviaor of each park would be responsible for the
administration of the lease program in that park.
33.       Lease Fees.  There are no legal guidelines within MARNDR as to
where money collected from leases on MARNDR land should be deposited.
Revenues from fines and the sale of contraband forest are deposited in the
Fund for Reforestation (1972 law) that is being administered by SRF. The fees
collected from leases and from fines in the national parks would also be
deposited in the Reforestation Fund. These funds would be used in accordance
with the existing law, and would be handled in the same way that leases are to
be handled in the Pine Forest Reserve (Annex 3, para. 15).
34.       Supervision of the Agroforestry Proiects Surroundina Each National
Lark. DRN would contract with NGO's to provide agroforestry extension in the
national parks and in the buffer zones surrounding the national parks at La
Visite and Pic Macaya (Annex 5). In the case of Pic Nacaya, extension
activities would be initiated in the area north of the park, since the UF-MBR
Project is already working in a similar capacity in the buffer zone South of
the park. The objective of the agroforestry extension contract is to provide
agricultural extension services to peasants living near the park to reduce the
danger of environmental degradation within the park, and to increase local



-155-
MM 6
Page 13 of 14
standards of living. NOO'. would also operate agricultural extension services
to design recommendations for agroforestry and soil conservation technique.
that would be used to establish conditions for leases (Annex 3, para. 7), and
to verify that conservation treatments on leased lands have taken place. SPE
would supervise the agroforestry extension activities through the supervisor
of each national park (resident agronomist).
35.       Biosphere Reserme Plan.  SPE would develop an extended management
plan for both the park and buffer zone as the first step in expanding the UP-
HBR Management Plan to the north slope of Pic Macaya. In developing this
plan, SPE would modify the management plan developed by the University of
Florida under a contract with USAID for the national park at Pic Macaya to
include: (i) information on biosphere reserve land use zones; (1i) activities
that would be appropriate. for the surrounding buffer zonel and (iii) the
reconmendations contained in the existing UF-MBR Management Plan.
E. Preservation of Endanaered Species
36.         The preservation of biological diversity is difficult in Haiti
because of the extent of deforestation that has already occurred, and special
efforts would need to be undertaken to preserve some of the country's most
endangered plant and animal species. SPE staff would propagate and grow
endangered species of the lowland endemic plants such as Attalea crassipatha,
Geonoma oxicar2a, and Zombia antAllarium at the HARDR owned Levy Farm near
Camp Perrin. A similar program for upland species such as Junilerus eckmanii
would be undertaken in conjunction with SRP at the nursery in the Pine Forest
Reserve. SPE would develop special programs to improve the habitat for
threatened species by including these activities in the management plan for
the existing national parks (for example providing nest boxes for birds who
normally nest in cavities in mature trees).
37.         SPE would also protect endangered species and preserve biological
diversity by: (i) developing "recovery plans" for endangered species and
species of special concern, and include the activities and recommendations
contained in these recovery plans in the management plans for each national
park and forest reserve; (ii) administrating current wildlife regulations and
laws by requiring permits and licenses to hunt, collect plants and animals,
and export any native species of plant or animal; (iii) drafting additional
legislation to protect the native flora, fauna, and threatened habitats of the
country; and (iv) seeking international assistance from organizations, such
as, the International Office of the Nature Conservancy, or Wildlife
International, to purchase special parcels of threatened ecosystems which
serve as habitat for rare, threatened, or endangered plants and animals.
V. Implementation
38.         One of the requirements of the project is to have a sufficient
number of agroforestry technicians on the staff of SPE to carry objectives of
the project. Since there are not enough agroforestry technicians currently
available in Haiti to staff the project, agroforestry technicians will need to



-156-
Page 14 of 14
be trained at EMAP. SPE will have an iediate need to hire two agroforestry
technicians during the first year of the project to work on the inventory
team. These technicians are currently available. There are not enough
agroforestry technicians available to be assigned to the existing national
parks and to Levy Farm, since the first graduating class from EMAP will not be
available until the third year of the project. At that time SPE will hire
eight agroforeetry technicians (La Visito - 21 Macaya - 41 Levy Farm - 1;
Inventory Team - 1). In the fourth year of the project an additional national
park will be established by SPE, and two additional agroforestry technicians
vill be hired (for a total of 12 for SPE In the project). During the first
two years of the project, while the agroforestry technicians are being trained
by EMAP, the agronomists assigned to each national park and to Levy Farm will
serve in an expanded role that will include supervising the park rangers and
plant propagators. The expanded duties of the supervisors would also provide
the opportunity to increase their experiences at all levels in the operation
of the national parks, and increase their abilities to supervise and manage
their respective parks.
39.         Other phasing that will occur in the project are as follows.  All
activities at Parc La Visite will begin the first year of the project, but only
half the guards will be hired at Parc Macaya. In year two of the project all of
the guards will be hired at Parc Macaya. In year three of the project all of the
agroforestry technicians will be hired for the existing parks, and the staff of
each park and Levy Farm will be operating at full staff levels (see above). In
year four of the project one additional national park will be added to SPE system
of protected areas, and a full staff will be hired. The agronomist that will
supervise this park will have been employed by the SPE since the first year of
the project, and will have previously been assigned to the Levy Farm. He/she
will have three years of SPE experience and a knowledge of management techniques
based on previous experiences with the national parks program, when he/she
becomes supervisor of the new national park



-157-
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Resident Ecologist
1.        The resident ecologist will assiat the Service do la Protection do
l'Environnement (SPE) of the Direction des Ressources Naturelles (DRN) in the
building of a strong, centralized program in the management of protected
ecosystems, and in the centralization of a country-wide information system on
natural ecosystems. The resident ecologist will provide technical input in
the areas of: (i) the management of information systems on natural resources;
(ii) biological inventories of the country; (iii) surveys of forest resources
and forest potential of the country; (iv) evaluations of inventory data to
rank natural areas in order of national priority and biological significance;
(v) management of national parks; and (vi) coordination of activities in
planning for the administration of biosphere reserves.
2.        The resident ecologist will be part of a five member team of
internationally recruited specialists, and report in technical matters to the
Chief of SPE.
3.        The assignment will be for three years, extendable to five years
after the mid-term review of the project.
4.        The resident ecologist will spend about two-thirds of the time in
Port-au-Prince working at the headquarters of SPE, and one-third time in the
field at the national park sites or with the inventory team traveling
throughout Haiti.
5.   Duties:
(a) advise the Chief of Service of SPE, and the Section Heads:
(i) Preservation and National Parks; (ii) Research and Inventories;
and (iii) Cartography and Information Services on all technical
matters of existing and planned work programs;
(b) provide technical assistance in setting up computers, data bases,
information systems for the management of national parks, and the
monitoring of renewable natural resources;
(c) assist in the design of a project-financed country wide inventory
of renewable natural resources, and in the supervision of the
inventory team;



-158-
ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 2
(d) advise on the design of the project-funded inventory of forest
resources of the country that would establish data on forest cover,
biomass, and growth potentiall
(e) provide technical guidance to, and assist in the supervision of,
the field staff of SPE posted at La Visite and Pic Macaya national
parke the Levy Research Farm, inventory locations, and at future
nationxal park sites;
(f) help monitor and supervise the agroforestry extension subprojects
in and around the national parks that are being implemented by N0a
contracted under the project;
(g) help train SPE staff (on the job activities) in modern ecological
and conservation methods and strategies, and assist the overall
training component of the project;
(h) assist in coordinating the use of three short-term consultants to
meet the needs of SPE in specialized areas including:
ci) anthropological/socio-economic methodology; (ii) conservation
biology; and (iii) aerial photography and satellite imagery
inventory techniques;
(i) assist the Chief of Service of SPE resolve the problem of
relocating farmers away from core zones within the boundaries of
the national parks; and
(j) design Biosphere Reserve Plans for the areas in and around the
existing national parks.
6.        Qualifications and ELwerience:   The candidate must:  (i) speak
French fluently; (ii) have a graduate degree in some area of ecology and/or at
least five years experience working in the field on a national park or
biosphere reserve project in a developing country; (iii) have experience and
well developed skills in interpersonal relations, participatory management,
and communication; and (iv) be willing to travel and live in remote locations
of Haiti under primitive conditions. It is desirable that the candidate:
(i) speak Haitian Creole (or have the aptitude to learn it quickly); and
(ii) be familiar with computers (hardware and software), inventory techniques,
forestry, national park management, biosphere reserves! West Indian flora and
fauna, and remote sensing technologies. An additional bonus would be given to
candidates who have had prior work experience in Haiti.



-159-                          AEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FORESTRy AND ENVIRONME=NTL PROTECTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Social Sclence Boecialist
1.          The Social Science Specialist would be an internationally
recruited short-term consultant who would assist periodically the Service de
la Protection de VlEnvironnement (SPE) of the Direction des Ressources
Naturelles (DRN), and the Resident Ecologist of SPE.
2.          The specialist would report to the Chief of the SPE.
3.          The servLcees of the specialLit would be requlred as follows:
Year 1t  Assist in planning the sociocultural aspects of managlng the
existLng natlonal parks. Evaluate and asesit in the design of
instruments to be used by the lnventory team in gatherlng
sociocultural informatlon. Traln the inventory team in
interviewing and other lnformatlon gathering techniques used ln
rapld rural assessment.
Year 2:   Assist in evaluating sociocultural data collected by the Lnventory
team, and the methodology used ln collecting these data.
Year 4:   Assist in planning socLocultural aspects of establishlng the new
national park under SPE management.
4.          ulstLe:  The specialist would aselst the Chlef of the SPE and
Resident Ecologist in planning and evaluating sociocultural aspects of SPE
activLties. She/he woulds
(a) evaluate and asseit in planning SPE staff lnteractions with the
local population, lncludlng the role of park rangers and all
issues related to enforcement of park and forestry regulations,
maintenance of special land use zones, and condltions of
leasehold;
(b) evaluate and assist in the design of information gathering
inotruments used in data collection for the: (i) socio-economic
inventories of different types of forest resources; (ii) socio-
economic inventorLes of each candidate area for a national park or
forest reserve; and (ili) environmental profiles of candldate
areas;



-160-
ANX 6
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 2
(c)   evaluate from a socLocultural viewpoint the management plans for
each natLonal park;
(d)   evaluate from a sociocultural viewpoint the BLosphere Reserve Plan
that will be prepared by the resident ecologist for the regions in
and around the national parhks
(e)   evaluate and assist in the desLgn of procedures to relocate
peasants who currently Live and/or farm within core zones of
national parks;
(f)   assist in planning sociocultural components of data bases
maintained by the SPE; and
(g)   represent the interests of peasant farmers, and support the
preservatLon of peasant culture in management plans developed by
the SPE.
5.          Oualifications and Exoerience:  The candidate muit have:
(i) fluent knowledge of French and Haitian Creole; (i$) a graduate degree in
cultural anthropology or a closely related field; (iii) prior working
experience with peasant farmers in Haiti; (iv) experience in project planning
and natural resource management; (v) experience in rapid rural assessment; and
(vi) knowledge of peasant farm systems, land tenure, and patterns of land use
in Haiti. It is dgelrable that the candidate would have completed a thesis or
dissertation on some aspect of Haitian peasant culture.



-161-
ANNEX6
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 2
IAITl
FORESTY_ AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Conservation-Expert
1. *The Conservation Expert would be an internationally recruited
short-term consultant who would assist periodically the Service de la
Protection de l1Environnement (SPE) of the Direction des Ressources Naturelles
(DRN), and the Resident Ecologist of SPE.
2.          The consultant would report to the Chief of the SPE.
3.          The services of the expert would be required as follows:
Year 1:  Advise the SPE on conservation strntegies for the management plans
for the existing national parks.
Year 2s   Advise the SPE on conoervation legioletion.  Assist in writing
recovery plans for endangered specles.
Year 3:   Advise the SPI: on how to coordinate conservation strategles
between the national parks and the surrounding buffer zones.
Year 4:   Advise the SPE on conservatlon strategies for the management plan
for the new natLonal park.
4.          Dutig:p  The ConservatLon Expert would assist the Chief of Service
of the SPE, the staff of SPE. and the Resident EcologLt in designing and
implementing strong conservation programs to protect endangered habitat, and
plant and animal species. He woulds
(a) advise the SPE on preparlng recovery plans for endangered plant
and anlmal species;
(b)   assist the SiOE ,n the analysLs of existing laws and regulatLons
protecting threatened habitats and endangered plant and animal
specles, and provide recommendations on poseLblt new laws and
regulatLons that would Lmprove the effectlveness of conservatlon
actLvLties;
(c)   provide recommendatlons to the SPE as to whlch candldate areas
LdentifLed bi tV. SPF durlng theLr country-wide inventory should
be preservea  nattonal parks, and which should be managed as
forest reservee far forest productlon;



-162-
ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 2
(d)   provide technLcal input on conservation strategies to the SPE
Management Plans for the national parks;
(e)   assist the SPE develop conservatlon rtrategies and guldellnes for
the preservation of biologlcal divereity in the management plans
for blosphere reserves in and around the national parks;
(f)   evaluate from a conservatLon viewpoint the management plans for
each national park;
(g)   be an advocate for the conservatLon of endangered species and
habitats in the policies of the SPE; and
(h)   provide technical advice on ivinovatLve ways to preserve blologlcal
diversLty wlthin limited geograiphical areas (i.e., using habitat
corridors, artiflcially enrLchaed habltats, etc.).
5.          Oualifications and Exoeriences:  The candidate must:  (i) speak
French and/or Haitian Creole fluently; (il) have a graduate degree ln the
biological sciences; (lll) be knowledgeable about conservation strategies for
endangered specLes, and how to write specLes recovery plans; and (lv) have
worked ln a developlng country for at least one year (preferably five) on a
project associated wLth some aspect of the conservatlon of renewable natural
resources. It la djira-ble that the candldate: (i) have experience in
natlonal park plannlng and the princlples of blosphere reserve plannLng;
(il) know zoological and botanlcal census techniques; (liL) understand
conservation plannlng for marlne organisms as well as terrestrlal; and
(lv) have a good working knowledge of the flora and fauna of Haiti. An
additional bonus would be given to a candidate who has worked in Haitl for at
leaet one year (and preferably fLve) in a project (or projects) associated
wlth the conservatLon of renewable natural resources.



-163-
ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page I of 2
FoRMSTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Tprme of Reference for the Remote Sensino Ex2ert
lo          The Remote Sensing/Photo-interpretation Expert would be an
internationally recruited short-term consultant who would assist periodically
the Service de la Protection de l'Environnement (SPE) of the Direction des
Ressources Naturelles (DRN), and the Resident Ecologist of the SPE.
2.          The consultant would report to the Chief of the SPE.
3.          The services of the remote sensing expert would be required as
follows:
Year 2s   Advise the SPE on how to plan for, and implement aerial surveys
and country-wide surveys with satellite imagery. Assist in the
analysis of the images collected from aerial survey. and
satellites during the first year. Assist in the training of the
:PE staff in the interpretation of aerial photographs and.
satellite images.
Year 3s   Advise the SPE on the use of satellite imagery to monitor trends
in the utllization of forest resources. Assist in the transfer of
data from photographs to the SPE data base on renewable natural
resources.
Year 4:   Advise the BPS on how to set up the boundaries and zones of the
new national park based on data collected by aerial photographs
and satellite images. Assist the 8PE plan for a program to
monitor long-term land use trends during the life of the project.
4.          putiefs  The expert would:
(a) assist the Chief of the SPE and the resident ecologist in
utilizing remote sensing techniques to interpret data collected
from aerial photographs and satellite images for use in the
inventory process, and in buildlng a data set for the data base on
renewable natural resources;
(b) provide in-service training to the staff of the SPE in
interpreting aerial photographs and satellite images;
(c) assist in the deslgn of aerial surveys and satellite imagery



-164-
ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page 2 of 2
techniques to be used by the SPE as part of the country-wide
inventory of ecosystems to be used to identify candidate areas for
national parks and/or forest reserves;
(d)   assist the SPE staff deslgn, deploy, and analyze the data
collected by flight surveys and satellite imagery to identify and
create a new national park that would be established by Year 4;
(e)   assist in the design of remote sensing systems to be used in the
country-wide inventory of forest resources and forest biomass to
be used in recommending solutions to the fuelwood crisis;
(f)   assist the SPE staff in using remote sensing data to create land
use zones in and around the national parks;
(g)   assist the SPE staff in designing a program to use remote sensing
data, especially satellite imagery, to monitor long-term land use
trends throughout the country and in and around the national
parke; and
(h) adviase the SPE 3taff on ways to use remote sensing techniques to
locate important forest resources, determine the percent forest
cover, forest biomass, and the rate of deforestation in the
country.
5.          gualilications and Exoerience: The candidate muet:  (i) speak
fluent French; (ii) have documented technical skills ln aerial photo
interpretation and the analysis of satellite images; and (iii) worked in the
installation and utilization of theae systems in developing countries. it is
desirl&le that the candidate: (i) be familiar with Geographic Informrtion
Systems (GIS) and Computer Assisted Drawing (CAD); (ii) have experience
training others how to analyze aerial photographs and satellite images; and
(iii) have experience with both the Landuat and SPOT satellite systems. An
aditional bon-us would be given to a candidate who spolie Haitian Creole, and
who had previously worked in Haiti.



-165-
Page 1 of 6
FORES=R- AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Tralninoc
Current Trainina Situation
1.          The University of Haiti does not offer training sequences in
forestry, wildlife conservation and natural resource management. Only three
Haitian professionals, all agroinomists, had received graduate training in
forestry outside of Haiti. During the implementation of the Pilot Forestry
Project (Credit 1257-HA), implemented between 1983 and 1989, the following
training activities were undertaxen:
(a)   Eight graduates of the Facult6 d'Agriculture et de Medecine
Veterinaire (FAmW) received graduate training in forestry at the
Ecole Nationale du Genie Rural, des Eaux et Forets (ENGREF) in
Montpellier (France). Two students were awarded master's degrees
after two years. The other six students lacked the necessary
qualifications to continue beyond the first year of study. In
retrospect, it also appears that the ENGREF program was not well
adapted to the needs of Haitian students or the Pilot Forestry
Project.
(b)   The Pilot Forestry Project introduced an agroforestry curriculum
at a technical school built with Canadian aseistance, the Ecole
Moyenne d'Agroforesterie (EMAF). Under the pilot project the EMAF
carried out three two-year cycles of training and produced 60
graduates. Most graduates were employed by the project and the
Forest service (SRF). Some have been employed by NGOs working in
agroforestry extension. In terms of continuing employment in
forestry, there has been an overall attrition rate of 20% among
the 60 EMAF graduates.  EMAF has made an important contribution to
human resource development in Haitit however, evaluation of the
EMAF program suggests certain areas in need of strengthening.
Despite its name, EMAF stressed classical forestry traLning over
agroforestry. It also emphasized theory rather than practical
skills. In general, curriculum development at EMAF was not based
on detailed aossesment of training needs in the field. As a
training lnstitution, EMAF has not had the benefit of a fulltime
core faculty. Therefore, it has been overly dependent on adjunct
professors drawn primarily from FAMV.



-166-
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
2.          Since its inception as an agroforestr!, training center, the EMAF
has relied on external funding to operate its program. The EMAF has a close
working relationship with the SRF which has employed most EMAF graduates. The
EMAF is one of seven technical training centers of the agricultural ministry.
These training centers operate under the authority of the Direction de
Formation et de Perfectionnement des Cadres (DFPC), a training department
created by the MARNDR Organic Law of 1987. The EMAF retained its special
relationship to SRF even after the DFPC was created. Unlike other
"directions" in the ministry, the DFPC is a semi-autonomous support service.
The DFPC Director reports to the MARNDR Director-General. In 1989/90 the EMAF
and other DFPC training centers were closed due to the budgetary crisis in
government, and the cutoff of funding by external donors.
Proiect-Training obiectives
3.          The project's training strategy would be directly linked to the
programmatic requirements of the Forest Service (SRF) and the Environmental
Protection Service (SPE) of the Department of Natural Resources. Training
programs would be carefully adapted to the local context. They would be based
on detailed needs assessment of SRF and SPE and their project related
activities including management ot national parks and forest reserves. EMAF
would develop curricula and training materials in relation to the specific
skills required to carry out work assignments in the field. EMAF training
activities would balance theoretical knowledge with practical field experience
as an integral feature of its curriculum.
4.          In general, the training undertaken by the project would include a
mix of short- and long-term training activities. It would stress in-country
training and the development of Haiti's long term training capabilities,
including in-service staff training on an ongoing basis. Training would also
include retraining of selected NARNDR staff already in post, to qualify them
for reassignment to positions under the project. The training program would
result in a specialized cadre of human resources with expertise in forestry
ecosystems, small farm systems, agroforestry, wildlife management and
preservation of biodiversity. The primary targets for training would be the
following: agroforestry technicians, forest rangers und park rangers
(civilians), forest guards (military), forestry agents, and professional staff
including trainers and program managers.
Proiect Trainina Components
5.          The project would organize and fund the following types of
training outside of Haiti:
(a)   Masters Level Trainina:  A total of six two-ye&r scholarships
would be awarded to carefully selected university graduates for
masters level training outside of Haiti. Two scholarships would
be considered for funding under advances as soon as these become
available: one candidate from SPE for training in land use
monitoring, and one from the SRF for training in forest



-167-
ANx 7
Page 3 of 6
management. An addLtional four candidates would be selected by
the SRF for graduate tralnlng in forest management (two) and
agroforestry (two). Crlterla for selectlon include the followLngt
completion of a BA degrea or its equivalent, demonstrated ability
to pursue graduate level studLes, three years of professional
experience, and a firm commitment to return to post for specifLc
aslgnments wlth the SRF, 5P3 and EMAF. CandLdates for
scholarships would sign letters of obligatlon commlttlng them to
work at least three years for 8P or SRF upon completlng two-year
master's degrees.
(b) Short Coursess The project would aend nlne profeseLonal staff
members for external short courses of three to four weeks duratlon
offered by instLtutLons such as the Centro Agronomico Tropical de
Investlgacion y mnsonanza (CATIS) in Costa Rica, the Oxford
Forestry InstLtuto ln England, the Internatlonal Council for
Reooarch in Ag?oforestry (ICRAF) ln Kenya or the Ecole Forestriere
de Rabat-Sale (Morocco). The nlne partlclpants would include the
three Sectlon Heads of the SP3 who would be sent for short courses
covering topics whlch correspond to their work assignments at SPEt
(i) inventories and census technlques; (iL) cartography; and
(LLL) bLologLcal preserves and parks management. The SRF Chief
and the Plne Forest Manager would be sent for short courses in
project plannlng and management. Other members of the SRF
profesmLonal staff would be traLned as followss techniques for
rapid rural assessmnt (a research coordinator from the Research
8ectLon), agroforestry research (the Agroforestry Research
CoordLnator from the Research Section), agroforestry extension
(the Agroforestry sectlon Chief), nursery management (a unlt chief
from the Forest Management Section).
6.          The project would support EMAP as the prlmary trainLng center for
technLcians employed by the Department of Natural Resources. The EMAF would
provlde formal tralnlng of agroforestry technlclans for nlne months out of the
year. Durlng the annual three-month hLatus, th EMAF would give orientatLon
courses and in-servlce tralnlng semlnars for the staff of the SRF and the SPE.
ThLi would make effLiLent use of the BMA? facillty and provlde year around
employment for lts staff. The EMAF would develop speciallzed currlcula
tallored tos (i) the long-term requLrement of technlclan training (two-year
sequences in residence); and (11) orlentatlon courses (two weeks) to traln
forest rangers, park rangers, forest guards and forestry agents, and
(LiL) annual semlnars and technlcal retreats (three days) for Ln-service
tralnlng of SPE and SRI staff.
7.          The project would provlde fundlng and undertake the following
improvements to support EMA? as a flexlble traLnLng facilLty geared to meet
varLed needs of the SRF and 8PE3



-168-                   ANX 7
Page 4 of 6
(a)   Permnen at Cor Sftaff:  A permanent core of fulitlme staff members
will be recruited as follow s a tralnlng dLrector wlth a master's
degree, a second tralner wlth a unLveraLty degree, and an
agroforestry tachnLeLan to assLit ln plannLng and carrylng out
fLeld practleo.
(b)   Adiunct Trainerss The teachLag load of the core faculty would be
supplemented by teachers from the FAMV and ot)Jr tralning
instltutlons. In keepLng with local practlce, adjunct trainers
would be paid by the hour (15 dollars per hour).
(c)   Trainina BvecLalLts  DurLng the flrst two years of the project,
an lnternatlonally recruited trainLng specLalist would be assigned
to EMAP under the supervLoLon of the BMA dlrector. The Tralnlng
Speclallt would advle- the dlrector and the coro staff, monltor
prcject training needs (working together with the EMAP director
and the SRF and BPS heads), and anssit ln deolgnlng curricula and
trainlng materials for formal trainlng of techniclans, and two-
week orientation sessions for park and forest rangers, forestry
agents and forest guards assLgned to the Plne Forest Reserve. The
Training Speciallst would also assist in the preparation of
detailed terms of reference for additlonal short-term trainLng
consultants.
(d)   Short-Term Consultants  Short-term consultants (two weeks per
year) would be hLred as lecturers and resource persons for In-
Service Trainlng at flve annual technLcal retreats and staff
semlnara. These consultants would be recruited locally and abroad
to cover the followlng topLcs: (i) management of bloophere
reserves; (LL) program management LncludLng lnternal evaluatlon
and plannLng, work plans, staff supervLiLon, communLcations
skills, technlques for running staff meetings; (lil) information
gathering LncludLng rapld rural assessment, interviows, Lnventory
techniques, blomass assesment; (lv) managLng and accessing land
use information including photointerpretatLon, cartography, map
reading, GIS systems, preparatLon of reports; and
(v) soclocultural factors Ln program outreach, peasant farm
systems, agricultural declslon maklng, land tenure, partlclpation
of local populatLons, diffusion of lnformatlon, prLncLples of
animation and extensLon. In the last year of the project, an
LnternatLonally recrulted consultant would carry out an evaluation
(one month) of the overall tralnlng program and make
recommendations for improvement.
(e)  Technician Training:  The project would traln a total of 40
agroforestry terhnLclans Ln two suc:essLve two-year cycles of
20 students each. The fLrst cycle would begln ln the fLrst year,
and the second cycle would begLn the followlng year. Two training
cycles would be required to meet the needs of the project, cover
loss of technicians by attrltion and respond to requests by KGOs



-169-
ANX 7
Page 5 of 6
and other MARNDR agencies. More than two training cycles would
create the potential for unemployment or lengthy delays in
employment. SPE and SRF would phase program activities to
coincide with the availability of ESAF graduates. The EMAF
curriculum for technician trainiug would be modified to take into
account the needs of SPE and SRF under the project. In general,
the curriculum will shift to a more practical orientation. The
ratio of classroom instruction to field practice will be 60/40 in
relation to time use.
(f)   Curriculum: The core curriculum at EMAF would include training in
biology (botany, zoology and basic ecology), animation and
extension skills, law (forestry and natural resources), forest
management, peasant agricultural systems, sociocultural features
of rural Haiti, Haitian ecosystems. natural resource management
and conservation, sylviculture, agroforestry, dendrology, soils,
soil and water conservation, wood technology, wood utilization
(with special attention to Haiti. including artisanal and energy
uses), and techniques for survey and inventory of forestry and
wildlife (laboratory course). The core curriculum would be
supplemented by three major specialty courses during the second
year: (i) tropical forestry; (iL) agroforestry; and
(iii) wildlife conservation and natural resource management.
These specialized courses would anticipate future work assignments
of new graduates. They would be team taught and accompanied by a
course syllabus useful for on-the-job reference in the future.
(g)   Eauipment and Infrastructuret  The EMAF facility at Damien would
be the nrimary site for classroom instruction. The primary site
for field instruction would be the Pine Forest. Other sites would
be identified for field practice in keeping with the curriculum.
The project would purchase a bus for use in field practice, a 4-
wheel drive station wagon for the initial use of the Training
Specialist, and a 4-wheel drive pick-up and later replacement
(year 3) assigned to the EMAF director. Vehicle operation and
maintenance costs would be included in project funding. In
1990/91 portions of the main facility at EXA? were used as offices
for the SRF and SPE. As new office space would be leased or built
by the project, EIAF would regain the use of this space.  The EMAF
facility would be repaired, and dormitory and sanitary facilities
would be subdivided to accommodate EMAF students in residence. In
the Pine Forest, existing buildings would be repaired and
remodeled as a training facility including a classroom, teacher's
room, storage area and lodging for staff and 20 students.
7.          The project would provide staff orientation for law enforcement
targeted at protection of trees, forest reserves and park preserves. The EMAF
would design curricula tailored to the training needs of law enforcement
personnel under MARNDR supervision including civilian Forest Rangers (60)
assigned to forest reserves, Park Rangers (30) assigned to park preserves,



-170-
Page 6 of 6
military personnel (six) seconded to the SRF for duty in the Pine Forest
Reserve, Forestry Agents (60) stationed in MARNDR district offices and Wood
Products Controllers (30) assigned to tranaport control points in Port-au-
Prince.
8.          EMAF would train law enforcement personnel through two-week cycles
of basic training orientation sessions emphasizing basic skills and concepts
related to the work assignment. Training would take placo Ln groups of
20 organized by job classification--park rangers, forest rangers, forestry
agents, etc. Military personnel in the Pine Forest Reserve would be trained
together with civilian counterparts in order to foster esprit de corps.
Training content would include the following core topics:
-     concept of biosphere reserves, principles of environmental
protection, the purpose of park preserves and forest reserves,
natural resource management, land use planning and zoning;
-     rent collections and land lease administration in parks and forest
reserves; regulation of boundaries, boundary markers, special land
use zones;
-     principles of law enforcement, discipline, code of ethics, rights
of citizens, courtesy and social skills, how to deal with local
populations, basic skills in animation and extension,
dissemination of information;
-     civil and military jurisdictions, court procedures, arrest
procedures, due process, rules of evidence, filling out forms,
writing reports of arrest and violatione (procls-verbal), levying
fines, collecting taxes, confiscation, estimating wood volume, tax
collection, accountability for funds;
-     forestry laws, regulation of fire, grazing and harvest, transport
and commercialization of forest products including girdling.
cutting, logging, sawing, lime, charcoal, fatwood, polewood;
-     technical aspects of fire prevention, detection and control;
natural regeneration, low input tree propagation. agroforestry
systems; and
-     skills in record keeping, recording observations, writing notes
and letters, radio.



-171-
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 3
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONZNTAL PROTECT ION PRBQ
Terma of Rofereneg for the Training SoeciJAI.ist
1.          The training specialist would be recruited internationally for a
two-year period and assigned to the Ecole Noyanne d'Agroforesterie (EMAP) as
advisor to the EmAF program with special responsibility for curriculum
development. The specialist would work closely with the EMAP director as
counterpart and under the general guidance of the director. During a two-year
period of close working ties, the training specialist would seek to enhance
the skills of the SNAF director as educator, planner and school adminietrator.
The specLalist would also seek to upgrade the teaching skills of other EMAF
traLners.
2.          The specialiet would monitor training needs in the Service des
Ressources ForestiLres (BR?) and the Service de la Protection de
1'Environnement (SPE). During the first three months at post, the specialist
would become familiar with all program actLvities and field sites related to
the SRF, the BPS and project related activities, lncluding management of
biosphere reaerves. Thle would be undertaken to develop a thorough, personal
understanding of the working context and the specifLc skills needed to carry
out program goals and work assignments.
3.          The specialist would prepare a detailed curriculum plan and course
outline for technician trainLng, and identlfy course sequences, content and
teaching methods. The specialist would submit the outline and plan for review
and approval by the DRN director. The DRN director would organLze round table
diswcusson of the plan by the SRF and 8PE chLefs and the Dlrector of MARNDR's
Staff Trainlng Directorate (Dlrection de Formation et de Perfectionnement des
Cadres - DPFC) to assure that the plan meets project guidelLnes and program
needs.
4.          Following approval of the plan by the DmN director, and worklng
together with the EMAP director, the specLalLt would complete the design of
courses, course sequences and fleld tralnlng around a basLc core curriculum
supplemented by specLalty courses Ln troplcal forestry, agroforestry and
natural resource conservation. The specLalty courses would be taught durlng
the second year of the two-year tralnlng program. They would anticipate the
future job asslgnments of students enrolled ln the program management of
forest reserves, management of parks preserves, and provLiLon of agroforestry
extensLon services. The specLalLt would assure that the curriculum would
have a strong emphasiL on fleld practlce as a complement to classroom
instructLon.



-172-
N         7
Appendix I
Page 2 of 3
5.          The training specialist would deslgn orientation courses (two
ieeks) for job training of NARNDR law enforcement peronnel, and the
development of basic skills for protection and management of trees, forest
reserves and parks preserves. Two-week courses would be planned for groups cf
20 forest rangero, park rangers, forestry agents and seconded military
personnel. Course coutlines would be submitted for review and approval by the
DRN director. The DRN director would organize round table discussion and
feedback from the SPE and SRF chiefs, and the DFPC director.
6.          The training specialist, together with the ENAF director, would
develop training materials and syllabuses for technician training, orientation
of law enforcement personnel, and Ln-service staff training.
7.          In consultation with SRF and SPE, the specialist would prepare
terms of reference for other short-term consultants and lecturers recruited
for in-service training at technical staff retreats (annual throie-day
seminars).
S.          The training specialist would maintain collegial ties with other
technical assistance personnel in the DRN, the SPE and the SRF, and seek
technical advice useful in carrying out curriculum development and training
activities at the EMAF. The specialist would make every effort to link EMAF
training to the needs and program activities of the SRF and the SPE.
9.          The training specialist would create course materials, and teach
courses in specialized domains where the necessary expertise is not locally
available. The specialist would attach a high priority to course planning and
the preparation of syllabuses for the three major specialty courses taught in
the second year of technician training (forestry, agroforestry, wildlife
conservation and natural resource management). The specialist would prepare
other faculty members to teach such courses in later training cycles.
including team teaching approaches. No more than 50% of the specialist's time
would be devoted to teaching.
10.         Oualifications
(a)   Graduate degree in forestry, agroforestry, natural resource
management or another closely related discipline.
(b)   Professional working background as a teacher as well as program
planner and program manager. Expertise in non-formal education
and training techniques as well as formal academic training.
Familiarity with the skills required for providing extension
services to small peasant farmers.
(c)   Ten years of professional experience and at least five years in
Haiti or other developing countries.



-173-
AMUX
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 3
(d)  Ability to work closely together with colleagues an a team member.
(e)   speaking, reading and writing knowledge of Vrenoh. Knowledge of
Haitian Creole, or a demonstrated aptitude to learn the language.



-174-
Page 1 of 4
OEMSTRY AND MMZOMNA   ROETO   RJC
MARNOR Institutional tr.ngthening DAn Pgoject XMgolmentation
1.          This Annex deals wlth the instltutlonal arrangments designed to
lmplement the MARNDR Part of the project (Developmnent of Forestry and
Protected Areas). Appendices 1 to 4 contaln the terms of reference for key
technical assistants, for the LnternatLonally recrulted firm to assist in
managing the project, and for the mLd-term revliw of the project.
Attachment A describes the structure and functLons of the NARNDR and its
Forestry Resources Service. Attachment B supples Lnformatlon on the
fLnancLng of the agrliultural sector.
Dackaround
2.          The overall effectiveness of NARNDR li severely compromlsed by the
shortage of operatlng funds. Also, while MARNDR is overstaffed as a whole.
there is a shortage of qualLfied technLcLans, both at headquarters and in the
field.
3.          One of the few servLces in the MLnLstry whlch has developed into a
performlng, well functionLng unlt, is the Forestry Pesource Servlce (SRF).
This ie mainly due to the support glven to this servLce under the completed
IDA Forestry Project (Credlt 1257-HA), and also, as a result of such support,
that the service has operated relatLvely Lndependently both at headquarters
and ln the fleld.
IngtLtutional Strenathening
4.          The proposed project wuould contlnue providing support to SRF, and
extend the support to the EnvLronmental Protectlon Service (SPE), which is
another unlt wlthln the Dlrectorate of NatLonal Resources (DRN), to whlch
Forestry also belongs (see Attachment A). Funds would also be provided under
the project to improve and expand the facilLties of the office of the Dlrector
of DRN and of SRF and 3PE. The Government would employ a Deputy Dlrector of
DRN and a project adminlitrator. Four hlgh-level technlcal assistants would
be employed through an lnternatlonally recrulted management firm: a flnancial
manager and a tochnlcal coordlnator, to be posted in the offLce of the
Dlrector of DRN, and a soenlor forester and resident ecologLit to be posted ln
SRI and SP8, respectLvely.
5.          The project admLnistrator and the flnanclal manager would joLntly
be responaLble for all flnanclal and admlnlitratlve aspects of project
implementation. The technlcal coordlnator would supervlie and coordinate all
technlcal aspects. Terms of reference for the flnanclal manager, the



-175-
Page 2 of 4
technical coordlnator and the managerent firm are in Appendices 1 to 3. The
project administrator, some support staff, and illowances, both for management
and field staff would also be financed with project funds. Details are in
Annex 1, Cost Table 1.4.
6.          The senior forestry advisor would assist the head of SRF, and the
resident ecologist the head of SPE. The counterparts of the four key
technical assistanto would receive, apart from their Government salary,
responsibility allowances funded by the project. Additional technical staff,
would be hired under the project f.or the SRI, SPE and for the management of
the Pine Forest Reserve, all funded with credit funds on a declining basis.
After five years, the salary coats of staff that is required for continued
operations would be incorporated into the MARNDR's budget.
7.          The details and costs of these additions to the present
establisnment are shown in Anndx 1, Cost Table 1.5 for SRF, Cost Table 1.6 for
SPE, and Cost Table 1.7 for forest management. Incremental yearly costs for
MAWRNDR's budget and the recurrent operations of the project after Year 5 are
shown in Table 1.15 of Annex 1. The recurrent cost of continued operations of
project activities after Year 5 is estimated at US$0.6 million (including
contirgencies), which is about 7% of the 1990 operational budget of the
Ministry. The incremental salary costs of the Government due to the project
2fter Year 5 would amount to about US$1.0 million.
Administrative Arranoements
8.          The following arrangements would be introduced to efficii1ntly
manage project administration:  (a) the project administrator and the
financial manager would be in charge of all administrative and financial
aspects of project implementation.  All procurement to be financed by IDA and
from funds admLnistered by IDA, whether for civil works, goods or consultants,
would be carried out according to World Bank guidelines. A procurement
committee consisting of the director of DRN, the project administrator, the
heads of SRF and SPE, the financial manager and the technical coordinator
would process the bid .nvitations, assess the offers received and make
recommendations to the Minister of Agriculture and to IDA for contract
adjudication; (b) project implementation would follow an agreed yearly Work
Proarza- and Ludoet. These documents would initially be prepared by SRF and
SPE with the assistance of the senior forestry advisor and the res.dent
ecologist, respectively, and reviewed by the director of DRN. The project
adminietrator would consolidate all data into the financial buuget, and all
technical targets into the Work Program, in collaboration with the financial
manager and the technical coordinator, respectively. These documents will be
submitted to IDA for information and/or comments and finally, approved by the
Minister. All disburser- .cs and commitments during any given year would be
coneirtent with the various linee of the annually approved budget. The
project adminietrator, jointly with the financial manager, would have the
responsibility and authority to co-sign all checks and other payments from the
project account in DRN, and rre-approve all withdrawal applications for the
IDA Credit; (c) all credit fu.ads and local contributions to the project shall



-176-
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
be deposited into a local currency project account, and two signatures would
be needed for withdrawals: one of the Senior Ministry staff (the Director of
DRN or his deputy or the project administrator or one of the heads of
services), and the other would be the financial manager (in his absence, on
leave, or otherwise, it would be the technical coordinator). All accumulated
eligible expenditure during one calendar monith shall be processed into a
withdrawal application to IDA, pre-approved by the project administrator and
the financial manager, and signed by the ministers of Agriculture and Finance.
Funds dtsbursed from the IDA credit would replenish the project account.
Imvrovement of the Woodfuels Taxation  svstem
9.          Tree cutting and transport of wood and charcoal is subject to a
permit that is being issued by the forestry agents of MARNDR's field offices.
Transport of woodfuel is, in addition, subject to a transport tax. A tax of
G 1.0 is to be collected on each bag (38 kg) of charcoal transported from the
production site to the sale/consumption point. The tax on firewood is G
100/m3. These transportation taxes, to be paid into the "Special
Reforestation Fund" (Decree of November 20. 1972), should be used mainly for
nursery and reforestation activities. This fund is presently managed by SRF.
10.         The woodfuel tax is collected by agents of SRF, who deliver two
copies of the receipt to the truck driver; one of these two copies has to be
surrendered at the entry point to cities, of which there are about 11 posts
around Port-au-Prince. These copies have to be sent back to SRF for control
purposes. of the estimated 8 million bags of charcoal produced and consumed
yearly in urban areas, about 6 million bags are sold inside Port-au-Prince,
which should produce a revenue of G 6 million. For the latest year for which
statistics were available (1988/89), the income was G 600,000, or 10% of the
expected revenue.
11.         The discrepancy is due to insufficient supervision and corruption;
for instance: at the loading site, when a small cash payment is made in lieu
of the full tax; at the entry point, when a few bags are given in lieu of
surrendering the original transport receipt (which can then be used again);
and by other "arrangements" which are difficult to police.
12.         At the MARNDR headquarters level, where the books of transport
permits are delivered to the field forestry agents, the transactions &re
poorly handled, and there is no supervision at the top. The tax revenues and
permits delivered are not reconciled. The original receipts surrendered to
the entry points around Port-au-Prince (see para. 10 above) are not secured.
It is probable that these receipts are again sold to truck drivers for a
fraction ci their value. The implications of this situation are serious,
since the statistics produced by SRF about production of fuelwood, its
transformation into charcoal, and the movements of this c-',modity in the
country are based on the transport tax receipts.
13.         Very little can be done in the field as a result of the absence of
effective police, law and order and it is not until the existing laws (or new



-177-
amUa
Page 4 of 4
ones eventually promulgated) are implemented, that the proper collec-tion of
these taxes, and others au well, could be ensured. SRF has, at .aast, to keep
track of the distribution of these recelpt books (whlch are prLnted by SRF),
and the return of the used book, and reconcle- the revenues obtained with the
permlts and the receipts iesued. To improve the existLng situatlon and
prepare a strategy for the future, funds would be provlded under the project
for a short-term consultancy to revliw and pr pare recommendations for the
improvement of the woodfuel taxation system, the collectlon rates, the
adjustment of the tax levels to lntroduce economLc prLcLng of fuels, and
improved accountlng and budgetlng procedures for the Special ReforestatLon
Fund (see para. 9 above). The objectlve La to Lntroduce after the mld-term
revlew of the project a rational and efflclent taxatlon system, whlch would,
in addition to recover part of the socLal costs of deforestatlon, allow
flnanclng forestry development and envlronment protectlon actlvlties on a
sustained basis.



-178-
mm 8
Appendix I
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Terms of Reforence for the Finanoi'L Manacer
1.          The Financial Manager (FM) would auvise and aseLet the Project
Administrator (PA) in the office of the Director of Natural 1eaources (DRN) of
the hinistry of Agriculture (MARNDR) in the coordination and management of a.l
adminlstrative and financial aspects of project implementation.
2.          The FM would operate ln the office of the Director, and report to
the Director of DRN.
3.          The assignment would initially be for three years, extendable to
five years after the mid-term revLew of the project.
4.   Dutiest
(a)   adviee the PA and/or the Director of DRN on project-related
flnancial, adminiLtratlve and procurement matters;
(b)   prepare the annual FinancLal Budget required for project
implementation on the basie of the approved Work Program, and in
concurrence with the Technical Coordlnator (TC) and the PA; all
conflicting vLews would have to be settled jointly between the
DRN, TC and PAt
(c)   on the basLi  of thi FinancLal Budget, jointly wLth the PA
authorize all commitments, expenditure and use of project funds;
he would have the authority to co-sign all related documento
pertainlng to these operations;
(d)   prepare and submit to the Dlrector of DRN a monthly statement of
the project's financial status, quarterly financial reports, and a
full yearly report showing the financial eituation, including
Cash-Flow and Statement of Origin and Use of Funds (arrange for
quarterly and annual audits of project accounts arnd react on
auditor's recommendatLons);
(e)   under the authority of the Minister of Agriculture, and together
with the PA, negotiate with banks the opening and operation of
project accounts;



-179-
ANNEX 8
Appendix I
Page 2 of 2
(f)   supervise the preparation of wlthdrawal requests for diobursemmnt
of project IDA funds, or for any other funds mobilized from other
donors, and pre-approve and lnitlal these withdrawal requests
before being sent for the official signatures;
(g)   train counterpart personnel in the administration office of DRN,
supervise the accounting staff and determine adequate accounting
and reporting procedures;
(h)   jointly with the PA, assist the Director of DRN in representing
the project to other local or international organizations, and in
seeking funding sources to meet the project's financial needs; and
(i) keep IDA and other donors regularly informed, through the reports
indicated in (b) above and any other additional statements, on the
project's financial status, particularly if cash-flow problems are
forecast, and making recommendatione for the resolution of same.
5.    Qualifications and Experlence:
(a)   fluent knowledge of English and French and abllity to produce
reports in both these languageso
(b)   MBA, or oimilar level degree, wlth proficiency in accountancy.
with at least ten years of experience in a management position in
large-size projects, of which at least flve years in a position of
responsibility;
(c)   demonstrated skills in interpersonal relations, in negotiations at
the highest level, and ln dealing with very senior civil servants;
and
(d)   priority will be given to candidates having previously worked in
such capacity in a developlng country.



-180-
AME
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 2
FORESTRY AND ENVIRMENTL PROTCTION PROJECT
Trms of Reference for the Technical Coordinatqr (TC1
1.        The Technical Coordinator would advLse and assist the Director of
Natural Resources (DRN) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MARNDR) in the
technical coordination and program management of the project.
2.        The Technical Coordinator would operate in the Office of the
Director, and report to the Director of DRN.
3.        The assignment would initially be for three years, extendable to
five years after the mid-term review of the project.
4.   Duties:
(a) advise the Director of DRN on project-related technical
matter S
(b) review the programs and activities of the different services
involved in project implementation and evaluate their
technical and operational feasibility--and on this basis,
prepare the Annual Work Programs
(c)  assist the Project Administrator and Financial Manager in the
preparation of the yearly Financial Budget required to implement
the Work Programs
(d) prepare and submit to the Director of DRN semi-annual and annual
progreas reports on the implementation of the Work Program; the
yearly reoort should include an evaluation of the progress
achieved, and comments on shortfalls, problems encountered and
measures Lntroduced to overcome these difficulties;
'e) traln counterpart personnel in the Office of the DRN, coordiLnte
program plannlng exercises, and internal program evaluation;
(f) assist the Director of DRN in reprosentlng the project to other
local or internatlonal organizations, and in seeking international
fundlng sources to meet the project's financLal needs; and
(g)  onsure smooth working relationship among the staff of the various
servLces implementing the project components, and of the
consultants and technLcal assLitance personnel.



-181-
ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 2
S.   Qualifications and Experience t
(a) fluent knowledge of English and French and ability to produce
reports in both these languages; knowledge of Haitian Creole would
be an advantagel
(b) post-graduate degree in natural resource management, or a related
field, with at lease five years of experience in implementing
projects of thig nature, preferably in developing countries;
(c) demonstrated skills in interpersonal relations and administration,
and shown ability of a team leader; and
(d) priority will be given to candidates being familiar wlth biosphere
preserve problems, peasant farming systems, and having worked in
Haiti previously.



-182-
AXNEX 8
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 3
HAITI
PORESTRY AND ENVIRONHENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
For An International Firm of Management Consultants
1.          These terms of reference describe services to be contracted by the
Government of Haiti to an international firm of consultants for the provision
of management assistance and technical expertise that is required during the
implewentation of the Government's Forestry and Environmental Protection
Project. The project would be supported by a Credit from the International
Development Association (IDA).
2.          Obiectives of the Project.  The objective of the project would be
to slop down the pace of degradation of Haiti's natural resources and to
provide investment funds and institutional and policy mechanisms aimed ats
(a) protecting the forests and safeguarding vital ecosystems from further
destruction; (b) increasing wo.d production through the promotion of
agroforestry on farms and the improved management of State forest lands; and
(c) reducing the pressure on vegetation for charcoal production through
conservation of voodfuels used by urban households.
3.          Prolect Comyonents.  The project would provide technical and
financial support for: (a) the institutional strengthening of the Directorate
of Natural Resources (Direction des Ressources Naturelles - DRN) and to two of
its Services, the Forestry Resources Service (Service des Ressources
Foresti&res - SRP), and the Environmental Protection Service (Service de
Protection de l'Envirornement - SPE) and training in forestry and
agroforestry, all within the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and
Rural Development - ARNKDR; (b) specific programs to promote tree planting and
soil conservation, to impr -e the management of forest reserves, to expand
forestry and agroforestry research, to establish and manage national parks and
to monitor lh d use in Haiti; and (c) promotion of more efficient charcoal
stoves in urban areas by the Bureau of Mines and Energy (BME).
4.          Implementing Axencies.  Except fo- the Household Energy
Conservation Subproject (part (c) above, which would be implemented by BME
(Bureau des Mines et de l'Energie of the Ministry of Public Works, Transport
and Communications)), the project will be implemented by MARNDR through DRN.



-183-
ANNX 8
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 3
5.          Duration of Pro1ect and of the Managment Contract.  The project
would be implemented over five years, starting in October 1991. The
management contract would be initially for three years to September 30, 1994,
but extendable to five years pending the results of a mid-term review of
project implementation that would be carried out by independent consultants
during the third year of the project.
6.          LonE-Term Exoertisoe Requlred.  The following experts would be
raquired for the institutional strengthening programs within MARDR:
(a)   in DRN, one financial manager and one technical coordinator;
(b)   in SRF, a senior forester;
(c)   in SPE, a resident ecologist; and
(d)   in the Technical School for Agroforestry, a training specialist.
The first four positions will be for a period of three years, to
be extended to five at the time of the mid-term review of the project. The
training specialist is required for a period of two years.
7.          Short-Term Consultants Reauired.  In addition, there will be need
for short-term consultancies for about 12 assignments in the following fields:
(i) legal, for the review and update of the legal framework regulating
forestry and other natural resources; (11) In agroforestry and forestry
research; (iii) the study of woodfuel taxation; and (iv) determination and
support of necessary actions in the fields of remote sensing, survey
techniques, photo interpretation, ecology, sociology, and management of
biosphere reserves.
8.          Duties of the Manaaement FirM.  The services required shall be the
object of a management contract by which the successful bidder will undertake
tot
(a)   recruit and put in place, after approval by MARNDR and IDA, of the
five key position detailed in para. 6;
(b)   be responsible for their good performance and ensure adequate
supervision of their activity; if needed, replacement of non-
performing consultants;
(c)   o,.-the-job training of counterpart staff provided by the
Government; and



-184-
ANNEX 8
Appendix 3
Page 3 of 3
(d)   be responsible, jointly with the Project Administrator of the DRN,
for the efficient use of project end Credit funds on the basis of
the Work Program and Yearly Budget, as approved by MARNDR and IDA;
to that effect the Financial Manager shall, jointly with the
Project Administrator, be empowered to authorize the disbursements
from the project account in DRN, and pro-approve the applications
for withdrawals from the IDA Credit Account.
9.          Individual terms of reference for the five key positions (para. 6)
are attached.
10.         In addition, the management firm shall recruit and make available
to DRN all experts needed for the consultanclos/studies mentioned in para* 7,
if so required. This shall be done diligently end under the same
responsibility as detailed in para. 8. If IME needs assistance for the tasks
for the energy conservation subproject, the management firm, if requested by
the Government of Haiti, shall offer its services along the sam terms as for
MARNDR.
11.         Compensation.  The firm's compensation would include staff costs,
interrnational transport, resettlement costs, allowances and leave, and
accommodation in Haiti for the long-term consultants. It would also include
the firm's overheads, at least two visits per year by supervision personnel
and their accommodation. For short-term consultancies and/or studies, the
management firm, on receipt of the related terms of reference, shall submit a
financial proposal for each assignment, to be accepted by MARNDR and approved
by IDA.
12.         Duties of the Government.  MARNDR shall be responsible for
providing offices and office supplies, support staff, including counterpart
staff, and vehicles for official and personal use of the long-term
consultants. For operational travel outside Port-au-Prince, adequate field
vehicles and drivers shall be provided by MARNDR.



-185-
ANNEX 8
Appendix 4
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
MORESTRY MAD ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
for the Mid-Term Review of the Prolect
1.           Obiectives  The mid-term review would assess the strengths and
weaknesses of the project at mid-point in light of the objectives specified at
appraisal, and draw lessons for project implementation during the remainder of
the financing period. It would be the basis for redirecting project
activities towards the most effective operations, if needed, and for the
design of specific actions geared to resolve major problems and shortfalls, if
any.
2.          Timing and Implementation Arrangements: The mid-term review would
be carried out by external consultants in close collaboration with supervisory
staff from the MARNDR and BME during the first half of the third year of the
project (October 1993 to March 1994). The consultants would be hired by
MARNDR and be independent from the project's management firm.
3.          Scope of the Reviews  The review would compare the achievements
during the start-up period (financed under the PPF) and first two project
years with the expectations and plane set out in the Staff Appraisal Report
and the Legal Documents. The review would include the following ma)or
aspects:
(a)     important changes made in project scope and design after project
effectiveness, and their impact on the original objectives and
agreementsl
(b)     adherence to the original project implementation schedules for
hiring of consultants, implementation of studies and their
recommended follow-up action, procurement of goods, implementation
of civil works, and regulatory or legislative decisions taken;
(c)     effectiveness of the programming, budgeting and reporting
arrangements (quality, comprehensiveness, timing, relevance);
(d)     progress in procurement of civil works, goods and hiring of
consultants;
(e)     comparison of actual expenditures with appraisal estimates, at the
project level, for each major component, and for each category;
(f)     comparison of actual disbursements from the credit with appraisal
expectations;



-186-
Appendix 4
Page 2 of 2
(8)     performance of consultants in terms of quality and quantity of
services provided and impact on project results: (i) project
management firm; (i) individual consultants; (iii) NGO
contractors (agroforestry extension and research, and household
energy); and (iv) external monitornSg agency;
(h)     assessment of the technical and managerial competence of the
Borrower and the overall control exercised on the project;
(1)     fulfillment of legal covenants of the Development Credit
Agreement;
Mj)     assessment of the achievement of institution-building objectives:
(i) quality of project management; (11) changes made to the
organizational structure; (iii) additional functions being carried
out under the project; and (iv) improvements or deterioration of
financial systems, budgetary controls and procedures, accounting,
Inventory controls, plant operation and maintenance, and vehicle
control;
(k)     staff recruitment and training: (i) increase in staff numbers
compared to appraisal estimates; (1) qualifications and
motivation of staff; (iii) salaries and allowances; (iv)
effectiveness of formal and in-service training; and (v) turn-over
of senior and middle management staff; and
(1)     contribution of the expatriates towards the efficient operation of
the project, towards establishing sound management and technical
systems and procedures, and towards developing local management
and technical staff.
4.          Based on the findings from these assessments, recommendations
should be prepared to redirect the project within the given objectives,
reallocate funds, and correct the deficiencies in project implementation.
These recommendations would be presented for review by the Government of Haiti
and the Bank, who will jointly decide on the further steps to be taken. A
partieular focus of the mid-term review would be the pilot program for the
construction of cisterns.



-187-
AHliIL8
Attachment A
Page 1 of 9
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture. Natural Resources and Rural DLXqlopne_=
Mninitere de l'Agriculturs. des Ressources Naturalles et du
Development Rural (MARNDR)
I. General Oroanization
1.          The authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources
and Rural DeveloPment (MARNDR) is based on the Organic Law of November, 1957
and is vested with the Minister of Agriculture, a member of the Council of
Ministers. Under him operates the Disector General of the Ministry who is in
charge of ranging and coordinates the three economic sectors of the Ministry.
that is: Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rurel Development. The General
Directorate itself is laterally strengthen'ed by a technical secretariat, a
Control and Evaluation Entity including the Ministry's Programming Unit and
the Center of Equipment.
2.          Down this line of authority, the technical and administrative
functions are broken down into five "Directorates." They include the
following entitiess
(a)   Directorate of Plan Production;
%b)   Directorate of Animal Productiont
(c)   Directorate of Natural Resources;
(d) Directorate of Rural Development; and
(e)   Directorate of Administration.
Also down the line of authority directly from the office of the "General
Directorate" are four Regional Directors who coordinate the 19 Agricultural
Districts in the country. Each district is intended to be a regional
representation of the Direction Generale and, therefore, mirrors the
Ministry's central structure.
3.          Inadequacles and weaknesses of the existing structure, among them
the limitations Ln qualifLed personnel and operational budget, have, howevo'r,
prevented the distrlcts from fully discharging their duties and
responsLbilties. The relative power of the central directorates causes that
certain functlons such as planning, personnel management, and even
implementation, are sometimes only nominally carried out with the
particLpation of the dlstrict manager. For instance, the services of the
Natural Resources Directorate have remalned particularly strong at the central
offlce level and acqulred a larger influence at the district level, while this



-188-
ANNEX a
Attachment A
Page 2 of 9
is not the case for the services of the Plant Production, Animal Production
and Rural Development directorates. One unfortunate development, for example,
is how the formerly omnipresent dominant agricultural extension service of the
Rural Development Directorate has lost scope and intensity in its activities.
4.          Another factor in the weakening of the agriculture districte is
the proliferation of specific projects financed by bilateral or multilateral
donors. Not willing to rely on the existing structures in the Ministry, some
projects established their own implementing agency, generally separateLy from
official channels, and with their own staff and expatriates enjoying level of
salaries and operating budgets not available to the official agencies of the
ministry of Agriculture. Some of these projects were designed to cover the
entire area of an agricultural district, taking over or duplicating, all the
functions of that district. These development projects, even those
express!vely designed to strengthen the districts, have in fact considerably
weakened the regional structures. In establishing temporarily a privileged
sector of activity, the equilibrium between the traditional activities is
upset and after a brief period of ictorial improvement the whole weakened
structure is left unassisted and non-operational after the completion of the
project, and the exhaustion of project funds
II. Structure and Functions of Each "Directorate"
5 .    (a)   Directorate of Plant Production.  Under the office of the Director
of Plant Production are two services for: (i) food and fruit
crops; and (ii) export and agroindustrial crops.
(b)   Directorate of Animal Production.  Under the office of the
Director of Animal Production are two services for: (i) animal
husbandry; and (ii) animal ht lth. However, plant protection and
animal protection are being handled jointly by a specialized
quarintine unit under the Director General.
(c)   Directorate of Administration.  Under the office of the Director
of Administration are seven services and administrative units for:
(i) budget; (ii) accounting; (iii) purchasing; (iv) supply;
(v) inventory; (vi) garage and transportation; and (vii) a center
for small and heavy equipment.
(d)   DLrectorate of Rural Develooment.  Under the office of the
Director of Rural Development are four services for:
(i) agricultural extension; (Li) rural crafts; (iii) cooperatives
and peasant groups; and (iv) rural youth.



-189-
ANNEX 8
Attachment A
Page 3 of 9
6.          The Directorate of Natural Reaources (DRN), which would be the
main implementing agency of the project, is described in more detail:
7.          Of the three original technical divisions of the former Department
for Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (DARNDR), as the
present Ministry was called when created in 1957, Natural Resources has _-en
the most stable one. The only major change ham been the separation oi the
Mining Service which was set up first as an indeDendent office in the 1980g.
later became a Ministry of its own and was recently placed as Bureau of Mines
and Energy under the Minietry of Public Works Transport and Communications.
Therefore, the Natural Resources division (now a "Directorate") became since
exclusively concerned with renewable natural resources. The current structure
of DRN includees the following services:
(a)   Irrigation and Rural. Enoineerina Service.  Its main dutie-' are to
operate and maintain all public irrigation systems in the
Agricultural Districts. It participates in planning especially of
the small systems, while some of the larger systems are under the
jurisdiction of specialized semi-autonomous regional organization
of the MARNDR, such as ODVA and ODPG with which the service
cooperates. The irrigation and rural engineering service also
assists all entities of the Ministry in the design and planning of
civil engineering and structural work being realized by these
entities, especially in the rural areas.
(b)   The Water Resources Services.  It is a consolidation of the
Meteorological service and the former Hydrology Section of the
former Irrigation Service and primarily concerned with data
collection.
(c)   Watershed Management Service.  Its main duties are:  surveying and
inventory of soil conservation programs and assistance to peasants
in implementing conservation work at the farm level. Water
conservation, especially the construction of cisterns in the rural
area with water scarcity problems. has recently become an
additional focus. Planting of fruit and forest trees are also
being promoted. Seven professionals including those of the Soil
Survey Unit (3) make up the staff of this service at the
headquarters and a total of eight professionals and 40
subprofessionals of this service are spread in the various
districts and projects throughout the country.
(d)   Aauaculture Service.  The main attention of this service is
devoted to promote freshwater shrimps and other high-priced
freshwater species that are of interest to commercial ventures.
Present staff includes four agronomist and a few subprofessionals
that are, however, unable to provide adequate service for the
whole country.



-190-
ANNEX 8
Attachment A
Page 4 of 9
(e)   Marine Fisherieo Servige.  The service is seriously underfunded
and understaffed with only four professionals and six
subprofeseionals working as technicians and unable to carry out
the functions of regulation, statistical control and development
or promotion of marine fisheries.
(f)   Pores  Resourcea Service (SRF).  The service, supported by
previous IDA credit (Cr. 1257-HA) for a Pilot Forestry Project,
has evolved from a technical section of the former Service de
Conservation de Sole et des Forets, which used to deal mostly with
the administration of permits for cutting trees and other controls
to one of the best organized services of the Natural Resources
Directorate. In view of its special importance in project
implementation a complete treatment of this Service is given in
Section III below of this Attachment A. It describes its present
situation, and includes a description of its oxpected role under
the project.
(g)   Environmental Protection Service (SPE).  The main duties of this
relatively new service ares (i) take the necessary steps to
protect endangered plant and animal species as well as valuable
ecosystems; (ii) realize and update baseline studies on natural
resources in order to develop their production potential in
conjunction with environment protection; (iii) recommend areas
where parks and other reserved entities to be protected should be
established; and (iv) recommend, perform or participate in the
realization of environment impact studies of development projects
and regional planning studies of the country. The service is
supposed to be organized in three technical sections: (i) research
and inventory; (ii) preservation of species and natural sites; and
(iii) pollution prevention and protection. The technical
personnel of the service is limited to three agronomists, one of
them being the chief of service and one of them assigned to the La
Visits National Park. Most of the wardens in the existing
national two parks (La Visite and Macaya) are actually being, like
in the past, supervised by the SFR, since this new service has not
yet been given adequate means to operate in the field, nor to
undertake this assigned duties.



- 19 1-
ANmzx 8
Attachment A
Page 5 of 9
III. Oroanization of the Forestrv Regource Service
for Proiect Imolementation
Present Situation
8.          The Forest Resources Service (SRF) is nominally divided into four
sectionss (a) Natural Forest Management; (b) Reforestation and Agroforestry;
(c) Forest Statistics; and (d) Forest Research. An administrative support
staff of approximately 19 members work under the supervision of the SRF Chief.
Each section is supervised by a Section Head who reports directly to the SRF
Chief. With PFN support, the Natural Forest Management Section is primarily
engaged in the management of the Pine Forest Reserve. Three agronomists and
17 technicians are assigned to the Pine Forest, four technicians are assigned
to mangrove areas and one technician to the pine forest areas of northeastern
Haiti. The Reforestation and Agroforestry Section, which la primarily
responsible for the reforestation of four parcels of SRF managed State land,
employs (near the villages of: Cabaret, Colora, Colladare and Jean Rabel) six
agronomists and 14 technicians. The Forest Statistics Section is responsible
for che rontrol of timber harverting and wood product transport, and the
collection of the associated taxes. This section employs three technicians,
30 wood product controllers, and coordinates the work of 60 forestry agents.
These forestry agents work under the direct supervision of the 19 agricultural
districts.
9.          The Protet Forestler National (PFN) primarily strengthened the
Pine Forest Reserve management activities of the Natural Forest Management
Section, and the reforestation research activities of the Forest Research
Section. Program support is thus lacking for the management of natural
forests other than the Pine Forest, and for other types of forestry research
(e.g., agroforestry and semi-arid forest management). The Reforestation and
Agroforestry Section program activity is limited to the PFN supported
reforestation of the above-mentioned four State land parcels. The Forest
Statistics Section was not directly targeted for PFN assistance, the employees
under its supervision receive no significant program support or training, and
the administrative systems remain inadequate. Though programmatically one of
the most active Services in the DRN, the SRF does not provide an effective and
comprehensive response to the extensive and multiple forestry problems of
Haiti.
Obiectives and Strateav
10.         The obiectives of the SRF institutional support program are to:
(a)   establish SRF's overall capacity to supervise, monitor, finance
and evaluate forestry and agroforestry activities, including those
implemented by NGOs, thus building a foundation for larger
forestry development investments in the future;



-192-
ANNEX 8
Attachment A
Page 6 of 9
(b)   increase the wood and agricultural productivity and standard of
living of peoples within and surrounding important forest reserves
to stabilize natural resource utilization;
(c)   enhance the management the Pine Forest Reserve for sustained wood
production and the protection of biodiversity;
(d)   enhance forestry and agroforestry research and initiate pilot
forest management programs on State owned semi-arid forest and
savanna lands to learn of what social and technical interventions
are required to make these lands more productive;
(e)   create new forestry reserves on State lands with a forestry
vocation, with a goal to improve the productivity of the lands and
increase the supply of wood products to urban markets;
(f)   enhance the administrative capabilities of the SRF including the
fiscalization of the wood product taxes and land rents from the
SRF managed Reserve lands; and
(g)   develop the Reforestati3n and Agroforestry Section as an
Institution which provides technical assistance and personnel
support to agroforestry extension efforts lad by the SRF and
implemented exther directly or indirectly through NGOs.
11.         General Strateav.   The Forestry and Environmental Protection
Project (FEPP) would izitervene at the head and section level of the SRF. The
SRF Chief would be supported with long-term technical and administrative
assistance. Each of the SRF's four sectione would be responsible for the
direct implementation of certain project activities.   These sections would be
supported with short-term technical assistants and substantial training
opportunities. The provieion of agroforestry services to farmers living in
and near protected ecosystems would be contracted to qualified NGOs whose work
would be supervised and evaluated by the Reforestation and Agroforestry
Section.
Proiect Components
A. Institutional Development of the Forest Resources Service
12.         Internal Evaluation and Planning.  The SRF would conduct annual
internal evaluation and planning sessions in which all of the professional
staff would participate. This process would take place prior to the end of
each fiscal year and result in detailed Section and Service program plans for
the proximate fiscal year. The process would be initiated at the Section
level where all Section employees would participate. Upon completion of that
initial round, the senior staff (including Section Heads, service Chief and
technical assistants) would convene to evaluate and program the activities of



-193-
ANNX 8
Attachment A
Page 7 of 9
the entire Service. The Section evaluations and plans would serve as the
point of departure for this Service session. Each session would be conducted
in a participatory fashion and led by an independent, professional group
facilitator. The groups would initially evaluate past performance,
identifying program strengths and weakneeses. Special effort would be devoted
to understanding the specific causes of both the program weaknesses and
exceptional strengtho. The group would then set the goals and objectives for
the proximate year, and follow with descriptions of separate programs. After
completion, the Section Heads would revise their Section plans accordingly,
and the SRF Chief would write the SRF evaluation and plan. A program
monitoring system would be followed-up to register progress.
13.         Training.  Training events would be conducted for all personnel
within the SRF. This training would include periodic events such as annual
technical retreats for each personnel rank and in-service training;
occasional training such as special short courses, graduate scholarships for
experienced agronomists, and the formal preparation of new agroforestry
technicians. The training component is deecribed in detail in Annex 7.
14.         Administrative Systems.   Improved administrative systems would be
initiated. These would include the fiscalization of the tax funds collected
through the Forest Statistics Section (the Special Reforestation Fund), and
the land rents collected in the forest reserve areas. New computer systems
would be installed to assist in this effort. Improved tax collection systems
would also be initiated in the effort to improve SRF revenues (see para. 9 of
Annex 8).
B. Forest Statistics Section
15.         The responsibilities of this Section would be expanded from the
control of wood products and the collection of taxes, to include the
coordination of all forestry protective functions. Thus, in addition to
supervising the forestry agents and wood product controllers, the Head of this
Section would coordinate the work of the forest rangers and the military
forest guards. The purpose of this change is to centralize the control and
protective functions and facilitate the imple,enntation of coherent policies
and programs. The Pine Forest Reserve ranger supervisor then would report to
the Head, and it is the Head of this Section who would liaise with the
appropriate army officer responsible for the deployment of the forest guards.
16.         Personnel and folest
(a)   Technician.  The section would employ one technician in the
central office to assist the Section Head in the collection of
data and the coordination of the agent and controller ranks;



-194-
ANNEX 
Attachment A
Page 8 of 9
(b) Forestry Agents. These 60 personnel would continue to be directly
supervised by the separate agricultural districts. Their primary
role would continue to consist of regulating the harvest of timber
and issuing transport papers. They would receive training on
regulation an well as other fundamental topics (as described in
Annex 7).
(c) Wood Product Controllers. The duties of these 30 personnel, who
largely are responsible for the collection of wood product taxes.
would not change under the project. These personnel would receive
training to improve their performance (as described in Annex 7).
(d) Forest Rangers. These personnel would be charged with the
protection of the forest reserves, the majority of who would work
in the Pine Forest Reserve under the ranger supervisor. New
rangers would be hired and trained as new forest reserves are
identified and established. These personnel would receive
training (as described in Annex 7).
(e) Ranger Supervisor. This individual would be assigned to the Pine
Forest Reserve and would be supervised in the field by the Pine
Forest Reserve forester. He would supervise the rangers and
ensure active cooperation with the locally stationed military
forestry guards.
(f) Military Forestry Guards. These personnel, who are assigned to
the Pine Forest Reserve. would report directly to the ranger
supervisor. They would man the official checkpoints located at
various sites in the Pine Forest Reserve.
C. Reforestation and Aaroforestrv Section
17.         Aaroforestrv SuvDort.  The project would assist the Reforestation
and Agroforestry Section in becoming an effective leader and promoter of
agroforestry extension in Haiti. This role could eventually entail direct
technical assistance through the agricultural districts, the contracting of
agroforestry extension to qualified NG0s. and possibly the creation of a
nation-wide agroforestry extension service directly implemented by the
Section. In order to achieve the above goal, Section foresters (six) require
additional technical agroforestry, and project management experience. As the
SRF does not directly implement agroforestry projects (and direct
implementation is not proposed in the project), the six agronomists assigned
to this Section would be seconded to other institutions currently implementing
agroforestry projects. These could include the NGOs which receive contracts
for the extension of agroforestry services (see below).



-195-
Attachment A
Page 9 of 9
18.         Aoroforeatrv Extension in National Parks and Reserves.
Agroforestry extension projects would be implemented by contractod NGO0 within
and adjacent to the Pic Macaya and La Visite national parks, the Pine Forest
Reserve, and in the upper elevations of the Belle Anse area. The purpose of
these projects would be to develop a partnership between local peasants and
the responsible Government agency which increases the overall productivity and
ensures protection of the special zones. These projects are described in
detail in Annex 5.
D. Aatural Forest Manaaement Section
19.         Management of the Pine Forest Reserve.  The project would continue
and strengthen the Pine Forest management activities conducted during the PFN.
The purpose of this component is to develop the Pine Forest Reserve as a
substantial producer of timber and wood products in Haiti. These activities
are described in detail in Annex 3.
20.         Creation of New Forest Reserves.  The Natural Forest Management
Section is nominally responsible for the proper management of all natural
forests on State lands assigned to Ministry of Agriculture. To date, the Pine
Forest Reserve is the only natural forest which is managed by the SRF. The
SPE would identify, inventory and delineate new forestry reserves. The lawyer
within the DRN would assure the legal transfer of title to the Ministry of
Agriculture. These reserves would form a public, forestry domain which would
be managed by this Section for the production of wood products. This
management would result in both the protection of natural ecosystems but also
the export of wood products to urban centers.
E. Forestry Research Section:
21.         Towards the production of critical technical and social
information which would permit large-scale forestry development in the future;
the project would support substantial agroforestry, pine forest management,
semi-arid forest management, and savanna reforestation research. These
activities are described in Annex 4.



ANNEX 8
-196-                       Attachment B
Page 1 of 2
MAIII
FORESTRY A-4D ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
The Financing of the Agricultural Sector
MARND'A'a Budaet
1.        Since the beginning of the 1980., the operational budget of the
MARNDR has represented about 6% of the total Government Operational Budget.
The Government's operational budget has nearly doubled during the 1980s, from
US$112.0 million in 1980/81 to US$216.0 million for 1989/90, and MARNDR's
share went up from US$6.7 million to US$12.6 million, or an even 6%.
2.        Of the US$12.6 million allocated to MARNDR in 1989/90,
US$1.3 million were for the Faculty of Agriculture and other educational
facilities, and another US$3.4 million were earmarked as contributions to
various on-going foreign-funded projects implemented by ODVA, ODPG, ODN, ODNO,
etc. The remaining US$9.2 million represents MARNDR's operating budget for
1989/90, and is distributed as follows:
USS million                I
Salaries                   8.9                      96.4
Transport and vehicle
operation                 0.1                       1.4
Rent of premises           0.2                       2-1
-9.2                     100
3.        Table 1 of this Attachment B shows the number of staff who received
salaries during the 1989/90 budget year, and Table 2 the value of these
salaries per month. As can been seen in para. 2 above, there are enough funds
to pay for salaries, but MARNDR staff are paralysed by lack of operational
funds. This situation has been going on since 1986 and the Ministry cannot
deliver the services it is supposed to. Of the total staff of 2,359 at the
Ministry, 1,029 were stationed at headquarters in Damien, and rarely went into
the field. And the other half which were scattered in the 19 Agricultural
Districts, could not move because of lack of petrol, spare parts, etc. Field
visits are at a minimum, and direct assistance to farmers is extremely
limited.
Aaricultural Investments
4.        The 1989/90 investment budget for the agricultural sector (Table 3
of this Attachment B) consists of a lst of information requested from the
various donors or lenders, and does not indicate an implementation schedule.
Usually, only about 30% of the total indicated in such tables have been
carried out.



-197-
Attachment 8
Page 2 of 2
5.        The 1989/90 investment budget in the agricultural sector amounted
to G 176.2 million (US$35.20 million) of which only USS2.4 million represented
Government's contribution as followa:
USS million         I
Government's nontribution                2.4             7
PL 480 Funds (US AID)                    4.1            12
Fo-reian donora
Bilateral :d   (US$10.4 m)
Multilateral    (URS17.s ml             27.9            79
others                                   0.8            _
Total                                12.2           100
While the above table indLcates 'hat foreign funds represent the bulk of
investment financing (9.), it is not complete as it does not include a large
number of agricultural sector operations that are carried out directly by
donors or though NGOs. An estimatb of the cost of these operations puts the
figure at between US$10 and 15 mi'lion; with a large part of this amount is
used for operating expenses.



-198-
ANNEX 8
Attachment B
HAITI                     Table 1
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTCCTION PROJECT
Staffing of &ARNDR
Estabilhment 1989/90
CAT     CAT      CAT      CAT
A       8        C        D    Tmporarles  Total
Minister** Cabinet             8        2       1S       14           4       41
Direction C-nerale            48        C       SO       76          28      201
Natural Resources
Directorate                  6s       18       S8       41           9      188
Rural Development
Directorate                  26        9       73       42           6      164
Animal Production
Directorate                  14        6       22       15           2       59
Agricultural
Production Directorate       22        2       16       11           1       62
Administratton                12        8       90      196          80      s88
_                - - ---- - -  ---   - - - - - - - - - - - -   _            
Subtotal               194       46      822      894          74    1029
__ ----------________---------__-_-___--__-__-_--------
Departments:
Artibonite                 28        1       48       41          12      128
South East                 18        4       46       46           8      121
North Wost                 18        6       26       22           7       78
West                       42        7       78      180          18      276
South                      18        4       as       85           7      100
North                      29        2       87       80          1S    lS
North East                 10        1       16       12           7       48
Grande Anse                19        2       88       29          10       96
Center                     21        2       46       28          10      106
Seconded                   77       11       67       77          40      270
-------_------------------...-------------------------------
Subtotal               276       89      425      449          142    1830
Total                  489       84      747      848         218    2869



-199-
ANNEX 8
Attachmnt B
HAITI                     Table 2
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
-----.-----------------_---------------------
Staffing of MARNOR
Salarles (GOG'O) Monthly
CAT      CAT     CAT      CAT
A       B        C        0     Temporarles  Total
-----------------------------------------------------------__----------------__----
Minister's Cabinet          U6.0      6.0    81.1    18.8        41.6       147.5
Direction Generale         199.0    18.6    71.2    61.4         88.1       878.8
Natural Resources
Directorate               218.2    19.4    78.0    86.4         16.6       857.6
Rural Development
Directorate                90.6    14.6    90.8    28.6          4.2       2a3.7
Animal Production
Directorate                64.8    12.6    26.6    11.0          9.0       123.7
Agricultural
Production Directorate     81.0      4.6    19.2       6.9       1.0       118.7
Administration              62.8    2 .7   145.1   150.8         28.8       408.0
---------------------_---------------------..----------
Subtotal              760.8    90.7   467.0   294.7    188.7         1747.4
Dopartments:
Artibonite               86.8      0.9    42.4    27.9        11.1       168.1
South East               66.0       6.0    89.9    29.2        5.9       138.0
North West               40.8      6.0    22.0    14.5         6.8        90.1
West                    128.6    12.6    79.8    90.7         17.6        82.4
South                    67.6      6.7    84.6    24.6         8.8       140.8
North                    78.6      8.1    86.5    19.8        14.3       160.8
North East               87.5      0.9    14.1       7.7       6.8        65.6
Grands Anse              64.8      6.2    88.0    20.8        10.4       129.2
Center                   72.8      8.2    89.2    17.2         8.8       140.7
Seconded                 248.0    21.9    65.2    68.7        38.1       474.9
Subtotal             861.6    65.4   410.6   805.0   1768.0          1819.1
Total               1628.1   166.1  867.6   599.7    816.0           866.6



DiRkctl(Al POOTION, EVALUIFIN El somsioN DES FRWLIS
NOBUK DlitmsTlss"   INLIC                                                                   23-Feb V
19W  - 1990                                                                   HASIER4
'ICHOR. AMICULTM
Unint eu 000. Mes.
MJEIS to cm                                                  Rfssi.W s NATIVAES                               I    Ef"WaCES EXICRKS :  TOIAI
------------------ - -------------------------- - ------ ------------------- :------ ------------
C.,*r    IJTK                                            Zi-VECES    10M ISMiJEFS61 ;PL-480 RL-440 s' MID-.. AUIRES ; TOTAL  MAILMA;FILATE.: TOTAL  I NtIL--. 9 s
Sr-Into SECTER                                        FIKAKfKNT  ID'EXECO. Mlit IC   I.-If IT.-III lfklffiF: RESS. fRes.11fiel'                                 [it;.
nameLf (AGRIMRK)                                                UZI    6750 : 13593          j    4M       $04                       13M        17t,! 4c.
-------- - - -  ------------------------------ - --- --------- --------               ------- 11 - - ----- --           ........                  -------
t' 1 P3  ARENASM I PiAlirL K  i ALLE                       iAe         am             a       001     0                 0        0                       25M         !.,a
.110c.  DIV.WA. SIAAGW    - 0011                           Fac        am                      0I      0                0         0             j.*       1200       I
1i fet,  RM ILHATIO11 SVSI. IUIU. ARM K               t1i7fif heITF    MM                     0       0                 0      325                      55933
UMRIIATION lOFiTIS NATIOVAES                   rAi112D        MM                     0       91       A        0      29i    likk-        0     If4p, 1
KPLLRMT PWIN                                      Fib         AUM                    a I 29M          a        0   29W   ;5fj1j           0   rA           ja4W
GIV49   CIEUION O'EMOIS SICTFN  ANIVATtff                            I NM I           0       0 I, 6750                 0     67W                 ti        0       .:So
Oifu    Mm ile  CAR-W                                                 UBW            6    1000 I      0i                0     1000                0         a        1000 11:
w4s winui.cuum vivatitE (tievirum                        riM/TP    WM               -A        0    0                    0    m   MAIO    0  lm                      !"Sc
QIV43 NMURAL K 51.110MIL                                 R/I&A         MM           'j)    0          0                 0    m                 ,Am    M:
"i 1 -141   MTFCTIeN KS cm 11,11,11S                                                                                    0 I    loo I      a       0
L116    tm ilm  FIM Ilkiii viniftE                         IF         um                   IO11O      0                 0     1500 I      u       a         0
'111;4   FM IIN  neK  Allishm E                            fAti        KUM                    0       0                0         0   10fe)z       0    TOM         INNI.,
AM-3   6.D.F.S.                                            ip         MM           11M        0       0                 0     lloo        is      0         0        T i;,M -1:
0: i.%'  I Kw. Awleetr           BE L'Allitaig          .,-,AIFAC     du=                     0     100 I            "AG      4tA    12--c        0    IW           %. I "; :
tssi;!  AIIIIAS.BASSINS WOMIS FLEW    All.                 Fl         MM                      0     )a         0       0       130                a         0         i3a
0030   ANNAMIENTIONS S61111. D'lM6AIlfA                    rL         MM             0    2000:       0                0      2WO                 0         0        ,L",v
it! 4'M,   AWNW.IAS VERS. LA 4UIWE - SATAKIM.'   10"M                 RAMN          -1,'K     0       0                        to                 0         0         W.
UW3   k[gaiLl. Still FERIKIRE ikeisms                   FIPAJIP       MM           Y0         0 61    0 11     A       0       SW
iki-MilM  El SMH ARIPAF                           .1        I MMI          .-t       0 I                                                  a        0
r14   CW1901.1 &VILL[ iO ML                             4, a        UM                     0                                                          50          5;,7
Oil-112   NV. REGINK  [SURE giv. KAM                  m"fa-Allp    um               (fq            19:        u       0       "7    622t)        6      6 M.       y
kill   BEV. BEGINK  liNuE ASILE                       IN/al/lp        "WI          Job        0    Ise                 0      15105   124W        0    12450       W..
Xi:6   iM AIIATION TEM              D'IFAI                 if         Ka a         I-M  I    0        0        0       0       (a         0       0         0        #01
1&11  ELVELQFKM           to   11                      U-Al T?     I NAkKK        -,2o,      0 s'    0 I      u       0 Is  126 11  m            0 11  in   t,     M         1:
OH87  MFK4ffM  IMINS VERSMIS                               TP        I um            -i  15M          0        0       0   Iwo 11                 0         0       Jdv
OM      KVELOfffNM    BE L'AWAULTURE                    PM/I?    . am              m          0       0        0       0       200 :  1524        0     1524        1,124
DIVOS   M    PLATEAU CMiK                                 611                      SW         a       0        a       0       350 10    0    1000      1000        13M
OIM     Gf' .1 101 KS tEriM    S EN EAU               MIDIFACITP    RAM            400        0       0 1      0       O       400 I  25;O        a     2m          743n
DIPOS   ADS If (KV. AGAI.)                                Ft          MM             0        0    1512        0       0      1512       0        0        0        lst,
MM      Ky. BEGIOUL 11"f6a  JEUNIF                      CIEITP        MM           SW  s      P 1     0 I      0       0       so     51W  I,     a 11  31M         425D 8,                                                        >
CIPOI   IMIALLASION EQUIFMKI NEIR-261.061GUE          CE-1141II/T?    MM           SW         0       0        0       0       SW     6%,               6SOO        7 M                                                            rt
,1414                                                                                                                                                                                                                             rt
AKLIM195EIGIIE. MiEN IT WjUTIOIKL                 it          UM           450       6       0        0        0      iso        0                 0:       4so
aiAiz   CFNTK  u  RECREWE & u  DEV. AGRICOLE               IF         am           3m         0       0       0        0       0         0        0 I      0         300
OIAID   b(IN OILS AWCOLES                                emu        I uma            0        6       0 i      0       0         0       0      450 11   450         450
OJAO9   t AFFUI A Li UltilSE PRUM    KV.IURA.             fAt       :MM              0        0       0        0    ISM       IWO        0    1259 1   1150         2 M    11,
OW   AUKU111101 POW. ALDWAIRE                            Jew    IMM   I   0    0    0    0    0                                  0    0  PI 31   ml    ml :11
OIA06   oral TICII.AIMMAJISSINS VERM S                                MM       I    0    1250         0        0       0      1250       0        0         0       im    N
11     Is
..................... I----------
.................................. ?.....
I : Projets fiomm to coatreWlit sur ftires lessources pa I'Aide fiuKiere ftjaaise en Devises



-201-
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 9
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Household Enerav Conservat4on Subtoroject
I. Intr duction ard Backggound
1. *This description of the Household Energy Conservation Subproject
is divided into four sections: (a) an introduction which provldes background
on the relationship between forest products and charcoal use, the structure of
demand for charcoal, Haitian cooking habits and cooking equipment, and
existing institutions and efforts seeking to conserve cooking energy; (b) the
rationale for undertaking a cooking efficiency program within the context of
the Forestry and Environmental Protection Project (FEPP), along with
objectivee for the subproject; (c) a scope of work which describes the
ccmponents of the subproject: new product development, artisanal training.
public relations/education campaign, and monitoring; and (d) a management
section which outlines institutional arrangements, the statue of the sub-
project within the FEPP, an implementation schedule and a budget. In
addition, annexes provide projected results, financial and economic cost-
benefit analyses, and technical data on cookstovesY
2.          Forest Products and Enerav Demand.  The most important source of
energy in Haiti is woodfuel (firewood and charcoal) which, in 1989. accounted
for over three-quarters of the 1.4 million tons of oil equivalent (TOE)
conaumed rationally by all sectors of the economy.  In 1990, it is estimated
that consumers will use 300.000 tons of charcoal and 2.3 million tons of wood.
In wood-equivalent terms, this amounts to 3.8 million tons of air-dry wood, or
5.4 million m3. The majority of firewood consists of dead wood, pollarded
branches and brushwood collected by rural dwellers, while charcoal is
primarily produced from clear-cut green wood and small-diameter fallow shrubs.
This demand for wood energy, especially for charcoal, is one of the driving
force behind the unsustainable consumption of forest resources in Haiti, along
with the fact that charcoal production is an important source of rural income.
If current demand trends continue unabated, analyses indica'e that national
woody biomass resources could be theoretically depleted in the next fifteen
years.
Unless otherwise noted, data used in this paper come from previous
FEPP reports prepared by Messrs. Leitmann (November 1989) and
Feinstein (April 1990). and the draft World Bank/UNDP ESMAP Energy
strategy for Households and Small Enterprises (June 1990).



-202-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of i
3.          Thg Structure of Char6oal Demand.  Becauoe the supply and demand
of charcoal has beea isolated as a major cause of deforestation, this analysis
will focus on carbonized wood, as opposed to firewood consumption. Two-thirds
of charcoal demand iu; accounted for by households, with the remainder being
consumed by the informal sector, primarily by sellers of Izanje kwlt"
(roadside fast food). Spatially, charcoal use lo an urban phenomenon: in
1990, it is estimated that 200,000 tons will be used in Port-au-Prince
(160,000 tons by households and 40,000 tons by the informal sector), and
another 100,000 tons will be consumed in secondary cities (80,000 tons
households. 20,000 tons informal sector). Thus, less than one quarter of the
Haitian population consumes 1.5 million tons of wood-equivalent annuallv, or
40% of all wood energy used throughout the country.
4.          gooking Habits and REuinment.  In Port-au-Prince, charcoal is used
as a cooking fuel by 92% of all households, with 62% using it as their sole
source of cooking energy and 20% of all residences consuming charcoal as their
principal cooking fuel. Charcoal ia the dominant cooking fuel for all socio-
economic groups except for the wealthiest quintile, where only 41% of
households use it as their exclusive or principal sourca o} cooking energy.
Averaged over the population of the capital, estimated daily charcoal
consumption ranges between 0.36 and 0.42 kg per person. In addition to
households, there are approximately 20,000 sellers of "manje kwit" i.l .ort-au-
Prince, or 1 per 8 households, and a similar ratio in secondary cities. This
informal sector activity accounts for about 20% of urban charcoal demand.
Households use two types of charcoal cooktovos: (a) the 'recho rond," a
circular metal stove (diameter: 20 cm) jriced at around G 2; and (b) the
"recho potaje," a two- or three-burner elevated metal stove costing G 15-20.
Informal sector food vendors generally use a larger version of the recho rond
(diameter: 30 cm) which sells for G 3-5. Most of these stoves are made from
recycled metal by informal sector artisans. The recho rond is produced by an
estimated 200 stovemakers in the capital (100 in the secondary cities) while
the recho potaje is made by ironworkers.
5.          Inotitutions and Proarams.  The Direction des Ressources
Energetiques of the Bureau des Mines et de l'Energie (BME) in the Ministere
des Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications has been primarily
responsible for cooking efficiency programs during the 1980s, in cooperation
with international donors and NGOs. Past and present efforts have consisted
of:
(a)   an improved cookstove component financed by the Canadian
ICRD under the IDA-supported Projet Forestier National.
Between 1983 and 1986, this US$90,000 activity resulted in
training. establiohment of a 3tove-testing laboratory,
surveys, and production of an improved recho rond prototype
(hereafter called the BME model);
(b)   an ongoing ILO-supported program to train artisans in Jacmel
and Grisgris to produce BME stoves;



-203-
Page 3 of 9
(c)   starting in 1989, an AFVP (French volunteers organization)
effort which hoo trained ten stovemakers to make elevated
and standard versions of the BME stove made of recvcled
metal for food vendorsl
(d)   a US$15,000 BME effort, begun in 1989 with support from
OLADE, for the pilot dissemination of the improved recho
rond. Three workshops have employed six artisane to produce
400 stoves made of new metal in the capital. Between
February and June, 1990, 50 have been Bold to different
households whose reactions are being monitored; and
(e)   a small Swiss NGO, REDI, has been active in 1989/90 installing an
efficient wood and charcoal-burning stove in several restaurants
and institutional kitchens.
Over seven years, these efforts have cost about Us$120,000 and resulted in the
dissemination of only 600 improved stoves. Some lessons learned include:
(a) the BME model is acceptable to consumers and yields theoretical charcoal
savings of 30% over the traditional recho rond (20-25% in practice); (b) the
AFVP approach of using recycled metal and individual artisans results in a
more affordable product than the BME system relying on new metal and workshops
(G 4 per stove versus G 7); and (c) a mass dissemination effort, with large-
scale training and a professional public relations campaign, is needed if
improved stoves are to achieve significant market penetraAion.
''. Rationale and Obiectiveo
6.          Energy-driven deforestation in Haiti can be addressed in three
ways: by increasing the supply of woody biomass with reforestation and better
management of the natural forest cover, through accelerated switching from
woodfuel to petroleum products, and from energy conservation. The forestry
and environmental components of the project will address the supply and
management option. Distortions in the substitute fuel market (monopoly rents,
inequitable taxation of fuels and equipment) cannot be resolved within the
context of a forestry project. Market tests suggest that, even with fuel
switching to LPG and kerosene, 60% of urban households will continue to cook
with charcoal. Thus, if the FEPP is to take a comprehensive approach to
protecting national forest resources, it must address both the supply and
demand sides. The most promising means of pronoting energy conservation
amongst urbanites, i.e., reducing the most environmentally-damaging form of
woodf3el demand, is by a cooking efficiency program aimed at lowering
household and informal sector consumption of charcoal. This will entail
large-scale private sector production of improved cookstoves, couipled with
changes in cooking habits.
7.          The objective of this subproject is to achieve a 10% reductlon in
charcoal demand at the end of the project (1997) by encouraging improved stove



-204-
ANEX9
Page 4 of 9
uae by half of the urban households nationwide that will continue to cook with
charcoal. In designing the subproject, the following guiding principles are
retained:
(a)   the deaLgn and promotLon of stoves ia targeted to satisfy useros
needs (convenience, affordabllity, durability, etc.);
(b)   maximum use La made of the private sector for stove
production and marketing, and NGOs for training and
monitoring;
(c)   diversity is encouraged in both the production process and
types of products offered to consumers; and
(d)   aside from needed training and marketing support, no subsLdy
is made to producers or consumers of improved stoves.
8.          The expected outputs of the subproject are as follows:
(a)   a total of 2109000 improved stoves disseminated over the
period 1991-1996. with a peak dissemination rate of 68,000
stoves per year reached in 1996;
(b)   cumulative savings of 41.000 tons of charcoal between 1991
and 1996, reaching 10% of total urban household charcoal
consumption in 1996;
(c)   a stove production network of over 150 trained artisans
marketing their output independently and through established
stove retailers;
(d)   a public education and promotion campaign to encourage
consumers to use improved stoves and adopt energy-conserving
behavior; and
(e)   a monitoring program to maintain stove quality and evaluate
actual charcoal savings and other benefLts.
These outputs are conservatively based on the assumption that distortions in
the substitute fuel market will be reduced and fuel switching will accelerate.
If this does not occur, then the subproject should reach a larger target
market.
III. Scope of Work
9.          The Household Energy Conservation Subproject consiets of four
coordinated components: (a) new product development; (b) artieanal training;



-205-
P.NNEX 9
Page 5 of 9
(c) a public relations and education campaign; and (d) monitoring and
evaluation of results. A brief description of each component is presented
below. An implementation schedule and budget covering all four components are
presented in the following section.
10.         New Product DeveloDment.  As previously mentioned, an acceptable
improved recho rond has been developed by the BME and is undergoing pilot
dissemination. Market studies indicat, that 60% of households in Port-au-
Prince are currently using the traditional recho rond. However, another 22%
of families use the traditional recho potaje; to date, no improved potaje has
been developed. Therefore, if the full market of charcoal consumers is to be
reached through a conservation program, an improved model of the recho potaje
should be developed which can be manufactured through the existing production
system, conserves energy, is cost effective and is acceptable to the consumer.
11.         To develop this new product, the following steps would be taken:
(a)   efficiency testing (boiling and specific consumption) of the
recho potaje, and evaluation of the artisanal production
system;
(b)   development of a prototype improved potaje, working with one
or more artisans to design a model which can be produced by
existing ironworkers with local materials at an affordable
price;
(c)   production of 50 improved potajes for sale to households
and/or food vendors and monitoring of these users to
evaluate whether the stove is acceptable to consumers and to
estimate actual efficiency gains from its use; and
(d)   re-design of the prototype, if necessary, based on results
of the consumer acceptability testing, to produce a
marketable model.
This work will be carried out by existing staff at the BME, with the short-
term technical assistance of an internationally recruited Cookstove Expert.
Some upgrading of the BME stove testing laboratory will be required.
12.         Artisanal Traininq.  Four groups of artisans will undergo training
in the construction and marketing of improved stoves: (i) stovemakers in
Port-au-Prince (estimated totelt 200) who produce the recho rond; (ii)
ironworkers in Port-au-Prince who make the recho potaje (70); (iii)
stovemakers in the secondary cities (100); and (iv) ironworkers in the
secondary cities (35). For the purposes of this subproject, secondary cities
include Cap-Haitien, Gonaives, Les Cayes and Port-de-Paix.
13.         Training will consist of a one-week course covering basic
thermodynamics, the economic and environmental rationale for household energy
conservation, design of the improved stove model, production techniques, an
outline of the public relations/education campaign, marketing methods for



-206-
ANNEX9
Page 6 of 9
artieans to lncrease saleo to retailers and consumers, and feedback from the
participants. During the course, artisans will receive a per diem to
compensate them for lost productlon time. Participants who successfully
complete the course will receive a tool kit, templates for cutting the metal
pieces of the improved atove, fifty quallty control stickers (see "Monitoring
and Evaluation" below), and a graduation certificate.
14.         A local NGO would be contracted to conduct the training sessions
and recruLt participants. The Cooketove Expert would assist with the design
and implementation of the first sessions. The first course would be designed
for 25 stovemakere from Port-au-Prince, plus five trainers (two from Cap-
Haitien and one each from the other cities), and would focus on production of
the 20 and 30 cm improved recho rond. Artisans would have several incentives
to participate in the training: free technical assistance, receipt of a tool
kit and templates, free advertising for a new product, and inclusion in the
quality control system. It is anticipated that half of the stovemakers and
ironworkers in the capital and secondary cities will eventually go through the
training course. All training would stress the use of recycled materials
because of their availability and lower cost.
15.         Publicity and Education CamDaians.  A local public relations firm
would be contracted to undertake programs to educate the public about the
linkage between charcoal consumption and environmental degradation, and to
market the improved recho models to households and food vendors. The
objectives of these campaigns would be tos (a) heighten environmental
awareness; (b) stress the practical advantages of the stoves (charcoal
savings, faster cooking time, greater control over heat output, longer
lifetime than traditional model); (c) emphasize, in simple terms, the concept
of a "payback period where the marginally higher cost of improved stoves is
quickly made up in reduced charcoal consumption. e.g., by visually depicting
that each  mproved stove saves the user three sacks of charcoal per year (see
Appendix 2 Economic and Financial Returns); and (d) promote other means of
reducing hcusehold consumption of charcoal, e.g., soaking beans overnight
prior to c(oking them, using a lid with cooking pots, use of aluminum pots and
pans, etc.
16.         These campaigne have been instrumental in stimulating improved
cookstove emand in a number of recent successful projects, notably those in
Kenya (the Jiko stoves), Niger (the Mai Sauki in Niger) and Rwanda (Kigali).
Some of tht promotional techniques which merit inclusion in the Haitian effort
include:
neighborhood demonstrations, with skits, music and cooking
competitions, to demonstrate the advantages of the improved
product;
billboards which inform consumers about the existence and benefits
of the new products;



-207-
ANN4EX 9
Page 7 of 9
-     a contest among music groups to produce an improved stove song.
and a competition in schools to develop a name or logo for the
improved recho rond and potaje;
-     TV and radio spots which make use of the song and logo;
-     t-shirts and decals; and
-     a van with loudspeakers to visit neighborhoods, provide quick
demonstrations of the new products and inform consumers where they
can be purchased.
These techniques will be geared to selected consumer target groups.
implemented in a multi-phase campaign with an interim evaluation and re-
design.
17.         Xonjiorina and Evaluation.  A NGO will be contracted to undertake
a variety of follow-up activities with the primary objective of ensuring that
the subproject's goal of increasing household cooking efficiency is attained.
Specific monitoring and evaluation tasks include:
(a)   an initial consumer survey, conducted four months after the
beginning of stove sales and the promotion campaign to
assess whethert (i) the product is responding to user
needs; (ii) the improved stove is being used properly; and
(iii) other efficiency improvement measures included in the
public education campaign are being adopted. This will
entail interviewing 100-150 households which have purchased
the new product. This sample will be drawn from a list of
purchasers which the NGO will be responsible for maintaining
through regular visits to artisans;
(b)   undertaking quality control spot-checks by periodically
visiting all producers of the new stoves, randomly selecting
several stoves from their stock and using a checklist to
assess whether a bonafide improved model is being produced.
If the arti an passes this inspection, (s)he will receive up
to fifty n   -uality control stickers to attach to future
stoves.  At. _nspector from the NGO will visit the artisans
who received training every two months to conduct the
quality control and, at the same time, collect data on stove
sales and purchasers. "Copy-cat" artisans who did not go
through training but who are producing imitations of the
improved product can alsc itquest inspections and, if their
stoves pass, will be eligible to receive the stickers.
Stove producers who sell more t' n fifty stoves every two
months can visit the NGO or request a supplemental
inspection in order to receive more labels;



-208-
ANNE-X 9
Page 8 of 9
(c) through its regular visits to artisans, the NGO will keep
data on stove production, sales and selling prices over
time. This information will be compiled in a quarterly
report which will be made available to the BME. the co-
financing agency, the NOo responsible for training, and the
public relations firm; and
(d) at the mid-term (end-1992) and at the conclusion of the sub-
project (mid-1994), the NOO will prepare an evaluation
report which will estimate total charcoal savings (in
physical and monetary terms) due to use of the improved
product, as well as other benefits, i.e., reduced
expenditure on cooking equipment due to the stove'w longer
lifetime. These reports would be based on a two-week
program of weighing cooking fuels and interviewing stove
users. A representative sample would be drawn from the
lists of purchasers in the capital and the secondary cities
such that results will be statistically valid at the 95%
confidence level. These reports will also provide data on
the percentage of improved stove users who switch, either
back to traditional cooking equipment or to petroleum
products, and the reasons why they did so.
IV. MANAGEMENT OF THE SUBPROJECT
18.         This section covers a number of managerial issuess
Ci) identification and listing of the responsibilities of the key subproject
counterpart; (ii) institutional support to the counterpart; (iii) an
implementation schedule; and (iv) a budget.
19.         The Countornart.  The BME's Direction des Ressources Energetiques
will implement the subproject with support from ESMAP, the UNDP/World
Bank/bilateral donor supported Energy Sector Management Assistance Program, or
a management firm. The BME will name a staff member whose qualifications are
acceptable to IDA to serve fulltime as Conservation Coordinator. The
Coordinator, along with other 8HE and Government staff as necessary, will be
responsible for:
(a)   assessing the capabilities and interest of relevant NGOs and
public relations firms to define a short list that will be
asked to bid for the training, publicity and monitoring
contracts;
(b) preparing and conducting the call for bids, evaluating the
bids and selecting competent subcontractors;
(c) executing specific contracts with two NGOO and one public
relations firm, including the detailed nature and timetable
of activities, and expected outputs;



-209-
ANNEX 9
Page 9 of 9
(d)   reorienting the program and renegotiating existing
contracts, as necessitated in yearly reviews; and
(e)   carrying out mid-term and terminal evaluations of the sub-
project. using, Inte_a.lia, results of the monitoring sub-
contractor's raports.
20.         BME staff will also be involved in the new product development,
particularly in potaje testing. For this, they will work closely with the
Cookstove Expert who will undertake a short-term consultancy of three months.
Other existing BME staff who will be involved in the program are: the Director
of Energy Resources (10% of his time); and a survey specialist (33% time) and
statistician (33% time) to work with the monitoring NGO. Newly recruited
staff would be: an administrative assistant to help with report preparation
and supervision of subcontractors, an energy economist (50% time; see below)
who would monitor stove sales and market prices, as well as charcoal sales
(based on a weighing program) and price structures, and a driver.
21.         Institutional Sunoort.  To develop its institutional capabilities,
the BME will receive several types of institutional support: training,
equipment, and hiring of fixed-term personnel. Training will consist of an
initial two-week study tour for the Conservation Coordinator and the Director
of Energy Resources to visit successful cooketove dissemination programs
(possibly Mali, Rwanda, Kenya, and/or efforts in the LAC region). Equipment
will consist of material to upgrade the stove testing laboratory, a 4x4
vehicle (with funds for operating and maintenance expenses) and receipt of the
stove promotion van at the end of the publicity campaign. Hiring fixed-term
personnel will involve covering the costs of employing the energy economist,
administrative assistant and driver for the three-year life of the sub-
project. In addition to conservation-related responsibilities, the energy
economist would periodically assess the economic value of wood and charcoal.
This information would then be provided to the MARNDR to assist them in
evaluating charcoal taxes.
22.         Implementation Schedule.  A preliminary calendar for implementing
the subproject over a three-year period is outlined in Figure 1 below,
including inputs from the various actors involved. This calendar will be
modified by BME, in consultation with the Bank, as merited b- new information
and developments such as results from the OLADE-financed pilot diffusion
effort.
23.         Budget.  A budget, broken down by fiscal year, is presented below
in Table 1. The subproject has an estimated economic rate of return of 57%,
and the improved recho rond has a simple payback time of 55 days, based on
monthly savings of 9.8 kg of charcoal per month. The projected impact of
accelerated cookstove dissemination is presented in Appendix 1 to this Annex,
including net charcoal savinge. Financial and economic analyses, based on
these savings, are presented in Appendix 2. Appendix 3 contains data on
existing and improved cooketove costs and efficiencies. Appendix 4 contains
data on the economic and financial prices of charcoal.



-210-                                      ANNEX  9
Table 1
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
HOUSEHOLD ENERGY CONSERVATION SUB-PROJECT
TABLE 1: SUB-PROJECT BUDGET BY COMPONENT
1991/2        1992/3         1993/4         TOTAL
COMPONENT/COST                             G    USS      G    US1       G    USS       G    USS
A. NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
Cookstove Expert (3 months)                  36                                   0      36
Laboratory equipsent                          t                                   0       1
Prototype devolopment                 3                                           3       0
Consumer testing                      3                                           3       0
Sub-total                             6      37      0      0       0      0      6      37
B. ARTISANAL TRAINING (NGO CONTRACT)
Preparation of training material      5                                            5      0
Rental of training sites (10x)        8              2                            10      0
Per diem for trainees (50G/day)      62             10                            72      0
Trainer salaries (500G/session)       4              1                            5       0
Toot kits ($50/kit)                           9             3                            12
Templates (2/artisan * 50G)          18              6                           23       0
Metal and rivets (460 stoves)                 1             0                      0      1
Training Coordinator (15006/m)       14             14                           27       0
Miscellaneous                         2              1                             3      0
Overhead (152)                       17       2      5      0                    22       2
Sub-total                           129      12     38      4                   167      15
C. PUBLICITY CANPAIGN (PR FIRM CONTRACT)
Canpaign Coordinator (2500G/m)       25             30                           55       0
Van                                          20                                   0      20
Van operational costs                 5       3      5      3                     10      6
Neighborhood demonstrations (20)    10              10                           20       0
Billboards (18 m x 30)              180            360                          540       0
Contests                             15                                          15       0
TV and radio spots                  200            400                          600       0
T-shirts and decals (5000)           60             90                          150       0
Niscellaneous                        50            100                           150      0
Overhead (152)                       82       3    149      0                   231       4
Sub-total                           627      26   1144      3                  1771      30
0. MONITORING AND EVALUATION (NOO CONTRACT)
Monitoring Coordinator (2000G/m)    16              24             24            64       0
PAP Quality Controller (10006/m)      8             12             12            32       0
Secondary Quality Controller          8             12             12            32       0
Transport & per diem                4              6             6             16       0
Statistician (1500G/m)               12             18             18            48       0
initial consumer survey              23                                          23       0
Quality control labels (65K)         10             40             80           130       0
Office equipment                             10                                   0      10
Miscellaneous                        13             20             20            53       0
Overhead (152)                        14      2     20      0      26            60       2
Sub-totat                           108      12    152      0    198            458      12
E. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING (BNE)
Training/study tour                          10                                   0      10
4x4 vehicle                                  20                                   0      20
Vehicle operatfonal costs             3       2      3      2       3      2      8       5
Energy Economist (150OG/m)           18             18             18            54       0
Administrative Asst. (1000G/m)       12             12             12            36       0
Driver (750G/m)                       9              9              9            27       0
Sub-total                            42      32     42      2      42      2    125      35
F. ESNAP SUPERVISION
Task manager (20 weeks)                      14            14             18             46
Travel and per diem (5 teips)                 4             2              4             10
Secretarial support                           2             2              3              7
Report translation                                                         5              5
Sub-total                                    20            18             30             68
TOTAL                                   911    138   1376      27    239      32   2526    196
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (10X)              91     14    138      3      24      3    253      20
PRICE CONTINGENCIES (20%)                182     28    275       5     48      6    505      39
GRAND TOTAL                             1185    179   1788     34    311      41   3284    255



-211-
ANNEX 9
HAITI  -   FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT                       Figure  1
HOUSEHOLD ENERGY CONSERVATION SUBPROJECT
FIGURE 1: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project year        1991/2               1992/3                1993/4
Calendar year 91  *         192                  1993
Item/A-tion
(a) New Product Development
Rehabilitation of BNE laboratory                  X;
Efficiency testing of recho potaje                 Xaa
Evaluation of artisanal production system          X=>
Prototype development                               X>
Consumer acceptability testing                      XUDX
Re-design (if necessary)                             XC
(b) Artisanal Training
NGO identification, selection, contracting        X=>
Design of training materials                        X=
Recruitment of trainers & trainees                  X >
Training:
Port-au-Prince stovemakers                         X->  X=>    Xc>      X=>
Port-au-Prince ironworkers                           X=>   X=>    X=>
Secondary cicy stovemakers                           X=>   X=>
Secondary city ironworkers                              X=>
Evatuation/re-design of curriculum                  X=>
Additi'inal training as necessary                                         X====>
Contracc evaluation/re-negotiation                             X-2
Cc) Publicity and Education Canpaigns
PR firm identification, selection, contracting X==>
Design of campaigns                                 X>
Implementation of campaigns                            X--===r-==-
Contract evaluation/re-negotiation                             X-->
Continued/re-designed campaign                                            X--==========>
(d) monitoring and Evaluation
NGO identification, selection, contracting        X==>
Initial consumer survey                                   Xa>
Quality control program                                X---ncuall         X===-==-=====-       X---=2=====>
Quarterly reporting                                        XuX   X3>        X=>X=>X.X=>=         X=>X=>X=>X=>
Mid-term evaluation report                                                     X-->
Final evaluation report                                                                                   X=>
Contract evaluation/re-negotiation                             X-=>                  X-->
(e) Management information
Recruitment of Cookstove Expert                   X=->
Cookstove Expert ceonsultancy                        X===>
NGO training contract (18 months)                    X--=n==>             X======->
PR firm publicity contract (22 months)              X-= =zX=====
MGO monitoring contract (32 months)                                       X=uX===--==->        X====- -====-=-
Energy Economist (36 months)                      X-=c===-a>              X=-=         =>      X====----=>
Other BME staff (36 months x 2)                   Xu.> uu  Xu=
ONE trainIng/study tour                             XR>
Vehicle procurement                               xuu>
NB: Each "O" represents all or part of one calendar month



HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
SAVINGS DUE TO IMPROVED CHAnCOAL STOVES
a(fOfIE CONSEAVATION                                                                               AFE_  _   ff CONSEIIVATtON_   _        _
Annul      lotW
7.8908           CueuhitvoNuabu clNumbesol  Annual                            f.osking  Cookhig
Target  *iouschotds         Numbas ot laboduCmreltcpIcernesNumbnt of Nunbet ol Numb  ohFa Enial   Enftgq  Chaicost Chacoeal         Tot l
Total N4umbe of "ousetolds Numb. ofi              leoset Imptoved lmpmoved  mlavmoed Impaoved  Tsda.t.  I Debresd Dbt eged Consumed Consumed Cheacoel
Total  Chaecoel Charcoal Cheacoat  Chawcoal Numba ci  ouseholdsCh.scoal Charcoal Ch-ecoal Cb.,coel Chb-coal by lmpovab l.d.t.or:mpeaved  l,ddxoal Consumedn
Chaicoem ltmted    Slaves  Odl u.d          Stow.    largat  Suacceaslu   Stow,.    Slaves    Stoves    Stoves    Skuves  Ctascoul Charcoal Cheacoet Chencarl Chrcoel Absobite   Regtive
Coasumppt  Enigpto h Savice   EamW    In Savice llou..hol.dPca.beted Oistibuted Diabutod ftwbiLwed In Seivice In Sesuce   Sav"s    Soves    Btowvs    Swvs    Soavs   Sevhop   Seirtop
lfe   Lect!l   "i -"         ttleb  I!Jttl        rtcc,)   te^i   rtl          foft  ItX)Osi  _tt}~  _lt                (7i  (l e L1f" !j^u)ltOtl   0|nra.                       o|X 
1966     2000        1211     371.2      6S3       284.?      132.4       1.0       I 5       00        1.5       I 5     3710         tl    1212         0.?     1920      too0       02       ots
1I00     2020        6234     3631        No       20102      134.1       2.0       1.5   qe            2.3       30      38           12     1222        1.S    2007       2022       04       02%
1991     2014         226     3006        tl       280.4      Ua332       00        6.0       1.t       1.0       9 0     31.6        35      lis        4.4    1tw5o      2000        1.4     0Su      t'
8992     192.4       1872     3636        620      254.7      821.4      200       21.0       5.1      208 1     300      3336        810     1050       14.0     1134       MI02      4.2      2.2%     t
1Q03      111.3      logo     335.3       r5h      234.1      147.4      350       22.5      11.0      39 5      52S      2028       203       all       256      144.0    to0.6       1.5     4.2%
low4     l2O7         61i     30360       66       212.5      100.3      450       $.0       320       41.0      c1s      236.1      263       211       332      117.0    t5s.0       .T1      s.%
s905     141.6        60s     216.7       631       1G90       67.6     010        IO.      436       56a       025      801.2       319      502       406       60i    138,2        11.1     7.t%
lto       453         tW      274.0       020 No     2.3       602       6so       1SO      532       002       61.5    811.3        311      5O        480       634      131.4     S1a       9.6%
9s7     18452         60      214.5       689       e  1911     01       72.0      106       034       74.0    1001       1664       416       460       532       P6.      120. 1     300 35.L
t09      151.0       6t3      2653        643      169.1      666        74.6       4.3      11.1      75.4     1823       1130      434      4*5        O5i       1ea      134.9      la      10. 2O
t91l     651.0        650     296.       a0n       207.      M03.6       11.        4.5      14.1      102      019.6.    1196       452       904        1.5      g2a      1403       la?1   10.6%
Assumption
Proportion t absa pi.pebloe brgf l"td -                         70%
Clsercoel.smsg hoessrW  paulclpatm rate be l"mtoved atovest;    75%
loil slaves pa h"shod *                                          2a5
Choacoel stoves pa ctsctcol-agib  bosebold                       2.0
Uosolw$ mSuW delivered pw cbsacoal stbkeym  Ibdue oasawaUoo    3221 d MJtgU
spoend statcoas teves pm pom.OmIed boesbold -                    1.5
Puopole of cestcoel c  khg done as Impoved OucOsI stove         0%
Usebt esuW  deliveted pa t proved cblcoel stowvtsu -           3095 del MJ.tese
*tieoaeal tArcoal avibgs of temptvesd savo *                   30%
Shae  ltalivenesas ota5aatia  * 
Somee: Uimbsa etimates.
l:-
.10
X0



HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
IMPROVED CHARCOAL STOVE SUB-COMPONENT
Financial Analysis - Government Viewpoint
coOOs US$)
flab~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
i.xO.m1Iu_ama                         39    nS    Ut    113   0103    12.7
t4a I2lbcmII                    pE3IIbtBS
Wm4& 1gbP3WAO
Som Tom_; 
Financial Analysis - Household Viewpoint
(Gourdes)
I      2      3      4                                                 Is 1 8    n  Ut   3   14    Ss    18       I?     i
0Ie-ta.I                                                  _5
o|ucadsStilw                           W t     09    s       tS9 toB    tot tO0    tOo    too    too    tO9    too    too    too    t09    t09 109    t9   9      ao9
p_-                                    t     SoB    too         109        lo too    too tOO    10o    too    too    too    U49    to9    i09    t09    tOo    to  o-
Sudebtak S. *                           5 bp
FIIU.FI teckamllleAum-500
# Esseam  IWOla Id8Graaspm 0aa0
1-         WS UI2   ut2flbsdk * 52  e    
Iqs.uhb.4Y1mt M.*iu t23%dIwiqy 41t kgd~UC.
hsttu.9Cam U kgl~c   f_d pS
olt
N
   - 



HAITI  -214-                                               ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTION PROJECT                                            Page 2 of 2
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
Economic Analysis
('COOs USS)
1991        1992        1993        1994         1995        1996
Costs
Activity Costs                                        725.0 a/                                          42.6        42.6
Differential Capital Cost of inproved
Stoves vs. Trad                                        5.3        34.8        52.6        63.7         78.2        45.5
Sub-total:                                         730.3         34.8        52.6        63.7        120.8        88.1
Benefits
Charcoal Saved S/                                      121.0       747.5    1,315.4    1,719.5    2,069.8    1,226.2
Sub-total:                                         121.0       747.5    1,315.4    1,719.5    2,069.8    1,226.2
Net Benefits                                         (609.3)       712.7    1,262.8    1,655.8    1,949.0    1,138.2
Net Present Value 12 X Discount Rate =                    1.54 million USS
Economic Internal Rate of Return =                           57X
pj All activity costs charged to first year.
1I Estimatea as USS2.00 per stove economic cost divided by 1.5 to equalize stove litfetimes.
c/ Valued at economic cost of charcoal in urban retail market of US$176.40/tonne.
Source: App. 1; Mission estimates.



HAITI   -215-                        ANNEX 9
Appendix 3
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT            Page 1 of 2
COMPARATIVE ECONOMIC COOKING COSTS, PORT-AU-PRINCE
Traditional   Improved
Fuel/               Charcoal    Charcoal
Stove Type        Unit      Stove       Stove
Fuel economic cost       US$        6.70        6.70
Unit                         38 kg sack   38 kg sack
Economic cost            $/kg      0.176       0.176
Calorific value         MJ/kg       29.0        29.0
Price per gross GJ       $/GJ       6.08        6.08
Thermal efficiency         %         21          27
Energy cost per      $/del. GJ     28.97       22.53
delivered GJ
Equipment cost              $       1.00        3.00
Lifetime                years        1.0         1.5
Annualized cost         $/year      1.07        2.20
Average useful a/    del. MJ/year  4509        4509
energy delivered
per stove-year
Equipment cost       $/del. GJ     0.24         0.49
per delivered GJ
Total cost per       $/del. GJ     29.20       23.02
delivered GJ
a/ Useful energy derived from 6.3 persons/urban household
*0.46 kg charcoal/person/day *365 days/year"
29 MJ/kg charcoal * 0.21 thermal efficiency * 70%
of cooking in principal stove.



-216-                               ANNEX 9
HAITI                                          Appendix  3
FORESTRY  AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION  PROJECT                           Page  2 of 2
COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL COOKING COSTS, PORT-AU-PRINCE
PRESENT TAX REGIME
Tradition. Improved
Fuel/                            Charcoal   Charccal
Stove Type                      Unit    Stove       Stove
Fuel retail price                    USS      8.38       8.38
Unit                                  38kg sack  38kg sack
Retail price                        S/kg     0.221       0.221
Calorific value                    NJ/kg      29.0       29.0
Price per gross GJ                  S/CJ      7.60        7.60
Thermal efficiency                     X        21          27
Energy cost per                 S/del. GJ    36.21       28.16
deLivered GJ
Equipment cost                         S       1.50       4.00
Lifetime                           years       1.0         1.5
AnnuaLized cost                   $/year       1.60       2.93
Average useful a/              del. NJ/ye     4509        4509
energy delivered
per stove-year
Eqcjipment cost                 S/del. GJ    0.35        0.65
per delivered GJ
Total cost per                  S/del. GJ   36.57       28.81
delivered GJ
a/ Useful energy derived from 6.3 persons/urban household *
0.46 kg charcoal/person/day * 365 days/year 29 NJ/kg
charcoal * 0.21 thermal efficiency * 70X of cooking in
principal stove.
Source: Mission estimates.



-217-
ANNEX 9
Appendix 4
Puge 1 of 7
NAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
The Economic Price Range of Charcoal
This note briefly presents the results of three methodologies which
can be used to calculate the economic price range for charcoal in Haiti. The
three methods ares (a) border pricing of the nearest substitute fuel (page 3
of Appendix 4); (b) replacement value pricing (page 4 of Appendix 4); and
(c) marginal environmental cost pricing (pages 5 and 6 of Appendix 4). The
most conservative approach (border pricing using kerosene as the substitute
fuel) yields an economic price for charcoal of US$13S per metric ton. By
taking the replacement cost of wood based on industrial fuelvood plantations
in Haiti, the economic cost of charcoal is US$176 per ton. The most broad-
reaching approach, incorporating marginal tmvironmental costs, results in an
economic valuation of US$295 per ton. Thus, the three methodologies result in
an economic price range between US$139.2295 per ton, or US$5.30, 6.70 and 11.20
per 38 kg sack.  Converting this to an -..-!tomic price in Haitian gourdes/sack,
the respective value are 37, 47 and 78 Wii-rdzas. In comparison with the
existing financial price of 41.9 gourdaslsack, the economic price range is 88-
1862 of the market price.
Thus, taker at face value, the e..mic price range gives t.o
guidance as to the direction that fiscal pci ucy should take in guiding retail
charcoal prices.  Subjective decisions must UA made as to which economic
pricing methodology is moot appropriate to us. in the case of Haiti.  Each has
its drawbacks and advantages. Border pricini: Lt-sed on the least-cost
substitute household fuel (kerosene) is unre&lictic ast  (a) market tests
indicate that kerosene is not a preferred fuel for urban Haitian consumers;
(b) it is unlikely that a significant number of charcoal users would switch to
kerosene; and (c) it is doubtful that the neceo'sary foreign exchange could be
made available to pay for massive substitution with an imported fuel.
Replacement costing also has its disadvantagess  (a) no industrial fuelvood
plantations exist in Haiti so the estimated replacement cost of wood is
subject to uncertainty; and (b) attempting to replace all wood used for
charcoal production from plantations would run up against a number of
constraints, e.g.* availability of land and other key inputs.  The central
problem with marginal envirormental costing is the paucity of accurate data on
key variables such as the rate of soil erosion, the fertilizer value of tree
species and the degree of siltation caused by tree removal in representative
deforested areas of the country.
GIren the lim4tations of each method, but mindful of the need to
arrive at a recommendation regarding economic pricing, a choice should be made
as to which approach is moet appropriate.  The kerosene parity price can be
dropped as it is not a real-world option.  Replacement prlcing is also



-218-
ANNEX 9
Appendix 4
Page 2 of 7
unrealistic as industrial planting is unlikely to occur on a massive scale.
However, smallholder tree planting is occurring on a large scale and may be a
more reasonable proxy for replacement costs. Based on smallholder
reforestation costs, the replacement value of charcoal is US$300/ton (see
page 7 of Appendix 4). Therefore, an appropriate economic value for charcoal
in Haiti appears to be in the range of US$295-3001ton, i.e., between the
environmental and smallholder replacement costs. Thie implies a target retail
price of 78-80 gourdes/sack, or an increase of almost 90S above the present
price level.



-219-
ANNEX 9
Appendix 4
Page 3 of 7
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTION PROJECT
PaXriy Price of Least-Cost Substitute Fuel
The parity price of the least-cost substitute fuel is the economic value of the amount
of kerosene required to deliver the same amount of energy as charcoal, taking into account the life-
cycle costs of cooking equipment. This value is given by the equation:
PP = RV. - RVC * (LC. - LC)/ECC
where
PP    =     Parity Price
RV0   =     Replacement Value of charcoal
=     $176.40/ton (see Appendix 2)
LC5   =     Life-qcle Cost of charcoal (improved stove)
=     $23.02 per delivered GJ
LC,  =      Life-cycle Cost of kerosene (pressure stove)
=      i$18.25 per delivered GJ
EC.  =      Energy Cost of charcoal (improved stove)
=     $22.53 per delivered GJ
Plugging these values into the equation, one arrives at an economic substitute or parity price of
$139/ton of charcoal.



ANNEX 9
-220-                                                  Appendix 4
Page 4 of 7
Replacement Value of Charcoal
CHARCOAL PRICE BUILD-UP, PORT-AU-PRINCE
(REPLACEMENT VALUE)
March 1990
Economic       Economic
Price             Price        X of      Conversion        Cost
(Gourde/bag) _/    (USS/tonne)  Retail          Factor      (USS/tonne)
lmplied Wood                  3.7             19.36           9                       42.79 g1
StLmpage
Labor                         6.8             35.56          16          0.36 dI      12.62
Producer's Mar                1.6              8.24           4          0.71 .1       5.85
PRODUCER PRICE               12.0             63.16          29                       61.26
at Farm Gate
Sag Cost                      1.3              6.84           3          0.71 sl       4.86
Transport Tax                 1.0              5.26           2
Transport                     6.0             31.58          14          0.93 fI      29.29
to Port-au-Prince
Loading/Unload                1.2              6.32           3          0.36 SV       2.24
Intermediary Margins          7.0             36.84          17          0.71 _/      26.16
WHOLESALE PRICE              28.5            150.00          68                      75.81
Wholesale Marg                5.6             29.47          13          0.71 S/      20.93
Transport                     2.2             11.58           5          0.93 I/      10.74
to Neighborhoods
Retail Margin                 5.6             29.47          13          0.71 e/      20.93
RETAIL PRICE                 41.9            220.53         100                      176.40
(sold by sack)
Breakdown Marg                4.2             22.05                      0.71 I/      15.66
(-10%)
RETAIL PRICE                 46.1            242.58                                  192.06
(sold in small qty.)
S/ Per sack of 38 kg charcoal.
Wy Transfer payment to government or collectIon agents.
gI Based on plantation wood 8 S5.40/m3 economic cost (FAO), equivalent to S7.71/tonne
(700 kg/m3). Estimated 5.55 tonnes of wood per tonne of charcoal, based on 20X
carbonization efficiency (air-dry basis) and 10K losses in handling and transport.
e Based on rural unskilled labor shadow value of 0.5.
LI 100l local cost.
ef Based on estimated 75 foreign component.
Source: FAO (1990); Medina (1985); MIssion estimates.



ANNEX 9
-221-                              Appendix 4
Page 5 of 7
Marginal Environmental Value of Charcoal
From a recent analysis of the economic value of wood in Haiti (Hosier and
Bernstein, 1989), the marginal opportunity cost of a resource should rerxt its long-run marginal
value based on both its immediate environmental effects and the needs of future generations.
Mathematically, this can be expressed as:
MOC, = MC + MECi
where MOC, is the marginal opportunity cost of the resource, MC is the direct harvesting costs or
marginal costs as normally perceived and MEC, is the marginal external cost of the good to
different sectors.
In this analysis, the harvesting cost (MC) is considered to be equal to the financial
price of the woodfuel to the consuming sector. This is currently, at most, 35 - 50 Gourdes per
tonne (US$5-7/tonne). The marginal external contribution of trees to soil improvement (MEq)
is between US$12-20/TOE or US$4-6/tonne. The on-site contribution of trees to the reduction of
soil erosion (MECQ) is US$45/TOE or US$14/tonne. The off-site contribution of trees to sediment
reduction is calculated at US$10/TOE or US$3/tonne.
Therefore, the range for the economic value of wood in Haiti can be summed up as
follows:
Element                        Economic Value
(US$/tonne)
MC                                          5-7
MEC, (soil improvement)                     4-6
MEC2 (soil erosion)                          14
MEG3 (sedimentation)                          3
MOC,                                      26-30
Thus, if no lower-cost environmental damage avoidance measures are available, the economic
opportunity of wood on the stump in Haiti can be taken as between US$26-30 per tonne (US$18-
21 per m3).



ANNEX 9
-222-                                           Appendix 4
Page 6 of 7
CHARCOAL PRICE BUILD-UP, PORT-AU-PRINCE
(ENVIRONMENTAL)
March 1990
Econoxic        Ecornmic
Price              Price       X of       Conversion         Cost
(Gourde/bag) a/    (US$/tonme)   Retafl         Factor        (US#/tonne)
Implied Wood                  3.7              19.36           9                         160.95 g/
Stumpage
Labor                         6.8              35.56          16          0.36 oj         12.62
Producer's Mar                 1.6               8.24          4          0.71 I/          5.85
PRODUCER PRICE                12.0             63.16          29                         179.42
at Farm Gate
Bag Cost                       1.3               6.84          3          0.71 S/          4.86
Transport Tax                  1.0               5.26          2
Transport                     6.0              31.58          14          0.93 f/         29.29
to Port-au-Prince
Loading/Unload                 1.2              6.32           3          0.36 4/          2.24
Intermediary Margins          7.0              36.84          17          0.71 S/         26.16
WHOLESALE PRICE              28.5              150.00         68                         241.97
Wholesale Marg                 5.6              29.47          13         0.71 S/         20.93
Transport                     2.2               11.58          5          0.93 jI         10.74
to Neighborhoods
Retail Margin                  5.6              29.47         13          0.71 =/         20.93
RETAIL PRICE                 41.9             220.53         100                         294.56
(sold by sack)
Breakdown Marg                4.2               22.05                     0.71 S1         15.66
(-10%)
RETAIL PRICE                 46.1             242.58                                     310.22
(sold in small qty.)
p   Per sack of 38 kg charcoal.
2/  Transfer payment to government or collection agents.
S/ Based on plantation wood a S19.60/m3 economic cost (Nosier & Bernstein), equivalent to
S29/tomne (700 kg/m3). Estimated 5.55 tomes of wood per tonne of charcoal, based on 20%
carbonization efficiency (air-dry basis) and 10% losses in handling and transport.
g( Based on rural unskilled labor shadow value of 0.5.
/ 100% local cost.
V Based on estimated 75% foreign component.
Source: Appendix 2; FAO (1990); Nosier & Bernstein (1989); Medina (1985); Mission estimates.



ANNEX 9
-223-                                            Appendix 4
-223-                               ~~~~~Page 7 of 7
Economic Valuation Based on Smallholder Replacement Costs
CHARCOAL PRICE BUILD-UP, PORT-AU-PRINCE
(SMALLHOLDER REFORESTATION)
March 1990
Economic         Economic
Price              Price         X of         Conversion          Coat
(Gourde/bag) 8/    (USS/tonne)    Retail            Factor         (USS/tomne)
Implied wood Stumpage         3.7                 19.36           9                           166.50 _/
Labor                         6.8                 35.56          16          0.36 d/           12.62
Producer's Mar                1.6                  8.24           4          0.71 8/            5.85
PRODUCER PRICE               12.0                 63.16          29                           184.97
at Farm Gate
Bag Cost                      1.3                  6.84           3          0.71 S/            4.86
Transport Tax                 1.0                  5.26           2
Transport                     6.0                 31.58          14          0.93 I/           29.29
to Port-au-Prince
Loading/Unload                1.2                  6.32           3          0.36 _/            2.24
Intermediary Margins          7.0                 36.84          17          0.71 8/           26.16
WHOLESALE PRICE              28.5                150.00          68                           247.52
Wholesale Marg                5.6                 29.47          13          0.71 s/           20.93
Transport                     2.2                 11.58           5          0.93 I/           10.74
to Neighborhoods
Retail Margin                 5.6                 29.47          13          0.71 e/           20.93
RETAIL PRICE                 41.9                220.53         100                           300.11
(sold by sack)
Breakdown Marg                4.2                 22.05                      0.71 e/           15.66
(-10X)
RETAIL PRICE                 46.1                242.58                                       315.77
(sold in small qty.)
/ Per sack of 38 kg charcoal.
b   Transfer payment to government or collection agents.
8/ Based on smaltholder tree planting costs averaging $1.50 per survfved tree, with a present value
of $30/ton of wood. Estimated 5.55 tomes of wood per tonne of charcoal, based on 20X
carbonization efffciency (air-dry basis) and 10X losses in handling and transport.
/ Based on rural unskilled labor shadow value of 0.5.
8/ 100% local cost.
f/  Based on estimated 75X foreign component.
Souryce: USAID/Agroforestry Outreach Program (1989); Medina (1985); Mission estimates.



HAITI
FORESTRY AND ERVIRONMERTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE. NATURAL
RESOURCES AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Organization Chart
DExternal Coofl           r     a           Secretorar     State or   of                   Diretraenc es
Secretaratio                                  Proction
Gnrale 
EquRpenRt ParkP           | autFiong |
Dlre 'torate of       Dlrectorate of         Dlrectoraate of o sDrerecoretr              FoDrestoresarch
Admilm4stration      ^f+Al Production       Pland Arofoetry   atratsices                    Seton        t
Irrl Ition and          Watershed             Vater           Foretry        1 Envlronmental D   Isnucu"r"MI    ,HaFn             I
Rur l-En ineerin4        lanseaMfwent        ReWsou Kces      7Resmourcs      1 Protection                                 G=1~erie I I ihres1
Serie              |  Sgvce                Servic        ece        e      I Service   11 1          (SAG)             Service
Seto               land Agrofores           ttrg t|cs  A      O Section 
, Agencies involved in                                                                                                              
project implementation.
rt F



I I 4 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44                             =   0,0
00K.  a. *
p-
latA4*                      -*                                      PM44 
654                0     -   N                         6          4    00  :
4(4    p.        -~~~0            a  '  '
4  4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 
4   4  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
N  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*  *  N           U                                              -~~~~ ----         ----         ----         .p
10~PHAi                                                                A vNDHi
*                  N~~14- - - - -                         -- -- -- - - -- -                      
1 H   N                                                A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
*  4                                        U           X'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
*  4                                                   U~~~~~~~    - - - - - - -               - - - - - - -               
a  4  --     --                                                  4 ----       -- -       ----        ....         .   so. 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  II ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
H    Hail~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
04   N                                            l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vAb
*  0.4IA
* 0 On H    NA
4    -4   -     - -     -I
04 4I
*  4                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~  av
A                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ela   IU 
*-   -    -                                                                             



-226-
ANNEX IQ
Document 3
Page 1 of 2
BASTZ
FORESTXRY MD ENVIRONNENTfL PROTECTION PROJECT
LETTER ON SECTOA POLICY 
Rena Pr6val, Prime Minister
Ministry of the Interior and National Defense, National Palace
No. CPM/0568                                    Port-au-Prince, June 25, 1991
Mr. Barber Conable
President of The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
et: Forestry and Environmental Protection Project
Dear Mr. President,
The priority which my Government places on the global increase of the
agricultural production implies a coherent policy towards the protection and
development of natural resources, and the management of the environment.
Within that policy the planned interventions have to build on agricultural
systems that are acceptable for the environment and viable for the people. In
this way the interventions would provide a valuable contribution towards the
improvement of the living conditions of the population without at the same
time causing a general decline of the quality of life in Haiti.
The analysis of the referenced project allows to confirm that the project
fits into this policy framework, and this is why my Government, through the
Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR),
places the highest priority on its implementation. In reality, both its
general and specific objectives reflect the Government's general strategy
towards the conservation of the natural resources and the protection of the
environment. That strategy aims to:
- Increase the protection and the value of the national forestry domain;
- Increase the availability of forest and agricultural products, and
thereby the income levels of the people in-olved in agroforestry;
- Ensure the preservation of rare and fragile ecosystems and of
endangered species; and
- Integrate the local communities in the programs to conserve and manage
natural resources, as well as to protect the environment.
My Government is committed to undertake all legal, institutional and
administrative measures needed to achieve the following specific objectives
within the time-frame indicated, and thanks to the efficient implementation of
the referenced projects
/ English Translation of the French original.



-227-
ANNX_ 10
Document 3
Page 2 of 2
- Increase tne forest cover of the country from 5% of its total area to
10% over a period of five years ;
- Manage and develop 15.000 ha of the national parks of Macaya and La
Visite within five years;
- Increase the national production of wood of all types by 50,000 mn/year
over five years, at a rate of 2 m'/ha;
- Ensure the preservation of habitats, species and genetic stock for
about thirty animal and plant species that are threatened by
extinction;
- Increase by 4% per year the agricultural production in the humid
mountains and the "buffer zones" around the national parks through
appropriate conservation practices; and
- Improve the legal and institutional framework to protect forests and
environment on a self-sustained basis.
In parallel, my Government is committed tot
* Carry out the classification of the forest resources and demarcation of
the national forest domain;
* Implement a system of forestry and environmental protection;
* Define a new legal framework through a review and update of the
existing legislation;
 Strengthen the administrative and institutional capacity through
appropriate measuresl and
* Mobilize external assistance for financing programs to protect forest
resources and the environment.
The finance requested from the International Development Association and
other similar institutions for the execution of the referenced project.
therefore, constitutes for my Government the basic initiative to implement its
policy for the protection of the natural resources and the environment.
Please accept, Mr. President, the assurance of my high consideration.
Signed: Rea6 Pr6val, Prime Miniater.



EU1TI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PRDJECT
Employment of Consultants, and Preparation of Major Studies
Cost : Position                        Sumnary of                     : Start  : Dura-  : Total Cost :                 Notes
Table: Specialty                        Terms of                      : Date   : tion   : (US$'000)  :           Fallow-up Actions
No. :                                 Reference                                          :lncl.conting:
------------------------------------.------------------------__--------------__-------------------------------------------------.
WONG-TERH CONSULTANTS
1.4 :Management  sPara. 4.05 (a); Annex 8, Appendix 3                :Jan. 92  :3 years  :overheads  :To be recruited internationally
:Flrm  al    sTo provide both long- and short term expertise     :         :exten-  :Included in :by DRN In accordance vita World
:required to manage and Implement the project (see   s        sdable to :Individual  :Bank guLidelines for the use of
:below), excludlng consultants for external monito-  :        :5 years  :consultants'sconsultants
:ring and evaluations, and the RGOs for agroforestry :        :          eost figures:
:extension, research and household energy          : 
:   :  :   s  :           :
1.4 :Flinancial  :See Annex 8, Appendix 1                            :Jan. 92  :3 years, :        868 :lnternational recrultmant by
:sManager    :To advise and assist the Director of DRN and the             : sextenda- :          :project management firm
:Project Administrator in the overall management              :ble to 5 : :
:  ~    ~~                          :                         s         s           
1.4 :Technical  :See Annex 8, Appendix 2                             :Jan. 92  :3 years, s        868 :InterLational recrattment by
sCoordinator sTo advise and assist the Director of DEE in the    :         sextenda- :            sproject management firm
:coordination of all technical aspects of the project:        sble to 5 :            s
:   :                                            : ~ ~         ~ ~         ~     ~~~~~~~~~~ :  :  s
a1    (1) The selection and employment of consultants, or consultant firms, would be consistent with the August 1981 Guidelines for
--       the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
(2) Qualifications, experience and terms of reference for a.. consultants would be subject to IDA approval.
4I-
o 0 



Cost : Position  :                      Su=mary of                      : Start      Dura-  : Total Cost :                Notes
Tables Specialty  s                      Terms of                       : Date   : tion   : (US$'000)  :            Pollew-up Actions
No. :            .                     Reference                       2         :         :incl.conting:
------------------------------------------------_----------__---------------__-----------------------------------------------------------__
1.5 :Senior      :See Annex 3, Appendix 1                              :Jan. 91  :314 yrs. :         80 :In post under PPF financing
:Forestry    :To advise and assist the Read of the Forestry
:Advisor     :Service; provide technical input for the operation  :Jan. 92  :3 years,           868 :Fron Jan. 92 international recruit-
:of the various sections of the Service, and in       :         :extenda-              :ment by project management firm
:            :particular, for the management of the Pine Forest   :          :ble to 5
:   :                                            ~     ~ ~       ~ ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  :    
1.6 :Resident    zSee Annex 6, Appendix 1                              :Jan. 92  :3 years, :        868 :Interuational recruitment by
:Ecologist   :To advise and assist the Head of the EKvirormental             :extenda- :            :project management firm
:              :Protection Service, with special duties to         :         :ble to 5 :
:(i) develop a program for the management of pro-    :          :
:            :tected ecosystems, and (ii) create a countrywide    :          :
:             information system on renewable natural resources   :         :         :
1.7 :Training    :See Annex 7, Appendix 1                              :Jan. 92  s 2 years :        262 :International recruitment by
:Specialist  :To advise and assist in agroforestry training,       :         :plus short            :project   _a ent flm
:   in particular in curriculum development           :         :visits in:
:            :                                                     :         : '94 & '95:
1.8 :Agroforestry:1) Pine Forest Area - see Annex 5 Appendix 1         :Jan. 92  :3 (5) yrs:      1,530 tlnternational recruitmnet by DEN
:Extension   :2) Pic Macaya Mat. Park Area - see Annex 5 App. 2   :Jan. 92  :3 (5) yr.:       1,286 tof ESOs In accordaace with World
:Contractors :3) La Visite Nat. Park Area - see Annex 5 Appendix 3:Oct. 92  :2 (4) yr.:         977 :Bank Guidelines for the Use of
(4 areas)  :4) Belle Anse Area - see Annex 5 Appendix 4          tOct. 92  :2 (4) yr.:      1,410 :Consultants
:            :                                                     t         :         :Total 5,203
4t14
0    0



Cost s Position  s                      S nary of                      : Start  : Dura-  : Total Cost :                 Notes
Tables Specialty  :                      Terns of                      : Date   : tion   : (US$0O0O)  :           Follow-up Actions
No. s            :                     Reference                      I                   :incl.conting:
:SBORT-TERR CONSULTARTS
1.4 aProcurement :To expedite the start-up of the project prior to    OJuly 91  :9 months           80 :In post under PPF financing
:Consultant  :credit effectiveness by advancing procurement of the:         :
:management firm and long teem consultants, of the             I         2
:agroforestry extension contractors, and goods and   :
s:cIvil vorks to the stage of recommended award.                 s         :         :
1.7 :Training:   s                                                    :         :         :
sTratning    :See Anex 7, para. 7 (d)                             :         s         :
:Cousultants :To be hired as lecturers and resource persons for   :   1992 :5 events :             :Local and international recruitment
s            s:special In-service training of project staff       :         :6 2 weeks:            :by project management fire
:            :In project related topics;                          s         sper year :         28 :
:Evaluation of overall training programs             a   1996 :1 month  s          13 :International recruitment by
2            :                                                    :         s         sasproject management fim
1.4 :Legal Reviews and Assistance:                                    :         a         :
:Legal      :See Annex 2 Appendix 1; To advise DRN                     1992 :2 months :         25 :International recruitment by
:Specialist  :on Forest and Natural Resource Legislation                                           : :  :  :project management fim
:Social     :See Annex 2 Appendix 1; To advise DRN on social      :   1992 s2 months :          25 sInternational recruitment by
:Scientist   aImpact and effectiveness of project actions, In                                      : s  :  aproject management fizm
:           sparticular of institutional arrangements for         :
: law enforcement                                    :
:saitian     :See Annex 2 Appendix 1; To advise DRN on legal      :   1992 :2 months a          13 :Local Recruitment by DRU
MLegal      :matters, in particular for reviewing legal framework:
aSpecialist  :and drafting new legislation                        :         s
ob =
o  



-*---------*------------------------------------------------------------Z-*---*------------------------------------------------
Cost a Position  :                       Smary of                        : Start  : Dura-  s Total Cost :                  Notes
Tables Specialty  t                       Tenrs of                       : Date   s tion   : (US$'000)  :            Follow-up Actions
No. :            :                      Reference                       :         :          zincl.conting:
1.10 sForestry and Agroforestry Research:                                          :
:Social      :See Annex 4, Appendix 3                               :    1992 :4 months :         46 :International recruitment by
:Scientist   :Expert in Social Forestry Researcb, to assist in    :           :(2 months:             :project management firm
(Research) :selecting and establishing new forestry research    :           seach in
:            :stations and inltiate forestry orlented social        :         :1992 and s
:            s:science research                                               :1994)    :
:         :                                                     :2        :          2            :
:Forester    :See Annex 4, Appendix 4                               z    1992 :4 months :         46 :International recruitment by
:(Pine Forest:Expert in Pine Forest Silviculture and Research, to :           :         :             project management firm
;Research)   :select and establish new pine silviculture research :           :         s
:                                                                   :         :         :            :                                      w
:Forester    :See Annex 4, Appendix 5                               :    1992 :4 months :         46 :International recruitent by
:(Semi-Arid  :Forest Sxpert to design and establish                                                  : :  2  aproject management firm
:Forest)    :semi-arid forest management research                                       I 2  :       :
:Forester    :See Annex 4, Appendix 6                               :    1992 :4 wmnths s         46 :International recruitment by
:(Savanna    sExpert in Savanna Reforestation and Research, to                                       : s  2  sproject management firm
sReforesta-  :aassist establish Savanna Reforestation Research      z         s         2            s
atiou)       aStations and prepare protocols for the experiments  s           s
:Agro-       :See Annex 4, Appendix 7                               2    1992 s4 months           46 alnternational recruitment by
iforester    sExpert In Agroforestry Research, to assist In                                          t 2  s  sproject management f im
:(Research)  :selecting and establishing a high-elevation           s                   2 s
:agroforestry research program                        s
o 0
lb i



Cost s Positloon                         Suary of                        : Start  : Dura-  : Total Cost :                   Notes
Table: Specilty  t                        Terms of                       : Date   : tion   : (US$9000)  :            boUow-up Actions
No. a            :                      Reference                                  :L sncl.conting:
1.6  Environmental Protection:                                          :         :
aSocial      :See Annex 6, Appendix 2                  :                 1992 mtotal of :         34 :International recritment by
aScience     aSoclal Sclentist to assist In planning and                      :3 months a             :project   gemnt fim
aSpecialist  :evaluating sociocultural aspects of the activities              :in years:
:            :of the Eiromeatal Protection Service                  s         :1, 3 & 4 t
aConservation:See Annex 6, Appendiz 3                               s    1992 :total of :         46 :International recruitment by
sExpert      sConservation Expert to assst periodically in desig-:            :4 months s             :project managment firm
sning and implementing conservation programs to pro- :           a:n years :
:            atect endangered habitat, and plant & animal species             s :1,2,3 & 4:           a
t            S                                                      :         :         a             :
temote       :See Annex 6, Appeadiz 3                               :    1992 ttotal of :              aInternational recrultment by
aSensing     sTo assist periodically In planning, Implementatlon  a           :3 months s             :project management firm
sExpert      :and analysis of countrywide surveys by aeril l                  : in years :            :
s            :photography and satellite imagery; train SPB staff  s           sl, 3 and s
s            amt interpretatln; assist In establishing a     a               :4        a         34 a
:            a data base and program to mnidtor land-use trends               s         s
1.4 :External    :See  alin Report, para. 5.08               :               1992 stotal of :         151 sContract by DBN with an experienced
:Environmen- :To periodically monitor the project's essvirormsntal :          :12 man-  s            tand highly respected external
stal Nonito- :aspects and support implementation of the project's: saaoths                           :gency
:ring Agency tenvirormental progras                                 a         soverS   a             a
:            s                                                      s         :years    a 
00 M
oI 
o    o



Cost S Position  :                      Summary of                      : Start  : Dura-  : Total Cost :                 Notes
Table: Specialty  :                      Terms of                       : Date   : tion   : (US$'000)  :           Follow-up Actions
No. :            :                     Reference                                 I :       :incl.conting:
1.12 :Household Energy Sub-project:
:Cookstove   :See Annex 9, para. 3.3                              :   1992 :3 months :          39 :International recruitment by
:Expert      sTo assist BME in the development of an Improved     :         :                      :BKE, or through project
:larger, elevated stove                              :         :                      : :management firm
:        :                                                     :S        :         2      
:&rtisan     :See Annex 9, para. 1.4                              :   1992 :18 months:          76 :Recruitment by BIE of a EG0
:Training    :To conduct traialng fLr artisans In the production  :         :         :            :in accordance -lth Bank Guidelines
:Contractor  :of Improved charcoal stoves                         :                   :
:Public      ,See Annex 9, paras. 3.7 and 3.8                     :    1992 :22 months:        335 :Local recruitment by BIE
:Relations   :To educate the public about the linkage between     :
:Film        scharcoal consumption and environmental degradation, :         :         :            :
:and market the improved stoves                      :         s         :            :
:                                                                      :              :s
:Monitoring  :See Annex 9, para. 3.9                              :   1992 :32 months:          7? :Recruitment by BME of a 3o0
:Contractor  :To monitor, through surveys and evaluations, the    :         :         :            :in accordance with Bank Guldeltnes
:            s:achievement of Lacreased household cooking         :
:            :efficiency                                          s
rt x
o  o
-.5



Cost :  Review v                          Summary of                      : Start  : Target  : Total Cost :                  notes
Tables   Study    :                        Terms of                       : Date   : Date   : (US$'000)  :             Follow-up Actions
go. :                                   Reference                        :          :         :incl.conting:
:MAJOR REVIEWS AND STUDIES                                           :
s-------------------------                                           :         :          :            :To be conducted by DRN vith
1.4 :Legal        :See Annex 2, Appendix 1; and Annex 10, Chart 4                                           : :  :assistance from consultants
:Framework   :Consultants' review of existing regulatory framework:
:for Natural :for management of renewable natural resources and
sResource    :preparation of recomnendations for improvements        :    1992 :By 9192             57 :See also Chart 4, Page 1
:Management  -Put in place administrative measures for                                    :            :For review during mid-term
I :mplementing the a-r.ed recommendations                   1993 :By 12193 :             :evaluation of project (3194)
1.4 :Woodfuels   :See Annex 8 and Main Report para. 4.05 (d)                                               : :To be conducted by DRN with
:Taxation    :Review existing system and rate levels and prepare  :            :                       :assistance from consultants
:System      :  recomendations for improvements of collection    :                                  34 :
:and Levels  : rates, accounting and budgeting procedures, and
: tax level required for economic pricing of           2         :          :
:            : woodfuel;                                             :    1992 :By 9192  :          57:
:            s Put in place administrative measures for              :                                  F s  :1For review during mid-term
Implementing the agreed improvements                :    1993 :By 12/93               : :evaluation of project (3/94)
1.4 :Mid-Term    :Annax 8, Appendix 4                                    :Oct. 1993:By 3/94  :          80 :To be conducted by external
:Evaluation  :Interim evaluation of performance of project;          :         :                       :consultants
:            :Preparation of action plans and redesign if required:            s
1.4 :Project     :See Main Report, para. 5.08                            :Aug. 1996:By 10196               : :To be prepared by DRN and project
:Completion  :Standard requirement for IDA Credits                  :          :                       :management firm
:Report
1.4 :Follow-up   :See Main Report, para. 4.05 (a)                        :Apr. 1995:By 3/96  :         500 :To be prepared by consultants
:Project     :To prepare feasibility study for follow-up             :         :                       :recruited by project management
:Preparation :operation, based on the results and experiences        :         :         :             :firm
:            :under the present project                             :          :         :
ob  Z
4 o



-235-
ANNEX 10
Document 5
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FORESTRY AND JNVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Documents available in the Prolect File
A. Re2orts Relatina to the Proiect
1.   FAO/Banque Mondiale Centre d'Investissementt Haiti - Forets,
Irrigation et Institutions Agricoles. Rapport de Reconnaissance 85/87 CP-HAI
15. 1 juillet 1987.
2.    FAO/Banque Mondiale Centre d'Investissement:  Haiti - Projet Forets
et Protection de l'Environnement. Rapport de Preparation 21/90 CP-HAI 19.
14 Fevrier 1990.
3.   Ministare de l'Agriculture, des Ressources Naturelles et du
D6veloppement Rural: Rapport Final Projet Forestier National (lire phase).
Juillet 1989.
4.    IBRDt Haiti - Forestry Project (Credit 1257-HA) Project Completion
Report. June 14, 1990.
5.   Republique d'Haiti/Association Internationale de
D6veloppement/BDPA-SCETAGRIt Gestion des Ressources Natuelles en Vue d'un
D6veloppement Durable en Haiti. Etude des Possibilit6s d'Actions et
d'Investissements Realisables. Rapport Interimaire. Avril 1989.
6.    Republique d'Haiti/Association Internationale de
D6veloppement/BDPA-SCETAGRI: Gestion des Ressources Natuelles en Vue d'un
D&veloppement Durable en Haiti. Rapport Final. F6vrier 1940.
7.   Republic of HaLti/Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management
Asistance Programme (ESMAP)s Household Energy Strategy. June 1991.



-236-
ANNEX 10
Document 5
Page 2 of 2
B. Working documents
8.    Cassagnol, Robert:  AssessiJnt of the Department of Natural
Resources of the Ministry of Agriculture of Haiti. Miosion Report April 9-15,
1990.
9.    Bureau d/Etudes et de Planification de l'Environnement (BEPE):
Etudes des Savanes Diane, Declay et Manigat-le Tuf. Mare 1990.
10.    FAO: Haiti - Planification, Politique et Legislation Forestieres.
Document de Travail FO:DP/HAI/72/012. Rome, 1975.
I1.    IBRD/ESMAP: Haiti - Forestry and Environmental Protection Project,
Woodfuel Sub-Project. Towards Woodfuel Substitution, Efficiency and
Management. Prepared by Josef Leitmann. November 1989.
12.    IBRD/ESMAP: Haiti - Household Energy Subproject.  Draft prepared by
Charles Feinstein, May 1990.



Port de Paix
DOINI AN                                                Mete
'-I ~~~~~~~~~~~~M   oCap Haoitien
JAMAtCA                              PVtRTO 
H        A  I' Ii                                                                                                                                                           f's    r  '      _       I,
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT                                                                                                         '- \    L..Pss.&s                   ,,..            s    '              -   usvenAn5lreh
Pine Forest
National porks                                                                                                                     Gon invs                                tFRpheel
*     Pine Forest management headquarters                                                                                                                            de Attalen. 5.                          Maries
*     Forestry research station                                                                                                                                      d  t. Ml.q., -                       cr           0cs.p.
*     Agroforestry exension sub-project                                                                                                                                  . 
Ecologicol zones:                                                                                                            O-nd.Selee                    O.eeqllue
Very humid
Humid
]Dry                                                                                                                                                           PtRNdLAtih.
Average annual rainfall in millimeters                                                                                              StM   rc       -'
Rivers
Main highways                                                                                                                                           v.si                                                            .Woe  '-5
Secondary roads                                                                                                                                                                                          *       ,,j \
- - - - Tertiary roaods
-*-   Intermational boundary                                                                                                                                               L.Ch
KILOMETERS 0        10  20       30    4        0                                                                                                              A     '
niernmie                   CAY6A,r,,                                     O                                                                                               oV            ( '
A-    -I
MIvES 0't,el          10          20. 30                                                           A-.tte                       _ein ..p                                                               Pee Arroh  ent(<'       word
LeeIie\    'O;                                 u               4O<rplo
LeCsIavd\             Cetrt            M.ntch. 
,                                     7ti'                                                                            , i-                                                                             77' _~~~j  N,  
emseseee.au~  LoSrCoyes                       .5
6 S.d ~ ~     ~       ~        ~      ~       P.                                                                                s
VA CME~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~opntam



4%g                                      --20                                                                           7'tl                         t?f,           4:                2                            20-
rU~                                                               F Port de pal.
CUBA                                                                                                                                                 A      O
HAHD CI                                                                                                                              - ''A  R
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMEN ITAL PROTECTION PROJECT _                 E.r. St. U
1ll   Ope nPine Forest                                                                                                    r-;              X                              ';  
r  rd leaf Forest l~~At  x]llr
*.   Remnanhs of Broad-leaf Forest ond of Coffee                                                                                         o        )i 4f3iX                    ^6                             d  
Coffee cned/or Dense Tree Crops .Mo A r b;  -_Ci w
W         Degraded Dry forest oed Shrubs                                                                                              t                       i               l:TX TDy5q 
9   0  Mongrovers{ h  t                                                                                                                              (   Areii - \; 1 [ZE                Thomv  F! '           /            1 7"-
TXertiary Roads                     F'                                                                    .i_sorr-I-pTIT~t1iIh1JS                        C~Ua,eN.                                                    Z
--Internotionol Boundaries -~ ~- z
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT                                                             -    II I  NFRT U PINC    Coo,, o 5okot. 
Ope      n Pi.9 Forest              G...d
KILOMETERS  o     10      2n     20     40      S0                                                                                                                                                                           t
MILES  U          10          20          30                                                                           o3.                                                                     Th.
(2)    Mcmqro ~ ~~~~74                                                                                  73



