Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13816
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2301-HA)
DECEMBER 27, 1994
Natural Resources and Rural Poverty Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
At appraisal (September 1991) US$1 = 5.00 Gourdes
Current (October 1994) US$1 = 14.5 Gourdes
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FAO              Food and Agriculture Organization
MARNDR           Ministere de I'Agriculture, des Ressources Naturelles et du Developpement
Rural (Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development)
PPF              Project Preparation Facility



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(Cr. 2301-HA)
1.    This is an Implementation Completion Note for the Haiti Forestry and Environmental
Protection Project (Cr. 2301-HA).
2.     Background. The project was intended as a follow-up operation to the IDA-supported
Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1257-HA), which closed on December 31, 1989. It was
identified and prepared in 1989-90 by the Forest Resources Service of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development and the FAO Investment Center,
together with IDA staff . Funding for additional preparation work and part of the start-up and
maintenance operations of the Forest Resources Service in 1990-91 was provided by a Japanese
Grant for the Environment (05-2683-HA for Yen 50.4 million, equivalent to US$360,000) and
an advance under IDA's Project Preparation Facility (P648-HA for US$750,000). The
remaining balance of the Japanese Grant is about US$4153. Of the PPF, US$416,437 was
disbursed, and US$134,968 was cancelled, leaving an undisbursed balance of US$198,594.
Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., in May, 1991. The Bank's Board approved the
Credit on September 24, 1991. Credit signing was postponed indefinitely after the military
coup on September 30, 1991, which led to the suspension of Bank activities in Haiti.
Ultimately, since over two years lapsed after Board approval and the Credit had not been
signed, the Bank withdrew the Credit on March 1, 1994.
3.    Objectives. The objective of the project was to slow the pace of degradation of Haiti's
natural resources by:
(a)    Protecting the forests and safeguarding vital ecosystems from further
destruction.
(b)    Increasing wood production through the promotion of agroforestry on farms
and the improved management of State forest lands.
(c)    Reducing the pressure on vegetation for charcoal production through
conservation of wood fuels used by urban households.
4.    Description. The project was to provide technical and financial support for:
(a)    Institutional strengthening of the MARNDR's Directorate of Natural Resources
and its Forest Resources Service, through improvement of administrative
facilities, staffing and operations, management and technical assistance to be
provided by an internationally recruited firm of consultants, training in forestry
and agroforestry, review and update of the regulatory framework for natural
resources, and improvement of the wood fuels taxation system (US$11.3
million, including contingencies).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
(b)    Specific forestry and environmental programs, including the provision of
agroforestry extension services to some 16,000 farmers through contracts with
non-governmental organizations, the implementation of a two-year pilot
program for low technology water development in one of the agroforestry
extension areas, management and protection of the Pine Forest Reserve (28,000
ha), and the creation of an additional 30,000 ha of forest reserves, expansion of
forestry and agroforestry research, management of national parks, and a
monitoring capability for Haiti's natural resources (US$16.9 million).
(c)    Promotion by the Bureau of Mines and Energy of more efficient charcoal
stoves to conserve wood fuels (US$0.8 million).
5.     Expected Benefits. The Staff Appraisal Report identified the following benefits which
the project would help to bring about:
(a)    Incremental agroforestry production (wood and crops) and income from the
farms served by the project's extension services.
(b)    Maintenance and development of timber resources in the Pine Forest Reserve,
which would virtually disappear without the type of support provided by the
project.
(c)    Reduction of demand for domestic charcoal, and thereby the pressure to cut
trees, through the introduction of more efficient stoves.
(d)    Overall improvement in the framework for the development and protection of
forest resources and ecosystems.
(e)    Development of institutions, technology and approach to agroforestry to lay the
ground for more ambitious programs at a later stage.
6.     Delays in Credit Signing. On September 30, 1991, a week after Board presentation,
Haiti's Government under President Aristide was overthrown in a military coup which resulted
in the imposition of an international trade embargo and the suspension of nearly all donor
assistance, except for humanitarian aid. In July 1993, the Governor's Island Agreement was
reached to pave the way to a political resolution of Haiti's crisis. In August 1993, an elected
government under Prime Minister Malval came into office and Francois Severin, who had
negotiated the project with IDA, was reinstated as Minister of Agriculture. He set up a
commission to discuss the re-launching of the project with IDA. An IDA mission visited Haiti
in September 1993 to analyse ways to restructure the project to take into account the different
conditions since negotiations in July 1991 and to respond to the Government's wish in context
of Emergency Program to promote actions which would have a positive social and economic
impact. However, further progress was thwarted when the Governor's Island Agreement broke
down in October 1993, which led to the resignation of the Government of Prime Minister
Malval and a renewed period of unconstitutional rule in Haiti. Following the return of
President Aristide to power in October 1994, discussions with the Haitian Government have
reconfirmed the high priority of the activities that were to have been supported by the project,
especially given the accelerated environmental degradation during recent the economic and
political crisis.



3
7.     Project Implementation. Some activities financed by the Japanese Grant and the PPF
were underway at the time of the coup. Of the activities supported by the Japanese Grant, the
following were executed: (i) studies to support the preparation of the Household Energy
Component; (ii) work on maintaining, delimiting and protecting the Pine Forest Reserve and;
(iii) preparation of the 1989-93 Management Plan for the Pine Forest Reserve. Of the
activities supported by the PPF, the following were executed: (i) work on maintenance,
inventories and surveying; (ii) forest guards and fire fighter crews were hired; (iii) one of the
two scholarships was granted. The PPF also financed support staff, equipment, administration
and vehicles, as well as the Senior Forester and the Head of the Research Unit, and an An
Architect/Civil Engineer to supervise the preparation work needed for bidding for the
construction of the new offices. In particular, the studies and management plans will benefit
the further preparation of activities to support sustainable forestry development and
environmental activities, although there has been accelerated degradation of the physical
resource base during the recent period of economic and political crisis.
8.     Lessons Learned. Although the project never became effective, the major lesson
learned is that the activities proposed for the project were and remain vital to Haiti's
sustainable economic development, and now to Haiti's immediate reconstruction needs,
especially those activities directly targeted to the rural poor.






Annex
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
HAITI
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(Cr. 2301 - HA)
Basic Information
Country           Haiti
Project:          Forestry and Environmental Protection Project
Credit number:    Credit 2301 - HA
Estimated Project  US$29.01 million
Costs:
Credit amount:    SDR 19.7 million (US$26.1 million equivalent)
Borrower:         Government of Haiti
Implementing      Directorate of Natural Resources of the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural
agencies          Resources and Rural Development and Bureau of Mines and Energy of
the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications.
Beneficiaries     Farmers within and in the surrounding buffer zones of national parks and
forests; urban consumers of wood-based fuels; general population through
the strengthening of natural resource protection mechanisms.
On-lending terms:  Not applicable
Time taken to     2 years
prepare project
Project Appraisal  June 1990
Completion of     May 7, 1991
negotiations
Board presentation  September 24, 1991
Credit signing    N/A
Credit expiry     March 1, 1994



