Document of
The World Bank                 r '
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3096-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
June 17, 1981
Programs Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thailand Baht (B)
13 1         =  US$0.05
B 1 million = US$50,000
US$1         =  B 20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
aadt   -  average annual daily vehicle traffic
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
DOH    -  Department of Highways
MOC    -  Ministry of Communications
MOI    -  Ministry of Interior
SRT    -  State Railways of Thailand
TPU    -  Transport Planning Unit
VOC    -  vehicle operating costs
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:            $35 million equivalent
Term:              20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at
9.6% p.a.
Project
Description:    In support of the Government's regional and rural develop-
ment objectives, the project would help construct and
improve 20 sections of provincial roads located in rural
areas totalling about 600 km. All of these roads already
carry traffic, but they are unimproved and many sections
are impassable in the rainy season. The project roads, to
be selected from an agreed list of roads, are required to
have economic rates of return of not less than 12% based
on bid prices. Roads totalling about 400 km, almost all
located in the Northeast, have already been selected for
the first year's construction program. Their economic
rates of return are 18-38% based on bid prices. The
project also includes provision of laboratory and traffic
counting equipment for the Department of Highways (DOH),
studies and engineering of provincial and rural roads
and other transport studies for the preparation of
future projects, technical assistance to DOH and the
Transport Planning Unit of MOC, and training of DOH staff.
There are no special project risks. About 1,500 workers
will be employedc under the project for approximately 3-1/2
years. An estimated 330,000 people, living in the
vicinity of the roads, are expected to benefit from the
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:/1                                          Local  Foreign  Total
--- (US$ million) --
A. Construction & Improvement of
Provincial Roads                  23.83   22.00   45.83
B. Consulting Services
(a) Supervision of Roads Con-
struction & Improvement       0.90    0.70    1.60
(b)  Studies & Engineering           2.40    0.80    3.20
(c) Technical Assistance &
Training                      0.10    0.80    0.90
C. Laboratory & Traffic Counting
Equipment                          -        0.20    0.20
Subtotal                          27.23   24.50   51.73
D. Contingencies
(a)  Physical                        2.72    2.45    5.17
(b)  Price                           6.77    4.05   10.82
E. Right-of-way                         2.00    -         2.00
Total Project Cost                38.72   31.00   69.72
Financing Plan:                     Local    Foreign       Total
------ (US$ million) 
Government       34.72       -         34.72
IBRD              4.00     31.00       35.00
Total          38.72     31.00       69.72
Estimated                   Bank FY       1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Disbursements:                         --------- (US$ million) ----…-
Annual         5.1   10.5   11.4    6.5    1.5
Cumulative    5.1   15.6   27.0   33.5   35.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       Expected average rate of return is about 20%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3149-TH, dated May 26, 1981
/1 Taxes are included in local costs.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $35 million to help
finance a Provincial Roads Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on September 18, 1978. The report concludes that
Thailand's rapid economic growth over the past 15 years has led to a signi-
ficant reduction in absolute poverty, but that the poorest have lagged behind
this progress. It identifies the essential characteristics of these groups
and points to the need for continued overall development as well as the ini-
tiation of specific measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in
rural areas. It further discusses the constraints on the successful imple-
mentation of these policies. A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No.
3067a-TH) which provides an updating of macroeconomic developments was issued
on January 8, 1981. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differing views on the political decision-making process within the country.
The Government under the prime ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
formed in November 1977, resigned in February 1980 following increasing public
and parliamentary criticism of its economic policies. General Prem
Tinsulanonda was elected by the National Assembly as Prime Minister afte_
receiving the support of nearly all major political parties. General Prem's
government, formed in March 1980, included leaders from the political parties
which supported him. General Prem soon announced his government s policies on
a number of issues including economic and social development. These policies
place high and immediate priority on accelerating rural development, raising
rural incomes and measures to improve health and education. Particular
emphasis was given to generating more jobs and a rural public works program,
similar to the 1975/76 Tambon Program, was included as a major element in this
strategy. The Government also intended to exert efforts to contain inflation
and a more gradual adjustment of energy prices was advocated at the same time
/1 Parts I and II are substantially the same as those included in the
President's Report (P-3049-TH) dated May 1, 1981 for the Power Subsector
Project (Loan 2000-TH) approved by the Executive Directors on May 21,
1981.



that domestic energy resources were being developed. Reforms in monetary and
fiscal policy and efforts to improve the trade balance through improved export
performance were also called for. As discussed below, these reforms have been
crucial for increasing resource mobilization (especially in the public sector)
and reducing the current account deficit. In March 1981, however, the Social
Action Party and other coalition parties resigned on an issue of handling fuel
oil contracts and a new cabinet was formed comprising members of the United,
Chat Thai, and Democrat parties. This change was immediately followed by an
attempted coup by a group of military officers. However, the coup failed, and
the political situation has returned to normal.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
4.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor sus-
taining this expansion. The cultivated area increased by about 4% per year;
water control was improved; irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of
relatively new crops, including maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew
rapidly. Agriculture has also been a major contributor to export growth. As
a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and 24%, and total
investment, between 20% and 27%. The high level of private investment
contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year since 1970. All this
was achieved with a limited inflow of external resources and, until recently,
debt service remained quite low.
5.        The large growth in incomes over the last two decades, however, has
not been equitably distributed throughout the country, and at present there
are significant regional differentials in incomes and access to economic and
social infrastructure. The wide regional variations in terms of topography,
climate, soils, urbanization, etc., present distinct problems for future
development. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest per
capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the three remaining regions, the North,
Northeast and South. There is also considerable variation within each region;
farmers who have diversified into cash crops generally have enjoyed substan-
tial growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who have been unable or
unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. Recent
research has shown that inappropriate cropping patterns and agricultural
techniques are major factors in much of the rural poverty. This is most
conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast and North.
Since there is a well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of this large
group have tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the economy.
6.        Concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards are being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years, the Government has



initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon Program of direct transfers to villages in
1975/76, the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978,
the new village development program in 1979 and the rural employment program
in 1980. These programs have been designed to produce quick and tangible
political as well as economic results, but considerably more attention and
resources need to be devoted to rural development if these programs are to
have lasting impact. While the absorptive capacity in rural areas has
increased since the Tambon Program of 1975/76, there is some concern about the
efficacy of crash programs in view of the resource constraints facing the
budget and the limitations of implementation capacity at various levels of
government.
7.        Thailand's balance-of-payments position and its trade prospects are
now less favorable than in the early 1970s. The overall balance of payments,
which recorded surpluses in 1973 and 1974, has shown deficits averaging almost
$500 million annually since 1977. In 1978, the current account deficit
reached $1.1 billion or 5% of GDP, and increased in 1979 to $2.1 billion, or
about 8% of GDP. The most significant changes in the external environment
have been the rapid increase in the price of imported petroleum, the decline
in net transfer and service payments to Thailand and the conjunction of
inflation and recession throughout the world.  In 1980, there was only a
relatively small further increase in the current account deficit, and it
dropped in relation to GDP. This salutary result was probably partly due to
temporary favorable factors.
8.        To contain and finance the balance-of-payments deficit, the Govern-
ment has taken a number of measures. It has increased significantly its
borrowing from traditional sources and the Eurodollar market and, at the
beginning of 1980, raised interest rate ceilings by 3 percentage points in
order to encourage domestic savings and to curtail the flight of capital
abroad. Foreign exchange reserves have also been used extensively.
9.        The Government has also adjusted domestic prices to slow the growth
of imports. In March 1978, tariffs on non-essential imports were raised,
along with excise taxes on a number of items, notably gasoline. Petroleum
product prices were raised successively in February, May and July 1979 and
February 1980, for a cumulative increase of about 100% for gasoline, to the
equivalent of $0.47 per liter. After a proposed power tariff increase of
about 55% was rejected in November 1979, lesser tariff increases of about 50%
at bulk supply level and 38% at retail level were implemented in February 1980
and further increases of 43% at bulk supply level and 35% at retail level were
implemented in two stages in October 1980 and January 1981.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future growth. These factors include a relatively equitable



-4-
distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved tech-
nology, provision of infrastructure by the Government, and the dynamism of the
private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also, major gains have been
made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of population
growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979. The
target for 1981 is 2.1 percent.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of the rapid population growth in the 1960s, projected labor force
growth of 3% p.a. necessitates a high rate of job creation. Past growth has
benefited households unevenly and created further income disparities that
could threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time, addi-
tional fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural production
and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view of these
factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development may lead to a
deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next decade; persis-
tently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of unemployment or
underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of the poorer
segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among unskilled
workers. These internal factors are complicated by the external factors of
rapid oil price increase and recession in the developed countries. The oil
price increase alone added about $1.0 billion to the 1980 import bill, even
with no increase in import volume, and the current account deficit is esti-
mated to be about 7% of GDP. The unfavorable external situation will require
major domestic adjustments and it is unlikely that the overall growth rate
will exceed about 6% p.a. in the coming years.
12.       Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions. At the same
time, it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened,
during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transi-
tion, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated long-term
policies and play a more active role in development management.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in rural development. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively



- 5 -
to the industrial sector. Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force. In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about
one-third of total exports. Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost double
the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of manufactured
exports is essential, the large domestic market also offers opportunities for
a balanced industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agricul-
tural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs for urban consumption.
Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price distortions,
to increase availability of credit, and to eliminate impediments to efficient
production for domestic and foreign markets so that the Government's policy of
relying on the dynamic private sector for spurring growth and creating jobs
will succeed.
14.        The principal objectives of the Government-s Fifth Plan (1982-86)
are to achieve a 7% p.a. real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduc-
tion in the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment oppor-
tunities and balanced regional development. In contrast to earlier Plans
which addressed sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, the
Government intends to identify the concrete policies and programs to meet the
Fifth Plan-s economic and social objectives in much more detail. The National
Economic and Social Development Board and the more specialized agencies of the
Government are undertaking a number of studies to help ensure that the Fifth
Plan provides an unambiguous basis for the allocation of resources and the
formulation of development policies and programs. These studies may help
identify possible areas of Bank lending for structural adjustment. Con-
sultations between the Government and the Bank are satisfactory; several
substantive discussions have taken place since the present Government came to
power and a comprehensive discussion was held at the Consultative Group
Meeting in Paris on February 3 and 4, 1981.
Financing Requirements
15.        The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. The
Government's domestic revenue, as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79), is
low compared to other developing countries at similar levels of development
due to low tax rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of
compliance. With expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal
year 1979/80 was about $1.4 billion, or over 5% of GDP. The Government has
achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the
tax structure and improved collections. To reduce the reliance on foreign
financing, and thereby the deficit on the current account of the balance of
payments, the Government intends to keep the 1980/81 deficit to about $1.0
billion or about 3.5% of GNP. In addition, the financial situation of public
enterprises will be improved.



-6-
16.       During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase. Despite an average real growth of exports of over 10% p.a. and
increased domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the
price of imports, led by the price of petroleum, implies that large trade and
current account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-1980s. The
Government's objective is to keep the current account deficits during the
Fifth Plan period in absolute amounts to about the recent level of slightly in
excess of $2 billion per annum.  This will necessitate significant efforts in
implementing energy saving measures, promoting agricultural growth and
exports, reducing distortions and excessive protection in industry, promoting
more laborintensive exports, and postponing major capital-intensive
investments until the economy can afford them. Even the realization of the
Government's ambitious balance-of-payments targets will require very large
amounts of external borrowing, totaling more than $10 billion over the period
1982-86. Less favorable assumptions would increase this amount to $13 bil-
lion.
17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a larger part of Thailand's growing
resource requirements. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market
and bond markets. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy
Committee to coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public
sector. The Bank of Thailand as establishing procedures for recording private
borrowing abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. At the recent
Consultative Group meeting, various delegations indicated that in 1981 about
$1.2 billion would be available from official sources. External agencies,
including the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated
project lending to Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits,
but low foreign exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects where the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local
currency expenditures. Program and structural adjustment lending are also
being considered.
18.       By 1985, net disbursements will more than double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing.
Still the debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will not exceed 10%
at any time. Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance, the
debt service ratio on total public and private civilian borrowing (currently
about 15%) will rise to about 20% before declining. Given the diversification
of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of manufactured exports,
these debt service requirements should be sustainable if rapid export growth
continues, more domestic resources are mobilized, and economic stability is
maintained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of April 30, 1981, had received 62 IBRD loans amounting to
about $2,078 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of



these loans has been as follows: $411 million for transportataun; $316 mil-
lion for irrigation; $726 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $66 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153 million for telecommunications; $193 million for agricultural and rural
development; $149 million for urban development; $52 million for education;
and $81 million for industry. Thailand has also received six IDA credits: two
credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of $25.0 million for
rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for irrigation improve-
ment; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population project. In general,
Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily and in
accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as brief notes on the execution
of ongoing projects as of April 30, 1981.
20.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastructure
projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a program
which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts to
reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only abcat 50% of Bank Group lending and more than
half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to
benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the agricul-
tural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 35% of lend-
ing operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has also
changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced program
covering irrigation (including land development and support services to the
farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the
central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural extension,
research and credit, and rural development). Projects in the social sectors,
which prior to FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of
the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent years education,
population and low-income housing projects have accounted for about 15% of the
program.
21.       The findings of the 1978 Basic Economic Report and more recent
economic missions verify the appropriateness of the shift mentioned above,
and underscore the need to move even further in designing programs which help
the rural population, particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have
been largely bypassed by recent economic growth. Hence, in the agricultural
sector, the Bank is redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will
help to lift the rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combina-
tion of education, agricultural research and extension, credit and improved
infrastructure is foreseen. However, the major problem is the absence so far
of a viable package for the poorest and most remote farmers. Expansion and
improvement of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on
rehabilitation of small- and medium-scale irrigation schemes and on reaching
those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern and
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus as is the case with the proposed provincial roads project. A key
element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report is the creation
of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity outside of Bangkok.



Therefore, the bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial lending will be
directed to projects which enhance the attractiveness of regional cities as
service centers for the agricultural economy of those regions. Selected
projects in Bangkok will be aimed at strengthening agencies providing
essential services to the urban population and the development of low cost,
replicable programs to meet the demands of the urban sector, particularly the
urban poor, without diverting scarce resources from other high-priority
development needs.
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward institu-
tional development and project preparation. The Bank's regional mission in
Bangkok will continue to play a vital role in helping to identify and prepare
such projects. Promoting overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand
and is a necessary element in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource
requirements for infrastructure development, particularly for developing
energy and its domestic primary sources to reduce dependence on imported oil,
are large, and the Bank is concentrating its remaining funds in projects where
it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy changes and mobilizing other
resources. The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector
through its economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order to
help promote industrial policies which promote exports and favor more labor-
intensive and dispersed activities.
23.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$584.3 million, as of December 31, 1979, representing about 22% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of public
debt service payments in 1979 was 23.1%, or 7.2% of total debt service includ-
ing private debt. This is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest overall
public external debt (9.7% of GDP in 1979). In addition, although the level
of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next five years, the Bank
Group's share would be below 30% of total public external debt as Thailand has
diversified its borrowing program. The Bank Group's share in total debt out-
standing is expected to fall to below 20%, and its share of total debt service
would not exceed 10 percent.
24.       As of April 30, 1981, IFC had made commitments totalling about $84
million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been primarily
in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed at
mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enterprises.
Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced by
expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with the Govern-
ment have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be needed.
These areas include very large and complex projects such as a proposed soda
ash project to serve the ASEAN community; projects in the petroleum and down-
stream petrochemical sector; and projects in the agricultural sector. In
addition to the cement and tin mining projects recently approved by the Board,
a tantallum processing industries project is at an advanced stage of consider-
ation by IFC. IFC expects to continue to help traditional manufacturing
projects and to assist in financial institutions and money market develop-
ments.



- 9 -
PART TII - TRANSPORT SECTOR
25.       During the last 15 years, the Thai economy grew at a rapid pace and
generated a high demand for transport. To meet this demand, the Government
undertook large transport investments, pursued fairly liberal transport
policies and established a framework under which a competitive road transport
industry has developed. Over the same period, freight transport grew at about
8% p.a., and passenger traffic at around 12% p.a. Most of this growth was in
the roads sector. Today, virtually all national roads and a part of the
provincial road network have been completed, and the country has a unified and
well-functioning interregional road system. Railways, inland waterways and
coastal shipping have also grown, but at more modest rates.
26.       All modes combined, the freight transport is about 50 million tons
and 14 billion ton-km per annum. Roads carry about 70% of ton-km, railways
20%, and waterways and other modes about 10%. Freight traffic flows are heavy
in the Northern Corridor between the Gulf and the North, where all three major
modes compete, and along the axes radiating from Bangkok to the South and
Northeast, which are being served by road and rail. The direction, composi-
tion and size of traffic flows reflect the country's generally rural charac-
ter, Bangkok's central location and dominance as the country's principal port
and consumption center, and the agricultural strength of the Central Region.
27.       Sector Objectives.  With the progress made in developing primary and
secondary roads, government attention has now shifted toward: extending and
improving tertiary (rural) roads and the unimproved provincial roads to help
accelerate regional development; improving performance of other transport
modes and removing specific capacity bottlenecks in the transport system; and
introducing policies leading to greater energy efficiency in the transport
sector. Several steps have been taken to achieve these broad objectives; the
Department of Highways (DOH) has intensified its program of improving provin-
cial roads, and the proposed project, as well as the Sixth Highway (Provincial
Roads) Project (Loan 1519-TH), are a part of this program; a rural roads
sector study is underway and would help develop a program for improvement of
these rural roads (para. 32); the Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project
(Loan 1889-TH) is being implemented to improve waterborne transport and
strengthen the Harbor Department; and under the Bangkok and Sattahip Ports
Project (Loan 1918-TH), additional port capacity is being generated for
Thailand's external trade. To alleviate the pressure of rising fuel costs,
the Government is undertaking a study on how to improve energy efficiency in
the transport sector.
Transport Infrastructure
28.       By traffic volumes, network length, area coverage and capital
expenditures, roads are Thailand's most important transport infrastructure.



- 10 -
The public road network (Map IBRD 15195) consists of about 14,000 km of
national (primary) roads, about 29,000 km of provincial (secondary) roads, and
about 85,000 km of rural (tertiary) roads. The national roads constitute the
interregional road system. The provincial, as well as the rural roads, serve
intraregional and local transport. The Northeast has the greatest length of
national and provincial roads with a share of about 30%, followed by the North
with 27%, the Central Region with 24%, and the South with 19%. However,
ranked by the adequacy of the road system, measured in population and land
area per km of road, the order is reversed.
29.       The Department of Highways (DOH), in the Ministry of Communications
(MOC), competently administers and maintains the national and provincial
roads. The 72 changwats (provinces) and the municipalities, under the
Ministry of the Interior (MOI), are primarily responsible for rural roads,
though a number of government agencies, under different Ministries, also
construct and maintain these roads. The changwats have generally weak road
works organizations; the Government is considering various measures to
strengthen changwat administration, specifically under the Northern
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 929-TH).
30.       The national road system is in large part complete and almost
entirely improved and paved. However, a few sections are becoming inadequate
for the increasing traffic volumes, principally on the main routes radiating
from Bangkok, and a small number of additional links will be required to
complete the network and to shorten some routes. Furthermore, an increasing
length of the older paved national roads need strenghthening.
31.       The provincial road system has been expanding rapidly, mostly by
reclassification, but also by new construction. Future expansion of the
system is likely to be slower. About 14,000 km, of which 8,000 km are paved,
have had some improvements and the remainder, about 15,000 km, are tracks or
substandard earth and gravel roads, many of which are impassable during the
rainy season.
32.       Improvement of rural roads has been largely limited to regional
rural development projects principally, though not exclusively, in the North-
east. The rural roads inventories are incomplete and generally out-of-date.
Standards vary between tracks and engineered roads of various levels. Plan-
ning is deficient and maintenance, on average, poor or nonexistent. Planning,
construction methods and maintenance of these roads need to be improved, and
the jurisdictions of rural roads agencies need to be redefined. A national
plan to improve the rural roads sector is being prepared under the Study of
Rural Roads currently being undertaken by consultants, financed under the
Sixth Highway Project. Specifically, the study will prepare the basis for
projects aimed at institutional development, improvement of maintenance, and a
development program for upgrading the rural roads. Further, the study will be
an important step toward implementing the Government's policy of decentrali-
zing development management. The Study of Rural Roads was launched in October
1980. The Phase I report is due by mid-1981, while the final Phase II report
is scheduled to be completed in early 1982.



- 11 -
33.       Road Transport.  Thailand's motor vehicle fleet, including motor-
cycles, has grown from about 370,000 in 1966 to about 1,870,000 in 1980, at
an average growth rate of 12% per annum. Excluding motorcycles, the motor
vehicle fleet has grown from under 200,000 to over 900,000 during the same
period; of this fleet, '55' are trucks and buse and the rest are passenger
cars, pickup trucks and other utility vehicles. Nearly 75% of the cars,
40% of the buses and 20% of the trucks are registered in the greater Bangkok
metropolitan area. However, the share of all vehicles registered outside
Bangkok has increased from under 60% in the mid-1960s to about 70% today.
34.       Over the last two decades, road transport has continuously grown
and attained a dominant position among the transport modes. Apart from the
roads in Bangkok metropolitan area, the national and provincial roads have
recorded the bulk of this impressive growth. In the sixties, from a very
low base, road traffic grew at double-digit annual rates, and in the
seventies, at about 7% p.a. on average. This growth is expected to level at
about 5-6% p.a. in the 1980s, and between 3-4% in the 1990s. Reflecting
regional differences in economic growth, the North and South lead the
Central and Northeastern regions in road traffic growth. On account of
their energy efficiency for trunk line and bulk traffic, which may not yet
be fully tapped, the railways, inland waterways and coastal shipping could
take over some of the traffic presently on roads, but they are not expected
to be major substitutes for road transport. In particular, the Government's
policy of improving communication in rural Thailand, where traffic volumes
are low, relies primarily on road transport.
35.       Railways.  The State Railways of Thailand (SRT) has a large line
network of 3,800 route-km, of which 3,200 km are mainlines and 600 km, branch-
lines. SRT is an operationally efficient and well-managed state enterprise
but its financial position is weak because of inadequate and infrequent
adjustments in passenger and freight tariffs. Under the current Five-Year
Plan and with Bank assistance (Fifth Railway Project; Loan 1662-TH), SRT
engaged in the rehabilitation of plant and equipment and expansion of line
and rolling stock capacity. Following its decision to develop Sattahip as a
commercial deep-water port and the eastern seaboard as an alternative
industrial pole to Bangkok, the Government is making arrangements for
extending the rail network by some 100 km from Chachoengsao, east of
Bangkok, to Sattahip.
36.       Inland Waterways.  Thailand has a comprehensive inland waterways
system of about 1,300 km in the Northern Corridor stretching from Bangkok to
Uttaradit in the Central Region. To help develop the inland waterways
potential for low-cost transport, a Bank-assisted project is being
implemented (Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project), under which some
shallow river sections will be deepened, two river ports constructed at
Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin, and a pilot tug and steel barge convoy



- 12 -
introduced, to demonstrate the operational and economic advantages of
replacing the traditional wooden barges by modern units. After completion
of the project in 1983 annual traffic, mainly of rice and maize from the
region served, is expected to increase from 0.6 million tons to about 2.5
million tons.
37.       Coastal Ports and Shipping.  The coastal ports, located on the east
and west coasts of the southern peninsula comprise about 40 facilities ranging
from small fishing and cargo wharves of purely local importance to large
regional ports with annual volumes of several hundred thousand tons of cargo.
About 2.5 million tons of cargo and petroleum and 1.2 million tons of fish
are annually loaded or landed at these ports. However, all coastal ports
have severe draft restrictions and are subject to continuous siltation from
riverine and littoral sources. Frequent maintenance dredging and, in some
cases, capital dredging is required but the capacity of the Harbor
Department, which is in charge of these functions, is limited due to lack of
equipment and expertise. The Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project
(para. 36) will help remedy these constraints.
38.       Deep-water Ports.  Thailand has presently two commercial deep-water
ports, Bangkok and Sattahip. Construction of two potential deep-water ports
in the south, Songkhla and Phuket, is under study with financing from the
Asian Development Bank (ADB). Except petroleum products and agricultural
bulk exports, virtually all of Thailand's import and export traffic passes
through the Port of Bangkok. However, the capacity of the Port of Bangkok
is now almost saturated; to avoid future port congestion, the Bangkok and
Sattahip Ports Project (Loan 1918-TH) is being implemented with Bank
financing. The project would increase the capacity of Bangkok port,
construct a new inland container freight station in the vicinity of Bangkok,
and convert the former naval port of Sattahip into a commercial port for
container traffic and agricultural bulk exports.
39.       Air Transport.  Thailand's international and domestic air transport
are centered at Bangkok's Don Muang airport. Airport utilization is high, and
works are in progress to increase capacity. Two other airports, at Hat Yai
in the South and Chiang Mai in the North, also receive international
flights. There are another 40 airfields of various sizes, of which about
half receive scheduled domestic flights. Civil domestic aviation carries
about 0.5 million passengers and 1.2 million tons of cargo per year. Two
government-owned airlines, Thai Airways and Thai International, provide,
respectively, domestic and international public air transport.



- 13 -
Transport Planning, Coordination and Investments
40.       The Ministry of Communications (MOC) is responsible for transport
policy, regulation, coordination and planning. Transport coordination and
regulation is generally handled by MOC's in-house staff, while modal planning
is mostly the responsibility of the departments an4 agencies under MOC, except
ruiral roads which are under MOI. At the recommendation of the Bank, a
Transport Planning Unit (TPU) was set up in MOC in 1974 to act as the focal
point for transport planning and policy review. Over the years, TPU, assisted
by consultants financed under Bank projects, has developed significantly but
still retains consultants for specialized assignments.
41.       In the past, MOC's attention has focused on the provision of
transport infrastructure and transport coordination. More recently, it has
become concerned with user charges in road and inland water transport, and the
effects of rising fuel costs on transport. TPU has been commissioned to study
these issues and to submit policy proposals. Preliminary estimates indicate
that revenues from road user taxes have in recent years exceeded total
expenditures for road investments, maintenance and administration. Regarding
fuel costs, current retail prices (including taxes) of gasoline ($0.58/liter),
diesel fuel ($0.36/liter) and aviation fuel ($0.46/liter) are all above their
opportunity costs calculated for imports of finished petroleum products
($0.30/liter).
42.       During the Third Development Plan, FY1972-76, Thailand's public
sector investments in transport were about B 21 billion in current prices,
and under the ongoing Fourth Plan for FY1977-81, planned capital expenditures
would reach B 28 billion. Transport's share of public development expendi-
tures was 20% in the Third Plan period but is expected to drop to about 11% in
the Fourth Plan period because of the earlier achievements primarily in the
road sector. In both Plan periods, road infrastructure received about three
quarters of all funds allocated for the transport sector. However, within the
roads sector, a shift is taking place, and rural roads have gradually
increased their share of the roads' budget from 10% in the Third Plan to 25%
in the Fourth Plan. The Fifth Development Plan, FY1982-86, currently in an
advanced stage of preparation, is likely to reflect the Government's
increasing interest in regional and rural development, and the need to
continue raising the investment shares of roads identified with primary sector
and local community development. In this regard, there is a pressing need for
improvement of provincial (secondary) roads, an essential communication system
for a large segment of the rural population. About 14,000 km of these roads
are built to engineered standards but the rest, about 15,000 km, are
unimproved, and many roads constitute serious development constraints.
Upgrading of these roads is an essential element in the Government's policy of
regional and rural development, which would be supported by the proposed
project.



- 14 -
Bank Lending and Project Performance Audit
43.       Five previous Bank-financed road projects were satisfactorily com-
pleted, and the implementation of the Sixth Highway Project is proceeding
well. The six projects include construction of 15 national roads totalling
2,120 km and 15 provincial roads totalling 1,058 km; technical assistance and
training for DOH and MOC; procurement of maintenance and workshop equipment
for improved road maintenance; and a series of studies to assist in planning
and preparation of projects including development of rural roads subsector.
Completion reports and project performance audit reports (PPAR) were prepared
for the first four road projects./I The reports showed that construction
costs were generally lower than estimated because of mounting competition
among contractors and the growth of competent local industry, which were not
fully anticipated. However, changing economic conditions in 1973-74 led to an
overrun of 30% on the fifth project, and on the current sixth project, costs
are likely to be close to the estimates. Another important finding was that
in the first four projects, higher than anticipated benefits resulted because
of initial underestimation of generated and diverted traffic, although there
was no significant underdesign of roads.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The project was prepared by DOH under a study of national and
provincial roads carried out by US consulting firm Louis Berger International,
Inc., in a joint venture with a Thai firm, Asian Engineering Consultants
Corporation, and financed under the Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project
(Loan 1519-TH). The study prepared, after initial examination, a list of
about 6,000 km of roads for which simplified feasibility studies were
undertaken. This list was subsequently reduced to about 2,200 km from which
the project roads are to be selected. The project was appraised in April/May
1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from May 4-7, 1981; the
Thai delegation was headed by H.E. Prok Amranand, Thai Ambassador to US. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Provincial Roads Project" (No. 3149-TH dated
May 26, 1981) is being distributed separately. Supplementary data are
provided in Annex III.
/1 PPARs were distributed to the Executive Directors under cover of the
following Secretary's Memoranda: SecM74-152 dated March 11, 1974 (First
Highway Project); SecM74-176 dated March 19, 1974 (Second Highway
Project); SecM75-382 dated May 27, 1975 (Third Highway Project); and
SecM77-508 dated June 15, 1975 (Fourth Highway Project).



- 15 -
Project Description
45.       The project consists of:
(a)  Construction and improvement, and supervision by consultants, of
about 20 sections of provincial roads totalling about 600 km.
Approximately 50% of the roads will have bituminous paved surfaces,
and the remainder gravel surfaces. Most roads will be built
generally following alignments of existing roads and tracks hut
with improvement of curves, raising of road beds, widening,
improving drainage and provision of bridges and culverts. In a few
cases, realignments will be undertaken. Also, there will be some
new construction to close network gaps.
(b)  Provision of laboratory equipment for DOH-s Materials Testing
Laboratory (Materials Division), chiefly for the location and
testing of rock and other materials used in road construction, and
traffic counters and other equipment for collection of traffic
data for national and provincial roads.
(c)  Studies and detailed engineering, by consultants, of provincial and
rural roads and other transport studies by consultants, for the
preparation of future projects.
(d)  Technical assistance by consultants to the DOET for implementing the
road maintenance program, particularly the introduction and initial
operation of a management/financing system for maintenance equipment
(Revolving Fund); and to MOC (TPU), for assistance to undertake
analyses of selected transport subjects.
(e)  Fellowships abroad for about 12 DOH staff members for studies in
transport planning and economics, road maintenance, mechanical
engineering and cost accounting.
46.       During negotiations, agreement was reached on the selection of
thirteen roads totalling about 400 km for the project's first-year construc-
tion program. All except one of these roads are located in the Northeast.
The engineering of project roads was contracted to Thai consultants with
supervision and coordination by DOH and the joint venture firm of Louis
Berger/Asian Engineering Consultants. The roads for the second and final
years construction program (about 200 km) will be selected, in agreement
with the Bank, by June 30, 1982 from the agreed list of roads (para. 44);
all roads under the project are required to have economic rates of return of
not less than 12% based on bid prices. Also by June 30, 1982 the subjects
of other transport studies, including studies of inland water and maritime
transport, would be selected in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (Section
3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Project Costs and Financing Plan
47.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at about $70 million, with a foreign exchange component of about $31 million,
or about 44%. Total contingency allowances amount to about $16 million or 31%
of base (1981) costs. The estimated average costs per km, excluding
(including) contingency allowances are: (a) for construction and improvement
of roads, $76,000 ($100,000); (b) for supervision by consultants, $2,700
($3,400); and (c) for detailed engineering by consultants for construction and
improvement of provincial roads, $2,000 ($2,500), and for rural roads, $1,200
($1,500). The costs of consultants' services for detailed engineering are
normally on a "per road" (or per km) basis. For other services, the costs are
on a "per man-month" basis.  The estimated average costs per man-month,
excluding contingency allowances, for Thai staff, employed for supervision and
feasibility studies, average about $2,500; the estimated man-month costs for
such services by foreign consultants, including salaries, social costs,
overseas allowance, overhead and fees, average about $7,500 ($9,000 including
overseas travel, etc.). For specialized technical assistance services, the
estimated man-month costs for foreign consultants, including salaries, social
costs, etc., average about $8,500 ($11,000 including overseas travel, etc).
48.       Contingency allowances for physical quantities of works and equip-
ment are 10%, and the following annual rates have been used for price
increases; (a) for local costs, 16% in 1981; 12% in 1982; 12% in 1983; 10% in
1984; and 9% in 1985; (b) for foreign costs, 9% in 1981; 8.5% in 1982; and
7.5% in 1983-85. The cost estimates and contingency allowances were reviewed
during negotiations and are considered reasonable.
49.       The foreign exchange component of road construction and improvement
is about 45% for work carried out by local contractors and about 57% when
carried out by foreign contractors. Based on recent experience, local
contractors are expected to win most of the contracts; hence, an average
foreign exchange component has been estimated at 48%. The foreign exchange
component of the consultants' services has been based on the estimated
man-months of foreign and local consultants' staff to be employed; it is
estimated at 45% for supervision (excluding field supervisory staff to be
provided by DOH), 25% for studies and engineering, and 85% for technical
assistance. All specialized laboratory and traffic counting equipment will be
of foreign origin.
50.       The proposed loan of $35 million will finance half of the $70 mil-
lion total cost of the project, including the estimated foreign exchange
component of the project, and about $4 million expected to be local costs
since local consultants' are likely to win a large share of the contracts for
consultants' services. The remaining $35 million of the total project cost,
all in local expenditures, will be borne by the Government.



- 17 -
The Department of Highways
51.       DOH, in the Ministry of Communications (MOC), is responsible for the
administration, planning, con!-truction and maintenance of the national and
provincial roads. DOH was reorganized between 1964 and 1967 with USAID
assistance; further organizational changes were made in 1976 to strengthen the
Department's road maintenance capabilities on the lines recommended by the
Highway Maintenance Study under the Fifth Highway Project. The Department is
well-organized and well-operated, functioning as a modern agency with
considerable autonomy.
52.       At present, technical assistance to the DOH is needed only for the
introduction of special management and operations techniques, such as the
fund for administration and financing of maintenance equipment (para. 54), and
external academic or professional training of DOH staff for specialized
subjects. For other subjects, staff attend courses at local universities. To
train its personnel, DOH also has a continuing series of in-house technical
and administrative courses, and it conducts on-the-job field training through
its road construction units.
53.       DOH's current construction and improvement program for the Fourth
Development Plan (FY1977-81) includes total expenditures of B 16.5 billion and
construction of about 10,000 km. However, as in the case of the preceding
plan, only about 60% of the program is likely to be executed, because
of inflation and a shortfall in funding. The ongoing program emphasizes
investments in provincial roads because of their generally low standards and
poor condition. About 35% of all roads in the program are located in the
Northeast, 25% in each of the North and Central Regions, and 15% in the South.
DOH carries out about 90% of construction by contract; the rest is by force
account, largely undertaken for training purposes. The Thai contracting
industry has matured during the past 15 years, and there are now many domestic
contractors, which are competitive with foreign firms and fully capable of
undertaking major projects. DOH's proposed program for the Fifth Development
Plan (FY1982-86) covers a total of 12,000 km of roads, but it is likely that
the approved program will be smaller.
Road Maintenance
54.       A number of steps were taken in recent years to improve DOH's road
maintenance capability. In particular, a Highway MIaintenance Study was
carried out, under the Fifth Highway Project, to formulate an eight-year
(1979-86) maintenance program. This was followed by the provision of
technical assistance under the Sixth Highway Project, to implement the
maintenance program and for introducing an internal hiring system for the
management, repair and replacement of maintenance equipment (Revolving Fund),
which is now scheduled to become operational in October 1, 1981. The
technical assistance will be continued, under the proposed project, for the
first few years of operating the fund. The routine maintenance of national
and provincial roads, which includes patching of surfaces, clearing of drains,
repair of bridges, etc., is now generally adequate. However, periodic



- 18 -
maintenance, such as resurfacing bituminous paved roads and reshaping and
resurfacing gravel roads, remains deficient because of inadequate funding, and
a large backlog of such work has accumulated. The Government has updated the
estimated routine and periodic maintenance requirements for the remaining
years, FY1981-86, of its eight-year maintenance program. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the execution and funding of a satisfactory mainte-
nance program for national and provincial roads in these years (Section 4.05
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Vehicle Weights and Fuel Economy
55.       The last significant amendments of the Government's regulations on
vehicle weights and dimensions were made in November 1976, following a review
by consultants as part of the Highway Maintenance Study carried out under the
Fifth Highway Project. The current regulations provide a maximum axle load of
9.1 m tons, the gross weight of a three axle vehicle up to 21.0 m tons, of a
semi-trailer up to 37.4 m tons, and of a truck and trailer combination 43.4 m
tons. During negotiations it was agreed that the Government will review the
regulations in the context of an ongoing TPU study to consider increasing the
allowable vehicle weights and dimensions. The review will also take into
account the findings of a study on traffic law enforcement and safety which
will be carried out under a fourth highway project to be financed by the ADB.
Implementation and Procurement
56.       The Ministry of Communications, through its DOH, will have primary
responsibility for implementing the project. DOH will be assisted by
consultants in supervising road construction and improvement, and in
undertaking feasibility studies and detailed engineering. The roads will be
constructed and improved through contracts awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding by prequalified firms in accordance with the
Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement", and on the advice of consultants.
Laboratory and traffic counting equipment will be procured through contracts
awarded after local competitive bidding among importers of such equipment.
57.       Contracts for the first year's construction program are expected to
be awarded about September 1981, and the remaining contracts about September
1982. Completion of all construction is estimated by the end of 1984. Deli-
very of the laboratory and traffic counting equipment is expected by the end
of 1982. The studies and detailed engineering of provincial and rural roads
as well as the selected transport studies are expected to be undertaken from
1982 to 1984. During negotiations, understandings were reached on a project
implementation schedule and the arrangements for reporting progress.



- 19 -
Disbursements
58.       Disbursements of the loan will be made against full documentation
at the rate of 48% of the total expenditures for construction and improvement
works; 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported laboratory and
traffic counting equipment; 65% of total expenditures for imported equipment
procured locally; 100% of the total expenditures for consultants services;
and 100% of foreign expenditures of fellowships for DOH staff.
Ecology
59.       The works have been designed to avoid causing flooding, erosion or
other significant ecological problems. The alignments mostly follow existing
roads in order to minimize land acquisition for right-of-way and property
disturbance. To eliminate dust, roads being constructed with gravel surfaces
will be paved, where they pass through villages.
Economic Evaluation, Benefits and Risks
60.       All roads from which the project roads that have been or are to be
selected already carry traffic, ranging from about 30 to 300 aadt (annual
average daily vehicle traffic). Estimated traffic growth rates, of the order
of 4-9% per year over the life of the road investment, were based on regional
or local population, personal income and energy cost data and trends.
61.       Resource savings in the form of savings in vehicle operating costs
(VOC), and increases in producer surplus in agriculture, are the principal
quantified road improvement benefits. The project benefits and costs were
calculated separately for each road. Depending on road condition and vehicle
mix, typical VOC savings are of the order of 30-50%. Where applicable, the
increase in producer surplus is in the order of 50-90% of a road's annual
benefits some 4 years after the investment and thereafter; rice, sugarcane and
tapioca are among the main crops whose production is expected to increase with
the project.
62.       The roads already selected for the project's first year s
construction program have economic rates of return of 18-38% based on bid
prices. The roads of the second and final years program are required to have
rates of return of not less than 12% calculated on the same basis. The
expected average rate of return on the project roads is about 20%, and all
investments are expected to be timely. The principal project risks are
construction cost increases and lower project benefits, the latter through
overestimating existing traffic. Three sensitivity tests were carried out:
(a) capital costs were increased by 10%, (b) benefits decreased by 15%, and
(c) a combination of the first two tests. These tests indicated that risks to
project roads are well within acceptable limits.



- 20 -
63.       The populations served by the roads are the project's main invest-
ment beneficiaries. They are expected to receive most of the increases in
producer surplus, and to share to a large extent in the transport resource
cost savings as a result primarily of the competitiveness of the transport
industry. In total, about 330,000 people are expected to benefit directly
from the project, of whom over 60% live in the Northeast. An average of about
1,500 workers are expected to be directly employed on the construction and
improvement works over a period of about 3-1/2 years.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. Special
features of the proposed project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
65.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 17, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TRAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WtIQTtA    .ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. YM.)                                                          -  MDST RECLIIT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            514.0
AGRICULTURAL     179.6                                MOST RFCENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCcU4
1960  l    1970 Yb ESTIMATE  b         ASIA 6 PAC-FIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARI!!EAN
CNP PER CAPITA (US,S                 LOO.O       220.0      590.0               1114.,                  1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTtON PER CAPITA
(MILOGRAKS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      64.0       247.0     327.0                842. 4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     26.4        35.7      44.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5        13.2      14.1                  39.1                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       103.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       51.0        69.0      88.0                 376.1                    28.1
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0       251.0     251.0                2350.4                    i1. 7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PFRCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.7        46.2      43.4                  40.4                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.6        50.6      53.6                 56.2                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2. 7        3. 0      3.0                  3. 4                     3. 9
POPULATION GROWTN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.a         3.0       2. 7                  2.4                     2.7
URBAN                              4.6         3. 7      3.6                   4. 1                    4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PERP THOUSAND)    46.0        44.0      32.0                  28.7                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     17.0        12.0       8.0                   7.9                     8.9
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.2        2.2                  1.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANlI.AL (THOUSANDS)      *.       203.0/c  644.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         27.4      40.0                 39.0
FOOD AND5 NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          92.0       100.0     134.0                116.9                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALYB 1ES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                   96.0       103.0     105.0/d              108.9                    107.4
'TEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)         43. 0       50.0      49. 0/d               60.3                    65. 6
F WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       11.0        15.0      14. L/d              18.8                    33. 7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     15.0         9.0       6.0                  5.3                      8..
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIETH (YEARS)    51.0        57.0      61.0                 63.0                     63. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        86.0/e    68.0                 52.8                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      22.0                 42.4                     65.9
URBAN                               ..          ..      49.0                 62.1                     B0.4
RURAL                               ..          ..      12.0                 29.7                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRECTA DISPOSAL (PERCEIJT
OF POFULATIONI
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      40.0                 52.P                     62.3
UREAN                               ..        65.0      58.0                  71. 1                   79.4
RURAL                               ..         8.0      36.0                 42.4                     29.6
POPULATICN PER PRYSICIAN          7800.0      8420.0    8169.0               4120. 1                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4900.0      3340.0    3542.0               2213.6                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1351.Ojf     880.0     816.0                819.4                    480.3
URBAN                               ..       350.0
RURAL                               ..      1136.0
AOMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        31.0      33.0                 28.8
HOUSING
AVERACB SIZE DF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.3-        5. 8      5.35
tRBAN                              5.3/f       5.9       5.5
RURAL                              5.6f        5.0       5.5
AVERAGE NUMEER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..       2.4
URBAN                               ..            ..     2.2
RURAL                               ..          ..       2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URTBAAN                                       63. O       *
RURAL                               ..        13.0



- 22-                                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T LA7IND - SOCIAL ECATORI DAUAS?iRR
TRA7IAJD                          AEM;ZtC  G7SS tWZTCR AVINGZS
-MDtST ItZCDWISST t5MA
hOsT RCECtT           MIDDLt I7CON             HIDDLZ l19CQI
1960  /b    1970      ESTTIUTt /b        ASIA 6 PACInC    LATI7  ANERICA 6 CAIBRrtAN
EDUCATION
AIDJUSTED EN}OLLENT RATIOS
PRIARY:      TOTAL                 83.0         81.0       83.0                   98. 6                     99.7
MALE                  86.0         85.0      86.0                    99.2                    101.0
FEMALE                79.0         77.0      79.0                    97. 7                    99.'
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  13.0        17.0       27.0                   55.5                      34.4
MALE                  16.0         20. 0     28.0                    60.7                     33.5
FEHALE                10.0         14.0      20.0                   49.9                      34. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)    19.0           24.0      13.0                    13.7                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIDARY                             36.0        35.0       30.0                   34.6                      30.5
SECONDARY                           20.0        16.0       21.0                   28.5                      14.5
ADULT LITELACT RATE (PERCENT)         68.0         79. 0     84.0                   85.8                      76.3
CONSUIhTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0         5.0        6.4                    9.0                      43.0
LADIO RECEIVERS PER TlOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0        78.0      131.0                  118. 9                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THODSND
POPULATION                           2.3         7. 0      18.0                   39.4                      94.2
NKWSPAPER ("DAILY GZNERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TEOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0        24.0         ..                     ..                      63.3
CINEMA AIWMAL ATTENDNCE PER CAPITA    .              .        1. 7                   4. 9
LABOR FORCZ
TOTAL LABOR FORtCE (THOUSAND)    13529.2       16658.8   20985.6
PEHALE (PERCENT)                   48.3         47. 3      47.0                   36.8                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.7         79.9      77.0                   51.9                      37.1
,INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 4.4          6. 0       8.0                   21. 9                     23. 5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.3        46.6       45.6                   39.1                      31.5
KALE                                  52.7        49.3       48.6                   48.5                      48.9
FEiALE                                49.8        43.9       42.6                   29.6                      14.0
ECONCHIC DEPENDZNCS RATIO                0.9          1. 1      1. 0                    1.1                      1. 4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOHE
RECEIVED ST
IIIGHZST 5 PERCENT Of  OU1SEtHODS   21. 8/h      23. 8I    t14. QLI
HIGHEST 20 PtRCENT OF HOUSEHCLDS  50. 9h        49. 7i    42.2
LOWEST 20 PE?CENT OF  OUSEDNOLDS    6. 2/h       6. li      7.                      *-*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF lOUSENOLDS   14. 9f/h      15. 91     19. I                                              .
POVERTS TARGET GROUPS
ESTDMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY ICCOHZ
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                 ..          ..      159.0
RURAL                                                     106.0                  192.1                     190.J
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PEt CAPITA)
URBAN                                                     115.0                      .                    474.0
RURAL             -                                       10.0                   182.5                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                              .       15.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       34.0                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/s   The group averages  for o ch indicator are population-eighted arithmetie moots.  Coverage of countries
mong the indicators depends on availmbility of dats and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer co any year betwsn 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estisate, betwen 1974 and 1978.
/c   Govermsent progr_ only; /d 1976; /a 1964-65; /f 1962; A Percent of population in Pangkok metropolitan
area; Lh 1962-63; / 1968; /1 PrelIminary data for 1975-76; due to lack of data on national basis, rhe
sethodology for aggregating the available regionfl date overetates incomes of low inecm. groups and under-
states incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this dsta is not suitsble for any analytical comparisons.
Most recsnt #4timate of GNP p-r capita Is for 1979, all other data aur as of April. 1980.
October, 1980



- 23 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
-.toel. iyopnsI             eue    fthelth.    o-f ttadordns   dsP intiate  and c-neyn  uasd by dttfsfan  c-onios in cuict                     he dots.  Th. dun...,..
chelsea.usflt 1      desrie-     rdr,o  mgnitud. loicof a trend, end thr.nteris tartutn  .tInT  dif bagt.-h-e  ontis
iTb.ra  stau      -top. em. 11) tht.sco..o.nt, group of tto Subject coutr  an  70) .cutyto,oc                          ueu   high.f  -.05g. Lncan   that thu  -tyty jSr-g
of the auhfec   -outr   eacen  for 'Capit.l Surplus Oil Err-cer'fgrou  ofer  "Otuds  dits torhAfi Aan  Piddis En.."  a. chse  haau.-  tfso a
sot-iorlfttiasl..  E.t toyfee           da rop   ut  the avrae  are..   .   uens    naltgh  d uihai  sta              c  oath Iit-att and shon  ony1 hee
data end                      f- o   ntr.cuto    uth   urle    in. ittl --t rrtSi.of ova-. iKt.ttcsoci. haecraatnat nlrneafod icnme-t bo   ithey                          u
of un  idineura  si-             n t  h  county-en  ref __tn  troop..
L.AN1D A60   th fbusu= qf: e~.)                                                                 Poiati  nr'irnc1             - ?.ylei.   duchues by ntn.               p-attiniu   ptsy-
Tot.L-  ca  auran  erscnpntn               .ud are  end iInlad itr.ncaoqosiltied  tot                                               I . aatluhnnl tto -oeaty It
AunicL- urtl  E-f tosn.f.rnioa  arts. uasa ta                  ratily or raencir              Prltt-orOce.   arn       orlt    diotded  ny t.-r of P-i.tota
i? PU LA_PETA  UiS$) - CAP pP.  capta eaiss   ncrutertt  rceta-                                    uhuMh cra                 M iie    ytsrrSanienaru   upelhd
cuisted by sescovrno           nhod ae do1d Det mb   (9970-t9 bais) : 1960,                     LttsbeI  Phli.i and p.tcut   -easrL so-               telad    hospital ea  r-
,970  ..d   1979d.t..                                                 ~~~~~~~~~hubiIituutnonct-tr.  cpta       - p  e-tbliof=      p.neenIy staffd
by an I-ea   cu hysitinn-   fe-uIie-tssata  ridie   prlalpully tuat4etL
oueo  loPuONS   tic  Ptt WOIT - conul  cntltn   f c--r ta  etargy   io_ ne  r  cnoldad.  tua u_                                           iea.heavr_         riL  ahalhmd  aln
sud  gitt,osrl ,nsun   a  endcno-  colerud   -eoherus  ela-                                     Pttr   o   uenut  safeb      aeu   (hen by a ahina.l   aate
trniy    in niutsn  o f col       uc pen   t  c-pite; 1960. 1970,. to  191cre  nsdvuft, -i.) ounoh  ff-a  npneunoedno   n  pptvidn
ott,l Por-ei-oc. hid-fear (nii         fs-a   tSol  I; 19601, 197f, und 1979                  Aeett,,e    otca   r       oa   ofro  tdmtan... no o  diachortua
lrhnn  Ioo-btn  trc. f  oal    ftno  fconttot  fristc
iffs;ut dattiic    f -rbentas -          eay tiac   coeysrabit,  c  data
s    _ngconrta  19f, 1970. and 1919 daehr-stln    f  caol  (Seulertue d) - tone. orhou  sawrol
Pnuatn  tra  100-CoenPopolttu   proJection   at. hend .0 1980                           ensden    ann nia-L..  A boarder or lodge  na r y cut helnoddt
ttlPo.lno   yeoadstnd   thsr enIsthY sod fartilityresa                                   th  bootehoId for                 P..act .l   ....ue
Lot life  enrennainy on birt    orais0bcoty    e   ntatoe                                   iro   uec   a  tOt.ht elioch-n-ens  unsl  ctopu   o_ueniu
le    :::ad Is.l life eneieny   ibtliun9t s  7S pat,mapr-Icltg,  r...r..ticl.Leinaenon                                                   orrsetStoun   a
ead fertility trends_for po:jtisti    p059P 5.                                               f-rt,oa,ed rural d-ell it.a  rS                  iey
the birth rate is ecus  to thre     . dth rn.  o  sIa  the ag% truoturS  u-_    MUCtIONp
the rSsp   te   Le-.  of  -ot ttrroute    et  ohun-                        S en ...a ruion.er  shool    toa.  sa  c  fr.s--iroaet.    tonal. nets sad feal.
Slas Inee base reanfthe.                                                            feton..deP -  -ry nctool- -  otl  sale end  seals. -    - Cospt ... abtsstn     y
Y.  e. h..rdya  poouLon purh.  -eThora     h -lnee  -t100  ba pnoresl                           ocootda  geore,11   o    bonue.1   or teac  trunnfine. teacenian   ta  pyt
rer a. h-e.           ....o h"r. Lud-  orue  u   toefo   eroltrl  atoetldd
Punuuttn ta ironnce  rereni  - Children I0-It ytrsr           kring-aeS  715-             ltldrohcl   ooti                    rotrPrLg_t  ohi               - rest  tiepe-
6t yeu      ad  etre   (h      "er   n  coer) 5t Peroett-te of Sid-re-  "P.-                    dettlycraasr.u              tto  aer_dory   inn _ntino.:hh
lutinn; 1960, 19y0, and 1919 dons.                                                            Ooultsttr  act  .-  ren . sd nnney-Ttleoet   nu et
Po .tluion Irenh Ustfenn -  ctet.  - teat grue-h rus    f  .intlt1yrer  an-,d  eodr   Moat  diided by oseeo  tenfer  in ifs
yenr rout -na    tot ~  1960-Oh  lhhl. un  193f-ru...  ..rrsradiut.   eaa
P-uraisno   Grovh gene  (--aten    -urban -onul arueh rna   f orbe  rnru-                        Moedit rerao(rcn -L                      se  adults fabit to rod and  -it.)
Latiune for159-60.tl960-P0, sad L970-7t.                                                        aeyreng             f totalI s.ict Pupuatitou agd 15 ySere sd over.
Crodn birth  tun    urlhuso)-mo1 lir   births per nhoued of ald-,es
ppann;1960, 1970, auc 1909 dets.                                                                                                                          h--  .ftffd
In ona   erootc   partofttea  narete    cSn r u -opec     tie-                    hot nnco    e   hoaotrlto)- c~l typos if r-etnr  for rant
bMIoPuot     Luacecc   inuoe   os)-rrcnseo   aro                                             pucia   otni isod  1- -c-ttc-g             -       h
allmaotdote   10 ens          ge -tOp.                                                       asrtptblit per ccth        eup-    citin               _1cudautn -ad  WV rttet.ere.
Poet out ortnrrooe                                                     it inuotrise on~~~~~.d It,Y-- ya -r ue   rett teiun of TV sets ou, is effect.
FOODeoo   odPuoto   e   snsLOt7l0       ta    forcrnuo                                           eaue    ltlto AerDthosoTfONuulst-on    S-Obe  thu  uPg  crut
Ia o  ceseot Year bests.  Coaitiaeoon    plea_ goods (".. ssstaa                           r  ne 'dully` If it s,pea-  at  a.n. fou  ct-     a  ai  -ksh.
inna    f -taarL  ohith ors Sibleou.dienenott t .           n.. .  coffee ond          Cinem  A-1sittenene _e  Carita our Te_  - tuea  csoaeto
ta   nncldd)       tsn.esprdoian of ...nh countr ~ Is bned 00                              ictetteo.Id d-ure  the pes. Ertldnee adndtttau   to driv.tnitnte
us I       U.iacr5  pod-ter Prictu1I'htl;  191-hi5, 1979- sod 1978 fon..                   - -bl
-naryaqluslet of oat food uPprLiSse-ellhla  Lt cutry par -spltu                        i..o  FORCE
mon  ftp.  AOOieft  sur..pl Inn.,    reolesi  pr-dttit,  epors  Iet                        otu  -uy  Pn  'h-eoe   -E ...oncl p                  "V,c pasn,I       nl
qu .icm   ue  tn food oroteeto,  an  lses1  di-trtb-itou.   .e..r-.n....tot..                         oa los      ut.- r   o   oper-bla; 196h, 1970 a
tents  e    eueted bY          tod00physaugnl  ndn ttr outes  o-i-                          1978 da-..
ito anhtelt  oeider-1.            nomutlitstt.bd8uttu    e                               Ptaal   Fnreol - 1Paa    Leturt force e  prataof  -tutl Leutun..
end eadistrihotJon of ppl         1tn   1od  lao   ID psrnnt for oust. at                 uPcluefeonl-Inrtrr   nfrig   osty    ute   n
huosabod larel  19S1l65, 1070, an  197f dnt..                                               fihn    traicaeofttllbr  ot;ih. 1970 end 1078 dste.
Pa, cui      .,srIt oJ Prantoaeprdy      rci   otn f per i.pt.s                             Endus fornnt  -             -Lbo  foroc to r.ing.  os.rrto..ufaurn
ist espl  t   od per da.y.( Ne   opyoffn   0dfie   sa..                     cs R-        enLlcrctr   ar   e   a   sprstg   feellhrfps   90
our.ann   fo  e conria           bsulishad by   om. PrI-id. for unoou                       EPSOend 107  d.no.
elt1=nt  of 0  .s    fttl          -rtt   e  dy tad 20 grSs oi at.t. sa                   Pari97 no  Ot Cscon     ct9    af.  n   aml  - rictattan  u
pus   cOno   f ehich LI gris eod be animal pttin            faseu-                 ativtlyi    nreZ tecooe   ettl   at.   n   ea    ao   uos
urdasr  lua 1  t he n  hiee  or 75 ara  of tocu1 prteIin  shd 23 g-as  f                    refruso    tut1, male end tosepooeta  fslesepttv.y
Arcl  Pod Sror; 1h1-h,  070sad197  dae.                             ge-no1crotoc  of the5 d-      roanh...   so ILoottn'      red.       s  eti-f-t
Ptr carits pinnat  -urol  in set-s  ond   IflePrntn    su,pply of foo   e                       aaer   rmcroolsucs
one   tu   oeOasdpunsntrsprda;1tht190nd91do.    ttaaoe2oisesDo..                                 oy  otto-Pai   f ppltino t 15 end h5 nA ga
Child ses1-ut K-caiy  et   re  tusod  - unou  deots. Psuitu  a   i                               to ohe total Lsur.o.      e
aeor1-A  S-n., ta  hbtldre   to thte use troop: foo matn d-nCloru  co--
trIe   et  dariche ftr_  110f  osee  1960. 19709 an   97 dane.                         rofonu of iTRIOl7f05t         
at hint  1960.II  9ll,  seA        -,        A- 1978 Otta.                                     of ..Y.- MVRT TAeT Ghulda.
N-ah-  of 05-r1  fcorel. ursv,  end rrl   hbrte                piioecoua                      cntnsll   ucuede  plus .. -tents  on-tof-d                     vl eLS  O
ute .opPI,  tleoud       . trs d eunfece  _stsr  orutetdbtuonsi a                           ffordabe..
-esroh       btfo  p-ot--td bureholee.  Rptgn   o  ennsynll)1 faae    sifu    Poverty  Ie-a  L.v, (i   a   sial-ob.edn. 
invadard onben  utohir  .tnfaOue   ftucboa    t  ua    re "lerabl                                    our afttno--       fc  'ti- e  coat of liotog in uranstas
docthve tspend adirnorioee                  t of the ua  to f-trint the                    up. rua;-otn   f  oC"lnpre  esorl   tnot   oalc    or.
family nre   nede.
-dtsi s   t  eoeasso   herepnoc    tuetna-iunnde-in u  tud facial Data   tifu
--   t pririas and snlnI_uradlnniouo.



ANNEX I
-  24                                                                 Pags 4 of 5
THAILAND - ECONdOMIC UDOICATORtS
Population:       46,140   (4id-1979, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US$594   (1979)
Amount
(million US$                  Average Annual Increase (2)                   Share of GOP at Market Prices (X)
at current                     tat conatant 1975 PriCES)                           (at current yrices)
Indicator                      prices) 1979        1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85    1985-90         1960      1970      1975      1980/e
National Accounts
Gross domestic products /a         27,804.5            8.4        6.4        8.9        6.5        7.2      100.0    100.U    100.0    100.0
Agriculcure                       7,173.2           5.5         5.3        4.6       4.9         5.0       39:8      28.3      31.5      23.9
Industry                          7,875.1          11.3        7.8       10.1        6.9        7.3        18.7      25.3      24.8      29.9
Services                         12,75o.2           9.0        7.1       10.1        7.4        8.1        41.5      46.4      43.7      46.2
Consumption lb                     21,767.4            7.3        7.0       8.3        5.U        6.4         85.7     78.7      79.3      76.7
Gross investment /c                 7,744.3           15.8        3.8       11.8        5.3        5.2       15.7      26.2      25.4      29.8
Export of goods and NFS             6,321.2          1U.5         3.6      11.0       12.0       10.0        17.4      16.7      19.1      23.5
Imports of goods and NFS            8,028.4          13.9         3.7      11.4         6.0        6.5       18.9      21.5      23.7      30.1
Gross national savings              5,655.2            -         -          -          -          -           14.1     21.5      20.7      22.3
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)
(at current prices)
1960      1970     !97S      1980/e
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise exports                                                                                         100.0    10O.0    100.0    100.0
Primary                                                                                                    97.8      80.5      77.3      59.8
Manufacturers                                                                                               2.2      19.5      22.7      40.2
Merchandise imports                                                                                         100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                                                                                        9.6       5.4       4.4       3.4
Petroleum                                                                                                  10.9       8.8      22.1      30.9
Machinery & equipment                                                                                      25.3      36.1      35.8      24.1
Other                                                                                                      54.2      49.7      37.7      41.6
1975     1976      1977      1978      1979/e
Prices and Terms of Trade
GPD deflator                                            100.0    103.4    108.6    114.7    123.7
Exchange rate                                            20.4      20.4     2U.4      20.3      20.3
Export price index                                      100.0      89.5     86.a    107.4    130.2
Import price index                                     100.0    105.8    114.1    122.3    144.9
Terms of trade index                                    lOU.U     84.6      75.6      87.8      89.9
As Z GDP
(at current pricas)
1965     1970      1975      1979
Publi c Finance
Current revenue                                              13.6      13.8      13.2      13.9
Current expenditure                                          10.6      12.6      11.7      12.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                   +3.0      +1.2     +1.5      +1.5
Capital expenditure                                           4.3       5.8       3.4       3.4
Foreign financing                                             0.2       0.05      0.06      0.2
(at constant 1975 prices)
196U-70   1970-75   1975-80   198085    1985-90
Other. Indicators
GNP growth rate (2)                                   8.4         6.4       9.0        6.1        7.3
GNP per capita growth rate (1)                        5.2         3.4       6.9        3.8        5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (2)                    -          -          -          -          -
lOok                                                  2.8        4.0        2.9        4.1        3.5
Marginal savings rate                                  0.29      0.23       0.21       0.37       0.34
Import elasticity                                     1.7        0.6        1.3        0.9        0.9
/a  At market prices.  For projected years, sectors are at factor cost.
/b  Total government and private consumption.
/c  Including changes in stock.
/d  Estimate.
March 12, 1981



ANNEX II
- 25   -                                                              P:?,  s of S
TRAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERN4AL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Population'        46,140   (mid-1979, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US5594   (1979)
Actual                                          Pro3acted
1970    1975    19f6    1977       1978      1979/b    19SO    1981    1982    19b3    1984
Balance or Payments
Net exports of goods 6 services                       -299    -687    -465  -1,134   -1,191  -2,152   -2,683   -2,771  -2,h77  -2,951  -2,747
Exports of goods & services                       1,171   2,990   3,645   4,179         5,127   6,660    6,586    7,992  10,122  11,996  14,273
Imports or goods 7 services                       1,47u   3,678   4,110    5,312    6,318   8,813         9,269    10,763  12,999  14,947  17,020
Set transfers                                           49       81       24       40        41       61        43        47       55       58       67
Current account balance                               -250    -606    -441  -1,U94   -1,149  -2,092   -2,640   -2,724  -2,822  -2,893  -2,680
Direct privace investment                               43       86       Su      lob        51       53        55        60       65       70       75
MLT loana (net)                                         32      11l      198      205       644      992    2,385      Z,8b4   2,657   2,823   2,705
Official                                              21       93      109      212       285      439       480       703      909   1,0Z1   1,034
Private/l                                            1U        18       89      -7        360      554    1,905      2,161    1,748   1,802   1,671
Other capital/a                                         93      35o      242      792       490   1,039        200       200      200      200      Z00
(1hange in reserves                                     82       52      -79       -9       -36        8         0      -400    -100    -200    -300
International reserves                                 906   Z,007   2,113   2,208    2,558   3,102    3,026           3,426   3,526   3,726   4,026
Reserves an months of imports                            7        7        6        5         5        4         4         4        3        3        3
Gross Disbursements
Official grants                                          -        -        -        -         -        -
Gross disbursements of public HL. loans                 55      150      242      268       743   1,124
Coacesaional                                          11      43        52       82       153      215
8ilaterai                                          11       40       45       54        86      151
IDA                                                 -        3        7        9         5        4
Other witilateral                                   -        0        0       19        62       60
Nonconcessional                                      44       107      189      186       590      909
Official export credits                             7        -        -       84        45      114
180D                                               19       41       43       65       103      139
Other moltilateral                                  2       37       46       33        46       36
Private                                            17       29      100        5       396      620
Gross disbursements ox other loans                     143      38b      366      349       571      799
Total gross disb.-rseents                              198      536      608      618    1,314   1,923
Sxternal Debt
Public debt outstanding and diabursed                  32Z      616      822   1,066      1,790   2,702
Official                                            285      548      b66      917    1,270   1,638
IbRD                                              159      270      298      346       435      556
IDA                                                 -        4       11       19        25       28
Other                                             126      274      357      552       811   1,054
Private                                              37       68      156      150       520   1,064
Other debt outstanding and disbursed                   382      730      765      880       939   1,243
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                   704   1,346   1,607    1,948    2,729   3,945
Undisbursad debt                                       161      666      841   1,421      1,862   2,471
Total debt (including undisbursed)                     865   2,012   2,448   3,369    4,591   6,416
Debt Service
Public debt service payments                            39       73       88      122       195      278
Interest on public debt                              16       34       44       58         97     146
Payments as percentage of exports                   3.3      2.4      2.4      2.9        3.8     4.2
Other debt service payments                            123      304      311      320       614      655
Total debt service payments                            162      377      399      442       809      933
Average interest rate on new public loans (X)    6.8            7.5      7.8      7.u       6.7      7.0
Official                                            6.8      7.4      7.7      6.2       5.3      5.3
Private                                             6.0      8.5      8.1      8.2       8.8      9.0
Average saturity of new public loans (years)    18.9    22.9    17.4    14.8               17.3    16.8
Official                                           19.4    24.2    20.7    19.3         22.3    22.6
Private                                            11.2      7.0      7.3      8.3       9.4      9.8
Bank Group,Zxposura ( t)
Ib.3  DOD/total DOD                                  22.6    20.1    18.5    17.8          15.9    14.1
IBiD disbursements/total gross disbursements           9.5      7.7      7.1    1u.9        8.4      7.4
I8BRD debt service/total debt service                11.1       8.5      9.1    10.0        6.8      7.3
IDA DOD/total DOD                                        -      0.3      0.7      1.0       0.9      0.7
IDA disbursemnts/total gross disbursements               -      0.5      1.1      1.5       0.4      0.2
IDA debt aervice/total debt service                      -     0.0       0.0     0.u        0.0      0.0
AS % of dsbt -utstanding
at end of most recent
year (1979)
Terms Structure
Maturity structure of public debt outstanding
Principal dus within 5 years                                              28.7
principal due within 10 years                                             61.2
Interest structure of public debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                               4.5
la  Due to change iu classification  projected data for 'Private NLT Loans' inclun, mst of the category 'Other capital.'
l6 Estimate.
March 12, 1981



-26 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1981)
Loan- or                                                                 Amount t$ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                           Purpose        Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Thirty loans and one credit fully disbursed                          601.44    5.49       -
369    1973   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education          -   19.50   0.22
461    1974   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation         -    7.00   0.06
992    1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                             Industry        11.70       -   0.08
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    95.00         -  53.41
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -   6.53
1199T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock        5.00(TW)   -   1.75
1243   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber          50.00       -  14.56
1253   1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            26.00       -   3.14
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education       31.00        -  12.67
1327   1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.00        -   0.74
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00         -  11.36
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    55.00        -  25.83
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.00        -  11.29
1492   1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                             Industry        4.80        -   0.61
767    1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Population         -   33.10/b28.32
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Transport.   110.00         -  38.26
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00         -  13.24
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing          8.60       -   6.74
1620   1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            90.00       -  90.00
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    17.50        -  16.39
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban           16.00       -  13.41
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways        16.70       -  11.82
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -  74.12
913    1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education           -   35.00  33.25
929    1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Agriculture        -   25.00  23.86
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Extension 40.00         -  38.66
1770   1979   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand                  Power           80.00       -  63.26
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of                   Natural Gas
Thailand                               Pipeline   107.00/d       - 107.00



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number   Year          Borrower                    Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1787     1980   Kingdom of Thailand              Irrigation          80.00    -          75.83
1816      1980   Kingdom of 1h.i&land            Ag. Cedit            19.00    -         18.87
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power                72.00    -          55.51
1863     1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                    Water Supply         40.00    -         40.00
1870      1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing             29.00    -          29.00
1871      1980   Provincial Electricity
Authority                    Power                75.00    -         75.00
1889      1980   Kin-gdom of Thailand            Inland Waterways   53.00    -           53.00
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand              Ports               47.00    -          47.00
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand              Ag. Research        30 00    -          30.00
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand              Potash Engineering  8.90    -            8.90
1956      1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Industry            30.00    -          30.00
Total                                                         2,078.64  125.09  1,163.69
of which has been repaid                                      253.21    1.55
Total now outstanding                                         1,825.43  123.54
Amount sold /c                        68.63
of which has been repaid            48.90                      19.73
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,805.70  123.54
Total undisbursed                                             1,077.98   85.71
/a This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of April 30, 1981.
/b  Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
7_  Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 28 -                  ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1981)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company               Type of Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                   -    0.39       0.39
1970     Finance Corporation      Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Cement and
1975/                             Construction
1978/1979                         Materials               28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                      -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing               2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00       -       2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited       Glass Containers           4.85    0.34       5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
1981     Co. Ltd.                 tion Materials          63.00    4.00      67.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                           100.98    9.61    110.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          49.21    2.56      51.77
Net held by the Corporation                        35.77    7.05      42.82
Total undisbursed                                  32.91        -     32.91



29-                   ANNEX N
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of April 30, 1981)
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Clo?ing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components have been completed, about 30 months behind
schedule because of delays in the Teacher Training Colleges component. Good
progress was made in the pedagogical development of project components. The
Government has been asked to make arrangements for drafting a project
completion report. Outstanding amounts will be cancelled shortly.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed ahead of schedule. All civil works have been tendered and
most contracts awarded. More than half of equipment and furniture has been
procured. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training programs
are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the l!inistry
of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913  Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date:  October 12, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30,
1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Satisfactory
progress is being made on institutions included in phase one which are
scheduled to be constructed and equipped by end-1981. For this phase, sites
have been selected and acquired. Sketch plans and equipment lists are
completed. Phases two and three will be completed mid-1982 and mid-1983,
respectively. Project staff has been appointed or designated. Curricula are
being developed. Technical assistance agencies, except that for the Center of
Educational Administrators, have been contracted and staff training programs
are conducted as scheduled. The studies under the project are progressing
satisfactorily.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport fo present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



-30                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project has been completed except for connection of some new
telephone lines expected during the first half of 1981. About $3.8 million
remains to be disbursed against retention payments and against items missing
from initial supplies or for replacement of faulty items.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
The financial condition of the borrower continues to be satisfactory.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and all contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory. The financial con-
dition of the State Railway of Thailand remains weak, and the Bank has urged
the Government to fulfil its obligations by implementing the necessary tariff
revisions.
Loan No. 1889  Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Preconstruction activities are underway with consultant selection
ongoing. Prequalification of contractors for the river works has been
completed and bid documents issued.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Closing Date: -December 31, 1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective due to delays
in obtaining Ministry of Finance approval of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and the Port Authority of Thailand.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Credit No. 461  Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project:  $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
The project has been completed and is expected to be fully disbursed
shortly.
Loan No. 1149  Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
.1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in on-farm works. Construction work on the
diversion dam is complete and works on the distribution systems are proceeding
well.  All studies financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Rehabilitation and on-farm development works have been completed on
about 35,000 ha, which is in accordance with the appraisal estimate. Equip-
ment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. A monitoring system is being
set up and the project is now served by the National Agricultural Extension
Project.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25,1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Construction has started on main and secondary canals and on-farm
development in the Lam Pao service area and the first of two diversion dams
in the Lam Takhong project area has been completed. Progress to date has
been slow due to a delay in equipment procurement and to shortages of cement
and fuel in 1980.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Consultants have been appointed for both the Pattani and Mae Klong
components and have begun work. Force account operations began on both
components in early 1980 and extension of the main canal for Mae Klong is
being carried out by contract. Delays in completing designs and procuring
equipment mean that only limited progress is expected to be made during 1981.



--32 -                   ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Construction is virtually complete on about 250 km of village roads
and is under way on about 850 km; contracts for the remaining 200 km are
expected to be awarded in mid-1981. The road maintenance program is being
carried out at an acceptable rate with good quality works using equipment
procured under the project. The village water supply component, after
initial delays in equipment procurement, has now provided about 1,660
freshwater wells. The upland crop improvement and land settlement components
are under implementation and progressing well. The village electrification
component has been completed with electrification of about 475 villages.
The agricultural extension component was completed in 1978.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily with the seed
production and pasture development programs progressing particularly well.
A revised final procurement plan is awaited together with a probable request
from government for an extension of the Closing Date by a few months. Staff
morale has improved as a result of a recent decision to absorb all project
staff into regular posts within the Livestock Department on completion of
the project.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation has
improved substantially. The rubber replanting program has nearly reached
the target of 50,000 hectares per annum.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The staffing situation has improved considerably in recent months,
with 66 out of 67 subject matter specialist posts and 2,048 (87%) out 2,344
extension agent posts filled by late 1980. Civil works are now progressing
satisfactorily and construction should be completed in 1981. Cost over-runs
on civil works is now around 100% of appraisal estimates. In-service



-33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
training, particularly of subject matter specialists, needs stregthening as
does communication with research staff. The training and visit system is
now well understood at all levels, but routine administrative and special
assignments continue to interfere with the smooth running of the system.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is off to a good start with initial concen-
tration on seven provinces. Civil works have been tendered and evaluated
for two provinces and construction should commence shortly. The first batch
of incremental staff (13 subject matter specialists and 261 extension agents)
have been appointed. Disbursements are in line with appraisal estimates.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date. The
highland agriculture and social component has experienced greater difficulties
than the other components and will require concerted action to achieve a
satisfactory level of implementation. The project still can be completed on
schedule if the required action is taken. Difficulties requiring resolution
relate particularly to management, staffing, engineering and budgeting. IDA
staff are giving close attention to these problems in an effort to help
resolve them.
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Preparation for project implementation has been somewhat slow, but
is expected to improve during the current fiscal year. The EEC has agreed
to provide a grant of $3.5 million to finance the cooperative training
program; this decision was made after the Bank loan was signed.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
The loan became effective on March 20, 1981. Progress is being
made in appointing project staff, manning the project coordinating unit, and
appointing consultants.



-34-                    ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is nearly completed.
Construction for the resettlement component is about 75% complete.
Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates. Installation
of electrical and mechanical equipment is underway but not quite satisfactory
because of the delayed delivery of equipment by the manufacturers.
Loan No. 1527 Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
As of end 1980, work has been started on 2,107 villages, out of
which 1,091 villages have already been electrified. Disbursements are
slightly behind schedule due to initial delays in procurement.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on May 23, 1980. The project is about
15% complete about 3-1/2 months behind schedule because of poor soil
condition. Foundation piling and other field works are now proceeding
satisfactorily, and project execution is expected to catch up with the
original schedule.
Loan No. 1770 Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan has not yet been declared effective pending finalization
of the parallel financing agreement between PEA and the Saudi Fund.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date: May 27, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed on
time and within the cost estimate.



- 35 -                 ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation commenced on schedule but is about fourteen
months behind schedule because of difficulties encountered with the largest
contract. The National Housing Authority (NHA) is reviewing ways to resolve
these problems. Project completion is expected to be about six months behind
schedule. Good progress, however, has been made on the various policy
concepts on which the project is based, and NHA's financial management has
been strengthened through technical assistance.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
The project's overall progress has been slower than expected due
to lack of progress on institutional development of the executing agency
(OCMRT). Tangible project progress to date has been principally (a) the
successful introduction of 100 Km of bus lanes; (b) introduction of a
computer controlled traffic signal system in central Bangkok; and (c) a
variety of minor civil works.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Design and procurement are generally proceeding satisfactory.
Efforts have also been initiated to hire consultants for a housing finance
study, a financial management study of the Bangkok Metropolitan Administra-
tion and project preparation and municipal financial management studies in
regional cities.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Closing Date: April 3, 1986
This loan has not yet been declared effective pending signature of
the consultants contract.



-36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date:
September 3,1978; Current Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continues to be good. The loan is fully committed and almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected because
of sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. However, the loan is now
fully committed and disbursements are satisfactory.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation continues to be good. On-site infrastruc-
ture has progressed further with 95% of the civil works completed. An
earlier dispute between IEAT and the contractors prevented the remaining 5%
from being completed sooner; this dispute has been resolved, and the estate's
full development is scheduled for mid-1981. External infrastructure has
been lagging, especially in respect of the Lat Krabang-Nong Chok access
road. Delays in construction and design changes have increased cost
estimates for the access road to B 99 million in 1980, up from an initial
estimate of B 33 million in 1977. The Government had agreed to guarantee
the construction of the access road, and an understanding has been reached
that the access road will be constructed with funds advanced by Bangkok
Metropolitan Administration (BMA) to be subsequently reimbursed from next
year's Budget Bureau allocation.
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 37 -                 ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978
Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Project implementation and disbursement status have improved con-
siderably over the past six months; and project implementation is now 12 to
18 months behind the appraisal schedule. One of the 10 national level
training facilities has been constructed, eight are under construction and
the contract award for the tenth has been approved. Of the 430 rural health
facilities, 148 have been completed and 191 are under construction. Although
delays have occurred in procurement of equipment and furniture, these prob-
lems are now being resolved. Procurement of the remaining vehicles and
audio-visual equipment, and of the final allotment of injectable contracep-
tive is well advanced. Most training, information/education/communication
and population-related research and evaluation activities are on schedule
and many will be completed on schedule. The Innovative Village Nutrition
Activity has been successfully launched and several other possible uses of
Innovative Activities funds are under consideration by the Ministry.



ANNEX III
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 1 year
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Department of Highways (DOH)
and Consultants (financed under Bank Loan 1519-TH) Louis Berger,
Inc. and Asian Engineering Consultants Corporation
(c) First presentation to the Bank: June 1979
(d) First mission to consider the project: August 1979
(e) Departure of the appraisal mission: April 1980
(f) Completion of negotiations: May 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section II - Special Conditions
(a) By June 30, 1982, the Borrower will select, in agreement with the
Bank, about 200 km of roads for the second and final years'
construction program from an agreed list of roads; all roads under
the project are required to have rates of return of not less than
12% based on bid prices (para. 46).
(b) By June 30, 1982, the Borrower will select the subjects of other
transport studies in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 46).
(c) The Borrower will undertake a satisfactory maintenance program for
national and provincial roads during FY81-86 and provide adequate
funds for the program through annual budgetary appropriations (para.
54).



'<2   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~->          -                  3                                                                 x                   (                                                            IBRD 15195~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD 59
/-                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-/  ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~         ~        ~          >                                                                                 N ~~~~~~~~6
K,-'>  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ k '~~~~~~~~<C



