Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                     A1
Report No. 3149-TH
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 17, 1981
Transportation Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thailand Baht (B)
B 1           =  US$0.05
B 1 million  =  US$50,000
US$1          =  B 20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =  3.2 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)  =  0.39 miles (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                  =  0.28 US gallons (gal)
=  0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)          -  1.10 US short tons (sh ton)
- 0.98 British long-tons (lg ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
aadt    -  annual average daily vehicle traffic
AC      -  Asphalt Concrete
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
ARD     -  Office of Accelerated Rural Development
c.f.s.  -  container freight station
DBST    -  Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
DOH     -  Department of Highways
ETO     -  Express Transport Organization
F.3-F.6 -  Provincial Roads Standards
MOC     -  Ministry of Communications
MOI     -  Ministry of Interior
OECF    -  Overseas Economic Cooperative Fund (Japan)
p.a.    -  per annum
NESDB   -  National Economic and Social Development Board
PAT     -  Port Authority of Thailand
PMWD    -  Public and Municipal Works Department
RID     -  Royal Irrigation Department
SRT     -  State Railways of Thailand
TPU     -  Transport Planning Unit
VOC     -  vehicle operating costs
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  TRANSPORT SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . .             . . . . . . .             1
A. Sector Objectives .. . . . . . . . . . .  .    I
B. Transport System ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .            1
General  . . .  . . . . .  . .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Railways                .      .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Inland Waterways .   .   . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Coastal Ports and Shipping  .  .  . . . . .    . . . . . . . . .    3
Deepwater Ports  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  4
Air Transport  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  4
C. Transport Planning, Coordination and Investments . . . . . .    5
2.  HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
A. The Network  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
B. Traffic and Road Transport Industry  . . . . .   .   . . .              7
Motor Vehicles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Traffic   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8
Regulation .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .        9
C. Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
General   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
Department of Highways (DOH) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Provinces (Changwats)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
D. Staff and Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
E. Planning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
National and Provincial Roads  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Rural Roads  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Road Program Review, Coordination and Approval . . . . . .   12
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan 1977-81   . . . . . . . .   13
Fifth Five-Year Development Plan 1982-86 . . . . . . . . .   13
P              F. Financing. ......    14
G. Engineering  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
H. Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
I. Maintenance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
J. Previous Bank-Financed Road Projects . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which vis-
ited Thailand in May 1980, comprising Messrs. P.R. Morris (Highway Engineer)
and A. Weckerle (Economist).
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
3.    THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
A. Background and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
B.  Description    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
C. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component  . . . . . . .  23
D.  Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
E. Implementation and Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
F. Environmental Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
G.  Disbursement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
4. ECONOMIIC EVALUATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
A. Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
B. Project Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
C.   Traffic  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  28
D. Development Effects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
E. Project Benefits, Costs and Returns  . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
F.  Beneficiaries    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
ANNEX
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
TABLES
1.1  Indicative Inland Freight Traffic of Thailand by Modes
1.2  Government Investments in Transport During
Third and Fourth Five-Year Development Plans
2.1  Roads Maintained by the Department of Highways, 1963-79
2.2  Department of Highways Roads by Regions in 1979
2.3  Regional Indices of Department of Highways Roads
2.4  Motor Vehicle Registration 1966-80
2.5  Civilian Consumption of Motor Fuels 1965-79
2.6  Prices of Petroleum Products in Thailand
2.7  Department of Highways Roads Construction Program
1977-81 by Region and Source of Funds
2.8  Revenues from Road User Taxes 1975-79
2.9  Department of Highways - Expenditures and Sources of Finance,
1967-80
2.10 Design Standards for National Highways and Provincial Roads
2.11 Maintenance of National Highways and Provincial Roads -
Estimated Costs 1981-86
3.1  List of Possible Project Roads
3.2  Roads Included in First Year's Construction Program
3.3  Estimated Cost of Project
3.4  Project Implementation Schedule



- iii -
3.5   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
4.1   Vehicle Operating Costs in Thailand
CHART
Organization of Department of Highways
MAPS
1.  IBRD 15195  National Highway and Provincial Road Systems
2.  IBRD 15196  Northern Region - Project Roads
3.  IBRD 15197  Northeast Region - Project Roads
4.  IBRD 15198  Central Region - Project Roads
5.  IBRD 15199  Southern Region - Project Roads



i



1. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Sector Objectives
1.01      During the last 15 years, the Thai economy, as a result of the
strong showing of the agricultural sector, grew at a rapid pace and
generated a high demand for transport. To accommodate this demand, the
Government undertook large transport investments, pursued fairly liberal
transport policies and thus established a framework, under which a competi-
tive road transport industry developed. Over the same period, freight
transport grew at about 8% p.a., and passenger traffic at around 12% p.a.
Most of this growth was in the roads sector because of the Government's
strategy of building a comprehensive network of primary (national) and major
secondary (provincial) roads. Today, virtually all national roads and a
part of the provincial network have been completed, and the country now has
a unified and reasonably good interregional road network. Railways, inland
waterways and coastal shipping have also grown, but at a more modest rate.
1.02      With the progress made on the major transport routes, mostly
roads, the Government's main attention has now shifted toward: first,
extension and improvement of tertiary (rural) roads and of the remainder of
secondary (provincial) roads under the policy of reducing regional and local
disparities in income and growth (regional development objective); second,
the upgrading of the performance of transport modes to remove bottlenecks in
the transport system (modal efficiency objective); and third, a related
objective, the introduction of policies leading to greater energy efficiency
in the transport sector (energy efficiency objective). The pursuit of the
regional development objective entails that the Department of Highways
continues its program of improving provincial roads, and that the tertiary
roads sector be reorganized. This project as well as the preceding Bank
project (Sixth Highway Project - Loan 1519-TH) both deal with provincial
roads and prepare future projects for improving the tertiary roads sector and
its institutions. Under the modal efficiency objective, the Government is
implementing a project (Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports - Loan 1889-TH),
under which waterborne transport will be revitalized and the Harbor
Department capabilities widened (para. 1.08); further, under another Bank
project (Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project - Loan 1918-TH), port capacity for
Thailand's external trade is being expanded (para. 1.13). Regarding the
energy efficiency objective, the Government is currently reviewing the
problem and identifying policy options (para. 1.16).
B. Transport System
General
1.03      Roads cover all parts of Thailand, while railways, inland
waterways, coastal shipping and air transport serve only certain transport
corridors and zones. Road transport is also the predominant mode. Of a



- 2 -
total freight transport volume of the order of 14 billion ton-ki, roads
carried about 70%, the railways 20%, and the other modes the remainder
(Table 1.1). Freight traffic flows are heavy in the Northern Corridor
between the Gulf and the North, where all three major modes compete, and
along the axes radiating from Bangkok to the South and Northeast, which
are being serviced by road and rail. Railways and inland waterways are
primarily trunkline modes, while road transport is suitable for both large
and small traffic volumes. The more important characteristics of the
various modes are explained below (paras. 1.04-1.14 and Chapter 2).
Railways
1.04      The railways' network totals 3,800 route-km, of which 3,200 km are
mainlines and 600 km branchlines. The meter gauge lines are single track
except for some 90 km near Bangkok. Four lines radiate from Bangkok: north
to Chieng Mai, northeast to the Laotian border near Vientiane, east to the
Kampuchean border and south to the Malaysian border. Following its decision
for development of Sattahip as a commercial deepsea port and the Eastern
Seaboard as alternative industrial growth pole to Bangkok, the Government is
making arrangements for extending the railway from Chachoengsao on the
Eastern line to the new port (about 100 km).
1.05      The State Railways of Thailand (SRT) is an operationally efficient
but financially weak public service organization. The traditionally
satisfactory operational performance of SRT is being supported under a Bank
project (Fifth Railway Project - Loan 1662-TH), which deals with rehabilita-
tion of plant and equipment and expansion of line and rolling stock capa-
city. For a number of years, the SRT management has unsuccessfully tried,
against Government opposition, to convert the railways into a commercially
oriented enterprise which could compete with the other modes on roughly
equal footing. As a result of the Government's public service policy, SRT
tariffs are currently below cost, the financial picture is bleak, and SRT
are a burden for the Government budget. Resolution of these issues, in the
context of the Government's modal efficiency objective, is pressing.
Inland Waterways
1.06      Thailand has a comprehensive inland waterways system of about
1,300 km in the Northern Corridor stretching from Bangkok to Uttaradit in
the Central Region. The main components are: (a) the Chao Phraya river
from the Gulf of Thailand to Nakhon Sawan (325 km); (b) the Nan river from
Nakhon Sawan to Taphan Hin (78 km) and from there to Uttaradit (274 km);
(c) the Pasak river from Ayutthaya, where it enters the Chao Phraya, up to



- 3 -
the Rama IV dam (45 km); and (d) sections of the Noi and Suphan Tha Chin
rivers (about 100 km), which offer a bypass of some difficult sections of
the Chao Phraya.
1.07      During low water season from January to May, however, navigation
in the Nan and Chao Phraya is restricted, except for the section from the
Gulf to Ayutthaya (110 km), and barge traffic is forced to detour on slow
and more costly routes, reduce payloads or cease operations. As a result,
inland waterways traffic is thinning out quickly to the north of Ayutthaya,
even though this section reaches into the heartland of Thailand's most
productive agricultural region; and large quantities of agricultural and
other bulk commodities, which are in principle suitable for barge traffic,
are carried by road.
1.08      To utilize the inland waterways' potential for low-cost transport,
a Bank-assisted project is being implemented (Inland Waterways and Coastal
Ports) under which the shallow river sections will be deepened. The project
includes improvements at two river ports, one at Nakhon Sawan and the other
at Taphan Hin, to facilitate transshipments between water and road or rail.
Procurement of a pilot barge convoy, also part of the project, is to
demonstrate the operational and economic advantages of replacing the
traditional wooden barges by modern units. After completion of the project
of about end-1983, traffic (excluding sand) from the project region, which
is at present in the order of 0.6 million tons, is to quadruple. Most of
this traffic consists of rice and maize.
Coastal Ports and Shipping
1.09      The coastal ports sector comprises about 40 facilities ranging
from small fishing and cargo wharves of purely local importance to large
regional ports with annual cargo volumes of several hundred thousand tons.
Most coastal ports are located on the east and west coasts of the southern
peninsula and are owned and managed by local governments or private -
operators. Despite recent improvements of land transport in coastal zones,
coastal ports and shipping remain essential parts of the areas' transport
system. Virtually all the ports also serve as bases of marine fishing.
About 2.0-2.5 million tons of cargo and petroleum and 1.2 million tons of
fish are annually loaded or landed in these ports.
1.10      The condition of the port access channels is the principal
constraint under which coastal shipping operates. All coastal ports are
riverine with severe draft restrictions at the rivers' mouth and subject to
continuous siltation from riverine and littoral sources. Frequent
maintenance dredging and in some cases capital dredging is required, but the
Harbor Department's capacity to execute these functions is limited due to



- 4 -
lack of equipment and expertise. The Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports
Project will deepen the entrance channels to two of the larger ports and
improve the Department's channel maintenance performance. Implementation is
scheduled for 1981/83.
Deepwater Ports
1.11      Thailand has presently two commercial deepwater ports for dry
cargo: (a) the Port of Bangkok consisting of the Klong Toei wharves on the
Chao Phraya river, which are operated by the Port Authority of Thailand
(PAT), and other facilities on the same river, mainly private wharves; and
(b) the former naval facility at Sattahip. Construction of two other
potential deepwater ports, Songkhla and Phuket, located on the southern
peninsula, is under study with financing by the Asian Development Bank.
1.12      Virtually all of Thailand's import and export traffic presently
passes through the Port of Bangkok, except petroleum products handled at Si
Racha, and agricultural bulk export loaded through a jetty at Mah Boon Krong
and the deepsea anchorage of Ko Sichang, both of them on the Eastern
Seaboard. In the Port of Bangkok, Klong Toei is primarily of importance for
the import of breakbulk and the import and export of containerized cargo.
The other facilities handle specialized imports like steel and fertilizer as
well as most of Thailand's agricultural exports, except tapioca and some
maize which are handled at Mah Boon Krong and Ko Sichang.
1.13      During the seventies, Thailand's foreign trade (in tons) has grown
at a high 10% p.a. and reached a volume of close to 20 million tons. For
the 1980-85 period, the foreign trade outlook is one of continuing growth
though at a somewhat reduced rate. The capacity of the Port of Bangkok to
handle these increases in external trade is being heavily taxed, and port
congestion is close to critical levels. To avoid constraining the country's
export potential and burdening its import bill with congestion charges, port
improvements are underway with Bank financing (Bangkok and Sattahip Ports
Project). They comprise: expansion of port capacity at Klong Toei, mainly
through introduction of more efficient cargo handling methods and
reallocation of berths between conventional cargo and container ships;
construction of a new inland container freight station (c.f.s.) in the
vicinity of Bangkok; and conversion of the former naval port of Sattahip
into a commercial port for containers and agricultural bulk exports.
Air Transport
1.14      Thailand's international and domestic air transport are centered
at Don Muang airport in the vicinity of Bangkok. Airport utilization is
high, and works are in progress to increase its capacity. Two other
international airports, Hat Yai near the Malaysian border and Chiang Mai in
the north, also have international traffic. There are another 40 airfields
of various sizes of which about half receive scheduled flights. Domestic



- 5 -
public air transport is being provided by Thai Airways, and Thai
International Airway is the international carrier. Both companies are
Government-owned. Civil domestic aviation is in the order of 0.5 million
passengers and 1.2 million tons of freight per year.
C. Transport Planning, Coordination and Investments
1.15      The Ministry of Communications (MOC) is responsible for transport
policy, regulation, coordination and planning. Transport coordination and
regulation is generally being handled by MOC's in-house staff, while most of
the modal planning is the responsibility of the departments which are under
the control of MOC. However, jurisdiction over tertiary (or rural) roads is
predominantly with the Ministry of Interior (MOI), except for some special
purpose roads which are the responsibility of other ministries (para. 2.13).
At the recommendation of the Bank, a Transport Planning Unit (TPU) was set
up in 1974 in MOC to act as the focal point for transport planning and
policy review. Over the years, TPU, assisted by consultants financed under
Bank projects, has sufficiently matured to handle fairly demanding tasks.
However, for specialized assignments, it continues to retain consultants.
At present TPU is being assisted by a small consulting team funded by the
Bank (Sixth Highway Project).
1.16      In the past, MOC's attention has focused on the provision of
transport infrastructure to develop and coordinate transport; and with
exceptions, such as public passenger transport on major roads (para. 2.12),
it has refrained from regulating transport markets. More recently, it has
become concerned with user charges in road and inland water transport, and
the effects of rising fuel costs on transport. TPU has been commissioned to
study the issues and submit policy proposals. Both studies with technical
assistance input financed under the Sixth Highway Project (para. 1.15), are
underway and scheduled to be completed by end-1981.
1.17      During the Third Five-Year Development Plan in 1972-76, Thailand's
public sector investments in transport were about B 21 billion (US$1,050
million) in current prices, and under the ongoing Fourth Plan for 1977-81,
planned capital expenditures are B 28 billion (US$1,400 million, Table
1.2). Transport's share of public development expenditures, 20% in 1972-76,
will drop to about 11% in 1977-81 because of the past heavy investments
primarily in the road sector. In both Plan periods, road infrastructure
received about three fourth of all funds allocated to transportation.
However within the roads sector, some shifts are taking place, since
tertiary roads have gradually increased their share of the roads' budget
from 10% in 1972-76 to 25% in 1977-81. The 1982-86 Transport Plan is
currently under preparation. With an intensified interest in regional and
rural development, the Government is expected to continue raising the
investment shares of roads identified with primary sector and local
community development. Moreover, with its concern about the energy
situation, the Plan is also expected to emphasize the development of energy
efficient transport (para. 1.16).



- 6 -
2. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01      The public road network consists of about 13,800 km of national
roads, 28,600 km of provincial roads (Table 2.1), and about 85,000 km of
rural roads. The national (or primary) road system connects the principal
towns and regional centers throughout the country.  The provincial (or
secondary) road system connects the provincial centers, and other towns,
with the national road system and interconnects the rural roads; further-
more, it is a very extensive system and gives the only direct access to a
substantial proportion of the villages and rural population. The rural (or
tertiary) roads connect the remaining villages and rural population with the
provincial and national road systems. The Northeast Region has the greatest
length of national and provincial roads, with a share of about 30%, followed
by the North with 27%, the Central Region with 24% and the South with 19%.
However, ranked by the adequacy of the road systems, measured in population
and area per km of road, the order is reversed (Tables 2.2 and 2.3).
2.02      Since 1963, the national road system has grown from 9,000 km to
13,700 km, and the proportion paved has increased from 46% to over 98%.
Meanwhile, the provincial road system has grown from about 8,000 km to
28,600 km, while the proportion paved has increased from about 3% to 28%.
During the same period the length of improved (gravel) provincial roads has
grown from about 2,200 km to about 13,700 km. However, this rate of
improvement has not kept pace with the large expansion of the provincial
road system, and the length of unimproved provincial roads has grown from
about 5,800 km to 14,900 km. A comprehensive inventory of rural roads is
being drawn up under the ongoing Study of Rural Roads (para. 2.17). Most of
these roads are unimproved.
2.03      The national road system is now generally well defined, and almost
entirely improved and paved. Most roads have adequate alignment and width
for the present traffic. However, a few sections are becoming inadequate
for the increasing traffic volumes, principally on the main routes radiating
from Bangkok, and a small number of additional links will be required to
complete the network and to shorten some routes. Furthermore, an
increasing length of the older paved national roads will need strengthening,
and this was investigated as part of the study of national and provincial
roads (para. 3.04).
2.04      The provincial road system has been expanding rapidly, mostly
through reclassification but also by new construction. Future expansion of
the provincial road system is likely to be much slower. It is already
very extensive, but most of its roads are presently of inadequate standards.



Some roads are classified as provincial chiefly for their security
functions.  There is a great need to upgrade provincial roads, especially
the nearly 15,000 km of "unimproved" roads, virtually all of which serve as
rural access roads. These roads have not been constructed to defined
engineered standards and are generally sunken and poorly drained, often lack
permanent drainage structures and have little gravel surfacing; many
sections are impassable during rainy weather.
2.05       Improvement of rural roads has so far been largely limited to some
regional rural development projects, principally in the Northeast, but more
recently also in parts of the Northern and Southern regions. However,
preparation is now getting underway for resolving the rural roads issues on
a national basis. The main issues are: institution building for the large
number of local authorities involved; improvement of road maintenance
capabilities; and development of planning expertise and preparation of
development programs.
B. Traffic and Road Transport Industry
Motor Vehicles
2.06      Thailand's motor vehicle fleet, including motorcycles, has grown
from about 370,000 in 1966 to an estimated 1,820,000 in 1980, at an
average annual growth rate of around 12%. Excluding motorcycles, the motor
vehicle fleet has grown from under 200,000 to over 900,000 (Table 2.4).
Trucks and buses amount to 55% of the vehicles (excluding motorcycles) and
cars, including jeeps and small pickup vehicles, about 45%. Nearly 75% of
the cars but only about 38% of buses and 18% of trucks are registered in the
Bangkok/Thon Buri metropolitan area. The proportion of all vehicles
registered outside the Bangkok metropolitan area has increased since the
mid-1960s from under 60% to about 70%.
2.07      Taxes, including import duties, vary according to the type of
motor vehicle. Cars are taxed much higher than commercial vehicles. Import
duties are imposed on fully assembled motor vehicles, largely to protect the
local vehicle assembly industry. There are no quantitative import
restrictions on the supply of motor vehicles, except fully assembled
motorcycles.
2.08      The last significant amendments of the Government-s regulations on
vehicle weights and dimensions were made in November 1976, following a
review by consultants as part of the Highway Maintenance Study carried out
under the Fifth Highway Project. The maximum axle load is 9.1 m tons, the
gross weight of a three-axle vehicle 21.0 m tons, of a semi-trailer 37.4 m
tons, and of a truck and trailer combination 43.4 m tons. In view of the
rapidly increasing cost of motor fuel, it may become economically desirable



-8-
to increase the allowable weights and dimensions. This could reduce fuel
consumption and vehicle operating costs per ton-km. This reduction may well
more than offset the increased cost of maintaining road pavements caused by
higher axle loads, at least within reasonable limits. It was agreed during
negotiations that the Government will review the situation in the light of
an ongoing TPU study (para 1.16) and a study of traffic law enforcement and
road safety to be carried out in the near future under the Fourth Highway
Project financed by the ADB.
Traffic
2.09      Over the last two decades, except in 1974 when the first major
international oil price hike occurred, road transport has continuously grown
(Table 2.5) and reached a dominant position among the transport modes
(Table 1.1). Apart from the Bangkok metropolitan area roads, which carry
significant passenger traffic, the network of national and provincial roads
has recorded the bulk of this impressive growth; and on some sections of
national roads, traffic (excluding motorcycles) now exceeds 10,000 aadt.
2.10      After double-digit annual growth rates in the sixties, road
traffic (aadt) in the seventies grew at about 7% on average. Pick-up trucks
recorded the highest growth rates in the seventies with 15% p.a., while
passenger cars and heavy trucks grew at below the fleet average of 7% p.a.
Pick-up trucks are multipurpose vehicles which are well suited to low-
traffic and low-standard roads. Growth in passenger car traffic was the
lowest with about 4% p.a. due to its sensitivity to the fuel price increases
since 1974, but cars still account for about one third of vehicle movements
on interurban roads. Reflecting regional differences in economic growth,
the North and South were leading the Central and Northeastern Regions in
road traffic growth. National roads, which constitute the interprovincial
network, still are the backbone of Thailand's road transport system, but
traffic on provincial roads has in recent years had the higher growth rates.
2.11      The transport sector is expected to remain under heavy pressure in
the foreseeable future to adapt itself to steadily rising fuel costs (Table
2.6). On account of their energy efficiency for trunk line and bulk
traffic, which may not yet be fully tapped, the Thai railways, inland
waterways and coastal shipping may be able to take over some of the traffic
presently on roads, but they are not expected to be major substitutes for
road transport. In particular, a Government policy of improving com-
munication in rural Thailand, where traffic flows are small, has to rely
primarily on road transport. The outlook for road transport is one of
continuing growth. But according to the consultants preparing this project,
road traffic growth (aadt), which averaged about 7% p.a. in the seventies,
is expected to drop to about 5-6% p.a. in the eighties, and one or two
percentage points lower in the nineties, as a result of energy conservation
measures.



-9-
Regulation
2.12      Two principal factors are responsible for Thailand-s high historic
road traffic growth, namely the Government's vigorous road building program,
and its generally limited intervention in the transport market.  Some
regulation of transport, however, exists and is most visible in public
passenger transport on major routes, where bus operators require a
route-specific license obtainable for 5-7 years through a competitive
tendering procedure, and where the Government sets fares and standards of
bus service. For minor routes, a bus operator also requires an operating
license, which is however not route specific. Bus services are generally
good, and bus fares compare reasonably well with cost. In the freight
sector, only a few freight submarkets are regulated, such as road transport
to and from the Bangkok Port (PAT), where the Government has created a
monopoly for the state-owned Express Transport Organization (ETO).
Otherwise, trucking licenses are freely available, and rates are set under
market conditions. In general, the trucking industry is very competitive
and rates are low.
C. Administration
General
2.13      The MOC is responsible, through its DOH, for the administration,
planning, construction, and maintenance of the national and provincial road
systems. The 72 provinces (Changwats) and municipalities, under the
Ministry of Interior (MOI), are generally responsible for the rural roads,
assisted by a number of central Government agencies. Other Central
Government departments and agencies build and maintain roads for special
purposes; for example the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) in the Ministry
of Agriculture builds and maintains roads serving irrigation projects; the
Ministry of Defense, through its Mobile Defense Unit, and the Army build
roads for national defense and internal security. The DOH has been under
strong pressure to take more and more rural roads into its provincial road
system, which has grown rapidly and is now very extensive (para. 2.04).
While the addition of some further links to the provincial road system will
be justified, an increasing proportion of the rural roads recently offered
do not fit logically into a provincial (secondary) roads system, and the DOH
is more strongly resisting such transfers.
Department of Highways (DOH)
2.14      The DOH has an organization adequate for its functions (Chart).
The present organization dates essentially from 1964-67 when it was revised
with the assistance of USAID. It was slightly modified in 1976, following
the Highway Maintenance Study under the Fifth Highway Project, to give



- 10 -
greater emphasis to maintenance of national and provincial roads. Technical
assistance for the department is now needed only for the introduction of
special management and operational techniques. An important case is the
"Revolving Fund" system for the administration and funding of maintenance
equipment through an internal hiring system, currently being set up with
technical assistance provided under the Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads)
Project (para. 2.37).
2.15      The MOC, through its DOH, is responsible for the classification of
roads and road systems, for the initiation of legislation concerning the
construction, maintenance and protection of roads, and for the preparation
of programs and budgets for the development and maintenance of national and
provincial roads. The MOC is also responsible for initiating and adminis-
tering legislation on the use of roads, including the licensing of
commercial vehicles.
Provinces (Changwats)
2.16      The changwats have generally only rudimentary road works organi-
zations. Strengthening them presents a major problem because of their large
number (72), the small volume of their work, and the lack of a clear national
policy for the development and financing of local institutions. Some
assistance has been given to a number of changwats by various Government
agencies, chiefly the Office for Accelerated Rural Development (ARD) and the
Public and Municipal Works Department (PMWD), both in the MOI.
2.17      To prepare a program of institutional development for rural roads,
and to prepare a national development plan, a Study of Rural Roads was
included in the Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project (Loan 1519-TH). The
study was started in October 1980, and the Phase I report is due in July of
this year. The final Phase II of the study is expected to be completed in
early 1982. The objectives of the study are to: (a) review, and help the
Government to define, any changes required in the responsibilities and powers
(statutory or delegated), sources of finances, organizations, and methods of
planning, design, maintenance, administration and construction of rural (or
local) roads (that is all roads other than national or provincial); (b)
prepare a plan for implementation of the institutional development program,
at local and national levels, including the provision and training of
personnel, and provision of maintenance equipment, finances, and other
resources needed; and (c) prepare an inventory of the rural roads, a program
for improving their maintenance, an outline long-range program for their
upgrading, and proposals for priority roads improvement during the Fifth
Five-Year Plan Period 1982-86. The study will therefore prepare the basis
for projects aimed at institutional development, improvement of maintenance,
and a development program for upgrading the rural roads. Furthermore, the
study will be an important step towards implementation of the Government's
policy of decentralizing development management.



- 11 -
D. Staff and Training
2.18      For the DOH professional staff, external assistance and training
is now required only in specialized subjects. For other subjects, courses
are available at Thai universities. Altogether 41 professional staff of DOH
have completed overseas training courses under the First, Third and Fifth
Highway Projects. A further eight staff members of DOH, as well as five
staff members of the Transport Planning 'Jnit (TPU) of the MOC, are receiving
overseas training under the Sixth Highway Project. The MOC wishes to send a
further 12 staff members of the DOH on such courses under this project
(para. 3.09). The Training Division of the DOH, which has a staff of about
20, organizes a continuing series of formal in-house training courses in
technical and administrative subjects. Instructors are mainly senior staff
of the Department. DOH also has a training school for equipment operators
with resident courses lasting several months. In addition to these formal
courses, DOH has on-the-job training in all its field divisions.
Furthermore, it trains field staff through eight local construction units
which were set up with bilateral financing by Japan, Australia and New
Zealand. Two of them are still provided with staff and equipment under
Australian and Japanese aid.
2.19      As noted above (para. 2.17), there will be a large and extended
need for the development of institutions, and training of local government
staff, concerned with local (rural) roads. The Study of Rural Roads will
define these needs, including the staffing, equipment, financing and other
resources required, and provide an implementation plan.
E. Planning
National and Provincial Roads (MOC/DOH)
2.20      The DOH, through its Planning Division, is responsible for the
planning of development programs, and the drafting of annual budgets, for
the national and provincial roads. The programs include construction,
improvement, strengthening and rehabilitation. Planning is based on road
inventories and traffic data. Inventories for most roads have initially
been prepared by consultants, but updating is undertaken by DOH staff.
Traffic counting, also by DOH staff, is carried out on all national roads
and on most provincial roads. Counting for the remaining provincial roads,
chiefly those added to the system during the last few years, is being
organized; also the locations of some existing traffic counting points are
being adjusted. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Govern-
ment on adequate arrangements for collection and analysis of traffic data for
national and provincial roads.



- 12 -
2.21      The normal procedure of the Planning Division for preparing
development programs for the national and provincial roads is first to
invite proposals for improvements from the DOH's field divisions, provincial
authorities, and other Ministries and Departments.  It then undertakes a
field reconnaissance of each road, and collects data for a preliminary
assessment of the work, cost and project economics.  Then it ranks the
proposals in approximate order of priority and prepares initial drafts for
proposed development programs.  For the smaller projects, particularly those
financed wholly from the Government budget, little further preparation is
undertaken, other than detailed engineering. However, for major
construction projects, feasibility studies are carried out, usually by
consultants because of the limited capacity of DOH. For the main work
programs, including those financed by foreign agencies, DOH usually employs
joint ventures of foreign and local consulting firms.
2.22      For the preparation of its input to the Fifth Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan 1982-86, the DOH was assisted by consultants (joint US/Thai)
financed under the Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project. Under the
first and completed phase of their work, all national and provincial roads
were reviewed to assess improvement priorities. Under the second phase,
more detailed feasibility studies were undertaken for investments which
are likely to be justified during 1982-86. The depth of study was tailored to
the individual requirements of the roads. For most roads, relatively
simple engineering and economic reconnaissance surveys and analyses were
carried out. In some cases, including those involving alternative alignments,
full scale feasibility studies may follow.
Rural Roads (under MOI/Local Authorities)
2.23      The ARD and PMWD carry out planning and engineering for most of
those rural road improvements which include substantial amounts of work.
Minor. road works are prepared by the changwats. Efforts have been made to
involve Changwats in rural road planning, but success is limited by the
Changwats presently low capabilities. The projects are usually chosen on
very general economic, administrative, security and political considerations
and only limited quantitative evaluations are usually carried out. An
action program for developing planning capabilities for rural roads is being
prepared through the study of Rural Roads (para. 2.17).
Road Program Review, Coordination and Approval
2.24      Draft road development programs prepared by the DOH and by
Departments in other Ministries, including ARD and PMWD, are reviewed by
inter-Ministry committees before submission to the NESDB. First they are
reviewed by a Road Sub-committee, composed of working level members, and



- 13 -
afterwards by a Coordinating Road Committee at the ministerial level. Both
the Sub-committee and Committee are composed of representatives of the
Ministries, Departments and other Government organizations concerned
with roads. They coordinate the various programs, approve the priorities of
the projects in the programs, and determine the size of the programs as a
whole. After approval by the Coordinating Road Committee, the draft
programs are submitted to the NESDB and finally the Cabinet for approval.
The road projects included in the development programs are based as far as
possible on economic criteria. However, many roads are included for such
reasons as for regional balance and politics, defense and internal security.
Even after approval, the programs are periodically reviewed and revised,
sometimes to reflect changed priorities, but mainly to adjust them to
finances available, since many projects in a number of the programs have not
been fully studied and cost estimates are often unrealistic.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan 1977-81
2.25       The Fourth Five-Year Development Plan 1977-81, which is in its
final months, allocated about B 20.7 billion (US$1,035 million) to roads, of
which about B 15.6 billion (US$780 million) are for national and provincial
roads and B 5.1 billion (US$260 million) for rural roads (Table 1.2). In
addition, there is a plan for security roads. The current DOH construction
and improvement program for 1977-81 lists total expenditures of B 16.5
billion (US$830 million) for national and provincial roads and a total
target length of about 10,000 km (Table 2.7). Hlowever, only about 60%
(6,000 km) of this program is expected to be completed under the Plan due
to a shortfall in funding and inflation. This is roughly the same
achievement rate as under the Third Five-Year Development Plan 1972-76. The
ongoing DOH program emphasizes investments in provincial roads. This is
justified as the national roads are already paved and generally adequate for
the present, whereas the provincial road system is larger and mostly of
inadequate standard. About 35% of the national and provincial roads (in km)
in the DOH 1977-81 program are located in the Northeast, which has the less
developed provincial road network; 25% of the program is in the North; 25%
in the Central Region; and 15% in the South. The execution of the DO-l
investment program since the end of 1976 to the end of 1979 resulted in an
increase in the length of improved provincial roads by 54% from 8,900 km to
13)700 km (Table 2.1). But the length of unimproved provincial roads has
remained about constant due to the transfer of roads to DOH from other
agencies. At the current rate of improving provincial roads, it would take
more than 15 years until all currently unimproved DOH roads (about 14,900 km
in 1979) would be upgraded.
Fifth Five-Year Development Plan 1982-86
2.26       Preparation of the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (October
1981-September 1986) is underway.  Based on comprehensive studies of the



- 14 -
national and provincial systems (para. 2.22) and some feasibility studies
financed externally, mostly by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Japan
(OECF), DOH has completed its draft proposals for the Fifth Five-Year Plan
and submitted it to the MOC and NESDB for review.
2.27       The national program for rural roads (chiefly Changwat) is being
based on the ongoing study of Rural Roads by a consortium of two foreign and
two Thai consulting firms under the direction of a steering committee formed
by NESDB, and with the DOH supplying the administration (para. 2.17).
In addition to this broad national program, which is aimed at institutional
development and road maintenance and road improvement programs, other rural
roads will be constructed and improved under separate individual regional/
rural development, agricultural, and irrigation projects. Further, the
Government will continue its program of building security roads.
2.28       The draft DOHl proposal for the Fifth Five-Year Plan covers a total
of about 12,000 km of roads, made up of 2,300 km carried over from the
previous Plan, 4,000 km to be financed (in part) by external loans or
grants, and the remainder to be funded exclusively by the Government budget.
However, it is expected that the official Five-Year Plan will scale down the
DOH proposal. The Asian Development Bank, OECF and the World Bank are
expected to remain the principal sources of external financing in the
1982-86 Plan. The majority of roads tentatively proposed, excluding the
security roads, are being prepared under feasibility studies and expected
to be economically well justified.
F. Financing
2.29       Road expenditures are financed from general budgetary revenues and
from foreign loans and grants. Road user taxes are not earmarked, except
for the proceeds from motor vehicle registration fees, which are distributed
among the Police Department and local and provincial administrations. In
1979, the Government collected an estimated B 11.0 billion (US$550 million)
in road user taxes (Table 2.8). Even though expenditure statistics about
tertiary and urban roads are incomplete, the total revenues apparently
exceeded total expenditures for road investments, maintenance and
administration. Detailed accounts will be established under the road user
taxation study conducted by TPU (para. 1.16).
2.30       The Government has no explicit policy for taxation of road users.
It levies taxes to generate public revenues and to protect the domestic
automobile assembly industry. The TPU is undertaking a study to help
formulate a more rational policy (para. 1.16).



- 15 -
G. Engineering
2.31      Engineering of the national and provincial roads is the respon-
sibility of the Location and Design Division of the DOH. The division
undertakes a portion of such work itself, within the limits of its capacity,
chiefly for smaller projects financed directly by the budget. For the
remaining engineering, especially for projects financed under external aid,
the department employs consultants. Almost all the firms engaged on
detailed engineering are Thai, as the domestic consultants have greatly
expanded in numbers and capability in recent years. Foreign consultants are
employed only to a limited extent, chiefly on feasibility and specialized
studies. Even then, the foreign firms operate in joint venture with Thai
consultants and employ only a few key foreign staff.
2.32      The DOH has a range of design standards for national and
provincial roads which are appropriate to the road class, terrain and
traffic volumes (Table 2.10). It has also established design standards for
rural roads, chiefly for use by the ARD and PMWD which are responsible for
designs under rural roads projects.  These departments undertake
some design work themselves, within their capacities, but employ
consultants, chiefly Thai, for the majority of their work.
H. Construction
2.33      The DOH, through its National Highways and Provincial Roads
Construction Divisions, is responsible for construction of national and
provincial roads. Provincial road construction by DOH includes the
improvement of existing provincial roads, and of some rural roads which are
to be incorporated into the provincial road system. About 90% of DOH
construction is by contract.  The rest is by force account, largely
undertaken for training purposes by eight training centers set up with
bilateral aid (para. 2.18). Road construction by ARD and PMWD is now also
predominantly by contract. Some small projects, undertaken by the
provinces, districts and groups of villages, are largely constructed by
force account with a higher proportion of hand labor.
2.34      The Thai contracting industry has evolved during the past 15 years
or so from infancy to maturity. There are now many domestic firms fully
capable of undertaking major projects and very competitive with foreign
contractors. In the early Bank-financed road projects only about a quarter
of the work was won by domestic contractors and, on some contracts, the work
was only completed with difficulty, delay, and in a few cases bankruptcies.
But gradually the domestic firms have taken an increasing share, and under
the ongoing Sixth Highway Project, Thai firms have won all the contracts
in competition with many foreign firms, and they are carrying out the work
satisfactorily. The evolution of the domestic industry can be attributed to
initiative of local entrepreneurs fostered by the Government's policy of
carrying out its continuous and large stream of work by contracts awarded
through competitive bidding.



- 16 -
I. Maintenance
2.35      Maintenance of the National and Provincial Road Systems (Table
2.1) is the responsibility of the DOH. The work is planned and supervised
by its M4aintenance Division and is carried out by its 12 Field Divisions,
and 69 Field Districts. Maintenance of most rural roads is performed by
the 72 provinces (changwats), in a few cases with assistance from ARD, and the
municipalities. Roads required primarily for the operation of irrigation
projects are maintained by the RID, and some national defense roads, mainly in
the frontier areas, are maintained by the army.
2.36      The organization and capability of the DOH for road maintenance
has greatly improved over the last 15 years. However, maintenance is still
not adequate because of inadequate budgetary provisions. Routine mainte-
nance of the national roads (which are nearly all paved), which includes
patching of surfaces, clearing of drains, repairs of bridges, grass cutting
etc., is generally satisfactory. Routine maintenance of provincial roads
(which are mainly gravel surfaced) is also fairly satisfactory in relation
to the financing available. However, there has been quite inadequate
budgetary provision for periodic maintenance, such as resurfacing of
bituminous paved roads, reshaping and resurfacing gravel roads, and
regravelling of shoulders. A large backlog of such work has accumulated.
2.37      A Highway Maintenance Study was carried out under the Fifth High-
way Project which formulated an eight-year program 1979-86 of maintenance
for the national and provincial roads to overcome the backlog, with
estimated annual budgets, including the amounts needed for routine and
periodic maintenance. The study also estimated the equipment needed by the
DOH to perform routine maintenance by force account. Procurement of this
equipment, under the Sixth Highway Project, has nearly been completed
together with some additional equipment for the 12 divisional workshops
which were set up and equipped partly with assistance under previous
Bank-financed projects. Periodic maintenance is predominantly carried out
by contract. An increasing annual volume of such work will further
stimulate the development of domestic contracting firms in the regions.
Also under the Sixth Highway Project, technical assistance is being provided
to help DOH set up an internal hiring system ("Revolving Fund") for the
maintenance equipment; the system aims to improve the efficiency of
equipment management and utilization, and to provide for the prompt supply
of spare parts and for funding the regular replacement of worn out equipment.
DOH has now set up the essential organization and accounting systems to
operate the "Revolving Fund." According to the Agreement for the Sixth
Highway (Provincial Roads) Project (Loan 1519-TH, Section 3.02(b)) the fund



- 17 -
was to be established by October 1, 1979. However, although the establish-
ment of the fund was approved in principle by the Government, it could not
be implemented until the required legal and administrative and financial
procedures were clarified and effected. The necessary legal authorization
has now been approved by the Cabinet and it is expected that the detailed
administrative and financial regulations will be finalized in time for the
effective operation of the fund to be started by the beginning of the next
fiscal year, October 1, 1981.
2.38      Maintenance expenditures on national and provincial roads by DOH,
excluding administration and highway police, have increased from B 234 million
(US$11.7 million) in 1967 to B 867 million (US$43.4 million) in 1979; the bud-
get allocation was B 929 million (US$46.5 million) in 1980 and B 1,228 million
(US$61.4 million) in 1981 (Table 2.9). However, the maintenance budget
includes items other than routine and periodic maintenance, such as deferred
maintenance (for major reconstruction and strengthening of paved road sections
which have failed) and minor betterment, including paving of sections of
gravel surfaced roads through villages. Excluding such items, the DOH budget
for routine and periodic maintenance for FY79 was B 780 million, or only 70%
of the estimated requirement of B 1,142 million in the eight-year program; for
FY80, the DOH budgetary provision for these items was B 684 million, which is
only a little over 50% of the estimated eight-year program requirement of
B 1,343 million (US$67.2 million), updated to FY80 prices. The Government
has prepared updated estimated routine and periodic maintenance requirements
(with costs in FY81 prices) for the remaining years FY81-FY86 of the
eight-year maintenance program. The estimates were reviewed and agreed
during negotiations (Table 2.11).
2.39      Maintenance of rural roads, by the provinces (changwats) and
municipalities, is generally very poor. A few changwats have received
assistance, including some maintenance equipment, but the remainder have
virtually no equipment, nor adequate staff and finances. Improvement of
maintenance (as well as other road functions) of these local authorities
will be a major task. Preparation for tackling these problems on a national
scale is going ahead through the Study of Rural Roads (para. 2.17).
J. Previous Bank-Financed Road Projects
2.40      The Bank has financed six previous road projects in Thailand for
the construction of 15 national roads totalling 2,120 km and 15 provincial
roads totalling 1,058 km. The loans, and the initial amounts were: 341-TH
(First) for US$36.0 million signed June 11, 1963; 455-TH (Second)
US$36.0 million, signed June 24, 1966; 535-TH (Third), US$29.0 million,
signed May 23, 1968; 626-TH (Fourth), US$ 23.0 million, signed June 27,



- 18 -
1969; 870-TH (Fifth), US$28.6 million, signed December 26, 1972; and 1519-TH
(Sixth), US$110.0 million, signed March 23, 1978. In addition to road
construction, the loans financed technical assistance to help in reorganiz-
ing the DOH, and for training its staff; a study of road maintenance;
procurement of maintenance equipment, and equipment for new workshops and
for improving existing ones; technical assistance for setting up a Transport
Planning Unit in the MOC; a series of studies and engineering to prepare
subsequent projects; and a study of Rural Roads to prepare for development
of the institutions concerned with rural roads, and to prepare development
programs for such roads.
2.41      The first five road projects were satisfactorily completed.
Disbursements totalled US$120.5 million, compared with initial loan amounts
of US$151.6 million, the remaining US$31.1 million being cancelled.
On the First Highway Project, US$13.1 million was cancelled at the Govern-
ment's request when road sections totalling about 300 km were removed from
the project at the outset, and financed instead wholly by the Government.
On the Second Highway Project, US$4.9 million was cancelled as most of the
contingency allowances were not needed. On the Third Highway Project,
US$6.1 million was cancelled and on the Fourth Highway Project, US$6.2
million was cancelled, in each case because bid prices were substantially
lower than estimated. The main reasons were probably intensifying
competition among foreign contractors operating in Thailand, the growing
size and efficiency of the domestic contracting industry, and an extended
period of domestic price stability.
2.42      On the Fifth Highway Project, in contrast, the total cost of
construction exceeded the appraisal estimates (including contingency
allowances) by about 30%. The initial bid prices were closely in line with
the cost estimates. However, the sharp rise in petroleum product prices in
1973-75 was accompanied by general inflation. This led to disputes between
the Government and the contractors on the adjustment of prices for increased
costs and work was virtually stopped for a number of months. The
Government's payment offer was eventually accepted by contractors on three
of the ongoing contracts, while on four others, the contractors accepted the
Government's alternative offer of termination. The remaining two contracts
had already been completed. The rebidding produced prices approximately
double the original prices. All the work was eventually satisfactorily
completed, but about 2 years later than scheduled, and with an overall cost
overrun, as noted, of about 30% on the entire project.
2.43      On the Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project (Loan 1519-TH), bid
prices were closely in line with the appraisal estimates. After completion
of more than 50% of the work, it appears that the eventual total costs will
be close to the appraisal estimates (including contingency allowances).
Work is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule according to the
contracts. On three of the eleven roads, however, the work began about 6
months later than originally scheduled, to synchronize with construction of
a link road which is essential for effective use of the three project roads.



- 19 -
Work on the link and the three project roads is now proceeding satisfac-
torily, but it may be necessary to extend the closing date by about 6 months.
2.44      To summarize, the first five Bank financed road projects have, in
physical terms, assisted the Government to construct most of the principal
national highway routes linking the main regions of Thailand with Bangkok,
and each other. Virtually the entire national road system has now been
constructed or improved, and paved. Further development of the national
system will be chiefly to enlarge traffic capacity, and to strengthen
pavements, of road sections in step with traffic growth.  The principal
roads have been designed and constructed to facilitate such future
development when justified. The Fifth Project and the ongoing Sixth Project
are for the construction of some of the more important routes, and new
links, in the provincial (or secondary) road system. However, even after
these projects are completed, more than half of provincial roads will still
be unimproved.
2.45      The Bank financed projects have provided important institution
building assistance to the DOH. Today, DOH is a strong, well organized,
staffed and equipped department and it performs its planning, construction
and maintenance functions well. Still further improvements to its efficiency
are being made under the Sixth Highway Project, particularly in road
maintenance, including the better management, utilization and repair and
replacement of equipment. There is no doubt that provided adequate
budgetary provision is made, maintenance will be carried out satisfactorily.
In future, major institutional development will be required for the
seventy-two provinces (Changwats) and the associated central Government
institutions. A national plan for institution building, and the gradual
development of rural roads, is being prepared through the Study of Rural
Roads (para. 2.17).
2.46      Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have been produced on
the first four highway projects. The main comments concerned: (a) -
overestimation of construction costs; and (b) under-estimation of traffic
growth, and consequently of project benefits. Regarding (a), as explained
in paras. 2.41-2.43, the intense competition among foreign contractors and
the growth and increasing efficiency of the local contracting industry, as
well as a period of general price stability, were not fully anticipated. In
contrast, the sudden change in world economic conditions in 1973-74 resulted
in a cost overrun of about 30% on the Fifth Highway Project. On all the
road projects, considerable efforts have been made to produce realistic cost
estimates. In the case of the Sixth Highway Project, the bid prices, and
subsequent price changes through the completion of over 50% of the work,
indicate that the final cost will be close to the appraisal estimates
(including contingency allowances).
2.47      In regard to (b), estimated traffic growth in the first four
highway projects, insufficient allowance was apparently made on some roads



- 20 -
for generated or diverted traffic. On these earlier projects, most roads
were main trunk routes with large traffic volumes. They could therefore be
easily justified even with conservative traffic estimates, and this may
explain why traffic volumes adopted for the appraisal were low. Nevertheless,
investments were not misdirected, nor were roads inappropriately designed.
All roads were designed for future development in stages, and accelerated
traffic growth will only reduce the time before the next stage becomes
necessary. Indications on the Fifth Highway Project are that on five of the
seven roads, traffic may exceed the forecast. On the remaining two roads,
actual traffic may approximate the appraisal estimates.
2.48      The DOH has already reached a stage where it is capable of under-
taking "sector projects," as may be inferred from sections C to E and G to J
above. In fact, this project has a number of characteristics of a sector
project. All the roads scheduled for bidding during the first year of the
project (about 60%) have been fully prepared, and bids obtained, before
negotiations, but the remaining project roads will be selected afterwards,
on the basis of criteria agreed during negotiations, from an already defined
longer list of roads. However, it would be premature to proceed to a full
road sector project at present. A sector project will only be feasible
after preparation of programs for: (a) the Fifth Five-Year Development
Plan, 1982-86 (para. 2.26); (b) institutional development of the 72
changwats and central Government departments in charge of rural roads; and
(c) improvement and maintenance of rural roads (paras. 2.16-17, 2.19, 2.23
and 2.39).
3. THE PROJECT
A. Background and Objectives
3.01      During the past 15 years, a comprehensive national road system
(primary roads) has been established, and practically 100% of the roads are
paved. For the near future, only some sections require increases in traffic
capacity, or pavement strengthening. However, there is a great need to con-
tinue with the improvement of the provincial road system (secondary roads).
This system of over 28,600 km connects all provinces and main rural areas
with the national roads and is an essential means of transport for the rural
population. Only 48% of provincial roads have been "improved" to engineered
standards; consisting of 28% paved, and 20% with gravel surfaces. More than
50% (14,900 km) are "unimproved"; they have usually poor drainage,
inadequate and temporary bridging, and little gravel surfacing; and they are
frequently impassable in the rainy season and cause impediments to economic
and social development. Improvement of these roads and of the rural
(tertiary) roads is an essential element in the Government-s policy of
improving the well-being of the rural population. This project will support
these policy objectives through construction of "unimproved" provincial
roads and preparation of future transport projects.



- 21 -
B. Description
3.02      The project consists of:
(a) construction and improvement, and supervision by consultants, of
about 20 sections of provincial roads totalling about 600 km;
(b) procurement of laboratory and traffic counting equipment for the
DOH;
(c) studies and engineering by consultants of provincial and rural
roads and other transport studies by consultants, for the
preparation of future projects;
(d) technical assistance by consultants to the DOH for continuing
implementation of the road maintenance program, and improved
management of maintenance equipment, and to the MOC (TPU) to
assist with studies of specialized subjects; and
(e)  provision of fellowships for training staff of the DOH.
(a) Construction and Improvement of Provincial Roads
3.03      About 20 sections of provincial roads, totalling about 600 km,
will be constructed and improved, about 50% with bituminous paved surfaces
and the remainder with gravel surfaces. Most of the roads will be con-
structed generally following the alignments of existing low standard roads
and tracks, but with improvement of curves, raising of the road bed where
sunken, widening, improvement of drainage, provision of permanent bridges
and culverts, and bituminous pavements or gravel surfacing. However, in a
few cases realignment will be undertaken of continuous lengths up to several
kilometers where justified by shortening of the route length or to eliminate
bad alignments. Also, a few sections of new construction are included to
close gaps in the network. Geometric design standards, and type of surfac-
ing, will vary from F.6, with gravel surfacing, to F.3, with asphalt con-
crete (AC) paving, according to the projected traffic volumes (Table 2.10).
3.04      Preparation of the project was based on the Study of National and
Provincial Roads carried out by consultants Louis Berger International (US)
in a joint venture with Asian Engineering Consultants (Thai) in 1979-80,
under the Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project, Loan 1519-TH. The study
produced, after initial examination, an initial list of about 6,000 km of
roads on which simplified feasibility studies were carried out (para. 4.02).
These led to a list of close to 80 roads, totalling about 2,200 km, from which
the project roads are being selected (Table 3.1). But every road to be
selected is required to have an economic rate of return not less than 12%
based on bid prices.



- 22 -
3.05      Detailed engineering of the project roads is in progress under the
Sixth Highway Project, Loan 1519-TH. It is being undertaken by 11 Thai
consulting firms, supervised and coordinated by the DOH with the assistance
of consultants Louis Berger/Asian Engineering consultants who use the data
to revise and update their feasibility studies. For the first group of
roads detailed engineering was completed in December 1980 and for the
remaining roads completion is scheduled for December 1981. Thirteen roads
to be included in the project's first-year construction program were agreed
during negotiations (Table 3.2); twelve are located in the Northeast and one
in the Northern Region, and their economic rates of return are 18 to 38%
based on prices of bids already received for them.  Roads to be included in
the second and final year's construction program will be selected, also
after receiving bids, in agreement with the Bank, by June 30, 1982.
(b) Procurement of Equipment
3.06      The DOH requires additional equipment for its Materials Testing
Laboratory (Materials Division), chiefly for the location and testing of
rock and other materials used in road construction. Additional traffic
counters, and other equipment, is required by the Planning Division of the
DOH. This equipment will be procured under the project.
(c) Studies and Engineering
3.07      The project includes studies and detailed engineering of
provincial roads and rural roads (about 1,000 man-months) for preparation of
future projects. Detailed engineering, by Thai consultants, will account
for the bulk of the costs. Practically all the roads to be engineered will
be selected from two studies carried out under the Sixth Highway (Provincial
Roads) Project, the Study of National and Provincial Roads, and the Study of
Rural Roads. However, provision is made under this project (Provincial
Roads) for updating (on the basis of detailed engineering) the economic
analyses carried out under those studies, and also for feasibility studies
of a limited number of additional roads. Further, provision is made for
other transport studies, including studies of inland water and maritime
transport, to prepare future projects (about 50 man-months).
(d)  Technical Assistance to the DOH and the TPU
3.08      The project continues the technical assistance by consultants to
the DOH and the TPU , presently provided under the Sixth Highway (Provincial
Roads) Project. For the DOH (about 75 man-months), the assistance is for
implementing the program of road maintenance, particularly the introduction
and first few years of operation of a management/financing system for the
maintenance equipment (para. 2.37). In the case of TPU (about 25 man-
months), the assistance is for "in-house" analyses of selected transport
subjects.



- 23 -
(e) Provision of Fellowships
3.09      The project includes fellowships for 12 staff members of DOH (about
150 man-months) for studies in transport planning and economics, road
maintenance, mechanical engineering and cost accounting (para. 2.18).
C. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
3.10      The cost of the project, including contingency allowances, is
estimated at about US$70 million. The foreign exchange component is esti-
mated at about US$31 million, or about 44%. The estimated costs are shown
in Table 3.3 and summarized below. The estimated average costs per km,
excluding (including) contingency allowances are: (a) for construction and
improvement of roads, US$76,000 (US$100,000); (b) for supervision by
consultants, US$2,700 (US$3,400); and (c) for detailed engineering by
consultants for construction and improvement of provincial roads, US$2,000
(US$2,500), and for rural (changwat) roads, US$1,200 (US$1,500).   The costs
of consultants' services for detailed engineering are normally on a "per
road" (or per km) basis. For other services, the costs are on a "per
man-month" basis. The estimated costs per man-month, excluding contingency
allowances, for Thai staff, on supervision and feasibility studies, average
about US$2,500; the estimated man-month costs, for such services by foreign
consultants, including salaries, social costs, overseas allowance, overhead
and fees, average about US$7,500 (US$9,000 including overseas travel, etc.).
For specialized technical assistance services, the estimated man-month costs
for foreign consultants, including salaries, social costs, etc., average
about US$8,500 (US$11,000 including overseas travel, etc).
3.11      Cost estimates for construction and improvement of the provincial
roads were prepared by the consultants Louis Berger International, in asso-
ciation with Asian Engineering Consultants Corporation. For the approximately
400 km of roads in the first year's program (Table 3.2) the cost estimates
are based on bids received, after completing detailed engineering
(para. 3.05). For the remaining roads in the list from which the project
roads will be selected (Table 3.1), cost estimates are based on feasibility
studies (para. 3.04) and ongoing detailed engineering, using unit prices for
work obtained from the bids received for the roads in the first year's program
(para. 3.05).
3.12      The cost estimates for consultants' services for supervision of
construction and improvement, for the studies and detailed engineering of
provincial and rural roads, and for technical assistance, are based on
previous contracts with consultants for similar work, taking into account
the mix of foreign and local firms and numbers of staff, and with costs
updated to cover increases estimated to mid-1981. The DOH intends to employ
the consultants for supervision before awarding contracts for construction
and improvement, and this was confirmed during negotiations.



- 24 -
Estimated cost of project /a
Baht (million)         US$ (million) /b       Foreign
For-                   For-             exchange
Project item                   Local  eign   Total  Local  eign    Total  component
A. Construction and
improvement of
provincial roads             477    440    917  23.83  22.00   45.83           48
B. Consulting services:
(a) Supervision of A           18     14      32   0.90   0.70    1.60         45
(b) Road studies and
engineering, and
transport studies         48      16      64   2.40   0.80    3.20         25
(c) Technical assis-
tance and training         2      16      18   0.10   0.80    0.90         90
Subtotal B:             68      46    114   3.40   2.30    5.70
C. Laboratory & traffic
counting equipment              -      4       4       -   0.20    0.20       100
D. Contingency allowances
(a) Physical /c               55      49    104   2.72   2.45    5.17
(b) Price /d                 135      81    216   6.77   4.05   10.82
Subtotal D:            190    130    320   9.49   6.50   15.99
Total cost of
works                735    620  1355  36.72  31.00   67.72
E. Right of way                   40       -      40   2.00       -    2.00
Total cost of
project              775    620  1,395  38.72  31.00   69.72            44
/a  Financial cost; taxes are included in local costs.
/b  At current exchange rate of US$1.00 = Baht 20.
/c  10% on all items.
/d  At assumed annual rates of:
1981   1982  1983  1984  1985
Local costs (%)              16    12    12    10       9
Foreign costs (%)             9     8.5   7.5   7.5   7.5



- 25 -
3.13      Cost estimates for the procurement of laboratory and traffic
counting equipment have been prepared by the DOEI on the basis of a list
which it has prepared and on prices obtained from importers of such
equipment.
3.14      Contingency allowances include 10% for physical quantities of work
and equipment, and for price increases at annual rates for: (a) local costs
of: 16% in 1981; 12% in 1982; 12% in 1983; 10% in 1984; and 9% in 1985; and
(b) foreign costs of: 9% in 1981; 8.5% in 1982; and 7.5% in 1983-85. The
cost estimates and contingency allowances were reviewed and agreed during
loan negotiations and are considered reasonable.
3.15      The foreign exchange component of road construction and improve-
ment has been estimated by the consultants at about 45% when carried out by
local contractors and about 57% when carried out by foreign contractors. On
the previous Bank financed highway projects, the proportion of contracts won
by local contractors steadily increased to 100% on the last project. However,
assuming a small number of contracts may be won by foreign contractors, an
average foreign exchange component has been calculated at about 48%. The
foreign exchange component of the consultants' services has been calculated
on the basis of the estimated numbers of man-months of foreign and local
consultants' staff to be employed; it is estimated at 45% on supervision,/I
25% for studies and engineering and 85% for technical assistance. The
specialized laboratory and traffic counting equipment will be 100% foreign
origin.
D. Financing
3.16      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$70 million
equivalent and the foreign exchange costs at about US$31 million. The loan
will finance the foreign exchange cost, together with about US$4 million of
local costs of consultants' services. The remaining local costs of about
US$35 million will be financed by the Government (Table 3.3). The Govern-
ment provided adequate and timely funds for the six previous highway
projects and made payments promptly. During loan negotiations assurances
were given that the Government will make adequate budgetary provision for
this project.
/1 Excluding field supervisory staff which will be provided by the DOH.



- 26 -
E. Implementation and Procurement
3.17      Except for the studies of rural roads (para. 3.07), the MOC will
be responsible for implementing the project, through its DOH, as for the six
previous highway projects. It will be assisted by consultants which will
supervise construction and improvement, undertake feasibility studies and
detailed engineering, and transport studies, and provide technical
assistance. The implementing agency for studies and engineering of
rural roads will be determined after completion of the Study of Rural Roads
financed under the Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project (para. 2.17).
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it will: (a) employ
consultants whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank,
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) before
awarding any contracts for road construction and improvement, send to the
Bank reports prepared by consultants on bids received, with the Government's
recommendations, for agreement by the Bank; and (c) select the roads to be
studied and engineered, and the subjects for the transport studies to be
undertaken, under the project, in agreement with the Bank.
3.18      Road construction and improvement will be carried out through
contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding by pre-
qualified firms in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procure-
ment", and on the advice of consultants. Smaller road sections will, where
practicable, be grouped geographically and contractors given the opportunity
to bid for each the group as a whole in order to form larger "packages", in
addition to being able to bid separately for individual road sections. The
relatively small amount of laboratory and traffic counting equipment will be
procured through contracts awarded after local competitive bidding among
importers of such equipment. During negotiations, assurances were given
that the Government will follow these procedures for procurement.
3.19      An average of about 1,500 workers are expected to be directly
employed on the construction and improvement works over a construction
period of about 3-1/2 years from September 1981. In carrying out the works,
contractors are free to choose their own methods, equipment and labor, subject
to works complying with performance specifications.
3.20      Contracts are expected to be awarded for the first year's program
of roads (comprising about 60% of the total in the project) about September
1981. The remaining contracts are expected to be awarded about September
1982, and all construction completed about the end of 1984. Delivery of the
laboratory and traffic counting equipment is expected by the end of 1982.
The studies and engineering of provincial roads and rural roads, as well as
special transport studies, to prepare future projects, are expected to be
undertaken in 1982-84. Allowing for final payments and disbursements, the
closing date for the loan will be June 30, 1985. During negotiations,
understanding was reached with the Government on a Project Implementation
Schedule (Table 3.4) and on arrangements for reporting progress of the
project and on its completion.



- 27 -
F. Environmental Aspects
3.21      The works have been designed to avoid causing any significant
ecological problems such as erosion and flooding, etc. The alignments
mostly follow existing roads as far as economically practicable, minimizing
land acquisition for right-of-way and property disturbance. Roads being
constructed with gravel surfaces will be paved, where they pass through
villages, to eliminate dust. Sections of road in areas of irrigation, near
lakes, or subject to flooding, are designed in collaboration with the Royal
Irrigation Department to provide adequate heights of embankments and sizes
of drainage structures. During negotiations, assurances were given that
the Government is making adequate and timely arrangements for acquisition of
land, and payment of compensation, for right-of-way, to enable works to
proceed unhindered in accordance with the contracts.
G. Disbursement
3.22      Disbursements from the loan will be made on the basis of:
(a) 48% of the total cost of construction and improvement works;
(b) 100% of the foreign (c.i.f.) cost of directly imported laboratory
and traffic counting equipment or 65% of the total cost if
imported and procured locally;
(c) 100% of the total cost of consultants- services; and
(d) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of training of staff (through
fellowships).
A schedule of estimated disbursements (Table 3.5) has been prepared. The
cost estimates for the project, the Project Implementation Schedule, and the
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements, were reviewed and agreed with the
Government during negotiations.
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  Project Objectives
4.01      A principal objective of the Government's road development policy
in recent years has been to integrate all regions and provinces into the
national production process and trade. This policy has channeled consid-
erable human and material resources to roads and led to the improvement and
paving of almost the entire system of national (primary) and the major pro-
vincial (secondary) roads. The integration objective has now been largely
achieved, and the road transport policy is increasingly reflecting the



- 28 -
regional developnment objective - removal or reduction of regional dispari-
ti 2es in incofmle and growth, which was mandated under the Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan. Both the DOHf, with respect to the still unimproved
provincial roads, and the changwats and associated Government agencies, witn
respect to the rural (tertiary) roads, share the responsibility for execution
Of this policy. This project has been prepared in this context.
B. Project Preparation
4.02      The identification and evaluation of project roads was the result
of a staged process. Under the first phase, all DOH roads were identified
which appear to be seriou s economic or social development constraints or the
primary cause for high-cost road transport in rural areas. Most roads thus
identified, totalling around 6,000 km, were drawn from the list of
"unimproved" DOH provincial roads (Table 2.1).  None are yet fully
constructed to engineered standards, and they are all unpaved. Traffic on
many of them. is restricted seasonally or all-year round, and all are the
principal or only form of transport in the area served. Under the second
project identification phase, roads which are being considered for
alternative improvement programs, or will be processed under special
arrangements such as those applying to security areas, were eliminated from
further study. The third phase consisted of field data collection by
economic and engineering teams. The economic team assessed the area of
snfluence of a road, established the existing and projected the future
transport demand and, where appropriate, the impact of road improvement on
agricultural development. The engineering team verified the physical road
data recorded in the DOH inventory file, collected additional data needed
for prcject evaluation, and determined required alignment changes and
improvement standards. Under the fourth and final phase, specific investment
proposals were established and construction cost and economic returns
calculated subject to review after completion of detailed design and receipt
of bids.
C. Traffic
4.03      All roads, from which the project roads have been, or are to be
selected (Table 3.1), already carry traffic ranging in most cases from 30 to
300 aadt. A large part of the data on existing traffic, used in the project
preparation studies, came from DOII s regular traffic counting program.  For
the remainder of roads, and where the data required empirical verification,
the consultants conducted their own intercept and fixed point manual counts
which were expanded to yearly average figures. Use was also made of a
passenger traffic generating model based on household expenditures. In
addition to the existing traffic, the consultants estimated the diverted and
generated traffic, where appropriate. Unless a road was analyzed for
developmental benefits (para. 4.04), generated traffic was taken to be in
the order of 15% of normal traffic when these conditions applied: The



- 29 -
improvement was from an earth or laterite to a paved bituminous surface, or
from an unengineered earth or laterite to an engineered laterite road. For
roads with developmental benefits (para. 4.04), generated traffic was derived
from agricultural production estimates. Traffic was separated into five
vehicle categories. Traffic growth rates, in the order of 4-9% p.a. over the
life of road investment, were based on regional or local population, personal
income and fuel cost data and trends.
D. Development Effects
4.04      One of the tasks under the project preparation was to determine
whether an existing road constitutes a critical constraint to agricultural
development. A prima facie case for such a constraint case was assumed when
one of these conditions existed: the road was not passable all year round;
it was passable, but its condition severely curtailed transport of farming
production and input; it permitted traders to charge exhorbitant prices for
their visits; the establishment of regular passenger services was inhibited;
and agricultural extension officers were prevented from rendering satisfactory
area services. To qualify for assignment of development benefits (increases
in producer surplus) under this project, a road had also to support the
assumption that its improvement significantly stimulated agricultural
production; this assumption was a priori ruled out if the road passed
primarily through a national forest (not available for crop cultivation), if
the influence area was sparsely populated, or if the soil conditions were
extremely poor or the terrain was unsuitable for cultivation. Based on these
initial tests, close to 30 roads were selected for in-depth analyses of
development benefits, and about 20 of them are included in Table 3.1. Three
of the roads form part of the project's first year's construction program
(Table 3.2).
E. Project Benefits, Costs and Returns
4.05      Resource savings in the form of savings in vehicle operating costs
(VOC) and developmental benefits, in case of developmental roads, are the
principal quantified road improvement benefits. Not explicitly quantified
were the effects of road improvements on the provision of education, health
and other government services. The savings in VOC, development benefits and
project costs, were calculated separately for each road. Typical vehicle
operating costs for existing roads are about B 3/km for passenger cars,
B 3.7/km for pickup trucks, B 9/km for heavy buses and B 10.2/km for heavy
trucks (Table 4.1); and depending on road condition and traffic composition,
typical VOC savings for a given road are of the order of 30-50%.
4.06      For the calculation of development benefits, the data used were
drawn from a number of sources. Those include socio-economic statistics
published by ARD; Changwat information published by the Division of
Agricultural Economics in the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives; and



- 30 -
field observations and interviews by the project consultants with extension
officers and local farmers. Increased production was linked to one or more
of the following: an increase in the amount of cultivated land during the
road-s investment life; increase in crop yields primarily due to wider use
of fertilizer and pesticides and improved dissemination of farming
information; and in some cases, introduction of new or expansion of existing
profitable crops. The farm-gate crop prices for the calculation of the
gross-value of production were on an average those received by the project
area farmers . The producer surplus for the increased production was
derived as the product of the gross value of the production and a
coefficient, which is specific to a particular crop and production levels.
The labor input for the additional crop was in most cases assumed to have
zero opportunity costs.
4.07      The developmental benefits referred to in para. 4.04 represent
between 50-90% of each road-s total benefits four years after the investment
and thereafter. Among the main crop, which will be increased as a result of
the road construction, are rice, sugarcane and tapioca. To test the validity
of assumptions about the development benefits, it was agreed during
negotiations that the DOH will closely monitor two development roads during
implementation and the first four years thereafter, following the format of
the project's feasibility studies.
4.08      The capital costs of the roads shown in Table 3.1 are in part based
on reconnaissance engineering, and in part on detailed engineering and bid
prices (para. 3.05). The economic costs of construction are 88% of financial
costs after netting out taxes. The expected life span of the investments is
15 years.
4.09      Based on current cost estimates, the 2,200 km of roads in Table
3.1 have economic returns between 12-93%. The roads already selected for
the project's first year construction program have returns between 18-38%
based on bid prices (Table 3.2). All investments under the project are
expected to be timely, and the expected average return is 20%. Without
taking developmental benefits into account, the developmental roads would in
most cases have economic returns of below 10%. The regional distribution of
the roads in Table 3.1 is as follows: 38% of the total length is in the
Northeast, 37% in the North, 13% in the Central Region and 12% in the South.
Of the road length already included in the first year's program, over 90% is
in the Northeast (Table 3.2).
4.10      The principal project risks are that actual construction cost may
exceed the estimates and project benefits may not materialize fully.
The risk of a cost increase, however, will be largely contained through the
requirement that only those roads are eligible for the project which have
rates of return of at least 12% calculated on the basis of bids received.
Overestimates of project benefits could result from one principal factor,
namely an error in the estimate of existing traffic. Adequate traffic data
have been a major concern of project preparation and appraisal, because
roads with significant seasonal (agricultural), and predominantly local,



- 31 -
traffic are inherently difficult to assess. To indicate the project risks,
the following sensitivity tests were conducted for the roads in Table 3.1:
(a) the capital costs were increased by 10%; (b) the benefits were decreased
by 15%; and (c) tests (a) and (b) were combined. In neither of these tests
were undue project risks exposed. Even in case (c), which has a very low
probability, the returns of individual roads are not under 10%. Thus the
investments have an acceptable risk exposure.
F. Beneficiaries
4.11      The population served by the project roads, roughly in an area 3
km on either side of a road, are the project's main investment beneficiaries.
They are not only expected to receive most of the developmental benefits,
but also to share to a large extent in the vehicle operating cost savings.
The sharing in VOC benefits results from a number of factors: that traffic
on the project roads is generally local; that area residents, when the
opportunity arises, are keen to engage in commercial transport; and that
transport is very competitive on fairly good roads. A typical km of
development road has an influence coverage of about 300-600 people, and
other roads in more developed areas generally serve even larger populations.
Accordingly, the project, amounting to about 600 km of roads, will directly
benefit an estimated one-third of a million people, of which no less than
60% are in the Northeast.
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      Before loan negotiations, the Government had detailed engineering
and updated cost estimates and economic analyses completed for about 400 km
of roads which will form the project's first year's construction program
(para. 3.05).
5.02      During loan negotiations, the Government and the Bank reached
agreement on the following principal points:
(a)  completing the establishment by DOH of a "revolving fund" (inter-
nal hiring system) for road maintenance equipment, to be
operational by October 1, 1981 (para. 2.37);
(b)  carrying out a maintenance program for the national and provincial
roads for FY1981-86; and estimated annual budgetary appropriations
required (para. 2.38 and Table 2.11);
(c)  the roads to be included in the first year's construction program
(para. 3.05);



- 32 -
(d) selecting, by June 30, 1982, in agreement with the Bank, roads
which will form the second and final year's construction program
(para. 3.05); the roads will be from an agreed list (Table 3.1)
and have rates of return not less than 12% based on cost estimates
obtained from bid prices (para. 3.04).
5.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$35 million
(representing about 50% of the total cost) for a period of 20 years, includ-
ing a grace period of five years.



- 33 -
ANNEX
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A.1  "Transport Planning Unit Project"
by BCEOM in association with Robert Nathan Associates
(financed under Fifth Highway Project, Loan 870-TH),
2 volumes February 1976.
A.2   "Study of Highway Maintenance and Equipment Needs"
by Kampmann, Kierulff and Saxild A/S (financed under Fifth
Highway Project, Loan 870-TH),
4 volumes December 1976
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1   "Studies of National and Provincial Road Network in Thailand"
by Louis Berger International in joint venture with Asian
Engineering Consultants Corporation
(financed under Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project,
Loan 1519-TH)
2 volumes September 1980.
B.2   "Studies of IBRD Rural (Provincial) Roads One Program"
by Louis Berger International in joint venture with Asian
Engineering Consultants Corporation
(financed under Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project,
Loan 1519-TH):
General Report - 1 volume April 1980
Individual Road Reports - 35 Volumes July 1980
Individual Road Reports - 2 Volumes July 1980
(Addendum)
Amendments to Individual Road Reports - July 1980-May 1981
May 1981



- 34 -
Table 1.1
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Indicative Inland Freight Traffic of Thailand by M4odes /a
Inland
Year    Rail lb                  Road                    waterways           Total
A. Tons (million)
1968       5.0                  14.0                         8.0             27.0
1973       5.0                  25.0                        8.0              38.0
1976       5.4                  37.0/c                       8.5             50.9
1981      8.2                59.0- 66.0                      8.5           75.7- 82.7
1986      10.5               91.0-113.0                    11.5           113.0-135.0
1991      13.3              139.0-190.0                     13.7          166.0-217.0
B. Ton-km (million)
1968    2,000                 3,500                       1,300             6,800
1973    2,000                 6,500                       1,300             9,800
1976    2,500                 9,700/c                     1,400            13,600
1981    3,500              15,200-17,100                  1,400          20,100-22,000
1986    4,500              23,400-29,300                  1,950          29,850-35,750
1991    5,700              35,600-49,300                  2,400          43,700-57,400
/a Based on 1978 World Bank draft. Estimates exclude coastal shipping which
in 1977 is estimated at 1.2-1.5 million tons.
/b 1968-76 actuals, 1981-1991 projections. Assumed growth rate after 1981
5% p.a.
/c In an independent assessment, consultants Louis Berger Int., Inc. arrived
at the following tentative estimates for 1978: 61 million tons and 7,800
million ton-km.
May 1981



- 35 -
Table 1.2
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Government Investments in Transport During Third and Fourth
Five-Year Development Plans
(B million) /a
Third               Fourth
Development          Development
Mode                                        Plan 1972-76 /b      Plan 1977-81 /c
Roads
National                                       8,200                7,689
Provincial                                     6,800                7,906
Local                                          1,600                5,125
Subtotal                                   16,600               20,720
Railways                                         2,470                 1,750
Inland waterways and ports                         920                1,224
Civil aviation (including airports)                890                 4,348
Total                                      20,880               28,042
Transport as percentage of
development expenditures                          20                    11
/a  In current prices.
/b Actual investment expenditures.
/c  Original Plan figures.
Source: National Economic and Social Development Board and Department of
Highways.
May 1981



T11AILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Roads Maintained by the Department of Highways, 1963-79
(km)
Provincial roads                             National highways
National highways              Improved roads       Unimproved                      and provincial roads
Year     Paved   Gravel  Total/a    Paved  Gravel  Total/a   roads/b    Total             Paved   Gravel  Unimproved  Total
1963      4,157  4,917    9,074          203  1,998    2,200       5,800/c    8,000        4,360  6,915       5,800/c   17,074
1964      4,702  4,702    9,404          257  1,957    2,214         n.a.        n.a.      4,959  6,659        n.a.        n.a.
1965      5,046  4,436    9,482          405  2,389    2,794        n.a.         n.a.      5,451  6,825        n.a.        n.a.
1966      5,008  4,490    9,498          427  2,569    2,996         n.a.        n.a.      5,435  7,059        n.a.        n.a.
1967      5,507  4,011    9,518          581  3,311    3,892        n.a.         n.a.      6,088  7,322        n.a.        n.a.
1968      6,613  3,131    9,744        1,131  4,078    5,209        n.a.         n.a.      7,744  7,209        n.a.        n.a.
1969      7,822  2,146    9,968        1,281  4,448    5,729        n.a.         n.a.      9,103  6,594        n.a.        n.a.
1970      8,620  1,781   10,401        1,479  4,413    5,892        n.a.         n.a.     10,099  6,194        n.a.        n.a.
1971      9,681  1,296   10,977        1,781  4,347    6,128         n.a.        n.a.    11,462  5,643         n.a.        n.a.
1972     10,493  1,014   11,507        2,288  3,891    6,179        n.a.         n.a.     12,781  4,905        n.a.        n.a.
1973     11,065  1,008   12,073        2,560  4,039    6,599         n.a.        n.a.    13,625  5,047         n.a.        n.a.
1974     11,750    747   12,497        3,025  3,986    7,011        n.a.         n.a.    14,775  4,733         n.a.        n.a.
1975     11,840    818   12,658        3,396  4,043    7,439    15,447        22,886    15,236  4,861        15,447      35,544
1976     11,968    752   12,720        4,276  4,601    8,877    14,857        23,734    16,244  5,353    14,857          36,454
1977     12,218    722   12,940        4,920  5,022    9,942    14,200        24,142    17,138  5,744    14,200          37,082
1978     12,762    548   13,310        6,210  5,546   11,756    15,220         26,976    18,972  6,094    15,220         40,286
1979     13,613    207   13,820        8,129  5,549   13,678    14,880        28,558    21,742  5,756    14,880          42,378
/a  Roads which receive the normal allocation of maintenance funds.
/b  Roads which receive only "minimum maintenance" (that is, only about 25% of the normal allocation of maintenance
funds and are often not passable in rainy weather) or are under construction or improvement.
/c  Lengths not available (n.a.) before 1975; length of unimproved (provincial) roads in 1963 believed to have been
about 5,800 km.
Source:  Department of Highways.
May 1981



- 37 -
Table 2.2
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Department of Highways Roads by Regions in 1979
(km)
National Highways         Provincial Roads             National & Provincial Roads
Unim-                               Unim-
Paved  Gravel Total  Paved  Gravel  proved /a Total  Paved  Gravel  proved /a Total
North       2,967    35           2,076   1,021   5,271                5,043  1,056   5,271   11,370
Northeast  4,454   124             1,509   2,255   4,249               5,963  2,379   4,249   12,591
Central    3,363    36             2,450   1,417   3,050               5,813  1,453   3,050   10,316
South      2,829    12            2,094      856   2,310               4,923    868   2,310    8,101
Total   13,613   207  13,820  8,129   5,549  14,880  28,558   21,742  5,756  14,880   42,378
/a  1976 statistics adjusted to 1979.
Source:  Department of Highways.
May 1981



- 38 -
Table 2.3
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Regional Indices of Department of Highways Roads /a
Region                         All
North    Northeast    Central    South    regions
1. Distribution of
Road Length (x)
Paved                   12          14            14         12         52
Gravel                   3           6             3          2         14
Unimproved              12          10             7         15         34
Total                27          30           24         19        100
2. Square km per 1 km
of roads
Paved                 29.1        29.7         23.6        18.7       25.7
Unpaved               28.1        22.7          27.9       22.2       25.3
Total             14.3         12.9         12.2       10.2       12.8
3. Population per 1 km
of roads
Paved                1,534       2,854        1,870      1,254       1,897
Unpaved              1,481       2,177        2,213      1,493       1,868
Total               754       1,235        1,013        681        941
/a 1979 statistics.
Source: Department of Highways and Louis Berger Int. Inc./Asian Engineering
Consultants Ltd.
May 1981



- 39 -
Table 2.4
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registration 1966-80 /a
Location        Year        Cars       Buses       Trucks      Motorcycles          Total
A. Number of Units ('000)
Thailand         1966       97           19            79           178              373
1970      222           19           136           361              738
1971      235           18           147           383              789
1972      240           20           159           414              833
1973      251           22           179           435              887
1974      301           23           232           490            1,046
1975      290           23          238            510            1,061
1976      298           20          285            542            1,145
1977      331           27           345           686            1,390
1978      362           28          368            760            1,518
1979      387           29          417            845            1,078
1980      412           30           468           910            1,820
Bangkok &       1966        76            3            28            50              157
Thonburi        1970       173            5            43            84              305
1971      183            5            44            89              321
1972      183            6            43            88              320
1973      185            6            44            87              322
1974      232            6            62            91              391
1975      218            7            43           100              368
1976      222            5            56           110              393
1977      243           10            69           141              463
1978      265           11            71           156              503
1979      287           12            80           172              551
1980      301           11            85           180              577
B. Annual Growth Rates (%)
Thailand      1966-70   23.0            0.3         15.0           20.0             20.0
1970-80    6.0           5.0          13.0          10.0              9.0
Bangkok &    1966-70   22.8            13.2          12.4          14.0             14.0
Thonburi      1970-80    6.0            2.2           7.0           6.5              6.5
/a Estimates for 1979 and 1980.
Source: Licences Division, Police Department.
May 1981



- 40 -
Table 2.5
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Civilian Consumption of Motor Fuels 1965-79 /a
Gasoline                                 Gasoil
Million      Increase                   Million      Increase
Year                  liters         in %                     liters         in %
1965                     622           -                         931           -
1966                     678           9                       1,191          28
1967                     785          16                       1,464          23
1968                     922          17                       1,755          20
1969                   1,044          13                       2,016          15
1970                   1,159          11                       2,214          10
1971                   1,240           7                       2,462          11
1972                   1,353           9                       2,683           9
1973                   1,563          16                       2,920           9
1974                   1,598           2                       2,703          -7
1975                   1,773          11                       2,873           6
1976                   1,973          11                       3,180          11
1977                   2,155           9                       3,531          11
1978                   2,305           7                       3,952          12
1979                   2,358           2                       4,291           9
/a  The figures represent Thailands total consumption.  Consumption on roads
is not recorded separately, but estimated at 86% for gasoline and 42%
for gasoil.
Source: Shell Co. of Thailand, Ltd. and Department of Highways.
May 1981



- 41 -
Table 2.6
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Prices of Petroleum Products in Thailand
(US$/liter)
Retail price       Retail price
including          excluding         Opportunity
Product                         taxes /a             taxes /b          costs /c
Regular gasoline                   0.57               0.26              0.30
Premium gasoline                   0.60               0.28      }
Diesel Fuel
Low speed                       0.36                0.20      }       030
High speed                      0.37               n.a.              0.3
Aviation fuel (jet A-1)            0.47               n.a.              0.32
n.a. = not available.
Ia  As of May 1981.
/c  Based on 1981 tax estimates.
/b  As of February 1981.  Opportunity costs based on calculated CIF price
for imports of finished petroleum products.
Source: Transport Planning Unit in Ministry of Communications and Bank
staff.
May 1981



THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Department of Highways Roads Construction Program 1977-81 by Region and Source of Funds /a
North         Northeast      Central         South            Total
Expected sources of funds           km    B mln   km    B mln   km    B mln   km    B mln    km    B mln
National Roads - Construction
Government budget only             123    278    111    273    308  3,194         56    116       598   3,861
Government budget and aid           77    296    119    138        55     60      59      67      310      561
Government budget and loans
from international agencies    134    336          8     20    160    832    107    373        409   1,561
National Roads - Improvement
Government budget only             202    255    461    541    378    502    161    239   1,202   1,537
Subtotal national roads         536  1,165    695    972    901  4,588    384    795   2,519   7,520
Provincial Roads - Construction
Government budget only             785  1,122    609    755    612    953    256    435   2,262   3,265
Government budget and aid          361    455    803    766         -      -    350    489   1,514   1,710
Government budget and loans
from international agencies    210    348    169    250    406    726           67    135      852   1,459
Productivity roads                 360    180    759    345    399    150    324    176   1,842           851
Provincial Roads - Improvement
Government budget only             312    350    633    734    331    489    144    171   1,420   1,744
Subtotal provincial roads   2,028  2,455  2,973  2,850  1,748  2,318  1,141  1,406   7,890   9,029
Total                         2,564  3,620  3,672  3,812  2,649  6,906  1,525  2,201  10,409  16,549
% of total length                     25              35             25             15              100
% of total cost                               22             23              42             13               100
/a  Actual expenditures for 1977-79, and estimates for 1980/81.  Excluding security roads (about
4,500 km and B 6,800 million).  Total of B 16,549 million also excludes about B 2,300 million of
foreign exchange cost financed under external aid.
Source: Department of Highways.
May 1981



- 43 -
Table 2.8
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Revenues from Road User Taxes 1975-79
(B million)
1975      1976      1977      1978      1979
Customs Duty and Excise Tax
Gasoline                              1,674    1,716    2,383    3,294    5,146
Diesel oil                               611       573       815       559    1,144
Cars, parts and accessories           1,899    1,921    2,709    3,306    2,847/a
Tires                                    122       140       189       224       219
Subtotal                         4,306    4,350    6,096    7,383    9,356
Business and Municipal Tax
Gasoline                                 270       276       310       404        89
Diesel oil                               201       324       376       408       212
Cars, parts and accessories           1,021        977    1,276    1,131         617
Tires                                     36        38        52        61        63
Vehicle registration fee                 680       612       826       730/b    n.a.
Subtotal                         2,208    2,227    2,840    2,734          981
Total                            6,513    6,577    8,936   10,117   10,337
n.a. - not available.
/a No imports of fully assembled cars permitted in 1979. The import restric-
tions were removed thereafter.
/b Fees not fully recorded.
Source: Customs and Excise Department, Police Department and Highways
Department.
May 1981



- 44 -
Table 2.9
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Department of Highways - Expenditures and Sources of Finance, 1967-80
(B million)
Construction and
improvement
Adminis-    HIainte-                    Foreign      Total
tration /b   nance /c                     loans      Govern-
Fiscal   Government  Government  Government  (counter-    ment    Foreign
year /a    budget        budget       budget        part)      budget    loans   Total
1967          404          234        1,575          498        2,711      408    3,119
1968          465          296        1,551          390        2,702      476    3,178
1969          506          328        1,626          403        2,863      220    3,083
1970          529          365        1,752          370        3,016      322    3,338
1971          626          350        2,038          289        3,303      192    3,495
1972          609          304        1,578          219        2,710      146    2,856
1973          628          310        1,766          416        3,120      203    3,323
1974          801          341        1,866           66        3,074      112    3,186
1975          708          454        2,140           45        3,347       83    3,430
1976          957          573        3,042          100        4,672      145    4,817
1977        1,033          615        2,766          427        4,841      207    5,048
1978          901          575        3,492          566        5,534      211    5,745
1979        1,218          867        3,298          684        6,067      458    6,078
1980/d      1,325          929        4,089          820        7,163      750    7,913
1981/d      1,453        1,228        5,313          787        8,781      700    2,481
/a October 1-September 30.
/b Includes the costs of: (a) mechanical equipment repair and its partial re-
placement, which are not apportioned to maintenance and construction works;
and (b) special highway police patrols.
/c Excludes fuel, oil and spare parts (about 20% of given budget figures),
which are part of the cost of administration.
/d Budget allocation.
Source: Department of Highways.
May 1981



- 45 -
Table 2.10
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Design Standards for National Highways and Provincial Roads
1.  Bridge width (between curbs):  9 m on national highways classes P(D), P(1), S(D) and S(1)
8 ia on national highways classes P(2) and P(3) and on provincial roads
classes P(1) and P(2)
7 m on provincial roads classes F(3) to F(6)
2.  Vertical clearance:               4.50 m
3.  Design axle load (pavement):   20,000 lb (24,000 lb in Bangkok area)
4.  Design bridge loading:            HS 20
5.  Geometric design standards /a:                                   Terrain
Flat and moder-      Rolling and
Highways and Roads               Unit       ately rolling           hilly         Mountai ous
(a) National (Primary)
Design speed              km/h           80-100              60-80           50-60 /b
Maximum gradient          2              4                   6               8 /b
Right-of-way              m              60-80               60-80           60-80
(b)  National (Secondary and
Provincial F(D), F(1),
F(2) and F(3
Design speed              km/h           70-90               55-70           40-55 /b
Maximum gradient          %              6                   8               10 /b
Right-of-way              m              40-60               40-60           40-60
(c) Provincial F(4), F(5)
and F(6)
Design speed              km/h           60-80              45-60            30-45 /b
Maximum gradient          %              8                   10              12 /b
Right-of-way              m              20-40              20-40            20-40
6. Roadway features:
(a)  National (Primary)          Class   P(D)          P(1)    P(2)      P(3)
Equivalent daily traf-  Number  above          4,000-  2,000-   below
fic (aadt) /a                   8,000        8,000   4,000    2,000
Surface type /c          m        high         high    inter-   inter-
mediate  mediate
Width of carriageway    m         divided by   7.00    6.50        6.00
2 x 7.00/d
Width of shoulder /b    m          2.50          2.50    2.25      2.00
Width of roadbed /b       m       varies        12.00   11.00    10.00
(b)  National (Secondary)        Class   S(D)          S(1)    S(2)       S(3)     S(4)      S(5)
Equivalent daily traf-  Number  above           4,000-  2,000-   1,000-       300-   below
fic (aadt) /a                   8,000        8,000   4,000    2,000    1,000    300
Surface type T7          m        high         high    inter-   inter-   low          gravel
mediate  mediate
Width of carriageway    m          divided by   7.00    6.50       6.00    5.50   } (including
2 x 7.00/d                                       } shoulders)
Width of shoulder /b    m          2.50          2.50    2.25      2.00    1.75   }
Width of roadbed /b       m       varies        12.00   11.00    10.00    9.00        9.00
(c)  Provincial                  Class   F(D)          F(1)    F(2)       F(3)     F(4) /e  F(5) and F(6)
Equivalent daily traf-  Number  above           4,000-  2,000-   1,000-       300-   above 300; below 300
fic (aadt) /a                   8,000        8,000   4,000    2,000    1,000
Surface type W            m       high         high    inter-   inter-   low          gravel      gravel
mediate  mediate
Width of carriageway    m          divided by   7.00    6.50       6.00    5.50       (including shoulders)
2 x 7.00/d
Width of shoulder /b    m          2.50          2.50    2.25      2.00    1.75
Width of roadbed /b       m        varies       12.00   11.00    10.00    9.00        9.00        6.00
/a  Geometric standards normally based on 15-year traffic projections.
/b Design speed and widths may be reduced and gradients increased in exceptional circumstances.
/c Pavement design normally based on 7-year traffic projections of equivalent 20,000 lb axle loads.
/d Initially constructed with two lanes unless immediate construction of four lanes is economically justified.
/e Class F(4) is for roads with projected aadt above 300 after 7 years.
Source: Department of Highways.
May 1981



- 46 -
Table 2.11
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Maintenance of National Highways and Provincial Roads
Estimated Costs, 1981-86 /a
(B million)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Recurrent Costs
(including equipment
operation, repair,
and replacements,
predominantly used on
routine maintenance)
1. Routine maintenance
(predominantly by
force account)                958     990   1,018   1,047   1,074   1,098
2. Periodic maintenance
(predominantly by
contract)                     624     643      662      683     703      725
Total                 1,582   1,633   1,680   1,730   1,777   1,823
/a  Estimated budgetary requirements at constant FY 1981 prices, excluding
costs of administration and of special highway police patrols.
Source: Government's and Consultants' estimates.
May 1981



THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
List of Possible Project Roads
I  IDENTIFIER         ORIGIN                         DESTINATION                        LENGTH(km)  COST/I  IMPUVYEMEN/2   _A'h1'79/3    AADT183/3              IRR(Z)  TUTA  [ENCGH   TOiA,l  !-, 
1  314 413B 0100 J. R. 4 [KM. 34t001            B. HAT KHAI TAO                          16.6       16,1        F.3   ST           44b            622           93             17               1
2  514 3004 030D A. PHAISALI                     R. 2184 [WANG PHIKUN]                    27,0       54.6        F.3   ST          371             435           38             44               7
3  533 1209 0100 J.R.li0[B.DENJ                  B.THA KHAO PLUAK                         31.0        19.9       F.5  LAT            84           i1S            33             75               9i
4  522 1096 0300 A. SAMOENG                      A. HANG DONG                             40.2       69.8        F.4   ST           241            339           33            115              16
5  421 3245 01D0 THA LAT                         A. SANAM CHAIKHET                        27.0        36.9       F.3   sI           314            437           33            142                1
6  323 9017 0000 J. 4 IKRABI YAI]                NAMTOK HUAI TAI                          22.0       23.0        f.6  LAT             62            87           32            164              22C
7  414 3264 0100 DON CHEDI                       B. SA KRACHOM                            15,3        23.1       F.4   SI           345            452           31            179
8  423 3277 0100 A. KHLUNG                       A. MAKHAM                                26.9        65.2       F.3   AC           533            710           30            206              309
9  623 214b 010 0R. 210 J.                       A. NON SANG                              41,2        Sb.7       F.4   ST           300            443           30            247              -I
10  335 3087 0200 CHOM BUNG                       B. CHAT PA WAI                           36,2       81.2        F.3   AC           477            635           30            283              447
11  612 2162 0100 J. R. 224                       A. CHAKKARAT                             40.1       83.0        F.4   AC           376            474           30            324              520
12  414 3230 0300 KING A. DAN CHANG               B. THAP PHUNG                            18.5       28.4        F.4   ST           269            355           29            3 42             ss5
13  621 2152 0100 A. KRANUAN                      A. CHIANC YUN                            41.1       55.5        F.4   ST           266            338           28            383              blZ
14  431 2282 0100 BAN BA NOW HWAN                 SUAN MA DUA                              18,3         8,3       F.6  LAT             25            32           27            401               b2
15  b64 2246 0100 J. R. 2                         6.202                                    33.6        2B.2       F.6  LAT             b9            87           26            435              650
16  514 9035 0000 HONG SANG                       A.LAT YAO                                22,5        21.3       F.5  [.AT           113           156           24            4589              71
17  426 3376 0100 ROAD SOI 13 C. RAYONG           KM 15+850                                2b.0        20,7       F.6  LAI             50            68           23            484              692
18  638 21b7 0200 A. PRANG KU                     B. PHOK                                  50,0         9,0       F.b  LAT            l09           137           23            494              701
19  312 4067 0100 B. KOTA BARU                    THA RUA                                  28,1        51.2       F.4   ST            166           228           22            522              752
20  623 9067 0000 A. ONG HAN                      B. SUM SAO                              28.7        24.1       F.5  LAT             06             19          22            550              776       -
21  638 2i67 010 0R,220  JIB,TRANG SAWAI]    A, PRANG KU                                   30.7        66.7       F.4   ST            238           303           22            581              843
22  629 2187 0100 A, NONG RUA                      A.PHU KHIEO[B.NONG WANG]                36.9        68.4       F.4   ST            249            312          21           b68               910
23  61S 2079 0100 A.RATTANA BURI                   A.SIKHORAPHUM                           37.8        72.5       F.4   ST            263            333          21            656              984
24  533 1211 0100 B.DEN HA                        R.109[B,DONG MA DA]                      30,9        52.0       F.4   ST            126           176           21            687            1,03b
25  533 i173 0100 J. R. 1152 [B. SRIWIANG]   B. LAO                                         35.        67,1      F.3   ST            329            454          21            72.            1,10i
26  513 9033 0000 A, MIJANG KAO                    A. KHIRI MAT                            25.3        21.1       F.6  LA1             34             47          20            747            1,124
27  621 2009 0200 A,HUAI MEK                       A,HA KHANTHO                            20.3        28.6       F.4   ST            210           268           20            7b7
28  436 3230 0400 B.THAP BUNG                      BAN RAI                                 14.2        13.2       F.6  LAT             65             91          20            781            1,166
29  6i1  2217 0100 J,R.201 IA.DAN KHUN THOT1  R. 205 IA,BAMNET NARUNGI                     29.4        40.3       F.4   ST            199           249           20            811            1,206
30  532 9243 0000 B. WANG KHON                    HUAI CHALONG                             33.8        20.2       F.6  LAT             97           135           20            845            1,226
31  533 1206 0100 J,R.1[B.RONG KUNl                NAM TOK KHUN KORN                       20,0        29.1        .5 F .AT           115            159          19            86S            1,255  
32  632 2237 0100 J.R.208                          R.2188                                   20,2       26.3       F.4   ST            149            189          19            885            1,222  Q c
33  325 9018 0000 J. R. 401                        T. THA THONG                             17.0       25.7       F.6  LAT             46             64          19            902            1,30?      m
34  533 1098 0200 B. PONG NOI                      B. KAEN                                 28.4        23.3       V.6  LAT             63             B6          19            930            1,331
35  61S 2234 0100 B,SAMRONG THAP                   B.PHOK                                   B.I       19.2       F.5  LAT             92            118          19            948            1,3501



t  IDENTIFIER         ORIGIN                         DESTINATION                        IENGTH (km)  COST/I  IMOUVMENT/2    AADT'79/3    AADT's3/3             IRR(X)  TOTAl [EtlGTH   TOTAl  t'j.L 'I
36  523 iO36 0100 B. FON                          MAE THA STATION                          18,8       38.5        F 3   AC           217            299           19           967            1, 
37  634 9239 0000 B. AMNAT                        A. PHANA                                 26.2       46.7        F.4   ST           211            268           19           993            1,42r
38  533 1173 0200 B. LAO                          R. 1098 [B.MAE LIAFI                     15, 5      33.2        F.4   ST           147            22            18         18009            1,4S
39  628 9070 0000 WA NON NI WAT                   B. CHUAM                                 26.1       26.5        [.5  LAT           I62            204           18         1,C35            1 , 9.
40  613 217 0 010 R. 201 J, [NONG BUA YAII   KING A. NONG BUA RA HEY                       30.6       64,6        F.4   ST           292            36r4          18         I,0b             1, 59
41  415 3233 0100 A,NAKHON CHAISI                 R.3036                                   26.8       47,4        F 4   ST           119            153           18         1,092            1 'b
42  522 1096 0200 NAM TOK MAE SA I,               A. SAMOENG                               28,2      l6.5         F.-l   ST          132            186           18         1,121            1 ,6E
43  522 1178 0100 J. R. 107 [B. MAE KHON]    B. NA WAI                                     24.7       44.7        F 4   ST           22             314           17           14             1,713
44  632 2045 0102 J. BY PASS C. ROI ET            R. 2040 [A. WAPI PATIIUMJ                36,4       690         F .4   ST          158            203           17         1,182            1,782
45  535 9056 0000 A. DOK KHAM TAI                 CHIANG MUAN                              55 0       59.0        F .4   ST           62             87           1b         1,237            1,841
46  532 9053 0000 B. PHAE                         B. NA YANG                               21.2       36.3        F.5  LAT           124            173           16         1,258            1,8 7
47  631 2085 0100 A. KANTHARAROM                  A. KANTHARALAK                           22,2       46 6        F .4   ST          368            464           16         1,280            1,924
*48  612 2238 0100 J. R. 304                      B. SU KANG                                9 6        15.0       F 4   ST           206            260            6         1 ,290           1,939
49  533 1130 0100 J. R. 110 [B, PA SANG]          B. HUAI HIN FON                          17.0       12.0        F.6  LAT           159            217           16         1,307            1,951
50  531 1217 0100 J.R.121I6B,WANG PUNG]           R.12181B,BUN ROENG]                      4803       38,1        F.5  LAT            36             50           16         1,347            1,989
S1  524 1103 0200 DOI TAO                         A. HOT                                   67.8      135.6        F.4   ST           I63            225           15         1,415            2,125
52  613 2037 0200 A.KASET SOMBUN                  A.NONG BUA DAENG                         35.2        65.8       F.4   ST           206            261           15         1,450            2,190      Z
53  314 4181 G100 J.R. 4                          A. PAK PHA YUN                           28,3       25.6        F 6  LAT            76            186           15         1 478            2,21 I
54  312 4071 01C0 B. KOTA BARU                    R. 4092 P, PHITAN                        24.2       62.9        F .4   ST          257            355           15         1, 502           2,279
55  523 1157 0100 3. R. 1039 [B. THA LO]          B. HUAI PENG                             26 0       59.7        F.4   ST           243            338           15         1, 528           2,339
5b  61S 2262 0100 A. RATTANABURI                  B. SOM RONG THAP                         45 6       50.4        F.6  LAT           14b            185           15         1 574            2,3:9
57  412 3359 0100 B. KAO                          LUM SUM                                  18.7        9.2        F.5  LAT           10s            140           15         1  93            2,3id
58  631 2178 0100 A. WARIN CHAMRAP                A. KANTHARALAK                           43,7       86.3       F.4   ST            307            386           15         1,b36            2,494
59  535 9058 0000 A. CHUN                         B. NAM OON                               12,8       24.1       F.4   ST            184            257           15         1,649            2, 09
60  426 9225 0000 BAN CHANG                       CHAK MAK                                 I6.0       27.2       F.4   ST            228            298           15         1,665            2,535
61  633 2227 0100 A.PHANOM PHRAI                  A.MAHA CHANACHAI                         23.6       20.2       F.5  LAT            132            167           15         1,689            2,556
62  535 1202 0100 C.PHAYAO                        A.PA DAET                                45,0       73.3       F.4   ST            139            192           15         1,734            2,629
63  421 3123 0100 A. BANG KHLA                    BANG NAM PRIEO                           24.5       22.7       F.6  LAT             11             14           15         1,758            2,652
64  617 2162 0300 A. HUAI THALAENG                C. FURI RAM                              45.2       77.0       F.4   ST            170            213           14         1,804                 9
bS  412 3363 0100 lUK KAE                         NONG KAEM                                20.7       37.2       F.3   ST            243            329           14         1,824             ,?b1l
66  533 1152 0100 J. R. 1020 [B, HUA DOPI    B. SANSALIK                                   57.0       92.9       F.4   ST            150            208           14         I,981            2 ,G9
67  S33 1098 0100 PHRAO                           B. PONG NOI                              23.6       51.0       F.4   ST            232            326           14         1,905            2,9'   >  X
18  b67 2118 0100 R, 24 J. [A. NANG RONG]    B. PA KAM                                    33.7        50.8       F.4   ST            213           267           14          1,939            2   1
69  435 3355 0100 PHA NIAT                        MAHA PHO                                 23.6       14.4       F.6  LAT             10             13           14         1,962                    r'. ,.w
70  533 119! 0100 J. R. 1028 B. CHAMBON           R. 1126 [B. MUANG NG,]                   23.2       19.6       [.5  LAT             84            117           13         1 ,95            ,



t  IDENTIFIER        ORIGIN                        DESTINATION                      LENGTH(_M)  COST/I  IMPO JE ENt/2   hA.T'79/3    AADT'83/3            IRR(Q)  TOIAL LENGTH   TOlAL C0i5Tl/
71  311 9002 0000 CHADI NEAM                    KO YAI                                  34,3       35,4       F.6  LAT            37            52           13        2,020            3,C3i
72  435 2219 0100 J.R.2i                        B.NONG MAKHAR                           15.3       26.4       F.4   ST           140           1B2          13         2,035            3,0 i
73  521 1099 0300 KM. 71t000                     KM. 102tO00                            31.0       22.4       F.6  LAT            37            52           13         2,066           3,079
74  335 9020 0000 B. THA YANG                    B. PONG KRA THING       .U19.5                    11.2       F.6  LAT            27            37           12        2,085            3,Ju5
7S  628 2280 0100 J.R.2091                      J.R. 222 [BAN NONG WAENG]               37.8       40 .0      F.6  LAT           190           243           12        2,123            3,130
76  613 9230 0000 NOEN CHAN                     B. KHWAO                                16.9       41.0       F.5  LAT           230           287           12        2 140            3,171
/l  Financial rost in Aillions of boht at rid-1981 prices.
12 Design standard and surface type.
F2-F6 - Provincial roads classes
AC    - Asphaltic concrete
ST    - Single or double surface treutiient
LAT   - Laterite
/3 Average annual daily vehicle traffic, Assuming opening of inproved road by early 1983.
The 1983 AADT includes normal, diverted and generated traffic.
Source: Louis Berger International Inc.
Asian Engineering Consultants Corp. Ltd.
Department of Highways
May 1981
OQ v
lb l-
tD
I.-w



THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Roads Included in First Year's Construction Program
Length              Design      Economic
Identifier        Origin                Destination                  (km)    Cost /a  standards  return (%)
514-3004-0300    A. Phaisali            R. 2184                      27.0     54.6        F.3          38
[Wang Phikun]
611-2217-0100    J. R. 201              R. 205                       29.4     40.3        F.4          20
[A. Dan Khun Thot]   [A. Bamnet Narong]
612-2162-0100    J. R. 224              A. Chakkarat                 40.1     83.0        F.4          30
613-2170-0100    R. 201 J.              King A. Nong Bua Ra Hey    30.6       64.6        F.4          18               o'
[Non Bua Yai]
615-2234-0100    B. Samrong Thap        B. Phok                      18.1     19.2        F.5          19
621-2009-0200    A. Huai Mek            A. Tha Khantho               20.3     28.6        F.4          20
621-2152-0100    A. Kranuan             A. Chiang Yun                41.1     55.5        F.4          28
623-2146-0100    R. 210 J.              A. Non Sang                  41.2     56.7        F.4          30
623-9067-0000    A. Nong Han            B. Sum Sao                   28.7     24.1        F.5          22
628-9070-0000    Wa Non Ni Wat          B. Chuam                     26.1     26.5        F.5          18
632-2237-0100    J. R. 208              R. 2188                      20.2     26.3        F.4          19
634-9239-0000    B. Amnat               A. Phana                     26.2     46.7        F.4          19
638-2167-0100    R. 220                 A. Prang Ku                  30.7     66.7        F.4          22
[B. Trang Sawai]
Total                                                         379.7
/a Financial cost in million of Baht.
Source:  Department of Highways                                                                                          X
May 1981                                                                                                                 D
IN)



- 51 -
Table 3.3
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Project /a
Baht (million)         US$ (million) /b       Foreign
For-                    For-           exchange
Item                         Local   eign  Total   Local   eign   Total  component
A. Construction and
improvement of about
600 km of provincial
roads                      477    440    917   23.83  22.00   45.83          48
B. Supervision of A              18      14     32    0.90   0.70    1.60        44
C. Studies and Engineering
1. Provincial roads          15       5      20    0.75   0.25    1.00        25
2. Local roads               27       9      36    1.35   0.45    1.80        25
3. Transport studies           6      2       8    0.30   0.10    0.40        25
Subtotal C            48      16     64    2.40   0.80    3.20        25
D. Technical assistance           2      12     14    0.10   0.60    0.70         85
E. Training                       -       4      4    -        0.20    0.20    100
F. Equipment                      -       4      4    -        0.20    0.20    100
G. Contingency Allowances
1. Physical /c               55      49    104    2.72   2.45    5.17          -
2. Price _d                 135      81    216    6.77   4.05   10.82          -
Subtotal G             190    130    320    9.49   6.50   15.99           -
Subtotal A-G           735    620  1,355   36.72  31.00   67.72           -
H. Right-of-way                  40       -     40    2.00   -          2.00       -
Total Cost of
Project               775    620  1,395   38.72  31.00   69.72          44
/a Financial cost; taxes are included in local costs.
/b At current exchange rate of US$1.00 = B 20.
Ic 10% on all items.
/d  At assumed annual rates of:                 1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Local costs (%)            16      12      12      10       9
Foreign costs (%)           9    8.5    7.5    7.5    7.5
Sources:  Estimates by DOH and consultants.
May 1981



- 52 -                              Table 3.4
Page 1
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Project item (and executing agency)                             Start        Complete
Part A: Road Construction and Improvement (DOH)
1. Prequalification of contractors.                         Jun 17, 80   Nov 15, 80
2. Send out invitations to prequalified contractors to                    Mar 15, 81
bid on first year's construction program, totalling
about 400 km.
3. Receive and open bids on first year's construction program.            Apr 30, 81
4. Evaluation of bids by consultants and receipt by                       May 31, 81
Bank of report of consultants on bids on first year's
construction program, with Government's proposals for
award.
5. Appoint consultants for supervision of construction                    Sep 1, 81
and award contracts for construction of first year's
construction program.
6. Complete detailed engineering, cost estimates, bid                     Jan 1, 82
documents and updating of economic evaluation of
second year's construction program, totalling about
200 km.
7. Invite bids for second year's construction program.                    Apr 15, 82
8. Receive and open bids on second year's construction program.           Jun 15, 82
9. Evaluation of bids and receipt by the Bank of con-                     Jul 15, 82
sultants' report on bids for second year's construction
program with Government's proposals for award.
10. Appoint consultants for supervision of construction                    Sep 15, 82
and award contracts for construction of the second
year's construction program.
11. Construction of project roads:
First year's construction program                    Oct 15, 81   Dec 15, 83
Second year's construction program                   Oct 15, 82   Dec 15, 84



- 53 -
Table 3.4
Page 2
Implementation
Project item (and executing agency)                            Start        Complete
Part B: Procurement of Laboratory and Traffic Counting
Equipment (DOH)
1. Prepare bid documents for equipment in agreement                       Sep 30, 81
with the Bank.
2. Advertise locally inviting potential bidders to                        Nov 15, 81
apply for bid documents.
3. Invite and receive bids for equipment.                   Dec 31, 81   Jan 31, 82
4. Evaluate bids and receipt by the Bank of report on                     Feb 28, 82
bids, with Government's proposals for award.
5. Award contracts for supply of equipment.                               Apr 30, 82
6. Complete delivery of equipment.                                        Dec 31, 82
Part Cl: Studies and Engineering of Provincial Roads (DOH)
1. Agreement of Government and Bank on selection of                       Jan 31, 82
provincial roads for study and detailed engineering.
2. Draft Terms of Reference in agreement with Bank.                       Mar 31, 82
3. Invite and receive proposals from consultants.           May 31, 82   Jul 31, 82
4. Evaluation of proposals and receipt by Bank of                         Sep 30, 82
Government's proposals for award.
5. Negotiate with selected consultants and award                          Dec 31, 82
contract.
6. Carry out studies and detailed engineering.              Jan 31, 83   Jan 31, 84
Part C2: Studies and Engineering of Rural Roads
(to be designated)
1. Decision by Government on executing Ministry,                          Jun 30, 82
Department or other agency.



- 54 -                            Table 3.4
Page 3
Implementation
Project item (and executing agency)                              Start         Complete
2. Agreement of Government and Bank on selection of                         Sep 30, 82
rural roads for study and detailed engineering.
3. Draft Terms of Reference in agreement with Bank.                         Nov 30, 82
4. Invite and receive proposals from consultants.             Jan 31, 83   Mar 31, 83
5. Evaluation of proposals and receipt by Bank of                           May 31, 83
Goverrnment's proposed selection.
6. Negotiate with selected consultants and award                            Aug 31, 83
contract.
7. Carry out studies and detailed engineering.                Sep 30, 83   Aug 31, 84
Part C3:  Transport Studies (MOC)
1. Agreement of Government and Bank on subjects for                         Jun 15, 82
study.
2. Draft Terms of Reference in agreement with Bank.                         Oct 15, 82
3. Invite and receive proposals from consultants.             Nov 15, 82   Jan 15, 83
4. Evaluation of proposals and receipt by Bank of                           Mar 15, 83
Government-s proposed selection.
5. Negotiate with selected consultants and award con-                       Jun 15, 83
tract.
6. Carry out studies.                                         Aug 30, 83   Aug 30, 84
Part DI: Technical Assistance to DOH (DOH)
1. Draft Terms of Reference in agreement with Bank.                         Mar 31, 82
2. Negotiate contract with consultants.                                     May 31, 82
3. Provision of technical assistance.                         Jul 1, 82    Dec 31, 83



- 55 -
Table 3.4
Page 4
Implementation
Project item (and executing agency)                             Start        Complete
Part D2: Technical Assistance to TPU (TPU)
1. Draft Terms of Reference in agreement with Bank.                       Mar 31, 82
2. Negotiate contract with consultants.                                   May 31, 82
3. Provision of technical assistance.                       Jul 1, 82    Dec 31, 83
Part E:  Fellowships for Training Staff of DOH (DOH)
1. Selection of first group of DOH staff for overseas
training.                                                              Mar 31, 82
2. Arrangements with institutions for courses and                         Jun 30, 82
admission of trainees.
3. Courses of training for first group.                     Sep 1, 82    Jul 31, 84
4. Selection of second group of DOH staff.                                Mar 31, 83
5. Arrangements for courses and admission of second                       Jun 30, 83
group.
6. Courses of training for second group.                    Sep 1, 83    Jul 31, 85
May 1981



- 56 -
-able 3.5
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative
disbursements
IBRD fiscal                                           at end of
year and                                              quarter
quarter                                             (US$'000)
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                         -
December 31, 1981                                      1,500
March 31, 1982                                         3,300
June 30, 1982                                          5,100
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                     6,900
December 31, 1982                                      9,700
March 31, 1983                                        12,500
June 30, 1983                                         15,600
1983/84
September 30, 1983                                    18,400
December 31, 1983                                     21,200
March 31, 1984                                        24,000
June 30, 1984                                         27,000
1984/85
September 30, 1984                                    29,000
December 31, 1984                                     31,000
March 31, 1985                                        32,500
June 30, 1985                                         33,500
1985/86
September 30, 1985                                    34,500
December 31, 1985                                     35,000
Source: Government/Bank estimates.
May 1981



- 57 -
Table 4.1
THAILAND
PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs in Thailand /a
(Baht/km)
Road           Motor-       Passenger       Pickup       Heavy       Heavy
type /b        cycles          car          truck         bus        truck
Paved           0.48          1.50           1.94         4.27        5.77
Laterite        0.60          2.01           2.52         6.36        6.87
Earth           1.11          4.08           4.56        10.29       12.99
/a  Economic costs at mid-1979 prices.  Economic costs are on average
78% of financial costs.
/b  The costs apply to a flat level tangent road.  Costs in mountain-
ous terrain are 5-10% higher for paved roads, and 10-20% higher
for laterite and earth roads.  Costs for rolling and hilly ter-
rain fall between flat level tangent roads and mountain roads.
Source: Louis Berger Int. Inc./Asian Engineering Consultants Ltd.
May 1981
<






THAiLAND: PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS
I.ClUT                                                                                                                        -11TY DIRECTOR GENERAL -CTOR GENE=AL 
ollIcC  IINA-E  PR.ClR  INT  .-I-S-C. LYG L                  BIDE CO YNOB-CTIAN ETANAOUAI FO                                                        AND DIEKSGO LOCATIO  SECT                      TRA
F TE SECRETARY               DIVISI-N                 LI-                     DION                     DIVISION                   -SPON                  DIVISION U                            NIVISON DIVISION                                                 DIVISION
AD. NIST AT{E SECTION     SIISGETING SEFLVICE    BROCUREMENTK CC...INA   ADEININTRTIVE SCTION         GEALSERVICES             LAND FVALUATION       ADMN1CTH     t SETION         PINIATEATIVEECIDN   ADMINISTAPOATIVE SECTIO    ADMINIST1ATIVE SECTION   TRAINS
RDS MANAGEMENT         SECTiON                TING                     CENTRA IEDICAL NTEGATIATION AND                                                       AAABATFNT      THAFtlC SECT-              -VEY SECTIRN            TECANICAL SACTION SUCLAT-S SECTION
SECTION                   PJECT ACCOUNTINO    GUALITY CONTOL              SVACE NEOTION ASIUIUIIN ALTIBN NAPING SEBTION                                                                                  HIGHWAY DEEIGN SECTION   MAT-RALS TESTING          TRAINIG    AIS AND
SECTION                SFCTAON                  FIELDP -ICALS-R                                      LAND BUCRlRS         IANPOWA  ANALYSIS          STST-UCS SBCOTN SAID ME C ATACTUAAL SNCTISN                                 EUIPMENT AECTION
ACC  UNTlNGSECTION     CDNTRACTS            BBCTION  P-OACEUTICAL                                                         SECTION                    SECTIO L N  PING SEC1 IDN AONALT S PUAE AEDI 
CAS.  PATFMENT         INVENTORY CONTROL       SECTION      SBCTITN                                                                                                                                                               E-T B-ELSDIWTDI VIC
RCTIO                  SECTION                 DETAL SECTION    CUEAISTYR AECTIAN NINEAINOOBNN
DIA SIGNNSAL LAN
S     CrOBT ENGINEER        MCE              C ENBINEER R                                                           L               SI WARES
|    On MAINTENANCE          FRC.NEIRUCTION                      FRGENE-RAL  
MAINTNANA             NATI-NLHIGHWAY               CLUI-ENT ANCIALn BOADS i
AIVION                      PN IVISION                                                                     PUVTSTON  NSRUCTION DIVISION |
ADSINUISTRWTIVE SL WTIN   ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION   A-      ATIVE SECTION   A DINISTRATIVE SECTION 
TEC-NCAL SECTION         IIIGHWAYS CONSTRUCTION   MECHANICAL INSPECTION    I PRVINCIAL ROADS
& HIGHWA YS             SECOTION                 |SECTIK)N
IMPROYEMET SECTION      FH1 A   n-               L A  OKH      OCAL ROADS SECTION
secTIGN                 FlELO DiViSION
h SONGKHLA                           IR HMART|p HA-A HI      AN-KO   h HcH  5AU                            PHTAU. h  o  UINh                                       ATCHASIMA         H. K| hr  DIVIION
.       .                ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~~. .n KHA  .. AT ..  
SOURCE~~~~~~~             PATTAN .1 I         RB              RlHB      |BBNDG-  Ui                           >    ANRI|                A              AMIU               UTRDT|F   HIAHM            AND                            AGtO      BFE    ITIT



I



r  ~~~~~~-~~~~  X                                              r! z~~~~~~~~~~     C          - 
>- .. >  2 / < >< o. \/SL AO,  P EOCP LE S  THLA_  . 
1 l ^t''a:9 MS ' " l7    &   -/\                                                                                          0         
1EC~~~~  ~          ~        ~~~                                                                                                ~ ~~~~ (| _  C  ( 
/                                                                              C~~FLB  
.A        .   HH.TVJ        =     A       ' %           n           AO     PE OM   O                                    C RVA  T I E  T   A  M
t>           tsss -   g;            00 t          S  >K
,4       e         W               t;0  0                                          0   
?IHat , .-) C                                      ff            ;                                 -         ,> ~ -
Ar-H   R,ul                                                                                                                            <29-
/   0            g                           S                                   mt r~~~~~~~~VLET  5uAM
^>-   P > V                                 :   g           g~~~~THAILAND                      -i  -
AW Lad Y S I                        NA TIONAL HIGHWY  AN
D'  -/ :  n           f                        0 S~PROVNC'IrIAL ROAD, SYSTEMS
\   >@  /  2    \4N    S>;TH wrma at          1                    EM~~~A  X ST NO TTOV'TAIAL Rests 
YaNus~~~ ~~~                   i4HE                       I                    RRPngf_=__CIOU PROJCT T AbDMFV'E The PHTTF t351CR
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'" 0<                                               SC      5C REE           OCT0HDI
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                               OS; iSmTttng
MAL4YSIAN  
r~~~~~>j~'C    HHRHH                                              0TH_MT[E 






3 3 i i 3BU1   !  ibA                                      Tb-rso &i0.Den  ,  -oo(    h 1{|ISiS   =-~;it% 00v
:-r-  -               -                               -  T. n  S         '    n o lik  iX   '3Yx   :    <                               -
47$-  "M"t- '<ffie                                                    964g"'.'..': D- M
C  ~~nionnAoo                                                                          tNA$~~~~~Dd  tADA  RE&LE'S
iM *, .Wi ;>   2   ,ICi:  -   /,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
H a t&= S + & ' K~~~~~~~~hg                    W Z. oL
y  8T  =  S i; i ,Th:SongYarg    WV   <  Xu sl  t   Sc~~~~~sntholoni  insiDni T.Yngi    An  Tonk
Mo H-ng S-on
5             T                =;                       ti i  i  : iL  i  iv  -) T>A  oon . 4  hoo
H- P~~~~~S                PiTooiosT~
t _5  L;  ' ;t 7 / WhogLn loAoO                                                                        Kon<Tsn    / j nKri W c92
$         Ri    An           Sooni              {bohnon<n O<                  j       N;;                  /-
;:                             05WT o; =F1OnLEs- L9_ eF Onnof                        0nD\sn       K       oconL t!'N otfP    
tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
~~~~Mosnonol  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hPiToi 
~~~~~4                 soni  2{i  u   KnMi              f         or,eponSg -   > nnoopnis / n*zy                 O
Uttoroi f      Ho
-i          -     Nooonnn        'V./+ { ULRF=U<               o\)
p~~~~ NOR7TNEASTERN
REGION
_wT - Cons8rur lon o t ' plow nent - I.t h. 1, h 6th Pr012.ononhso
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Anyemon    ^ J  Ac= = t                         ;                         Ehistmg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Anoo  KnalnSil hlhwy   $n<snon lw
S   U2               A                              CUnnR  -iM                    C    issn -- 
5L sR MOS}                Is                                                                 tnTAsTheAnrnwrdbrA  Pvetd   IVCsaacpi
Th.], Khen,,5
oUthoil    A   ~ ~ TH   ILA    E
'     NliSTOAnG  o=+ Mecs PsEPrm -j                                                                                  ---nni.a Tnonnho-
To        '5  \  nTs C\-  -.9_. =.-   ntralna on,re 
U morn  CENTRAL                          ~~NATIONAL HIGHWAY AND PROVINCIAL ROAD SYSTEMS
A-1f5ff0'sI                                                                               NORTHERN  REGION
nX     S .  ~  t              Atr.7c<   zeSi
'  A THALAND        5
~~~ -S-s' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT ROADS
K6        \pfAiif-  =     0      H  ==-     \                              T                    ConEsteoto 1on onrnmn -0 TAr oPrepent9 
>3  rn..nfnod  *itjn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~....It                                    t Pq
j  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FnoE Shg p-eon. snereds:   ~~iRiver
so        nnn nise    enieniono 0o                               _______ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~P-nd        Chongo-t nopiTi
;~~~~~?;   in enosse:sso   yt                                           G;in~~~~~~-----  hp-        Ch-.g2 g-tsn%-dr? -
C  srJeenooesnsreonRoeAinisnnn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Egh. b.P.,
%                                                                                                                   10-AYsA  -l r   -.. dn ,-






AU
-A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
'5-"----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  '
w.      c N.Kh-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sai i                                        Nko           Oln
REGION    rs,,,,,vnI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~- h.,
/K -               KogSi                     oh,~,tr
N,,,,,,    /  NvngBn,Slivk    A                ,,,,,,,~~~~~~~o  ~    ~       '"~"~~        ~      -         -               -,  OfrOas~      ~
Th.0     Kh.   yk,h, PSi    MR.i,D,-
K     Rtcobo 
BIORrHEA                           K 9      ETRLREION                                                               IaQRHESh-            POO
K.---    p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CerrC~  roO5wrs'-IPBr
1                                                                                         thcpond~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   ww
R- R..                                       Ph-~~ Rives,.
    ChorOwap coaltosI.-Ph. Ph
B.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ChrwCb,dn
-'4  ,,                                                                                       Enwono IioPndeKh.k
N.k/i           Avvo         kki                                                                                          N,idE
hive  Or  Vi'o,dav,vvd,,,ffvao.                                                1i,OP20                   40..
aSyv,'ii ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     SV   h
K________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                       iOd'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.  S   kh p.M






NOR THEERN              REG/ON                                      I
$'>\ 0~~ ~~ ~ ~~ t ow b ob om > ~~Ch.h,
,~                 NO/HEANORr SrERAI RPEG/ON
| X- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                    K ,.    w'\ 
T      Tc ueCae,Cag
=     gPn P hbi  T  b k.E-,    /S    t   i              roS-- Si'l7=                       /
N'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
LSfqdOmSrP==:~~~ = vi .a                                             NAiONA    HIGHWA    AN\;Thgt:;D PROVNCIA    ROAD  SYSTEMS                             I        n  C bbn
A
, A    hp  A A     AA      = =  tCENTRAEL REGION 
4 fl                         $     :    ;      /                                                   PROJECT ROAIDS                                                                         V Y
5              Thonr,c -on  rr:oPmn   lt  rvv  Rb                                                                                          R,e
( =4;> i r;  n S 4 ]  $  4g   X                0          - -   C~~~~~~~~~Ionstraciv inoad impProvement  5tn Pto1ech thPoe-                     =
?iai ;L; i i  '    i)  fi,npA>n                ,                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ecieting national highways. 
f f   t f    f                          "t                -                                         Unpaved A,
NNIE                                                / SINSHE  Hi/R                        ---------A--m-A Rivere 
-Ad   ,n EG                     SOUTHER                                                        --/VWAS  Regiontnal Roocdariee
( Ci'NTRAI  saRAH~~~G   lf                                                c)I`      I'o   f 
vs NiN  R                                                                                                             REGION  NN4Aff /RI
_ v I )~~~~~~~~~~~A  PNONoR                                                                  V  99-k6TOiFf//rLOMOOSR 0  20    nO    60   f0  10O
S             7  SAME! SAKNOAI    -~ ~ ~~PRJEC  RAD
71S; /a          - -A                                                                                                                l Y lAhttT OQNNAM  --  MILE S i0- f   0
j  ' 5-l'fCt  1n51 Ot      L,>:
K   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C--i-- ap-t  t dJ
o  \   Sourx  g              =                                                T>sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eiaaeenmAN,.eAeiiobV se,,i.e,eaeeereenVieeco,n,urr  
EWi -g          m *    f t: g X   .  s10 z  =   <:102                          Ut2
~~~~~~~tJr ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~P.
5*o-n-e- - - -so, p                                                                                                                                    -d






.ta      .  9 .   .CENTRAi                            o
- n   , X   -  C  AREG L/o                                                          THAI LAND
NATIONAL HIGHWAY AND PROVINCIAL ROAD SYSTEMS
4 '''= T  S l tJ r.grj ...  T~ hogMaho                            SOUTHERN  REGION
'- '~~~~~ - =t7_i ......   pPurbh
PROJEC- R000D
,   ,Wj,    :,/'K  aPo                                                                        Co-struction and -provement- Ist through 6th Proect,
,-,UR MA1             Phun   0qttmphon                                                                  Construction and improvement-7th Project
-.,;T        T1  Existing naional highways
'   ;=;; =1')          SHathSaR,                                                             Existing provincit road$:
S  - ~~~~~~~~~~~  BoOk0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Paved
,t   , r; A   "j7       O~~~KhaL   p3 Kh=                                                         - -- - --   Unpoved
,i/      j       t h _ u:2 __s Q .                                                                 Rarilways
(  t   //   \-on r                                                                               t    Chaugwat capitals
t                                                          Y Ra                                                        Changwat boundaries
.0'  T             /<&anog=  LoarSa                                                                               - --  Regronalbounduries                                             to'
international boundaries
_             thanoex       l '01                                    -N
p.unoe           Tho Chore                                                             KILOMETERS o   tO  2   30  40  50  60  7000  9_4100
vMILESO     t      2b    30    00             60
>  _                 B~~~~ondoor U Cilhoty   rf                0tCHoaThono
/                                             0an5x5-r-~~3d. h..       .Tar
Th . -                        u Bona No
T.I.~~~
tu1~~~itu ~~                  't~~                     OhanYThan
\P aggot                                                              -       -        c                            C u/            > /           fhis,/angtu'
AotKh,r Ro -n nkh.                                                    iThoanmr_t
(;2 4 \<2 Paklong 8 .ng V.,
angngo;hpn                                                                      ch.,      :                     G    VX    f       a   f          b   a  i     a  n  a'
kL'     rL       t          V                                                        t '   t  a Y  au
hu          -        Ojoera    9t i Ppom, -t>  ' Ch-  .o
Ppthon.        ,    /           l  n r: Th'I                               ,  ~o(                     ; 
5-                                                                                                                                                                                  a'H
Pahat9 oi        I                          Khrr              -    f         0*_)rea 
seotteto ~    ~                     M8'  -           ' t                        &hihlnt\
roL'i nna- d                                                                 <: (m .a f7tEar  l b i    iPro|00            0       ' 0ar                         'Nrahro
z:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  S-r  Onno                                                                                             tui;=Xi:ik . JSnPt
Xt --'                                                             ' "'  '-'"'
E  or ;,rfd;N   V E* L E''  LE       |S ,l/ddrtofedfllrrr                 0Q         ;                            ;     9;i          ftX'o      =i            t  
Su    t            TA or ta,=r                   rt- ur =7tedenowsu*  rasnrrran   ano    n=on                                                   !       '-                       =
Y.rO ~          =           _=        =OdBoDr0E*awqu$or=rh i,, YS=
tCr;oaotcrn                             aOO ~ -    Sprohir~hincri  XznwrOnrr ur nra rt,O,wflrerv'   \2L   t   =  .:9FI  i i,    !  2  '    ;i    t    i   5                      .  e
lIre waorwrrnin,.u rraa0 and Inn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1d 
_  50cm   Citron  uowroenOwiwunrnw'Eo                                              M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P    A    L   A    -Y    S    I   A
i w  .;  z;  I X g    >    2Sara    .      1     dewosn rlr'ana r      =l           .=!         =-                           2!    .;                   



