                                                                                                       97561
Results Profile: Bulgaria                                                                     September 21, 2010




 FREE MARKET GAINS

 Making A Difference In An European Union Member State




Overview
Bulgaria’s efforts to transition to a market economy were rewarded by membership in the
European Union (EU) in 2007. Partnering with the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), Bulgaria continues to make great strides in improving financial
management and channeling increased revenue to programs that are delivering new or
improved water connections, better schools, and renovated homes for the elderly.

  Full Brief—8 Pages
Bulgaria Case: Making a Difference in an EU Member State—PDF, Sept 2010


Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA
Bulgaria has come a long way from its difficult
early years of transition to a market economy. At
the time Bulgaria joined the EU, per capita
income stood at only 37 percent of the EU
average. In 2008, this figure increased
marginally to 41.8 percent. Bulgarians are eager
to reap the benefit of EU membership and
aspire to equal living standards; however raising
the productivity of Bulgaria’s economy remains a
major challenge - especially against the
background of a declining and ageing
population. Today, Bulgaria’s main challenges
are to mitigate the negative impact of the global
economic crisis, to enhance productivity, and to strengthen
public institutions and governance to accelerate convergence
                                                                    More Results
of living standards to average EU countries.

Approach
                                                                    700,000
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development           Bulgarians have benefited from
(IBRD) work in Bulgaria is an example of how a global               small social infrastructure
                                                                    improvements and services
knowledge and finance institution can make a difference in a        since 2002
middle-income country. During the past decade, the World
Bank Group has been a trusted partner, supporting Bulgaria
as it emerged from economic crisis and triple-digit inflation to
join the EU. IBRD’s contributions, through three projects over
a decade, have provided tangible results.                           MORE INFORMATION

The total IBRD contribution for the three projects totaled           World Bank in Bulgaria
US$133.45 million equivalent. The overall World Bank                 Bulgaria’s Aging Population
lending program for the 2007-09 fiscal years amounts to
                                                                    Video: Registration and
US$754 million equivalent. During the same period, the              Cadastre Project
World Bank also delivered about 30 pieces of analytical and
advisory work.                                                      Video: Social Investment and
                                                                    Employment Promotion Project

                                                                    Slideshow: Registration and
Results                                                             Cadastre Project

                                                                    Slideshow: Social Investment
The Revenue Administration and Reform Project supported
                                                                    and Employment Promotion
integration of tax and social contribution revenue (pension,        Project
health and other contributions) collection to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of the public revenue collection
system in Bulgaria and facilitate private sector development.
                                                                   PARTNERS
Improvements in revenue administration and strong
economic growth contributed to an increase in tax and social        European Commission
contribution revenues by 4.6 percentage points of gross             Japan Policy and Human
domestic product (GDP) between 2002 and 2008, the                   Resources Development Fund
highest revenue gain among new EU member states.
                                                                    Japan Social Development Fund

The Registration and Cadastre Project contributed to a             Government of the Netherlands 
secure and efficient real estate market – the number of real
estate transactions rose by 27 percent per year in the past
three years – and hence increased investments and
economic growth. Turnaround times for registering a real estate transaction and mortgage, and
for cadastre map services, were reduced to a single day from seven days.

The Social Investment and Employment Promotion Project brought school improvements,
energy efficiency, water supply and sewerage to small villages, and enabled rehabilitation of
homes for the elderly and for children without parental care. Under the project’s labor market
component, 21,000 people received employment-related services or were placed into jobs
through small contracts for employment services and support to unemployed and more than
700,000 people benefited from small social infrastructure improvements and services on the
municipal and community levels.

Bank Contribution

Total IDA support to the city of Taiz under the flood protection project is US$ 81 million, which
includes US$10 million under the Taiz Pilot Emergency Water Supply Project and US$40
million through the Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project. The total cost of the three
phases, including government’s contribution, is about US$97 million, provided between 1991
and 2010 to finance a number of activities, including civil works representing 83 percent of the
total project cost. After securing Taiz from destructive seasonal flooding, the Board approved in
May 2010 and additional IDA support to Taiz to help upgrade a number of informal settlements
at a total cost of US$ 22 million.

Partners

World Bank engagement in key sectors, including education, health, social protection, labor
and product markets, is greatly appreciated by the European Commission, a key stakeholder
that has channeled EUR1.3 billion in pre-accession-related aid to Bulgaria. In the context of the
new intergovernmental means of governance in the European Union, Bulgaria conducts close
dialogue and shares experiences with other EU member states. It has consistently invited the
World Bank to contribute to this dialogue. In the past, the Japanese government, through the
Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund technical assistance program and
Japan Social Development Fund grants, has provided critical and timely support for capacity
building and technical assistance for project preparation and implementation. The Netherlands
government’s support was focused on implementation of the common EU legislature and
building administrative and institutional capacity.
Toward the Future

The World Bank is currently engaging with the government, which took office in July 2009, on
a new Country Partnership Strategy for the 2011-14 fiscal years. A recently signed
Memorandum of Understanding envisions a stronger World Bank role in helping Bulgaria tap
European Union funds for infrastructure investments, in partnership and closest collaboration
with European institutions.

 


                                                  Last updated: 2010-09-21
