D_cnm  of
The World Bak
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4178-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 10.4 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
THIRD RAILWAYS PROJECT
April 15, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit                                 Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00                              FMG 650
FMG 1 million                         US$1,538
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)                                     3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)                              35.29 cubic feet (cu.ft)
1 kilometer (km)                                0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)           =            0.386 square mile (sq.mi)
1 hectare (ha)                                  2.47 acre (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                                 2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)                            2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DGP       -    Direction Generale du Plan (Directorate General of Planning)
MTP       -    Ministere des Travaux Publics (Ministry of Public Works)
MTRT      -    Ministere des Transports, du Ravitaillement et du Tourisme
(Ministry of Transport, Supply and Tourism)
RNCFM     -    Reseau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy
(Madagascar National Railway)
TSM       -    Transport Sector Mlemorandum
SEPT      -    Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina
(Toamasina Port Authority)
Railway Lines:
TCE       -    Antananarivo - East Coast Line
MLA       -    Moramanga    - Lac Alaotra Line
TA        -    Antananarivo - Antsirabe Line
FCE       -   Fianarantsoa - East Coast Line
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADGASCAR
THIRn RAILWAYS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:        Reseau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy (RNCFM) and
Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina (SEPT).
Auount:               SRD 10.4 million (US$12.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                Standard IDA terms.
Project               The purposes of this credit are to enable RNCFM to maintain
Objectives:           an efficient northern railway system, over the next ten
years, at its present level of capacity for hauling critical
bulk commodities such as rice, petroleum produc:Zs, chemicals,
construction materials, coal and chromite; and to assist
RNCFM and SEPT in repairing and rehabilitating facilities
damaged by a recent cyclone.
Project               The project would finance priority items of the RNCFM,
Descriptic.Z          investment plan for 1987-89, as well as RNCFM's and SEPT's
cyclone damaged facilities. The project would consist of the
following main components: telecommunications and track
rehabilitation, reconstruction of a bridge; provision of
cargo handling equipment and construction of a rail/road link
and terminal for a cement plant; provision of spare parts for
locomotives and wagons and purchase of trolleys for track
maintenance; workshop machinery, tools and other equipment;
staff training and technical assistance studies; and cyclone
damage repairs and rehabilitation.
Benefits:             The main benefits of the project are to allow the railway to
continue providing essential services to the economy at
current traffic levels, and to permit RNCFM and SEPT to
resume normal operations following the March 1986 cyclone.
318isk                 The main risks facing the project are:  traffic level could
be lower than expected and project implementation could
suffer from delays or interruptions in service. Sensitivity
analysis has sbown that even with a 20% decline in traffic
volume, RNCFM will still break even f_nancially; traffic is
unlikely to decline given the already depressed state of the
economy and the declines in traffic in recent years. Rail
traffic projections have taken into account road
I  s docwen hs a restictd disaftrib   and may be used by recipients only in the performanee of
te official dutis Its contts may not otherwise be dcowd without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
competition. Other major risks are unlikely since track renewal
targets are minimal to maintain current operations. Equipment to
be purchased is common, easily available and unlikely to incur
drastic price increases. The planned cyclone repairs and
rehabilitation work are simple in nature, and the required labor
and materials to be imported are easily available. Special delays
and/or other risks are therefore unlikely.
Local       Foreign        Total
US$ Million
Estimated Costs
Permanent way                                    2.3            3.4        5.7
Rolling stock                                    0.1             1.4       1.5
Machinery, tools and equipment                   0.1            0.7        0.8
Telecommunications                               0.2            0.5        0.7
Training                                         0.6            0.8        1.4
Technical assistance                             -              0.3        0.3
Studies                                          0.1            0.4        0.5
Cyclone damage repairs/rehabilitation            0.3             2.0       2.3
Base Cost:                                       3.7            9.5       13.2
Contingencies:  Physical                    0.4            0.7         1.1
Price                      0.8            1.8         2.6
Total project cost:                              4.9           12.0       16.9 1/
Financing Plan
IDA                                               -            12.0       12.0
RNCFM                                            4.8            -          4.8
SEPT                                             0.1            -          0.1
Total project cost:                              4.9           12.0       16.9
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Years               1987         1988        1989        1990    1991
US$ Million
Annual                          2.1           2.4        3.0          3.4     1.1
Cumulative                      2.1           4.5        7.5         10.9    12.0
Economic Rate of Return:   16Z
Appraisal Report:           No. 5702-MAG
Map:                        IBRD 13645R
1/ Taxes and duties are excluded.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A THIRD RAILWAYS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for SDR 10.4
million (US$12.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance
a third railways project and emergency cyclone damage repairs znd
rehabilitation works. The proceeds of the credit would benefit the
National Railway Company, REseau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy
(RNCFM) and the Toamasina Port Authority, SocietE d'Exploitation du Port de
Toamasina (SEPT). Out of the US$12.0 million credit, the Government wo.Id
pass on (a) US$500,000 to RNCFM as grant and US$10.5 million as a loan; and
(b) US$1.0 million as loan to SEPT. Onlending terms would be 9.5 percent
interest per annum for 20 years, including a grace period of 6 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled -Country Economic Memorandum- dated March 18,
1986, was distributed on March 24, 1986, to the Executive Directors and to
participants in the Madagascar Consultative Group. It is available as
document 5996-MAG and its main conclusions are reflected below. Country
data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.        Madagascar, with a population of 9.7 million and a GNP per capita
of about US$270 in 1984, is among the poorest countries in the world. It
is a sparsely settled country, with a population density of about 16
persons per square kilometer. Although the country is generally well
endowed with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are
considerable regional variations in ecology and climate. The central
plateau, the economically most advanced region, has a subtropical to
temperate climate. The South is the poorest region, with an arid climate
and infertile soils. The eastern region has a tropical climate and,
although the region is rich agriculturally, crops are frequently devastated
by cyclones. Agriculture accounts for about 40 percent of GDP; about 80
percent of the population lives in rural areas, and agricultural products
account for about 80 percent of the country's export earnings.
4.        In the decade following independence in 1960, Madagascar's
economy grew at an average annual rate of three percent. Agriculture was
responsible for much of this growth, while manufacturing, benefitting from
increased protection, gained in relative importance. The years following
1972 marked a watershed in Madagascar's economic and political
development. After the 1972 and 1975 revolutions, an inward-looking
economic policy was geared to self-sufficiency and consolidation of the new
regime's socialist aims through decentralization to new local government
institutions (the fokonolona system), nationalization of industrial,
trading, and agricultural enterprises, and moves towards collectivization



-2-
of agriculture. Towards the end of the 1970s this movement was overlaid by
a policy of rapid industrialization with emphasis on capital intensity,
accompanied by pricing and marketing policies heavily biased towards urban
consumers.
5.        During the decade 1973-82 real per capita GDP fell by an
estimated 28 percent. The major contributing factors to this decline were:
(i) The widespread nationalization of economic activity and suppression of
private initiative, accomplished by taking over numerous enterprises and
creating new parastatals, gave rise to a large and unmanageable public
sector. (ii) Regulatory intervention in the economy increased
substantially; price controls were generalized and enforced with greater
vigor than before, local authorities assumed broad new powers, government
marketing monopolies were established, and import restrictions and exchange
controls tightened. (iii) Many policy actions led to neglect of agriculture
and fostered the growth of manufacturing for domestic markets, including
the establishment of numerous enterprises of doubtful economic value.
6.        The Government's attempts in the late 1970s to stimulate
expansion of Madagascar's stagnating economy through a large public
investment program contributed to an economic crisis beginning in 1980-81.
The share of investment in GDP, which had averaged around 13 percent from
1970 to 1978, increased sharply to 25 percent in 1979-81. The financing of
this massive investment program contributed to a large public sector
deficit (about 18 percent of GDP by 1980), inflation in excess of 30
percent both in 1981 and 1982, and a sharply increased debt service burden
(the debt service ratio,before rescheduling, rose sharply from about four
percent of export earnings in 1978 to 46 percent in 1981, nearly 75 percent
in 1984, and 90 percent in 1985). The debt service burden has been largely
responsible for the severe shortage of foreign exchange which has been a
critical constraint to economic activity. Contributing to this shortage
was a drop in export earnings as the terms of trade for agricultural
exports weakened and as domestic consumption expanded. This drop was
accentuated by declining agricultural production due to an overvalued
exchange rate, low controlled producer prices, and state interference with
the marketing of agricultural products. Industrial exports, which had
never been encouraged, suffered a further blow through the impact of the
foreign exchange shortage on the availability of raw materials and spare
parts.
7.        Faced with an unsustainable resource gap (equivalent to 17X of
GDP in 1980)., Government began implementing stabilization measures in
1981. In the years which followed, aggregate expenditure was steadily
reduced and gross savings increased, especially from 1983. Among specific
measures taken to reduce aggregate demand, the most notable actions were on
the exchange rate and on consumer subsidies. In nominal terms, the average
rate of the FMG vis-a-vis the SDR depreciated by about 75% during 1982-85,
and after adjustment for domestic and trading-partner inflation the real
depreciation of the FMG approximated 25%. The Government more than doubled
the nominal price of rice distributed through official channels; consumer
subsidies on imported rice were eliminated. Madagascar's stabilization
efforts also included tax measures,expenditure cuts, increases in prices



of public enterprise goods and services, and sharply curtailed imports. In
addition to fiscal restraint, tight bank credit ceilings were employed to
reduce inflation.
8.        Between 1980 and 1985, agricultural output fluctuated.
Production of paddy, a staple item, remained at around 2 million metric
tons per year. Madagascar had to continue importing rice throughout the
period, although the volume imported declined steadily from a peak 356,000
metric tons in 1982 to about 105,000 metric tons in 1985. The decline in
rice imports, however, was due to foreign exchange scarcity rather than any
marked increase in domestic self-sufficiency. Production of other food
crops  maize, potatoes, cassava, sweet potatoes) grew steadily and
significantly for these crops as a. result of increased rice prices. With
the exception of cotton and sugar cane, the production of industrial and
export crops generally stagnated (e.g., tobacco, coffee, pepper) or
declined (e.g., groundnuts, butter beans). The output of two other
principal export crops, vanilla and cloves, was restrained by limited world
market demand for these products.
9.        The output of the industrial sector declined sharply between 1980
and 1982, and again in 1984; modest growth obtained in 1983 and 1985 did
not make up for the decline in the other years. Industrial manufacturing
capacity has been heavily underutilized in recent years owing to shortages
of domestically supplied agricultural raw materials, and of imported inputs
and spare parts. The construction industry also remained slack, judging
from data on gross fixed capital formation. Between 1980 and 1982, all
types of construction - residential, non-residential and other - declined
heavily. In the following years, residential and other construction grew a
little, but the volume of activity was constrained by continuing restraint
in investment expenditures and shortages of construction materials.
10.       On the policy front, Government initiated positive changes in
industry, easing pricing controls, improving the administration of foreign
exchange allocation, and, as recently as June 1985, legislating a new
Investment Code. The new Code provides clearer and more automatic
incentives and aims to attract foreign private investment. Here again, the
recent initiatives need to be strengthened by extending the export earnings
scheme (the EPI account) to a greater number of bona fide exporters,
rationalizing the tariff system, and quickly completing the practical rules
and regulations of the new Investment Code.
11.       Owing to the slow growth of agriculture and industry, the
transport sector had less merchandise and fewer passengers to carry
throughout 1980-85 although, within the period, there was some upturn in
road and rail traffic in 1983 and 1984. The traffic that was required had
to be carried at high cost given the dilapidated state of the transport
system. Costs could not be covered as the administered tariffs were set
too low, thus further discouraging the provision of services. To improve
the transport system and policy environment Government selected an
economic network  of about 10,000 kmsof primary and secondary roads for
priority rehabilitation; established a road fund for maintenance; and
permitted some tariff increases for the roads, railways, and the national
airline.



- 4 -
12.       Public Finance.  During the 1978-80 period, the count-ry
experienced an unprecedented growth in public capital expenditures financed
by external loans, leading to substantial budget deficits and accumulation
of indebtedness and arrears. Successive adjustment measures adopted
between 1981 and 1985 progressively reduced the magnitude of the deficit
and domestic arrears. The bulk of the fiscal adjustment has been
accomplished by cutting expenditures, with a lower investment level,
contained payroll expansion, and a reduction in materials and supplies used
for government activity. The current budget balance turned positive in
1983 and remained so during 1984 and 1985. The size of the current
surplus, however, remained small relative to the need to increase public
savings. The overall deficit declined from 18.4% of GDP in 1980 to 8.7% in
1982 and 4.8% in 1984. It was estimated at approximately 4.7% of GDP in
1985.
13.       Revenue.  Total revenue declined from 17.9% of GDP in 1980 to
15.7% in 1985. The tax structure was altered frequently with yearly changes
in the tax rate system. The tendency was to increase tax rates on income
and imports, without visible results on effective tax revenue, this being
partly due to unsatisfactory tax administration, partly to increased tax
avoidance, and partly to reduced imports. Extrabudgetary revenues
represented a growing share of total government revenue, with surplus from
export stabilization funds yielding the main contribution in this
category.
14.       Expenditure.  Improvement in fiscal performance was mostly the
result of tight control of expenditures. Between 1980 and 1985, central
government expenditures increased by only 26%, representing a substantial
decline in real terms. The ratio of expenditures to GDP over the period
declined steadily from 36.3% in 1980 to 20.4% in 1985. The main factor in
this decline was cutbacks in capital expenditu-es from the unsustainable
level of 1980. In real terms, capital expenditures declined by 15% per
year during 1980-85.
15.       Monetary developments during 1980-85 were generally in line with
fiscal developments, reflecting implementation of stabilization measures.
Throughout the period, the growth of credit to Government was reduced, and,
beginning in 1982, credit to the non-government (i.e., parastatal and
private) sectors generally expanded faster than credit to the Government.
16.       Domestic inflation in Madagascar was reduced considerably after
1982, from about 30% in 1981 and 1982 to approximately 10 percenr in 1985.
This performance was due mainly to demand management measures during the
period, and to some decline in foreign prices of Madagascar's imports. The
reduction of inflation during the period was all the more remarkable in
that it occurred at a time when the Malagasy Franc was depreciating.
Madagascar's balance of payments remained weak throughout 1980 despite
substantial annual reductions in the volume of imports to the point of



-5-
adversely affecting economic activities. To a large extent, the
position remained weak owing to poor export performance and heavy debt
service payments, the latter a legacy of large borrowings on hard terms
during 1978-80.
17.       Stabilization efforts throughout the period led to steady and
marked improvements in the resource and current balances. In dollar terms,
the resource gap in 1985 ($102 million) was less than 20Z of what it was in
1980 (US$557 million); and the current account deficit in 1985 (US*237
million) less than 40Z of what it was in 1980 (US$599 million).
18.       Based on the existing debt portfolio at end 1985 and after taking
into account pipeline disbursements, Madagascar will need new net capital
inflows of about US$380 million per year during the 1986-90 period to cover
current account deficits, meet scheduled debt repayments, and maintain a
modest amount of gross reserves. The conditions at which Madagascar is
able to obtain new finance and reschedule the debt are of crucial
importance and will determine if the country is able to emerge from its
low-level trap, even with a high quality policy program.
19.       Since the emergence of the debt crisis at the beginning of the
1980s, Madagascar has managed the balance of payments by cutting imports
and rescheduling debt service payments. These are very costly options,
involving disruption of economic activities and refinancing of some
originally concessional loans at less concessional terms. Madagascar now
has probably reacned a limit to further cuts in imports as these are down
to bare essentials. As to debt rescheduling, the country's creditors may
continue to accord such arrangements to Madagascar. But, to generate
significant amounts of annual debt relief, the rescheduling arrrngements
would need to provide liberal coverage. Unless Madagascar would boost
export earnings and thus strengthen the balance of payments, the debt
burden would not be overcome.
20.       Relationship with IMF.  As of December 1985, the Government had
complied with all performance criteria set in the fifth standby agreement
signed in April 1985. Most of the important program targets have been
achieved and all scheduled purchases have been effected. In the second
review of the current standby, the Government has decided to acceler.te the
depreciation of the exchange rate and agreed to continue this process under
the sixth standby agreement. A mission visited Madagascar in March 1986 to
negotiate a program supported by a sixth standby agreement, but
unfortunately the negotiations could not be completed since a major cyclone
affected Madagascar and the impact of the damage could not be assessed
immediately. A new mission is therefore scheduled and the stand-by is
expected to be presented for IMf Board of Executive Directors approval in
July 1986. A meeting of the Consultative Group is scheduled for April
24-25, 1986 and the Paris Club is expected to meet in July.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGA.SCAR
21.       IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$492.6 million (including
US$29.9 million from the Special Fund) and Bank loans total US$32.6
million. Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated in the
key areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure),
agriculture and energy. Since the start of Bank Group involvement in
Madagascar, about 34% of Bank Group lending has been for transport, 29Z for
agriculture, 12% for electric power and petroleum, 12% for industry and
water, 3% for technical assistance, 4X for education, 3% for urban
development and 3% for cyclone rehabilitation. IFC has four investments in
Madagascar in textiles, footwear, and fisheries. Annex II contains a
summary statement of past loans and IDA credits as of September 30, 1985.
22.       In infrastructure, the Bank has supported nine transport projects
with IDA credits totalling US$177.78 million. Six credits (US$147.2
million) were provided for the construction, maintenance and rehabilitation
of highways. There have been one Credit (US$11.65 million) in 1970 to
improve Madagascar's main port of Toamasina and two Credits in 1974 and
1979 (US$19 million) to support the railway's modernization efforts.
Except for the fifth and sixth highway projects, all transport projects
have been completed. Urban infrastructure development has benefited in
1980 from a Water Supply and Sanitation Credit for the capital city of
Antananarivo (US$20.5 million). In addition, studies for urban development
financed by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency led to an urban
development project (US$12.8 million) in FY84. In 1984 a US$15 million
Development Credit for cyclone damage rehabilitation was signed with the
Government.
23.       The Bank Group has supported 14 agricultural projects in
Madagascar. Five projects have been completed and nine are under
execution. Lending for agriculture has included three livestock
development projects, four irrigation projects, two forestry projects, an
agricultural credit project, a rice intensification project and a cotton
project. Technical assistance support is also being provided under two
free-standing projects, one to study investment alternatives in the Plain
of Antananarivo area, and the other designed to strengthen institutional
development of key sector institutions and to support agricultural policy
reform. In April 1985, the Executive Directors approved an irrigation
rehabilitation project of US$12 million. In addition, the Bank has
appraised and is supervising the IFAD-financed Highland Rice Project
(US$30.0 million) to increase rice production by providing agricultural
inputs and by reorganizing and strengthening agricultural extension
services.
24.       Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention.
In 1978, IDA participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the
large Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project, which was successfully completed in
June 1982. A US$12.5 million Credit approved in 1980 for petroleum
exploration promotion is supporting the Government's efforts to develop a
domestic supply of hydrocarbons and to improve planning in the energy
sector. A heavy oil exploration Credit (Tsimiroro) in the amount of
SDR10.7 million was approved by the Executive Directors in November 1982.



-7-
25.       Other lending.  In 1980, a first US$5 million credit was made to
the Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar. A follow up credit of US$5
million to the Industrial Sector Credit became effective on August 1985. A
supplemental SFA to the existing Industrial Sector credit of US$20.0
million was approved in December 1985. In the social sectors, education
has been the major recipient of Bank assistance with two Credits in 1967
and 1976 totalling US$11.8 million. A credit of SDR 9.4 million (US$11.5
million) for an accoctting and audit project which included an important
training component was approved in 1981; and a follow up credit of US$10.3
million for training auditors, accountants and managers was approved in
February 1986.
26.       Implementation problems.  Problems have arisen in the execution
of a number of projects. The main problems encountered include delays,
cost overruns, deficiencies in management and inadequate financial
performance of project agencies. Current problems center on difficulties
linked to the country's economic crisis, notably the acute shortage of
foreign exchange and budget funds and institutional problems related above
all to the parastatal system. The Bank approach has been to maintain
intensive supervision efforts at the project level and to address the
generic problems through every instrument available, from the Consultative
Group through the Country Implementation Review (June 1985) including the
macroeconomic, sectoral and project-level dialogue, technical assistance
and secondment staff. The Government has been responsive and there have
been significant improvements in Government portfolio management and a
reduction in implementation problems.
27.       Project Evaluation.  Since the start of our program in
Madagascar, eight projects have been completed and audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department. The Audit Report No. 1622 of December
1976 on the first Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was
generally successful. However, the Impact Evaluation Report No. 3600 of
August 1981 concluded that earlier assessments of project performance had
been over-optimistic, and that the actual rate of return was probably
negative. The Audit Report No. 1143 of April 1976 of the first education
proj4ect concluded that the education and manpower training objectives were
satisfactorily achieved. The Audit Report No. 5434 of January 29, 1984 of
the first Railway Project concluded that due to overruns and delays in
implementation, the project had to be downscaled and that the estimated
rate of return was less than 10%. The Audit Report No. 1559 of April 1977
on the Beef Cattle Development Project concluded that the project had
contributed little to Madagascar. The Audit Report No. 2143 of July 1978
concluded that the Third Highway project was well just_fied and had a
satisfactory rate of return despite substantial cost overruns. Report No.
2299 of December 1978 concluded that the physical objectives of the
Tamatave Port project were satisfactorily achieved but pointed out that the
institutional objective was not accomplished during project implementation
because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port authority. Audit
Report No. 5403 of December 28, 1984 covered two agricultural projects: the
Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project was a profoundly
disappointing operation, but the Village Livestock and Rural Development
Project contributed to laying the groundwork for more effective services
for traditional livestock owners, with good prospects for sustainability.



- 8 -
27.      Policy-based sectoral lending.  The program for Madagascar has
been broadened to include sectorlending in support of priority recurrent
imports. This process started with the Sixth Eighway project, which
includes US$10 million for spare parts for the rehabilitation of the
private road transport fleet, and is linked to significant changes in
policy with regard to road tariffs and regulations. The Industrial
Assistance Credit aims at supporting Government efforts in the
rehabilitation of the industrial sector by providing spare parts and raw
materials to key industries. It also includes a package of policy measures
to liberalize prices in the industrial sector, promote exports, reduce
import restrictions, rationalize public investment, and formulate a new
investment code promoting private initiative. Progress has been made on
liberalizing prices, reducing import restrictions and in encouraging
exports. A satisfactory Public Investment Program in industry for 1985
(US$10.6 million) was agreed with the Government and a new investment code
was approved in June 1985. A Credit similar in design for the agricultural
sector was negotiated with the Government in January 1986. This program
includes reform measures to improve the effiiciency of agricultural
marketing, strengthen producer incentives, define a food security strategy
and an agricultural export program, and improve management of public
resources for agriculture, as well as agricultural institutions and key
services to farmers.
28.       Bank Strategy and Future Program.  The Bank strategy is to
support the Government's efforts to rehabilitate and restructure the
economy by:
(a) promoting policies and programs aimed at reforming incentive
structures, to make the economy more market-responsive and provide a more
favorable climate for private sector initiative and investments, and
providing financial and other support for appropriate policy programs;
(b) supporting adoption of viable sectoral strategies aimed at
rehabilitating productive and economic infrastructure and establishing
conditions for long-term growth, and providing financial and technical
assistance to implement these programs;
(c) strengthening the institutions responsible for macro and
sectoral economic and financial policy formulation and management; and
(d) helping Madagascar mobilize donor aid and to make effective
use of donor financial, technical, and debt relief support.
29.       On the assumption of continued Government responsiveness,
the Bank is supporting Government adjustment efforts by emphasizing
policy-based lending as the main vehicle of Bank financial assistance.
Additional sector policy-based operations in agriculture and industry would
be prepared. These would support continued market deregulation, export
promotion, cost recovery, private investments, case-by-case parastatal
rehabilitation, and sector institution building. A core lending program



- 9 -
will also be supported which accords priority to the rehabilitation of
productive and economic assets, and addresses longer-term issues in human
resource development, health, agricultural research, and environmental
degradation. Overall, future lending would concentrate on agriculture,
industry, energy, transport and health.
30.       Aside from sector and project-level efforts, the main vehicle for
aid coordination has been the Consultative Group. Making the Consultative
Group a more effective means of addressing Madagascar's payment problems is
an important part of Bank country assistance strategy. This would
contribute to resolution of the country's external financial problems.
Donor and creditor support of a comprehensive financing strategy, combined
with a sound Government program to stimulate real growth offers the best
prospects for future development. This implies active participation by the
Government and the IMF in the preparation of meetings, and Bank focus on
longer-term structural adjustment issues.
31.       In addition to a substantial economic and sector work program,
the Bank is supporting the Government in policy analysis and selected
institution-building through technical assistance. Further, two secondment
positions have been recently approved to assist the Planning Directorate
and the Ministry of Livestock, Water and Forests; and the Bank's Resident
mission has been strengthened by a resident economist. SPFF resources have
and will continue to be used to provide technical support for future
policy-based work, as well as to help strengthen investment planning,
programming and budgeting.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport Network
32.         Madagascar's transport infrastructure includes an extensive but
poor road network, two rail sections of considerable length, a
well-developed air network, four main ports, eighteen lighterage ports and
a navigable canal along the east coast. Transport needs are relatively
well served on the central plateau, where half of the population is
concentrated. But, generally speaking, Madagascar's transport
infrastructure is inadequate as it fails to provide access to all
productive areas of the country.
33.         Road Transport. The road network comprises about 50,000 km of
which 5,200 km(i10.4Z) are paved.  The paved highway network consists of:
(a) a main north-south link connecting the port of Mahajunga on the west
coast with Antananarivo (the capital) and Fianarantsoa in the highlands
(parts of which can sustain heavy vehicles), and (b) an east-west road
linking the cities of Moramanga and Antananarivo to the port of Toamasina.
A new paved section on the Toamasina-Moramanga road, built with the



- 10 -
assistance of China, provides all-weather transit between Moramanga and
Brickaville on the coast (Map IBRD 13645 R). While this development
greatly improves road communications between Antananarivo and Toamasina,
heavy truck traffic will continue to be constrained on the highland
Moramanga-Antananarivo (115 km) road, which is, as most of the island's
roads, of low standard, narrow, badly aligned and in poor condition.
Except for the southern region, which has a dry climate, heavy rains make
many roads impassable, and for half the year the northern and parts of the
western regions have little or no road connection to the rest of the
island. With the country's limited implementation capability and
resources, maintenance remains a major problem for the road sub-sector.
With IDA assistance, the Government prepared a maintenance and
rehabilitation program for a 10,000 kilometers economic road network which
includes the most heavily used roads in the country. This program
constituted the basis of the IDA-financed Sixth Highway Project.
34.         Air Transport.  By regional standards, Madagascar has developed
a dense domestic air transport network in response to the distance between
population centers and the poor condition of surface transport. Air
Madagascar, 80% owned by the Government, 18% by Air France, and 2% by
private shareholders, provides international service to Paris, Marseilles,
several countries in East Africa, and all domestic services. There are 56
airports, 17 of which are built to all-weather standards and five of which
are suitable for international flights; the remainder are gravel or grass
strips. The international airport at Antananarivo handles 50% of all
traffic. Since 1979, Air Madagascar's financial situation has been
seriously affected by declining loads, a heavy debt service burden as a
result of the uneconomic expansion of its fleet in 1978-80 and unprofitable
services to small airports. In 1985, the Government undertook a number of
actions to strengthen Air Madagascar including changes in management and a
financial recovery program; Air Madagascar successfully re-negotiated its
long-term debt with foreign banks, and has concluded lease agreements with
foreign carriers to increase the utilization of its jet fleet.
35.         Ports and Coastal Shipping.  Madagascar relies almost
exclusively on maritime shipping for its foreign trade but coastal shipping
is also important, as the only means of transport between many areas of the
country with no access to all-weather roads. There are four main ports:
Toamasina, the main international port serving the populated central
highlands via the railways, handles 55% of total traffic; Mahajanga in the
west handles 11%; Antseranana in the north 5%, and Toliara in the south,
about 4%. The remaining 25% of the traffic is handled by smaller coastal
shipping ports. The port of Toamasina has adequate capacity to handle
present traffic, but operations are hampered by low labor productivity and
lack of spare parts for equipment.  The Societe Malgache des Transports
Maritimes (SMTM), the state-controlled international shipping line,



- 11 -
operates four cargo-vessels for the country's external trade.    Currently,
most secondary ports are ill-equipped and suffer from poor fleet
maintenance and difficult operating conditions. Coastal shipping is
handled primarily by the Compagnie Malgache de Navigation (CMN), 92Z
state-owned. Its nine ships are relatively modern but CMN is also plagued
by a shortage of spare parts and low productivity. In November/December
1985, IDA appraised a Ports Rehabilitation and Institutional Development
project, which will seek to address the priority needs of Madagascar's key
ports.
36.         Railways.  The railways are operated by the Reseau National des
Chemins de Fer Malagasy (RNCFM), a parastatal agency under the authority of
the Ministry of Transport, Supply and Tourism (MTRT). The railways consist
of two separate and unconnected systems: the northern system, with about
700 km of track, connects the capital (Antananarivo) and industrial areas
in the plateau region to the main deep water port of Toamasina; and the
southern system, about 160 km of track, connects the semi-industrial town
of Fianarantsoa and the agricultural areas in the southern plateau to the
port of Manakara. The Antananarivo-Toamasina line (TCE) is the most
important link, since it is still the most reliable means of surface
transport between the country's main seaport and the capital. Because of
the difficult terrain, RNCFM has 362 bridges and 94 tunnels, and speed
restrictions are common. Frequent heavy rains and cyclones exacerbate
railway wear and tear, making maintenance and rehabilitation expensive.
Transport Policy and Planning
37.        While several ministries and Government agencies have some
responsibility for managing the sector, the two most important are the
Ministries of Public Works (MTP) and of Transport, Supply and Tourism
(MTRT). MTP is responsible for planning, building and maintaining
highways, ports and airports; MTRT is responsible for transport operations
in all modes, management of the ports (except Toanasina) and airports, and
oversight functions for RNCFM, the Port of Toamasina, Air Madagascar and
the state shipping companies. Others with significant responsibility in
the sector are the Ministries of Industry and Commerce and of Agriculture,
the Army and the Directorate General of Planning (DGP).
38.        Government policy towards transport development is to improve
the road network and maintenance as well as transport organizations and
services. The overriding objective is to satisfy the country's
quantitative and qualitative transport requirements at reasonable cost.
These objectives are consistent with the recommendations of IDA's 1983
Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM) which helped focus the orientation of
Government's development strategy for the transport sector. The main
recommendations of the 1983 TSM Report included the following: (a) priority
for rehabilitation and maintenance rather than new investment; (b) improved
management and financial recovery for transport enterprises; (c) increased
efficiency in road transport industry through policy reforms and improved
allocation of foreign exchange to private operators; and (d) increased
training and technical assistance to improve operational efficiency, and



- 12 -
strengthen planning as well as project implementation capability. Action
has been undertaken towards the implementation of the overall strategy as
set out below.
39.        The content of the public investment program (PIP) in transport
for 1984-87, responded well to Government's objectives with rehabilitation
in transport taking the highest priority; but the investment program was
found to be too ambitious in view of the country's financial constraints.
In fact, though the Government was successful in attracting sufficient
external financing for transport, actual transport investment levels have
been lower than anticipated due to a shortage of local resources and the
country's weak implementation capabilities. Domestic resources for
investment in the transport sector are limited almost entirely to the
Government capital budget, as net domestic resource mobilization from the
public sector enterprises is negative. This is a result of Government's
policy of fixed tariffs for all transport modes, which does not allow
transport operators to cover their operating costs and maintain or replace
their assets. A common denominator in most sub-sectors is the need for
more autonomy of management (except for the railway and Air Madagascar);
and for liberalization of actions (pricing, traffic itineraries, and
commodities to be transported) for transport operators, whether parastatal
or private.
40.        The IDA-financed Sixth Highway project (Credit 1391/SF-4-MAG)
constitutes a major step towards addressing these key issues.
Besides its strong rehabilitation content and institution building support
of MTP and MTRT, the project represents a major effort directed at
introducing policy reforms for efficiency in the road transport industry.
Government agreement under this project to allocate US$10 million for the
procurement of spare parts exclusively for the rehabilitation of the
private transport industry is a sign of its willingness to promote the
private sector.
41.        Under the Sixth Highway Project, the Government agreed to remove
all restrictions on routes and commodities to be served by private
transporters and to deregulate all tariffs for road transport, unless
otherwise agreed by IDA, on the basis of recommendations satisfactory to
IDA resulting from a transport policy study and pricing policies study
which were to be carried out by the Ministry of Transport, Supply and
Tourism (MTRT) as part of the preparation of a National Transport Plan. It
was convenanted that these actions would take place by December 1984.
Government postponed action on these matters, pending the conclusions of
the studies, which were delayed. On the basis of the preliminary findings
of these studies, the Government has now agreed to create conditions for
sound competition between transporters, provide freedom of access to all
routes, except on those where restrictions can be justified on technical
grounds, ensure free movement of goods within the entire country and
liberalize road transport tariffs. The Government also agreed by



- 13 -
September 1986, to amend a 1971 decree restricting private road shipment on
the main highway (RN2) linking the capital city of Antananarivo to the Port
of Toamasina; and to start from June 30, 1986, the publication of average
operating costs for different vehicles in order to assist transporters in
setting rates. IDA supervision missions will pay particular attention to
Government follow-up on these matters, and be available to assist in
resolving implementation problems.
42.        MTRT's Directorate of Planning is in charge of overall transport
sector planning and coordination. Its task is still complicated by
sub-sector agencies, which prepare projects and investment proposals
without proper coordination with MTRT. With technical assistance financed
partly by IDA under the Sixth Highway Project and French aid, MTRM's
Directorate of Planning is being strengthened. Its National Transport Plan
is expected to focus attention on long-term policies and actions to improve
overall transport efficiency. So far, the main positive achievements under
the Sixth Highway Project have been the re-establishment and strengthening
of the country's road maintenance capacity, and the raising of substantial
additional financing from other donors for road rehabilitation and
maintenance.
RNCFM
43.         RNCFM is managed by a Director General, under general
supervision of a Board of Directors which is presided over by the Minister
of Transport, Supply and Tourism (MTRM). The senior management team is
competent and motivated. In December 1984, RNCFM had about 4,000 permanent
and 850 temporary employees, out of whom 350 people will become eligible
for retirement over the next five years. A large number of these staff are
highly experienced and their replaceme-nts will require considerable
training. Currently, despite special attention paid to training, RNCFM's
training center is seriously lacking in physical and technical resources.
RNCFM offers attactive incentives to induce experienced staff to teacb
others. Recently, overall management of training has been given high
status within RNCFM.
44.         Infrastructure.  The railway is old and for years was not well
maintained. Since the early 1970's, RNCFM has been gradually trying to
rehabilitate and upgrade the track. Under the Second Railways Project the
oldest and most worn out rail on the Antananarivo East-coast (TCE) line was
replaced. Today approximately 120 km of rail on the TCE segment is less
than 5 years old while 255 km is between 25 and 45 years old. Most of the
rail on the entire Moramanga-Lac Aloatra (MHL)section, however, is over 60
years old; ballast is sparse; and the sleepers, fasteners and fishplates
are in poor condition. The rate at which rehabilitation work is
accomplished is slow and therefore even more expensive than warranted.



- 14 -
45.         Rolling Stock.  RNCFH's locomotive fleet consists of 33 line
locomotives, 10 railcars and 24 shunters; all are dieselized. Eleven 750
horsepower locomotives are over 30 years old and must be progressively
retired as spare parts are no longer available. All are due for major
overhaul. CCCE has agreed to finance the purchase of four locomotives,
whiTh should satisfy the railway's motive power needs during the project
period. The railway remains in need of spare parts for locomotives and
wagons. The passenger cars (58) and freight wagons (967) are in fair
condition and adequate for the traffic handled.
46.         Signalling and Telecommunications.  RINCFM uses a train order
system to direct trains. All trains are controlled by phone; signalling
exists only at the approach to Antananarivo. The methods of control are
adequate for the traffic involved. The telecommunications system on the
TCE line was recently modernized with the laying of a new underground
cable. On the other lines, however, the system is old, in poor condition
and much of the equipment is obsolete. Yet spare parts are no longer
manufactured. A low cost two-way radio system is proposed for the MLA
line; repairs on other lines can be accomplished using spare parts released
as a consequence of MLA line renewal.
47.         Other Facilities.  RNCFM's equipment maintenance is undertaken
at workshops located in Antananarivo, Moramanga, Manangareza and
Fianarantsoa. The depots are adequate, although work flow could be
improved by rearranging the layout of some of the facilities. A more
pressing need, however, is tools and spare parts. Container handling
facilities also need upgrading to better serve the steadily developing
container traffic. Loading and unloading facilities at the main Port of
Tosmasina are up to date but inland facilities are overtaxed and incapable
of handling any increase.
48.         Financial Results.  The railway reported a profit in 1983 and
1984 and is in compliance with the revenue covenant under the Second
Railways project (Credit 903-MAG). The turnaround resulted largely from
actions taken as a consequence of donor pressures to increase the freedom
of RNCFM's management in two key areas: pricing and receivables
collection. As a result, despite stagnating traffic, revenues increased
nearly threefold between 1980 and 1984 and RNCFN generated a healthy cash
flow of FMG 5.3 billion (US$8 million) in 1984. Besides significant
improvements in its financial performance, RNCFM has made tangible progress
in the areas of capital budgeting, costing and human resources planning.
An analytical cost accounting system, introduced under the Second Railways
Project, is enabling RNCFM to improve its tariff structure and will help,
together with the establishment of a new marketing unit, to orient its
marketing strategy during the proposed Third Railways Projerc.



- 15 -
49.       Impact of Cyclone "Honorinina- on RNCFM.  In mid-March 1986, the
eastern coast of Madagascar was struck by cyclone 'Honorinina", which
damaged several key transport facilities. The main damage to RNCFM
occurred on the northern railway system; the Antananarivo-east coast line
(TCE) suffered landslides, wash-outs and track subsidence, which cut the
line; telecommunications were disrupted. Similar but less extensive damage
occurred on the MLA line. To restore normal operations, RNCFM currently
needs emergency assistance to undertake essential repairs/rehabilitation
works.
50.      Investment Plan.  RNCFM continues to rely heavily upon consultants
and the Bank's guidance and analysis in preparing its medium and long-term
capital budgets and in developing operating strategies. To assess its
future investment requirements, in light of the reductions made in the size
of the Second Railways Project (Credit 903-MAG) during implementation
(Para. 56) and the current stagnation in rail traffic, RNCFM prepared a new
five-year investment plan for 1985-90. This plan was revised during
appraisal of the proposed project to reflect more realistic traffic
forecasts taking into account expected future road competition, and to
retain only those investments required to ensure that the railway could
remain operational and capable of maintaining current service levels.
Towards that end, the plan focuses on improvements in operational
efficiency and staff development needs, and on rehabilitation of physical
assets. RNCFM's five-year investment plan and the proposed project were
jointly reviewed and appraised with CCCE. CCCE agreed to provide a loan of
FF 98 million (US$13.0 million) to finance expenditures planned for 1986.
The proposed project would finance selected high priority elements for the
three mid-years (1987-89) of the plan. RNCFM's Five-Year Investment Plan
(1985-90) has been reviewed and agreed. RNCFM will not undertake any
investment which is not included in its 1985-90 investment plan unless th,e
economic justification of such investment is established in consultation
with IDA. The Plan will be revised annually, as appropriate, in agreement
with the Association.
51.         Future Role of RNCFM.  RNCFM has been and is expected to remain
the main transport mode for key sectors of the island's economy, as it is
the primary means of transport for bulk commodities such as petroleum
products, grain, chemicals and construction materials from the Toamasina
port to the central highlands, and thus between the most populated and
economically developed parts of the country. Long-term projections
indicate that rail traffic is unlikely to increase significantly even if
the economy resumes growth, due to increased modal competition
(particularly road) for non-bulk commodities. LIstead it is likely to
stabilize at the current level. RNCFM's main role in the long-term will be
to handle bulk commodities that are not sensitive to time or exceed road
weight restrictions and for which rail transport costs are much lower than
trucking costs. In the medium term, despite significant declines (30%) in



- 16 -
rail passenger traffic since 1979, in addition to bulk commodities, RNCFM
will continue to carry a substantial number of passengers as most existing
road traffic vehicles need to be replaced and this is expected to take some
time given the current scarcity of foreign exchange.
52.      RNCFM's southern line (FCE), faces competition from a partially
improved road on the coastal plain (Map IBRD 13645R). Traffic density on
the FCE line is light and likely to remain so. While the FCE line accounts
for nearly 20% of RNCFM's total track, in 1984 it carried only 5% of total
traffic and incurred an operating cash deficit of about FMG 263 million
(US$405,000). A study financed under the Second Railways Project (Credit
903-MAG) concluded that the most economic long-term solution would be to
close the line. However, the same study also indicated that until the road
along the rail line is improved to permit full substitution, operation of
the FCE line should continue under the most efficient conditions. A
recently completed study, financed by a project preparation facii'ty (PPF)
advance under the proposed project, has investigated in detail all
practical alternatives to serve the area now being served by the southern
line at the least economic cost. On the basis of the findings of this
study, the Government and RNCFM have prepared an action program including
provisions for cost recovery, appropriate pricing for road and rail
services in the region served by the FCE line, and cost reduction targets.
The action program will aim at first reducing and then eliminating deficits
during project implementation or alternatively phasing out rail service and
developing roads if traffic on the FCE line continues to dwindle and
subsidies to cover operating deficits grow. During IDA supervision
missions, progress on the implementation of the program will be monitored
closely.
Impact of Cyclone 'Honorinina on the Port of Toamasina
53.       The Port of Toamasina suffered extensive damage on the
brea.k-water, beacons, a lighthouse, warehouses, sheds and cranes. Repair
of the main break-water appears to be of the highest priority but cannot be
undertaken until detailed engineering studies are carried out. Without
urgent repair works, further severe damage would occur to the unprotected
por: infrastructure, the handling capacity of the port would be seriously
redused and unprotected cargoes would be damaged.
54.       The Port of Toamasina, the primary port of the country, is the
only autonomous port authority.  The  Societe d'Exploitation du Port de
Toamasina" (SEPT) operates the port, cargo handling and a few unrelated
services. SEPT was established in 1976 with IDA assistance under Credit
200-MAG. It enjoys a degree of management and finanrcial autonomy and



- 17 -
employs just over half the wage earners in Toamasina. A study carried out
in 1982 by a French consulting firm indicated that the port's inefficient
operations and low productivity result mainly from management and
institutional problems. The main objective of a proposed Port
Rehabilitation and Institutional Reform project, currently under appraisal,
would be to address the institutional problems of the ports-subsector,
particularly those affecting the efficiency of the Port of Toamasina.
Bank Group Involvement in Transport
55.         The Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lending for
transport, as the development of other sectors, particularly agriculture,
depends on transport. From 1966 to 1985, the sector benefitted from about
US$177.8 million of Bank Group financing, of which US$19.0 million (10.72)
were for the two projects financed in 1972 and 1979 for the railways
sub-sector and US$11.6 million (6.5%) for a port project financed in 1970.
The main objectives of Bank Group assistance to RNCFM were to rehabilitate
its infrastructure and equipment, replace old rolling stock, improve its
managerial, operational and financial situation, and introduce a more
market-based pricing strategy. Though some shortfalls occurred in physical
implementation, institution building achievements in RNCFM have been
substantial.
56.         As described by a Project Performance Audit Report of June
1984, the First Railway Project was found to have been a -holding
operation- that successfully benefitted the Malagasy people by keeping the
railway operational. However, underestimated costs and delays in
implementation resulted in a scaling down of the project's initial scope.
Project completion took three years longer than estimated; its overall
estimated rate of return was less than 10%; and the railway's financial and
institutional performance remained poor. The Second Railways project, not
yet audited, was completed in December 1984. This project also suffered
from delays in implementation; lower than anticipated ballast and sleeper
production resulted in fewer kilometers being rehabilitated than planned;
and low cost estimates reduced the number of wagons and coaches actually
purchased. Between March and October 1982, disbursement under the Second
Railways project was suspended as the Government was reluctant to institute
tariff reform. In June, 1982, the Government complied with the agreed
covenant and agreed to improve RNCFM's management (para. 48).  Since then,
RNCFM has adjusted its tariffs and has made a significant financial
turnaround. The Second Railways Project can be credited for the above
achievement, as well as for progress made in the evolution of RNCFM towards
a commercially oriented institution.



- 18 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.         The proposed project was appraised in February 1985.  A staff
appraisal report entitled "Democratic Republic of Madagascar - Third
Railway Project' (5702-HAG) dated March 28, 1986, is being distributed
separately. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., during March 17-21, 1986. The
Malagasy delegation was led by His Excellency Mr. Joseph Bedo, Minister of
Transport, Supply and Tourism.
Project Objectives
58.       The proposed project will continue the rehabilitation and
maintenance efforts started under the first and second Railways projects.
Its main objectives are to enable Madagascar's northerm railways system to
continue service at its current level of capacity and to operate at a
reasonable level of efficiency over the next ten years. To achieve these
objectives, the project would: (i) improve track conditions between the
chromite ore mines and rice growing region, the main port and the populous
central highlands, (ii) replace a bridge critical to continued rail
services on the Antananarivo-Antsirabe line, (iii) provide a road/rail link
to a new cement plant, likely to become a substantial source of rail
traffic, and (iv) ensure more consistent availability of motive power and
improve RNCFM's basic operations and staff productivity in the areas of
maintenance, track rehabilitation and container handling. The project wiln
also provide emergency assistance to RNCFM and SEPT to allow resumption of
normal operations disrupted by Cyclone -lonorinina-.
Project Description
59.       The proposed project, based on RNCFM's five-year investment plan
(1986-90) as revised and agreed with the Bank, would include the following
components: permanent way improvement; rolling stock improvement; purchase
of shop machinery, tools and other equipment; provision of low cost radio
telecommunications equipment; staff training and procurement of training
facilities, technical assistance, studies and cyclone damage repairs and
rehabiliration.
60.        Permanent Way Improvement. About 60 kilometers of track on the
Moramanga - Lac Alaotra line would be rehabilitated because the main track
components are beyond repair. This rail line is an important adjunct to
the main line between the coast and the capital.  The Lac Aloatra Region
supplies rice to the highland population and chromite ore for export. Yet



- 19 -
the present condition of the line is poor and has led to deterioration in
train service. Some of the rails left over under the Second Railways
project (Credit 903-MAG) would be used for renewing this line. The
proposed project will finance steel sleepers and rail attachments for
difficult track sections with many sharp curves as local production of wood
sleepers is limited and suited mostly for maintenance replacements and rail
attachments are not available locally. A long term objective of RNCFM and
the Government is to eliminate dependence on imported sleepers through
improved local production.
61.       The line from Antananarivo to Antsirabe is generally in good
condition with the exception of a 60-year old bridge close to
Antananarivo. Re-.paired and shored up several times, this old bridge is on
the verge of total collapse. The Antananarivo-Antsirabe line makes a
positive net financial contribution to RNCFM, which warrants the
reconstruction of an old bridge under the proposed project.
62.       A new cement plant near completion at Ibity, located near
Antsirabe, will require rail access to obtain coal and other raw materials
necessary for its operation. A rail spur to the plant, as far as
Vinanikarena, is in the process of being built. For the final link to the
plant, the proposed project would include construction of a 6 kilometer
road link, a small bridge and a rail terminal and the purchase of coal
handling equipment. The combined road and rail access to the plant is
expected to be cheaper than building a 20 kilometer rail spur, as
originally envisaged by RNCFM, and should be sufficient to handle transport
of coal and other inputs to the plant and the cement plant output.
63.       lmurovement in Rolling Stock Availability.  Two years worth of
spare parts for locomotives and wagons would be provided to RNCFM under the
proposed project to maintain and repair the fleet. Past shortages have
resulted in deferred maintenance which has seriously affected car and
engine availability. The major locomotive maintenance repair program
initiated under the Second Railways Project will continue. Also, five
trolleys will be purchased under the proposed project to alleviate the
acute shortage of reliable transport of tools, materials and workers for
track maintenance and repairs.
64.       Shop Machinery, Tools and Other Equipment.  A limited amount of
lathes, turret drills and planers that are old and beyond repair in the
workshops will be replaced under the proposed project. These machine tools
are required to make parts that are not available locally. A bulldozer,
track tools and equipment would also be provided to handle washouts and
other emergencies. The proposed project will also include provision for
the purchase of a forklift for handling containers at the Antananarivo
inland container terminal to improve the handling of this increasing
business.



- 20 -
65.       Telecommunications Equipment.  The poor condition of the
Moramanga-Lac Alaotra (MLA) line (para. 44), is aggravated by an unreliable
telecommunications system which cannot be repaired because it is outdated
and spare parts are no longer available. A two-way radio scheme will be
developed in detail by a consultant study to be financed under the proposed
project (para. 68), and then acquired and installed.
66.       Training.  With assistance from France, RNCFM prepared a training
program for 1986-90, which was found to be too ambitious. During
appraisal, the program was revised to reflect more realistic objectives and
target dates. Under the proposed project, the training component would
consist of (i) construction of new training facilities; (ii) procurement of
teaching equipment; (iii) provision of 32 overseas fellowships for senior
and middle managers and (iv) provision of 48 staff-months of technical
assistance for manpower planning, job analysis, and specific training
techniques. The training component is aimed at improving staff
productivity in the near term.
67.       Technical Assistance.  About 30 staff-months of technical
assistance will be provided as follows: (i) six staff-months to improve
ballast production; (ii) eight staff-months to improve train operations
planning and coordination; (iii) eight staff-months to strengthen planning
and scheduling of workshop repairs; and (iv) eight staff months to
demonstrate techniques to increase the productivity of track
rehabilitation. Terms of reference for the proposed technical assistance
have been discussed and agreed.
68.       Studies.  Several studies are included in the proposed project to
help RNCFM and the MTRT planners in specific areas. They are: (i) 12
staff-months to improve efficiency in production of wood sleepers including
quality control, forest resources management, sustainable yield, and
recommendations regarding the long term financial viability of sleeper and
timber production operations; (ii) 10 staff-months for the detailed
engineering study of the cement plant's rail terminal, road and small
bridge link at Ibity; (iii) 8 staff-months to develop a least cost solution
to improve the NLA. telecommunications system; and (iv) 10 staff-months to
develop practical alternatives to serve the transport needs to the
Fianarantsoa-Manakara axis more economically than currently done by rail.
Two of the proposed studies (ii) and (iv) have already been carried out
under a project preparation facility (PPF) advance under the proposed
project. Terms of reference for the remaining two studies have been
agreed.
Cyclone damage repairs and rehabilitation
69.       During negotiations, it was agreed to modify the scope of the
project to accommodate inclusion of emergency civil works and repairs for
RNCFM and SEPT. These emergency works would consist mainly of (a) RNCFM
removing landslides and fallen trees that cut the TCE and MLA lines and of
repairing and rehabilitating damaged track sections and telecommunications
equipment on these lines and railway buildings damaged in the area of



- 21 -
Toamasina; and (b) SEPT carrying out a detailed engineering study of
repairs for the break-water, and repairing and rehabilitating navigation
aids, warehouses, sheds and cranes. Items proposed by the Malagasy
Delegation for emergency repairs and rehabilitation will be re-assessed by
an IDA mission, and their priority more firmly established. It is only
following this field evaluation, that the specific emergency repair and
rehabilitation items to be financed under the proposed credit will be
agreed, along with the associated procurement arrangements.
Project Cost
70.       The total project cost for the three year implementation period
(1986-88) is estimated at FMG 11,027 million (US$ 16.9 million) including
foreign exchange costs of FMG 7,782 million (US$12.0 million) or 71% of the
total cost. The estimated cost of cyclone damage repairs and
rehabilitation amounts to US$2.3 million, with a foreign exchange cost of
US$1.9 million. Baseline costs for the project were estimated at mid-1985
prices and were increased by 10% to include physical contingencies. Price
escalation for foreign costs is based on projected increases in
international US dollar prices and estimated to be 7.5% in 1986, and 8% in
1987 and onwards. The international rates have been also used for local
cost escalation assuming that the difference between domestic and
international price inflation will be offset by adjustments in the foreign
exchange rate in accordance with Government policy. A total of US$3.6
million has been provided for both price and physical contingencies,
representing 25% of total project cost. Local taxes and duties were
excluded from cost estimates as project expenditures would be exempted from
them. Project costs include US$1.7 million for about 155 staff-months of
consultancy services. Detailed engineering for the reconstruction of the
bridge was completed in June 1985, and detailed engineering for the road
bridge and rail terminal at the Ibity cement plant in February 1986.
Financing Plan
71.       The foreign exchange cost of the project would be financed by the
Association (US$12.0 million or 71%), and the local cost (US$4.9 million or
29%) by internally generated cash of RNCFM (US$4.8 million) and of SEPT
(US$0.1 million).
72.       IDA Credit.   During negotiations, the planned IDA credit amount
was increased to US$12.0 million equivalent, to assist RNCFM and SEPT in
rehabilitating and repairing facilities destroyed or damaged during the
cyclone. Under the credit, RNCFM and SEPT will each receive US$1.0 million
to finance emergency repairs and rehabilitation works. Since the six (6)
kilometers road link and the small bridge to be constructed for the, Ibity
cement plant would be considered public investment for public uses and
would not generate any additional revenues for RNCFM, the cost of these
investments amounting to US$300,000 will be passed on to RNCFM as grant, in
addition to the US$200,000 provided under a project preparation facility
advance to finance the detailed engineering study of the cement plant



- 22 -
terminal and the study of the Fianarantsoa-Manakara axis. The US$200,000
advance would be re-financed from the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit.
In summary, out of the proposed US$12.0 million, the Government would pass
on (a) to RNCFM US$500,000 (4.2%) as a grant and US$10.5 million (87.5%) as
a loan; and (b) to SEPT, US$1.0 million (8.3Z) as a loan. Government on
lending terms to RNCFM and SEPT would be 9.5Z interest for a period of 20
years including 6 years of grace. RNCFM and SEPT would bear the foreign
exchange risk. Conclusion of subsidiary loan agreements, between the
Government and RNCFM and between the Government and SEPT, acceptable to
IDA, and incorporating the above terms, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
Project Implementation and Procurement
73.       Aside from SEPT's involvement in cyclone damage repairs and
rehabilitation, RNCFM will be responsible for implementing the project.
RNCFM's track improvement will be carried out by RNCFM's track and building
department, which has done similar work under past projects.
Rehabilitation and maintenance of locomotives and wagons will be carried
out in RNCFM's central workshops in Antananarivo. Experts to be financed
under the technical assistance component will ensure that the proposed
track rehabilitation is fully carried out with available funds, and will
assist in improving the quality of work produced and productivity of
RNCFM's central workshop at Antananarivo. Training and technical
assistance for track rehabilitation and improvement in train operations and
maintenance are expected to start during the last quarter of 1986 and to be
completed by September/October 1987. Except for the civil works components
(track rehabilitation, re-construction of the bridge, road/rail link for
the Ibity cement plant) which are expected to be carried out over the three
year period of project implementation (1986-88), procurement of most spare
parts, equipment and tools is expected to be fully completed by September
1987.
74.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
Procurement of all goods and services would follow Bank Group Guidelines.
RNCFM will carry out track relaying and cyclone repairs and rehabilitation
works by force account. The construction of RNCFM's training center is
expected to be carried out by local contractors on the basis of local
bidding procedures, which have been reviewed and are acceptable to IDA.
Orders for RNCFM would be grouped whenever possible into contracts valued
at US$ 100,000 or more and would be procured through international
competitive bidding except for: (i) proprietary spares and supplies
(US$1.4 million) which would be procured by direct order; and (ii) rail
fastenings and miscellaneous equipment costing less than US$100,000 and
totalling no more than US$1,000,000 to be procured either through limited
international tendering or local shopping based on comparing price
quotations from at least three manufacturers, dealers or suppliers. The
execution arrangements for SEPT would be worked out during an IDA mission.



- 23 -
Procurement Arrangements
Project Element           ICE    LCB      OTHER   N.A.    TOTAL COST
(million US$'s)
a) Civil Works
Track Relaying                       1.1                  1.1
Bridge PK2           2.7                                  2.7
Ibity terminal                       0.8                  0.8
Training Center             0.7                           0.7
2.7    0.7      1.9                  5.3
(2.3)           (0.5)                (2.8)
b) Track Materials
Sleepers             2.3                                  2.3
Fastenings                           0.4                  0.4
2.3            0.4                   2.7
(2.1)           (0.3)                (2.4)
c) Rolling Stock
Spares                               1.4                  1.4
Gang Trolleys        0.6                                  0.6
0.6             1.4                  2.0
(0.5)           (1.2)                (1.7)
d) Equipment
Shop Machinery       0.3                                  0.3
Crane                0.2                                  0.2
Telecommunications  0.8                                   0.8
Training             0.4                                  0.4
Ibity Terminal       0.3                                  0.3
Other                                0.6                  0.6
2.0            0.6                   2.6
(1.4)           (0.2)                (1.6)
e)  Cyclone repairs and                            2.3          2.3
rehabilitation                                (2.0)       (2.0)
f) Consulting
Services                                       1.7         1.7
(1.2)       (1.2)
g)  Fellowships                                    0.3         0.3
(0.3)       (0.3)
TOTAL                7.6    0.7      4.3     4.3          16.9
(6.3)  (0.0)   (2.2)   (3.5)         (12.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts proposed for IDA
financing.



- 24 -
Disbursement
75.       The proposed credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for imported materials, equipment, consulting services
and fellowships and 75 percent of local expenditures eligible for IDA
financing in the above categories. Disbursements would be fully
documented. The estimated disbursement profile for the project is faster
than the standard profile for transportation projects because the extent of
civil works and erection work involved is limited, and the implenentation
period of the project is shorter than a full scale conventional railway
project. There is provision for retroactive financing up to a total of
US$500,000 for cyclone repairs and rehabilitation expenses incurred after
April 1, 1986. Withdrawals from the credit proceeds would be made on
accounts of payments for cyclone repair and rehabilitation expenditures
only for items for which specific execution arrangements were made in
agreement with IDA. The full credit amount is expected to be fully
disbursed by December 31, 1990.
Operational Objectives
76.       The project is oriented towards track and locomotive improvements
which are the principal limiting factors to higher efficiency. With these
improvements, the railway would be able to concentrate on better operations
by improving wagon turn around and train scheduling. Operational
objectives such as utilization of motive power, availability of rolling
stock, turnaround times and wagon loads, and a detailed implementation
schedule, prepared by IDA staff, have been agreed. These operational
objectives would be monitored during IDA supervision missions, and RNCFM
would submit to IDA an annual synthesis report at the end of each fiscal
year.
Financial Covenants, Auditing and Reporting.
77.       RNCFM's financial objectives during its current Investment Plan
period (1985-90) are to: (i) continue the program of financial recovery;
(ii) improve its tariff structure; and (iii) re-orient its marketing
strategy. While the financial recovery program has already been largely
successful, the positive achievements of the last three years must be
consolidated and protected. Forecasts prepared for RNCFM indicate that the
RNCFM can achieve its financial objectives during the period 1985-1990
provided it continues to be managed on a sound commercial basis.
Assurances have been provided by RNC!M that it would (l) price each railway
service at or above its avoidable costs 1/; (2) provide service only to
1/    Avoidable cost means any and all costs RNCFM would not incur if such
services were not provided.



- 25 -
customers whose receivables are aged 60 days or less; (3) keep the working
ratio at 65 percent or less; (4) earn a net return on fixed assets revalued
annually of at least 3 percent and (5) maintain a current ratio of at least
2.5:1 and a debt/equity ratio of no more than 55/45.
78.       RNCFM's accounts are and should continue to be audited by an
independent accounting firm acceptable to IDA. Assurances were obtained
from RNCFM that they would submit annual audit reports to IDA within six
months following the end of each fiscal year. The annual audit report
would include a statement of compliance with the above financial covenants.
Project Benefits and Risks
79.       Benefits.  The main benefit of the project is to allow the
railways to remain operational and capable of providing services essential
to the economy at current traffic levels, as traffic for the period 1984-90
is estimated to increase only by three percent due to increased road
competition for non-bulk traffic. Without the proposed investments,
RNCFM's effective carrying capacity and operating efficiency would be
gradually eroded by a reduction in available motive power and an increase
in derailments and other operational difficulties. Emergency assistance
provided for cyclone damage repairs and rehabilitation works would avoid
further deterioration of RNCFM and SEPT facilities.
80.       Economic Bate of Return.  Aside from the cyclone damage
components, the project has been divided into four main components, each of
which has been subjected to a separa':e cost-benefit analysis: (1) track
improvements on the Mora-snga-Lac Alaotra (MLA) line; (2) investments to
provide a rail/road spur to bring raw materials close to a new cement plant
near Antsirabe; (3) reconstruction of an old bridge on the Antsirabe line;
and (4) investments in equipment and maintenance (mainly spares, shop
machinery and tools). On a combined basis, the economic rate of return for
the project is estimated at about 16Z. The estimate assumes a project life
of 10-years and that traffic will not increase after 1990. This
calculation also includes the training and technical assistance components,
as well as other capital items (4 locomotives and other priority equipment)
that CCCE has already agreed to finance (paras. 45 and 50).
81.       The cyclone damage repair and rehabilitation component was not
included in the calculation of the economic rate of return as the specific
items to be financed under the credit have still to be agreed. However,
time lost in restoring normal rail and port activities could be very costly
to the country since the TCE and MLA lines are the main railway lines in
the country and the Port of Toamasina is the primary port for foreign
trade.
82.       Risks.  The main quantifiable risks of the proposed project are
that: (i) demand for rail services could be lower or significantly greater



- 26 -
than expected because estimates of rail/road modal splits underlying
traffic forecasts could not materialize; and (ii) project execution would
not take place as planned due to cost overruns and implementation delays.
83.       If traffic is less than anticipated the economic return on the
project will be less than expected but not seriously jeopardized.
Sensitivity analyses indicate that traffic volumes can be 20Z below
forecasts before RNCFM reaches a break even point on the investments. In
the unlikely event of a further reduction in traffic, the flexiblity of the
proposed project would allow investment levels to be modified.   If traffic
is greater than anticipated, the railway has some flexibility to expand
capacity by operating more intensively, and improving turnaround times.
Besides, given the short term nature of the project and the fact that
significant shifts in traffic levels are easily detectable, RNCFM could
plan additional rolling stock purchases in 1988 and 1989 to carry traffic
that cannot otherwise be shipped by road.
84.       The risk of cost overrtms is fairly small because of the nature
of the project. Only a few project elements are sensitive to change in
procurement or execution. For track rehabilitation, the main source of
potential cost increase is an increase in the price of imported steel
sleepers. New rail for the project has already been purchased under the
second railway project and is in Madagascar awaiting installation. Shop
equipment, tools, spare parts for machinery, and rolling stock to be
purchased are common, easily available, and unlikely to incur drastic price
increases in the near future. There is no special risk associated with the
cyclone damage repairs and rehabilitation. In sum, the implementation of
the proposed project does not have major risks of delay or cost overruns.
Part V - RECONMENDATION
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 14, 1986



Page 1 of L
-             CflA0aSCh1               - SOCIAL ImtCAlUES 047* ?ar s
RA0I*SC    -                       ifLUC3 CIOPS {It A~1I?f 4RaCKS) , 
xmit                      (ist 1m0s   3Se y4m2a) lb
ion                         tM  NtCtO   9MPA          t
tgmi-b- iiRRA:m-   1 w .SOr OF AAU              ARitCa s. oF sA
TM         sq. 0                     '  ,                     7
=ECL5TUL                            34i4        343.7        370.5
car m  cwz  (US:                             .0 a                          n.a2
(32LG3A1 Of OfL EXZVALfL             zo.0        *0.0        41.0               41.3                      181.S
iwmum Am WtaL WEtS
,aPA1UM.1co!fA  (10584n13    534.0_ s 783.0                9432..
Ouu     pOPLA*UM (C 0f tOTAL)        1O.         14.1         20.4               20.1                      22.0
PoPuI.AT10 pmoiZcIIns
P0PULATILP Cm =AN. 1000 (NILL)                             i4.z
LA   POPOZ U03 (U)                                         IS.0
SOPUU?Tow         II112!
nS SI. S.                           l.1        11.4        14.1               33.2                      45.1
pn sq.   . Gl  LAND                14.         1o.7        24.               112.8                        A
0-1  QU 62                                    43.4        46.3               46.0                      4S.
YU                                 34.2        32.9         0.4               50.8                      51.3
65 AM *6973                         3.2         3.3         1.4                2.9                       2.7
POPUAZZO    UUd!  EA&  (Z)
tO-.L                               1.9         2.&         2.42.0                                       2.9
058*3                               50          342 i.3 ..4                                              3.1
c UKS  mm  (Pc& 0Togs)               43.8        43.7        4.                  7.2                      .?
c-u  132 am2 (PM TSI)                 3.0       1t.7         174                VA8                        3.0
cans  3WU03Z0E 30    1                2.8         2.9         3.2                3!
PiJIPZ PIAmMzM9
a     .       AL (uS)               ..          ..          ..                  .
s= s CZr  KAM       m..                                                       3-                        4.4
NOO  a      -mr
DM  or n0o       Pm. Ps CAFlU
Cl946-11100)                        89.0        102.0        94.0               6.3                       62.9
CUAORU  CZ0 Or   0023W?5a )       109.0       110.0       : 14.0              67.7                      93.3
I 0 3 CC(U1  PM  D3             41.0   I     0.0         ".a       5A1.9                             55J
Of MM ANIMAL AM paS               18.0        11.0        13.0 IC            ILl                       14.5
ax13 (AM  1-4) &A   32R2            20.1         1.          L00                M3t                       14.,
cSmA
L113 Ulm=0. AT a== 123*1)           33.0        4.7         '9.4               41.8                      52.0
uWaIt MM. (1 (PM rUS)   A    *.0                69.0        6.                119.                      IONA
ASs To Sam WIS (VW)
SoUS                                ..        iJ.O         21.2 Id           21.l                       42.4
0lU*                                ..        47.0          0o 71            13.5                       075
10111.                              ..        0tA           7.077             19.3                     353
CSS  TS  ECW    DISPOA
(1 OP PPLI
T                                   ..         ..           9.0 1            26.5                       23J.
.RW      U.0           9.0 7T            43..                       7.7
eL                                ...*                        t9.077      20.8                       20.7
P096.410 rP  pRICmaN              6120.0    1oL00.0       10220.0 1s    JO90.                          I1791.
PU. ru g31  P                     3060.0 If  333.0         341O0  77         3306.4                   2459.
POP. P SOSP!L A0
2Um                             4*20J        35.0         510.0 to          1273J                     981.1
URSaS                             150.0 If   210.0        240.0 77          *zS.:                      3648.
105AL.                           400.0 71    &80.0       320.0 T           3292.3                    4311.9
M     0   PU u MA                     ..         ..           ..                .. 2M.2
RO SUI Of 8010
SOUL                                           5..
a3gRa0 no0. or PUmWtO0N
r1                                  .. mm.                  .. w..
WY.M. .                                                  ..                 ..
3~                       ..          ..          .-...
lUL                                  ,           ,,,..,



ANNE'. i
r7sg - f 4
MOADCASCAa               SOCIAL ?USZCA1UU D?A  3?
PARAGASCAM                           31311358 581     I (58UMUMAMET3
MST                txm ~C Saw3~   1813wWm lb      
maLb  11ml   minin-ll     izomi or IAIbM         AFUICA S. OF saaAaa
4JU1710 IUUOLUUIURT 3410
FlUIATa:  TOtrAL                 32.0       66.1)       100.0 '*           87.6                        .
muL                    36.0 .0       0          ..               77.6                     100.0
FOSALA                 43.0        41.0        ..                 4.9                      63.2
SECOKDAAI TOTAL                   '.0         11.0       14.0 IC            1I.1                     17.3
HALE                    3.13       13.0                           MI 17.9
FEMLE                   1.0         9.0         .                  .I                     '6.6
VOCAIKOIAL (3 Of SUH0AE)             9.1        3.7         ..13.:1                                     3.9
FuPMI-Uh583 XATIO
P323*1?                           70.0       85.0       353.0              44.9                      81.1
SIEinAE1                          24.0       20.0        23.0 IC            27.4                     23.3
FAS5EMOU CAaSrTNOUSAam  PM          41          8.8         7.1 IC            3.8                      20.3
Katow=        muu 351JTh04w         13.3       79.7       20843              33.8                     101.8
TV fininzvuin8Jwin     VW            .          0.3         117               2.8                      M0A
1uU301) CIZUTIOU
PiL TOUEAM POPULIAOU                7.8        7.8         8.0               3.0                       MA.
CDA, aAL 1133MOADMCIP12A           0.3 It      0.7         -.                0                         0.0
TUFAL -A30 FORc (Tom)             2943.0     3370.0      4802.
1U14j3 (Pfl23T                    444        43.4        44.3              34.2                      3:4
ZGXCL3OU U   Z (1358)           93.0        90.0       61.0 Id            77J3                     34.5
UWITET CFInCI?                    2.0         3.0         &.0 71            9.7                      16.3
P*ETCIPATZOU LanK (133501)
TO=A                             34.9        526         48.7              39.3                      34.8
"maL                             601         36.8        3417              30.9                      41.1
WZALE                            49.4        44.7        41.8              23.1                      23.2
EWsaMC DUKMUCT I3AT10               0.8         0.9         1.0               1.3                       1.3
1TCM  or PIIIAU I3CO6
UWCIVED M
hZCuz= IZ Or 30033K313*90 
ran=  ZUB       -
LClL (MS MI CAPITA
Ulm8                                                     MA.. 13. IC      185.3                     396.7
uannL                             "...                   6.a z             93.0                    17343
LEYSCUS.(3  in CAITA)
auuam                             ....                  13.0 IC           113.1                    343.8
RUILAL                                    aii~~~~~~~8o 7c-   47.4                    201.1
FORM=? z3caU LUlZL CZ)
0333                              .           .          30.0 IC           364.4
UUIAL                             .                      36oo Te           81.A
MO? AVALL&ALE
NOT AFMCAILE
la  The crowu am       fo tr *M* IuLcacgg  rmr P.pmLAZla.-u.Igbc. arSzhmcLc "Mon. covers". at cou9auA
mowsg cA. ULfAtaOC depauda es uY"sILahAJZ  of lmaSsi and l   WCalfta..
lb   Wass. aigsewla noted. li0Az ts  1940 rater I La M  ysaw  ber..959 ad 1MI; 'Once too 1910  beo;
1if9 MA4 971; MA 4 am  for 'Nove lacane baLnuas bemm  1961 .i &M6.
lc  1977; /4L 1960; 1.L 1976; af 1982: ~LL gs1atbem.
n_~~~~jS 196



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
MADAGASCAR:  ECONONIC INDICATORS
GIOSS DOMESTIC PRODUCr IN 1984
Annual Rate of Growth
USS KIn.        2        1970-78        197W4
CDP at Market Prices                                              2.382.9       10            .           -0.8
Conumption                                                       2,172.4        91.2       -0.7             0.0
- Private                                                     (1,949.8)       (77.6)    (-0.9)          (-6.3)
- Public                                                        (322.6)       (13.6)    (-0.1)           (1.9)
Gross Domestic Investment                                           324.3        13.6      -4.4            -6.4
Current Account Balance                                           -252.2       -10.6
Exports of Goods, IFS                                               388.7        16.3      -0.7            -8.9
Importo of Goods, NFS                                               502.4        21.1      -6.2            -9.9
OUTPUT LAOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1984
Value added /1         Lat)r Force         VA per Worker
USS Mn.     z           0                    ___ US$
Agriculture                                      1,007.6      42.3        4,356   88.1            231.3
Industry                                           371.1      15.6          135    2.7          2,749.2
Services                                        1004.2       42.1          454    9.2          2,211.8
Total/Average                                    2,382.9    100.0         4,945  100.0            452.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
FIN3 ln            Z of GDP
1984     1982      1983      1984
Current Receipts                                                              MT.        1T!        T5       177T
Currant Expenditures                                                           197.7     16.1      14.2      14.4
Current Deficit                                                                45.3      -0.9       1.0       3.3
Capital Expenditures                                                           107.6      7.5       7.2       7.8
Foreign financing (net)                                                        36.6       5.1       3.8       2.7
MONEY. CREDIT, and PRICES
1978     1979       1980      1981    1982      1983      1984
- - (Billion FMG Outstandinjz at the End of the Period) - -
Nuney and Quasi Money                             141.0    173.0      206.0    250.0   276.0    271.5    321.0
lak Credit to Public Sector                       49.0      99.0      176.0    238.0   269.0    307.0    338.0
Bank Credit to State Enterprises                 101.0    121.0       150.0    165.0   198.0    229.6    288.0
and Prlvate Sector
-------        (Percentage or Index Numbers)- -------
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP                 29.0      29.1       29.9     30.7    27.7       22.2     23.4
GDP Price Deflator (1970-100)                    195.7    217.9       250.6    313.7   403.9    490.3    540.5
Annual percentage changes In:
CDP Price Deflator                               6.8      11.3       15.0     25.2    28.6       21.5      10.2
Bank Credit to Government                       75.0    102.0       77.8      33.0    13.7       14.3     10.1
Bank Credit to Other Sectors/2                   5.2      19.8       24.0      10.0    20.0      16.2     25.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars in thls table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
At market prices.
2      Private Sector and State Enterprises.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
NAL4CS 0F PATME                                                    MERCIHANDSE ISPOTS (AVERACE 1980-84)
1962    1953    1964 /1                                                 SS IMt. N
;      ~TlJSS Miillion.)                                                                    ___
Coffee                                     135.0        38.6
Exports of Goods 4 M.P.S.          380.2   356.4   388.7         vanilla                                      38.6        11.l
imports of Goods 4 1.r.S.          651.7   550.7  502.5          Cloven                                       47.2        13.6
Fiehing product.                            19.7         5.7
u..ource  xBlance                   -271.5  -194.3  -113.8         meat products                                 7.1         2.0
Sexttle-                                    10.7         3.1
Fector Income, Not                 -99.0  -112.6  -141.J         Petroleum products                            8.7         2.5
Private Transferc, Net              -1.4   -1.2       3.5        Mineral products                             13.5         3.9
Other co_odtt1e-                            67.0        L9.3
Current Account Balance             -371.9  -308.1  -252.1          Total                                      347.6       100.0
OfficLail Unrequited Tranefere        72.3    60.8    67.8        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1984 13
MS5 MR.
Net NLT lorrowing:                    121.3   196.8   168.0
Public Debt. Incl. guaranteed                        2.120.6
Diebur_enoutn                      209.9   193.6   120.8         Non-Guaranteed Privace Debt
A ortlztion                       -181.3  -195.7 -175.4          Total Outstanding & Ditbursed                         2.120.6
Debt N.te.f                         92.7   198.9   222.6
DEBT SEtVICE RATIO FOR 1984 /4
Other Capital (not) /2                186.9    36.5    41.5
___________ _  -  -           Public Debt. Inl. guaranteed 15                         33,1
Chanze in Reser vs                    -8.6    14.0   -25.2
(increca  - - )                                                   [-RD/IDA LENDINC. Sept.3n . 1985
USS liltone
RATE OF EXCxaWIE                         1982    1983    1984                                                      [IRD       IDA
Outstanding & Diebursed                     2'T        MET
S1I5.00 - 7G                        349.74  430.45  576.60          Undisburced                                            180.5
rwi    - us$                        0.0029  0.0023  0.0017         Oucetanding ivc. Undishursed
27.7      489.2
jI Praont donal  et  t-s                                             /  Partse Club agred to roechedul. about $120 million in March
i- Includee not DHW credit, etate and private abort term                1984: London Club. 5195 million In Nay 1984.
capital, *rrmrs and coneolidated *rrears, and errore s4 Debt service paymnce an S of goods and rervices.
and omd mdone.                                                   lt Afcer affect  of debt reesbcdul'ng arrangement. .and
including payments of arrearas and IMF repurchase..
3A2IO
March 1986



ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC CF KADAGASCAI
A. St;tement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1985) 1/
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose                 Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
-( (USS Million)
Twelve Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                            32.57  139.93        -
CR  817-HAG  1978   Madagascar  Andekalekall                     40.60 2/  3.03
CR  881-HAG  1979   Madagascar  Kangoky - Agriculture            12.00      2.24
CR  938-HAG  1979  .Madagascar  Hlghways V                       24.00      0.57
CR  977-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Industrial Bank - BNI             5.00      0.92
CR 1002-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Water/Sanitation                 20.50      7.95
CR  903-HAG  1979   Madagascar  Railways II                      12.50      1.66
CR 1016-HAG  1980   Madagascar  Petroleum Exploration            11.50     5.30
CR 1064-NAG  1981   Madagascar  Agriculture Bank - BTH            2.30     0.99
CR 1086-HAG  1981   Madagascar  Plain of Antananarivo T.A.    11.50        3.63
CR 1155-HAG  1981   Madagascar  Accounting and Audit             15.00    10.78
CR 1161-HAG  1981   Madagascar Forestry II                        5.70     1.21
CR 1211-HAG  1982   Madagascar  Village Livestock IT 4/          15.00    11.27
CR 1249-HAG  1982   Madagascar  Agriculture  nsatitutloas         5.70     2.69
CR 1298-HAG  1982   Madagascar  Tsimiroro Heavy Oil
Exploration                  11.50     5.00
CR.1337-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Lac Alsotra                      18.00    15.69
CR.1391-MAG  1983   Madagascar  Sixth Highway                    25.00    22.38
CRJ 004-HAG  1983                -    -                          20.00    18.21
CR.1433-MAG  1983   Madagascar Cotton Development                 7.90     7.43
CR.F008-MAG  1983   _             -      -                        9.20     8.29
CR.F 1497-HMAG 1983   Madagascar Urban                           12.80    12.80
CR.1526-MAG  1984   Madagascar Cyclone Rehabilitation            15.00    10.69
CR.1541-MAG  1985   Madagascar Industrial Assistance             40.00    38.27
CR.1589-MAG3/1985   Madagascar Irrigacion Rehab.                 12.00    12.00
TOTAL                              32.57  428.05   180.49
of which has been repaid          4.88    3.46
TOTAL now outstanding              27.69  424.59
Amount sold
of wbich has been repaid            -      6.40
TOTAL nov held by Bank and IDA    28.96  489.23
TOTAL undisbursed                                     180.49
B. Statement of EC Investments (as of June 30, 1985)
Loan    Equity    Total
(US$ Million)
1977    Sotema - Textile Kill at Majunga       11.00    0.29     11.29
1980    Bata - Shoe Manufacruring in
Antananarivo                         1.25      -        1.25
1983    Pevherles de Nossi-Be                   2.57    0.18      2.70
1985    Cotona, S.A. at Antisirabe              6.65    0.17      6.82
Z2.06
1/  The status of projects listed in Part 'A' is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in uxecution, vhich is updated twica
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Including a suppleantal credit of USS10.0 million of 1950.
3/  Not yet effective.



ANNEX III
MADAGASCAR
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
I.     Time Table of Key Events:
(a)  time taken to prepare the project:               14 months
(b)  agencies which have prepared the project:        RNCFM - MTRT
(c)  date of identification mission:                  June 1984
(d)  date of appraisal mission:                      February 1985
(e)  date of negotiations:                           March 1986
(f)  planned date of credit effectiveness:            July 1986
II.    Condition of Effectiveness
Conclusion of subsidiary loan agreements, acceptable to IDA,
between the Government and RNCFM and the Government and SEPT
(para. 72).
III.   Condition of Disbursement
Disbursements will be made on account of cyclone repair and
rehabilitation expenditures only for items for which specific
execution arrangements are made in agreement with IDA (para. 75)..
IV.    Special Conditions:
(a) RNCFM will not undertake any investment which is not included
in its 1985-90 investment plan unless the economic justification of
such investment has been established in consultation with IDA
(para. 50).
(b) The Government and RNCFM will take all measures necessary to
implement the action program, as agreed upon with IDA, concerning
transportation between Fianarantsoa and the East Coast (para. 52).
(c) Retroactive financing will be provided up to a total of
US$500,000 for expenditures on cyclone repairs and rehabilitation
works after April 1, 1986.



IBR  1364SR
RAILWAY NETWORK            4                                                             i                                      MAC M A79
1   f t -t-        5   /1 It                                                                                  It
flit               it         ~~~~~~~MADAGASCAR                   <
t&.ida                                          RAILWAY  PROJECT                    IK 4      -.
MG=ii T   PWTRANSPORT SYSITE
-    $11          - ~~~~OtherRooJsUnder CoetucrIon  ~ 
ANTANANARNO                                               5         Surfaced Roadi       &i
P b o   *2w~~   vf  t //      ---  ~Nm lhrau.t Rods               ,       '%
thAlaWn"a Airor                            -       -
/.frs
be +s~ j  gon  in.c                            f~MhF
M i o-w 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tr
-   TaaIanaro                ASFSna 
D  i                           K^W311029S.xw                                         n          n Teag
F -nt ;;;  u* '- //          -"                                    \5~   a          Anrs.4t             |
-r -/E  .Moclbr                                                     - -lA
_ V ai,.:o,zbm                                                                                          O     e an         Ozr. ;fTt
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 Om)                                                 I
<;;  _    , ;, >    -Arobeobret_                   -                 __
qJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                   r      Tr,  g.       v   
t f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F R I C Ao
t . SP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ce ana-r.ow
-2.2  b   5                            90''a'-                   /                                             2r-~~~~~~~~~~~co
I   >otoebo   qes J          I  Wcthero      ,         flt       tco       t5~~~~~SC"
(/             v         ~~     ~    ~       ~~cj  c   4 Vra,             0     t      ID    2l     20






