Doaumst of
Tue World Bank
FOR OMJCIAL USE ONLY
Reporm N 12285
PROJECT COaPL TION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
THRD RAILWAYS PROECT
(CREDIT 1694-MAC)
AUGUST 25, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12285
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
ThiS document ha a restricd ditibu"o and may be used by recpients only in the perfomane off
thir official duties. Its contens may not otherwbe be disdosed without World Ebnk autoriation.-



CURRENCYQSXEI
Ma[Rtglv Fmc(h
xui                 US$1.00 Equivalent
(Average)
1985         -       662.5
1986                 676.3
1987         -      1,V69.2
1988         -      1,407.1
1989         -      1,603.4
1990         -      1,494.1
1991         -      1,835.4
1992         -      1,866.4
WEIGHIS AND MEASU
1 meter (m)                             =            3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (mn)                      =            35.29 cubic feet (cu.ft)
1 kilometer (km)                        =            0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (bn9)                =            0.386 square mile (sq.mi)
1 hectare (ba)                          =            2.47 acre (ac)
1 klogram (kg)                          =            2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)                    =            2,204 pounds (lbs)
1 liter (1)                             =            0.26 US gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE -        Caisse Centrale de Coopdration Economique (now Caisse
-      Francaise de Developpement, CFD)
RNCFM         Reseau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy
(Madagascar National Railway)
SEPT  -       Societe d'ExploIation du Port de ToaliasIna
-      (The Toamasina Port Authority)
ERR   -       Economic Rate of Return
Railway Lines:
TCE  -       Atananrivo - Cote Est Line
MLA  -       Moramanga  - Lac Alaotra Line
TA    -      Antananarivo - Antsirabe Line
FCE   -      Fianarantsoa - C8te Est Line
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICILX USE ONLY.
THE WORLD BANK
Washingtoni DC 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dtrector4General
Operations waluarUoa
August 259 1993
MEMORANDUM TO TRE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ME PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Madagascar
Third Railway Prote¢t (Credit 1694-HAG)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Madagascar -- Third
Railway Project (Credit 1694-MAG)" prepared by the Africa Region.  Part I!
contains the Borrower's comments.
Credit 1694-MAG (SDR10.4 million of May 1986) was to help ensure that
Madagascar's Northern railway system would operate efficiently over a 5-10 year
period. This would be accomplished through investments for line rehabilitation;
bridge reconstruction; and procurement of spare parts and maintenance equipment.
Institutional strengthening would be pursued through staff training overseas;
teebnical assistance; and studies to improve productivity. The French Government
provided financing for locomotives and passenger rolling stock.
Implementation of physical components was largely problem-free and
(excepting one and a half year's delay in line rehabilitation and bridge
reconstruction), largely on schedule and as buadgeted. Nevertheless, operational
objectives set at appraisal were not met. Traffic fell short of forecasted
levels; staff productivity declined almost by half between 1988 and 1992; the
railway has not covered its costs since 1987; financial management has been
unsatisfactory; and financial covenants were not met. The devaluation of the
local currency imposed an increasing financial burden, as the railway company was
bearing the exchange risk.
Deleterious effect of Government intervention in railway
operations; absence of user charge policies to encourage fair competition between
rail and roae transport; dangers of overstaffing -- all these were issues that
the Goverrment and the Bank knew to be important ever since 1974, when the First
Railway Project was approved. By 1986, when the Third Project was approved,
systematic confrontation of these very issues had become imperative. But lessons
from the two previous railway projects were not taken into account and neither
the Government nor the Bank chose to act vigorously. Overall, the project is
rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely, and its institutional
impact as negligible.
The PCR is comprehensive and summarizes adequately the experience
gained. The project may be audited together with the Second Railway Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Uortd Dank authorization.



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
MADAGAL..R
TMmAxXZQX- 64m
PROJEG 0MPLLQE=REPQ
Preface ..................................................I
EvIuation Summary...    ii
PARTI:PROJECTREVIEW FROM BANK'SPERSPEfITVE            ...          I
1. Project Identity   .....                         ..I
2. Backgound                       .....1
3.   ProjectObjectives and Deslption..                             2
Projectobjectives..                                          2
Projectdescription ................................... . . . .   2
4. Project Design and Organization        . . . . .. 2
5. Project Iplementation              ......3
6. Project Results -Operations          . . . . . .                3
Management Resuts......5
EconomicResuts. . .....
7. ProjetSustainbility. ...                   .......  6
8. BankPerformance ........6
9. Borrower Performance               ......7
10. ProjectRelationship              .......7
11. ConsultantServices              .......8
12.ProjectDocumentationandData           ....... 8
PART H:PRO& CTRE Bfy  FROM BORROWER'S PERSPEClTVE ............ 9
PART m: STASCALI                 .       ......... 13
1. Related BankCredits:           ......13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worl Dank authorization.



2.  Pnoject Timetable:    .................. ..................... .  14
3. Credit Disbursemesu                .......  15
4. Project Implementaion ....................                      16
5. ProjectCot adFncing ........ . . ...... .  17
6. ProjectRsut ...        .................    19
7. Staus ofLegalCovenuts ..     ........... 26
8. Use of Bank Resources ..................................... .   27
msions                    . . ............ 28
MAP: tBRD13645R ,      . . . . . *  . . . . * * * * * * * * *  * * * . 29



i
MAGASCAR
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT (Credit 1694M
PROJEC COMPLE NORT
PREEACX
1.  This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the TIrbd Railway Project in Madagasca
for which Credit 1694-MAG in the amount of SDR 10.4 million was approwved on May 8, 1986.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1992 one and a half yeas behind schedule. It was fully
disbursed and the last disbursement was on March 31, 1993.
2. The PCR was prepared jointly by the Infrastructure Division, South-Central and Indian
Ocean Department, Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summay, Parts I and  O) and by the
Borrwer (Pr U).
3.  Preparation of the PCR was stated during the Bank's fimal supervisionmsi  In November
1992, and is based, inter i_n, on the Staff Appraisa Report and the Credit and Project
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; and intemal
Bank memoranda.



ii
TR.tD RAUL AY PROJECT (CQreit SMEMO)
ERQm0fEiNm BE=
EVALAN SUMMARY
Objectives
1.  ITe main objective of the Third Railway Project was to ensure that Madagascar's Northerm
railways syste.n would operate at a reasonable level of efficiency over the immediate 5-10 year
period. This was paticuarly importa  for hauling bulk commodities (fuel, grains and chrome
ore) and containers and for Improving conditions for trade between the chromite mine and rice
growing area and the main port The invesment program Included the following components:
rehabilitation of the Moramang-Lac Alaotra (MLA) line; reconstruction of a major bridge and
cemnu plat tminal on the Anananarivo-Antsirabe CrA) line; spare parts for locomotives and
wagons; and equipment for track maintenance, cargo and container handling. Overseas
fellowshlps, technical assistance and studies to improve productivity were also included, as were
cyclone damage repairs after an umnsually fierce cyclone in 1986 had hit the main Northern line
and the port of Toamasina. The French Agency CCCE agreed to provide financing for
locomotives and pasenger rolling stock.
2. While the proje%t was a contuation of ear er programs, it was innovative in two areas, one
was in container handling by speciized equipment, the other in improved telom
by low-cost radio links. Since a couple of years prior to project preparation Wi important
financial and institutioal restrturing had taken place, providing more managerial freedom for
the railway, the roles of the institutions implemrenting the project were clearly defined, but
possibly not fully understood.
Jrnplement80n
3. Most of the project was implemented as foreseen and largely on time (i.e. by 1989/90). The
main exceptions were completion of the MLA rehabilitation and the bridge on the TA line. For
the MLA line, this was due to the fact that the scope of the project increased. Instead of 60 kn,
a total of 83 km had been relaid by 1990 and rail and steel sleepers procured for an additional
13 km of line. This allowed for the recentdy procured heavier AD)16 locomotives to have access
to this line, something which had not been foreseen initally. The bridge was delayed; the bridge
access was also done by contract, and not by the railway as originally planned. The only project
component not carried out was the road access improvement to the cement plant since this plant
never went on full scale operation. A more radical change occurred for the CCCE component.
Intead of procurement of locomotives and some passenger rolling stock, funds were in the end
reallocated for a total of 5 more powerful ADl16 locomotives.
4. These changes in the end were intended to minimize the adverse effects of changed market
or operating conditions. Four risk factors were identified at the time of appraisal: proijet
execution leading to higher cost or implementation delays, traffic levels different from expected
levels, rail/road modal distribution different from expectations and affecting the underlying traffic
forecast and unforeseen operaial disruptions. Project execution, with some cost increases, but
also due to a larger scope of the project, has been as foreseen, but the other factors have had a



greater IM      on the project Trade libealizadon made possible the Importation of haavy
second-hand trudck and other vehicles, but user charges such as fuel and vehicle taxes etc., were
not incresed, which caused more road competition than anticipated In the rall/road modal
distribution. Polical development In 1991 and 1992 (with strkes for several months and cut
of the main line by sabotage) also caused serious operational difficulties.
Resulb
S.  Ite objectve of mi==  of an efficient northern  ilway system has largely beeo
achieved, In particula by Imroved condition of the MLA line. Availability of main line
looomotives has been considerably higher ha in the absence of the prect, and not far frm
expectations. At the same time, staff productivity, due to lower traffic (in particular in 1991-92),
but also to staff increases, has declined since 1988. Productivity fell from about 95,000 traffc
units per enployee in 1988 to 51,000 in 1992.
6.  The raiway "ndrwent its first financial restuctuing in 1982, without sustined success.
The restucturing failed to create a long term balance between the firm's sources of funds and
its Instments, a prerequisite for sustainable financial viability. At the 1989 review of the
finncial situadon, RNCPM had accmulated losses of more tm thres quarters of its capital and,
with repeatedly negative resuts, stockholder's equity had disappeared and became negative. Since
then, an artific  balanc has been sustained through an accumulaten of arrears by RNCFM
towards debt service to the Government To reestablish original equity, the railway needed a
total of about FMG 63 billion (or about S times the capital), as of 12-31-92. Given the
deteriorating fncial situation at RNCFM, the only means of realistically and more permanently
correcting the sitaton is through an immediate and significant redesign of the intiti  and its
conditions of operation. Even then, the network can only sustain acceptable operag conditions
by eliminating ll unprofitable activities. Coverage of total costs by revenues for the whole
rilway did not occur since 1987, with annual losses of approximatly FMG 21 and 14 billion
In 1991 and 1992.
7.             results have been u ory as reflected in the financial performamce above.
Overseas scholaships and TA or study contacts have resulted in technically competent staff at
various levels. Unfortunately high-level management has been constrained either by external or
internal forces. During 1989-90 the relations between the manager and the Board of Directors
were strained. In 1991 and part of 1992, there were considerable difficulties between the
manager (not of railway origin) and the main unions. Ihis coincided with a period of much labor
unrest in Madagascar which led to considerable time lost to strikes.
8.  While the financa performance and sustanability of project improvements have bmn poor,
the direct ecomic results of the IDA supported project have been satisfactory. Overatl, using
the same metho&Alogy as at appraisal, the recalculated ERR, despite the traffic results in 1991-92,
is about 12 %. The only marginal project component, with an ERR of 8%, was the PK2 bridge
on the TA line, due to the reduced traffic on this line in 1992.
Sustalnability
9. While during the early part of project implementation, the railway performed as expected,
the financial restructuring of 1982 began to lose its positive impact after 1986. The managerial
difficulties of 1989 and the political situation of Madagascar in 1991-92 negatively affected the
railway. At the same time, the debt service burden, after several devaluations in the 1980s,



iv
increased far beyond the financial capacity of RNCFM. Some staff reductions took place in the
early part of project Implementation, but staff actually increased later when a furher deease
would have been needed.
10. Despite financial and managerial shortcomings, the impact of the project physical
improvement is susinable, but on condition that serious efforts are made by RNCFM and
Government to adapt the company to its changed transport market roles, as already stared with
a reduction of passenger sevices. The IDA financed project has essentially ensured that the
railway retains its competitive advantage for freight transport of grains and chromite ore. The
simultaneous French investment in new locomotives has provided the essential means for
transport of other bulk commodities such as petroleum products.
Thndings and Lessons Learned
11. A main lesson to be drawn concerning project design is to confirm that initiatives taken in
other transpot modes can have a significant effect on the viability of railways. Thus, though the
relationship with other government entitles (Transport, i7inace) was overall good, more attention
should have been given to ensure that libelization within the transport sector was carried out
in a more coordinated manner, to avoid the creation of an uneven playing field among transport
modes. This failure to compensate liberalization of road transport (and vehicle imports) with a
needed increase in user charges, only now being implemented, created a situation of unfair
competition for road versus rail transport.
12. From the standpoint of satisfaction of technical objectives, the project design was
appropriate. However, the definition of financial arrangements, in which RNCFM was
responsible for absorbing variations in foreign exchange value, proved to be onerous for a public
entity tha. at the same time had to service IDA funds on Bank lending terms as well as CCCE
credits. This was a heavy burden, which would have re,:2ired strong backing from Government
and forceful interventions at an early stage in order t. '-e borne successfully. In the event,
neither the Govermment nor the Bank exerted this strong external pressure. Actions on essentW
financial restructuring took over three years, which led to fiuther financial deterioration. lhe
Bank did not take prompt action concerning adherence to financial covenants.
13. As with other projects dealing with transport public enterprises, experience in this project
shows how little can be expected from a public enterprise when basic issues, such as too much
Government intervention, have not been addressed. Institutional development in the project met
with considerable difficulties, due in part to the political situation external to the railway, which
eventually led to poor operating performance. An important example is overstffing, which was
tolerted if not promoted in the context of the time. The overstaffing issue should have been
dealt with much more vigorously, but instead continued to play a major role in the financial
decline of the railway.



I
.AP-AGASCAR
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 1694-MAG)
PART l: POJECrT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSMEUM
1. Project Identity
Name:                     Railways m
Credit Number:             1694-MAG
RVP Unit:                 Africa Region
Sector:                   InfastrucAre
Subsector:                Trsport
Country:                  Madagascar
Executing Agencies:       Rdseau NationO des Chemins de Fer Malagasy (RNCFM)
SocitE d'Exploitation du Port do Toamasina (SEPT)
2. Background
2.01 Madagascar is the fourth largest island In the world, covering an area of about 590,000
sq.km, with about 12 million inhitants. It has a natural endowment in the agridculur sector,
Covering various ecological zones, with rice as the main food crop and widespread catle rasn.
-he topography is generally rugged and a central mountain rne traveres the country fom
north to south. The climate is may marine tropical with cyclones and heavy rainfll
particularly frequent on the east coasL Most exports, of which cofree, cloves, vaia and shrimp
are the most important, are of agricultural origin though some mieras, mainly grphite,
chr(mite and mica are also exported.
2.02 The transport sector in Madagascar accounted for about 14% of GDP and about 26% of
total government expenditures in 1989. Railway and road transport consttut the main modes
of transport both of passengers and freight within the island. Maritime transport is also Important
for freight (cabotage) and air transport, although limited in votlmue, is vital for passenger access
to many parts of the country. For externa transport, the largest volume of freight is handled by
maritime transport and virtually all passengers move by air services.
2.03  Tne combination of topography, sparse population and heavy rainll over much of the
isand makes traMsport cosly and difficult. The main concentration of population is in the central
highlands (1,300 meters altitude), where about half the inhabitants occupies a quarter of this large
island, and along the east coast, which has virtually no natura harbors. These  tors have
shaped the present transport system, and are also a cause of present constraints, as resources
continue to be very limited.
2.04 A main current government objective for the sector is to permit improved interchange of
production, thus contributing to improved food security, particularly in isolated parts of the
country, and enhanced export competitiveness, as well as economic diversification. Difficult
economic conditions many of the years in the last decade have had serious consequences for the
upkeep of large parts of the infrastructure. During the latter part of the 1980's road trsport
and import of vehicles were liberalized. TSis, the economic recovery unti 1990, and some



2
improved main roads, led to increase in road traffic. In contrast, transport by rail by that time
had only recovered to the level of 1980, and coastal shipping had declined for freight trnport.
The transport system now provides access for most urban population (25% of total) and a
majority of the most densely setled rural areas, either by road or by sea. An Important weakness
is that only some 15% of the total territory is covered by some 7,000 km of all-weather roads
in medium to good condition and by 800 km of rail line.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.01   Pie   The main objective of the Third Raflway Project was to ensure that
Madagascar's Northern railways system would operate at a reasonable level of efficiency over
the immediate S-10 year period. This was particularly important for hauling bulk commodities
(fuel, grains and chrome ore) and containers and for improving conditions for trade between the
chromite mine, main rice growing area and the main port. Therefore, In order to enable
RNCFM to maintain service and capacity at leveis prevailing at the time of appraisal in 1985,
the rehabilitation program initiated with the Second Railways project (Cr. 903, approved In 1979)
aimed at continuing with emphasis on selected Investments for track rehabilitation, maintac,
of and investment in rolling stock including locomotives, training of key staff and technical
assistance for institution building.
3.02              1 oectdescdon: Theprojectwas intendedto coverthe 198s6-1988 investmentprogram
with the following components: Permanent ay rehabilitation of about 60 km of track on the
Moramanga-Lac Alaotra (MLA) line (and a low cost telecommunications system for this line),
reconstruction of a major bridge on the Antananarivo-Antsirabe CrA) line, and construction of
ancillary facilities for a cement plant near Antsirabe. Rolling Stck: Provision of spare parts for
locomotive and wagons, and of five gang trolleys for track maintenance. In co-financing this part
of the project the French Agency Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE now CFD)
agreed in 1985 to provide financing for locomotives and passenger rolling stock. EmIuent:
Shop machinery, tools and equipment for cargo and container handling. Trainingand tchnical
assislane: Provision of overseas fellowships and technical assistance and studies to improve
productivity. Cyclone damage repairs: In March 1986 an unusually fierce cyclone hit the main
Northern line and the port of Toamasina. The project included funds for immediate damage
repair of both the railway and the port.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.01 The continued vital role of the railway in the corridor between the high plateau, the Lac
Alaotra area and the main port Toamasina, despite the opening of a paved road between
Moramanga and the coast, was clearly understood and agreed among the Govermnent, the
railway, IDA and its main cofinancing partner CCCE. The project was mostly a continuation
of earlier programs, but was innovative in two areas, one in container handling by specialized
equipment, the other in improved telecommunicatiorts by low-cost radio links. For a railway with
a limited and not rapidly growing market the overall scope of the project was approprlate, but
as it later turned out still too large for continued financial viability of the enterprise. The
preparation and timing of the project were also appropriate. Since a couple of years prior to
project preparation an important financial and institutional restructuring had taken place,
providing more managerial freedom for the railway, the roles of the institutions implementing the
project were clearly defined, but possibly not fully understood at all levels of the Government.
4.02 Project design was successful meeting almost all technical objectives, and in some cases
achieving more th  planned. At the same time, in combination with an adverse political
situation, the scope of project investments incurred a very serious financial degradation of the
ralway, m turn resulting in shortfall of some of the operational objectives. As required at the



3
tme, RNCFM was responsible for exchange rate losses, and for servicig IDA-fd    Bank
lendlng terms and CCCE-funds towards the Government, but could not sustain a program of this
scope under those conditions.
S. Project Implementation
5.01 Most of the project was Implemented as foreseen and largely on time (i.e. by 1989/90).
The main exceptions were completion of the MLA rehabilitation and the bridge on the TA in.
For the XALA line this was due to the fact that the scope of the p.roJect increased. Instead of 60
kn a total of 83 man had been relaid by 1990 and rail and steel sleepers procured fc an additional
13 km of line. This was included to allow the heavier Alsthom AD16 locomotlves access to tbis
line, and was not initially foreseen. The bridge works were delayed because the bridge access
was done by contract, not as originally foreseen. The only prject compcnent not carried out was
the road access improvement to the cement plant. Since this plant never went on full scale
operation, only some cargo handling equipment was bought (a font-end loader and a tuck)
which were later redeployed for the railway quarry operation. A more radical chage occurred
for the CCCE component. Instead of procurement of locomotives and some passenger rolling
stock, fud  were reallocated for a total of 5 more powerfil AD16 locomoties.  This
considerably improved the locomotive situation for the railway.
5.02  It would probably have been difficult to foresee these changes, which in the end were
intended to minimize the adverse effects of changed market or opraing conditions. Four risk
factors were identified at the time of appraisal: proect execut  leading to higher cost or
implementation delays, traffic levels different from expected levels, LWal/ad mod dlsIibuIIm
different from expectations and affecting the underlying traffic forecast, and unforeseen
gglrtionaA disruptions. Since project execution, with some cost increases, mainly due to a larger
scope of the project, has been as foreseen, the other factors have been more important for the
project. Libaalization made possible the importation of heavy second-hand trucks and other
vehicles. Without a needed increase in user charges such as fuel taxes, vehicle taxes etc., this
caused much more competition than anticipated in the rail/road modal distrbution. ITis in tum
reduced the scope for tariff increases by the railway, and for most years aft  1988 a serious cash
flow problem for the railway, and operational cor.- .ints. While productivity objectives were
met by 1988, and some staff was reduced by then, over-staffing became more and more an issue
with declining traffic. Unforeseen political developments In 1991 and 1992 (with strikes for
several months and cut of the main line by sabotage) also caused serious operational difficulties.
6. Project Results - Operations
6.01   The objecive of maintenance of an efficient northern ralway system has largely been
achieved, in particular by improved condition of the MLA line. AvailabilityI of main line
locomotives has been considerably higher than in the absence of the project, and close to expected
performance. At the same time staff productivity has decreased since 1988, prtdy due to lower
traffic (in particular in 1991-92), but mosdy due to staff increases whereas a reduction had been
negotiated with RNCFM. This, in turn, has led to very poor operating results.
6.02 Traffic at the time of appraisal was expected to grow to about 282 million tonkn. and
193 million passengerkn for the Northern system by 1988 (in 1985: 224 nillion tonkm and 180
million passengerkin). In reality by 1988 freight traffic was 218 million tonkm., with 240 million
passengerkm. (equal to 458 million traffic units). By 1990 freight traffic was 211 million
tonkm. and passenger traffic (largely by eliminating loss-making suburban traffic) declined to 196
million passengerkm. (See Annex 6.) These declines were exacerbated by the political events
in 1991 and 1992, so that by 1992 traffic units (freight tonkin. and passengerkin.) had dropped
to about 260 million, including an alarmingly low level of about '60 nillion freight tonki./year.



4
his was also pardy due to a deliberate reduction In passenger services. Employee prductiviy
fell from about 95,000 traffic units per employee in 1988 to 51,000 iL 1992. As of October 31,
1992, there were a total of 4,900 RNCFM employees, while the Northem Network would require
a maximum of some 1,500 employees to operate all-freight traffic on a profitable basis. Thus,
the over-staffing, present already in 1987, did not decrease during the period considered.
Flnandal results
6.03 With over 85% of operational earnings coming from the f*eight traffic on the Northern
Network, various increases in tariffs were implemented to compensate for thbis drop in feight
traffic. Despite these actions, the average turnover dropped 22% from 1990 to 1991/92. Duing
this time, RNCFM also sustained a constant increase in Its fixed costs, mainly a large increase
in the cost of personnel. Financial costs associated with RNCFM's long and medium term
liabilities grew to equal more than 100% of the revenues from the railway's operation in 1991.
On the basis of the 1991 figures, esdmated costs and returns are completely disproportionate,
with the average tota cost per unit of traffic three times greater than the revenue. (See Annex
6.) Personnel costs in 1991 and 1992 absorbed 60% to 65% of the proceeds from railway
operatons, in comparison to the figures from 1987 to 1990, where these costs represented only
40% of RNCFM's railway revenues. Coverage of total costs by revenues for the whole railway
did not occur since 1986, with annual losses as important as approximatey FMO 21 and 14
billion by 1991 and 1992. The accumulated total losses over the period 1987-1992 represent
approximately FMG 63 billion or about 5 times the capital of RNCFM. Ihe cumulative
operating losses represented about 5 billion FMG by 1992. TIhis situadon, which intensified in
1992, resulted in precarious day by day management for RNCFM.
6.04 The first financial restructuring, in 1982, failed to create a long term balance between the
firm's sources of funds and its investments, a prerequisite for susainable financi viability. At
the 1989 review of the financial situation, after increasing losses in 1987 and 1988, RNCFM had
annual losses of more than three quarters of its capital equity (a condition of legal bankruptcy).
And, with repeatedly negative results, stockholder's equity had disappeared completely and
become negative in 1990. An artificial balance was being sustained through an accumulation of
arears for RNCFM towards debt service and the Governme. Given the deteriorating financial
situation at RNCFM, the only means of realistically and more permanendy correcting the
situation would have been through a significant redesign of the institution and its conditions of
operation. And, even then, the network could only sustain acceptable operating conditions by
eliminating all unprofitable activities, such as most of the passenger traffic, to the extent feasible,
and non-railway related activities (forestry, saw-mill, quarries). Today, the operating results
from the freight operation of the Northern network (without accounting for depreciation and
financial costs) can be estimated at 10% of the earnings from this business. The results from the
operation of the Southern network (efore depreciation and financial costs), indicate a small loss.
6.05 Towards the end of the project, a restructuring plan agreed late in 1992 has begun to
create normal and acceptable financial conditions for a reorganized and redesigned Northern
network, while allowing it to sustain all provisional operations it can manage during the recovery
period. The replenishment of capital funds was planned to be attained, in part, through the
revaluation of assets, essential under the prevailing macro-economic situation, and the remainder
through capitalization of the accumulated long-term debt. Permanent capital was scheduled to
be generated from the consolidation of mid-term loans, denominated in FMG from part of the
arreas in repayment of the principal.
6.06 The railway could sustain its freight operation of the Northern network. As of the project
completion, this operation had the potential to recover a positive balance and to improve its
technical capability to compete with the road. During the last year of the project, it was agreed



5
that, following the closure or privatization of all unprofitable centers and the revitization of all
the centers with profit potential, RNCFM was to cate a new finamcial and regulatory frmework
and modify its tariff policy and commercial practices. In order to improve prc4uctivity, the
company would be redesigned at the institutional and technical levels to ensue greater balan
between supply and demand of railway transport. A viable proposal would entail the drafting of
a General Operations Plan, defined through a framework of financial restructuring, along with
a Contract Plan for relations between the railway and the government.
Management Results
6.07   Results have been mixed over time as reflected in the financial perfbrmance above.
Throughout almost the entire project period there has been a series of overseas scholarships and
visits from abroad under TA or study contracts. This has resulted in technically competent staff
at various levels. Unforunely high-level management has been constrained either by exten
or internal forces. During 1989-90, the relations between the manager and the Board of
Directors were strained. In 1991, and part of 1992, there were considerable difficulties between
the manager (not of railway origin) and the main unions. This coincided with a period of much
labor unrest in Madagascar which led to considerable time lost to strikes. Now, with new
management since early 1992 and a new Board of Directors since the middle of the year the
sitadon has considerably improved.
Enomic Regults
6.08   While the financial performance and sustainability of project improvements have been
poor, the direct economic results of the IDA financed project components have been satisfactory.
Overall, using the same methodology as at appraisal, the recalculated ERR, despite the traffic
results in 1991-92, Is about 12 % compared to 16% expected. The ERR's for Individual project
components vary from 8% to 19%. For the project component relating to the MLA line (line
rehabilitation and telecommunications improvement) the ERR is 12%, for sp&c parts 19% and
for container handling equipment 15% despite low traffic. The only marginal project component,
with an ERR of 8%, was in retrospect the PK2 bridge on the TA line, due to the drastic traffic
reduction on this line during 1992. A return to the pre-1991 traffic levels would provide an
acceptable return also for this component. No economic analysis has been made for the CCCE
financing of locomotives, but since these 5 new units provide about a third of actual total motive
power capacity on the Northem network their justification in tenns of otherwise lost traffic is
strong.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01    While, during the early part of project implementation, the railway performed at
expected, the financial restructuring of 1982 began to lose its positive impact after 1986. The
managerial difficulties of 1989 and the political situation of Madagascar in 1991-92 negatively
affected the railway. At the same time, the debt service burden, after several devaluations in the
late 1980s, increased beyond the financial capacity of RNCFM. Some staff reductions took place
in the early part of project implementation, but staff actually increased later, when a fiurher
decrease would have been more appropriate. This became especially critical in 1992, when after
the 1991 strikes and civil unrest, substantial salary increases were granted to restore the 1987/88
purchasing power.
7.02    Physical improvements of the project are sustainable despite these financial and
managerial sh3rtcomings, but on condition that serious efforts are made by the railway and the
Government to adapt RNCFM to its changed role in the new transport market situation. This
process has already started with a reduction of passenger services, initially of suburban services,



6
but now also of much of the long-distance services where alternative transport means exist. The
IDA financed project has essentially ensured that the railway reins Its competitive advantage for
freight tranWort of the Northern network and specifically for transport of grains and chromite
ore. The simultaneous Frelch investment in new locomotives has provided the essential means
for transport of other bulk commodities such as petroleum products. Some of these expensive,
foreign borrowed resources were also used for spare parts. Cash generation should have been
adequate fbr this kind of operating expense by a railway.
8. Bank Perfomce
8.01 Overall performance has been satisfactory with regard to technical implementation of the
project, and particularly in respect of cost limits and timnJg. The project has also been modified
to take into account changed requirements and circumstances as they emerged in the period 1988-
90. Savings by tot carrying out the link between the rail terminal close to Antsirabe and the
cement plant were instead used to increase the IDA participation in the MLA line improvement
and the TA line PK2 bridge. This also allowed releasing more funds for much needed spare parts
when It became clear that locomotive upkeep was a serious problem.
8.02 The early stages of the prcject cycle went well, with preparation sufficiently advanced to
permit the pre-appraisal mission to be converted to an appraisal. The appraisal process also went
smoothly, including close collaboration with the main co-donor: CCCE. This allowed a
processing time of less than two years from identification to Board approval. Iniily, the project
was intended as a combined port and railway project. However, since preparation for the port
component was taldng longer than anticipated, It was decided to advance the railway as a separate
project Despite this, most of the supervision of the two projects has been combined in order to
economize staff time.
8.03  TechnIcal implementation was adequately supervised. Nevertheless lack of continuity of
Bank staff has been a problem, with only one staff member following the project tiroughout
implementation. In particular, four engineers and four financial analysts have been involved with
supervision during the project cycle. This was less critical for the technical supervision, where
procurement problems were adequately resolved, than for financial supervision where more
timely action would have been needed. At the same time as physical implementation made good
progress, the financial and managerial situation deteriorated as explained above. In retrospect
the Bank should have been more forceful during implementation to ensure adherence to financial
covenants and better managerial performance.
8.04    A main lesson concerning Bank performance is that design of the project did not
adequately recognize the limits of likely financial performance of a parastatal, when account is
taken of exchange rate variations. Other structural problems such as overstaffing and government
interference were not well recognized. Another lesson is the need for prompt action concerning
adherence to financial covenants. More forceful intervention at an early stage, when reasonable
performance as reflected in financial covenants was lacking, would have been justified.
9. Borrower and RNC1FM Performance
9.01 As with Bank staff, performance by the Borrower and RNCFM was good concerning
implementation of physical project components. At the same time the institutional development
met considerable difficulties, and, in part due to the political situation external to the railway: this
led to disastrous financial and eventually to poor operating performance. Finally in 1992, a new
manager and a new board of directors were selected, which showed considerable promise of
Improvements. The strucural problem of overstaffing in particular, was only dealt with to a
minor degree in the beginning, and loss-making passenger services only curtailed in 1992.



7
9.02    In general, however, project management and deployment of staff and consultant
resources for the project has gone well. Over time RNCFM has become more convinced about
the merits of contracting out services which are not directly related to railway cperations. An
example is the PK2 railway bridge which Initily was supposed to be a steel bridge delivered
under contract, but with supervision and bridge access provided by the railway. In the end,
bridge access was provided by the contractor, and works supervision by outside consulta. One
of the results was that the overall cost was less than half of the original estimate, even if account
is taken of some pending contractor's claims.
9.03 RNCFM has also made good use of other outside services. Consultants and contractors
from several firms and at least half a dozen different nationalities have been used in the project,
not only resulting in competitive prices but also in generally good performance. 'he main lesson
for the performance of RNCFM is that the process of taking remedial action after managerial
difficulties and performance was much too slow. Effective action concerning essential financial
restructring took over three years.
10. Project Relationship
10.01 'rhe relationships between the Bank, RNCFM and main co-donor agency were very good
throughout the project. Most supervision was done jointly with the CCCE and the dialogue with
RNCFM was fraik and largely constructive. In general supervision was instrumenl in correctly
modifying the project according to changed circumstances. The only exception as indicated above
is that the two main lenders should have been more forceful in using available remedies to
enforce financial covenants. This would have had immediate detrimental effects on the physical
implementation (leading to cost increases) and delays but would have set a stronger base for
sustainable development of RNCFM.
10.02 The relationships with other government entities have also been good during the project.
Nevertheless, as in this case, the government ministries immediately concerned Crransport,
Finance) ought to have taken more radical and rapid action concerning the management situation
of the railway. More attention should have been given to ensure that liberalization within the
transport sector was carried out in a more coordinated manner, to avoid the creation of an uneven
playing field among transport modes. This liberalization became more far-reaching than
anticipated in the highly regulated market of 1985. This failure to compensate liberalization of
road transport (and vehicle imports) with a needed increase in user charges such as fuel taxes and
vehicle taxes etc. which are only now implemented, created a situation of unfair competition for
road versus railway transport. This contributed to the financial problems of the railway.
11. Consultant Services
11.01 The project made significant, but not excessive, use of consultants for the project.
Initially the borrower was more interested in technical assistance for training and studies, but later
as indicated also began using consultants for contract supervision. The consultants for the PK2
bridge were a local firm, which was accepted by the Bank, provided that the firm had an
established relationship with a foreign firm to back them up in case of any special difficulties.
This worked well but unfortunately could not prevent the construction company from suffering
cost overrun, for which it has made a claim.
11.02 The Bank, through the use of consultants from several countries, both in the preparation
phase and implementation, has had a positive effect in providing varied services and points of
view. International competitive bidding has also clearly resulted in better prices than overwise
,vould have been the case. Thus the PK2 bridge, by allowing an alternative design (using



8
concrte rather than steel construction) resulted In final cost of less than half of orginal estimates,
and a supplementary bid for track material was won by non-traditional suppliers for the railway.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01 The legal documen were clear enough to avoid any complications or misunderstandings
during implementation. As required by the Bank policy at the time, the legal framework as
reflected in the Credit/Project Agreements was totally unsound. It was not realistic for the
railway to carry the burden of currency exchange variations as well as the onlending of funds on
Bank rather than IDA terms for a parastatal under free and open road competition not supporting
its infrastructure costs. The staff appraisal report, translated into French, was useful for
negotiations, but a revised version of the final buff cover should also have been prepared and
made more widely available.
12.02 Most data for the PCR was available through supervision reports and/or a very good
monthly "Tableau de Bord" prepared by the railway. Despite this, some of the statistical data
for certain years was contradictory or not completely reliable. A modenization of data
processing, by more widespread use of microcomputers, would have been useful.



9
MADAGASCAR
THIRD RAILWAY PROEC  (CED             1694MAG
PROJECT COBRLED  EPR
PART U: PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERPEI
1. Project Objective:
The project objective set at appraisal has not been met. By and large, traffic levels fell far short
of the esdmated levels, despite the positive performance posted in 1988 (458 million T.U. -
passenger km + freight ton km). The effects of the sociopolitical crisis that hit the country In
1991 considerably blunted the results achieved in 1991 and 1992.
However, it proved to be technically and financially necessary to implement the project in order
to avoid further worsening the situation of the railway network.
The planned operations, in which the needs had been satisfactorily identified, were almost all
implemented. The only component abandoned was construction of a road linking Antsirabe to
the lbity cement plant.
In the end, the following components were effectively implemented:
- track rehabilitation;
- construction of a new PK2 bridge on the TA line;
- replacement of the telecommunications system on the MLA line;
- procurement of locomotives and spare parts;
- procurement of various items of infrastructure material and equipment;
- procurement of equipment for the workshops; and
- provision of technical assistance and implementation of a training program.
2. Project Implementation
The RNCFM strove to implement the project su -sfully. At the beginning of the period the
RNCFM made vigorous efforts to implement the asures envisaged in the finacial recovery
program formulated since 1982, which augured well for proper start-up of the project.
The financial situation improved, and the RNCFM was in a position to itself defray the expenses
that would be incurred by its participation in the various potential investment operations.
nis favorable situation lasted until 1987, the year in which the Malagasy currency was heavily
devalued.
Project implementation was as follows:



10
Track Equipment
The invitation to bid for the supply of metal sleepers ane fastenings was issued in September
1986. The contract was eventually awarded to the supplier in 1987 owing to a problem that arose
at the time of the award. The Bank originally expressed reservations about the choice of supplier
but withdrew them after some months of discussion.
Delivery was therefore made only in 1988.
Construction of the PK2 bridge on the TA line
The RNCFM was lissatlsfied with the allocation for construction of the PK2 bridge on the TA
line, which included the bridge access, if the metal bridge option was selected. For this reason,
at the time of the first invitation to bid the RNCFM included construction of the actual bridge in
its package and planned to use its own funds for the work on the bridge access.
In 1987, the RNCFM and the Bank studied and later approved the technical studies prepared by
the foreign consultants for preparation of the bidding documents.
Contrary to the plans, there was advance preselection of candidates in 1988 in order to speed up
the analysis and selection of bids, thus prolonging the consultation phase. Approval of the
bidding documents also required several extra months. In fact, the dossier had to be drawn up
on the basis of two successive proposals because of the absence of the Bank's standard
documents. Awarded in 1990, the works using the reinforced concrete option only got off the
ground in April 1991, at the start of the dry season, and were completed only in June 1992.
As a resut of the bidding referred to above, and given its lack of funds, the RNCFM sought
Bank financing for construction of the bridge access. The invitation to bid was issued late in
1990. The contracted was awarded in 1991, but only reported in December 1991 because of
political events and the contractor's insistence that a price-review clamse be included In the
contract; the RNCFM refused to include such a clause. The works were completed In late 1992.
Spare Parts
The supply of spare parts for maintaining the rolling stock proceeded without major obstacles.
Most of the parts were delivered in 1987 and 1988.
By reallocating part of the remaining credit it was possible to procure a sizeable lot of extra spare
parts in 1991, greatly alleviating pressure on finances and rolling-stock maintenance alike.
Equipment and Materials
Supply of materis for maintaining the railway line, including the five locomotives as well as
tools, plus equipment for workshops, posed no problem and proceeded on schedule.
The same is true of supply of the container handling equipment.
Telecommudications on the MLA   ne
The study resulted in the choice of a system, which proceeded in accordance with the established
schedule. The invitation to bid was issued in 1987 and culminated in notification of the award
in 1988.



11
The installation of the new system on the MLA line did, however, encounter problems linked to
the failure of certain components that had to be replaced with parts dispatched from the supplier's
factories. The supplier's technicians also had to intervene on several occasions after the
provisional delivery announced in 1990.
Study and Technical Assistance
All in all, the activities planned were conducted satisfactorily. Additional services for monltoring
the construction work on the PK2 bridge and for preparatory studies (transport of chrome ore,
infrastructure diagnosis and long-term plan for reform and modernization) were financed out of
the loan with the Bank's agreement.
Human-resource management has not been pursued.
Trainig
In addition to the consultants' training of instructors, several of the supervisory staff received in-
service training in a more developed railway network.
3. Financial Situation During the Period of the Project
From 1987, the year in which the Malagasy currency suffered a significant devaluation, the
RNCFM was no longer able to meet its obligations, particularly with regard to debt service.
TIen came 1988 which saw the addition of other obligations, including social and fiscal debts.
In view of the accumulation of arrears and considerable cumulative losses, the RNCFM is no
longer able to entertain normal or viable long-term line-haul without some profound restructuring.
Indeed, the RNCFM posted annual losses ranging from 2.6 to 21.7 billion FMG between 1987
and 1991, and losses in the region of 13.8 billion FMG are expected in 1992.
4. Restructuring Measures
In order to redress the firm's situation, the RNCFM and the State have undertaken to make every
effort to implement the following recommendations made by the Bank:
a) Freezing of debts at December 31, 1992; accounting reconciliation; and decision on
the final amounts to be restructured;
b) Inclusion of the State's financial operations in the 1993 Finance Law;
c) Reevaluation of the RNCFM's assets;
d) Establishment of a regulatory framework for rail/road competition;
e) Closing down of the Northern network's passenger transport service, limiting it o the
MLA line (Autorail); separate accounting;
f) Restoration of the locomotive power selected on the Northern freight network;
g) Total separation of the CIBA-CARRIERE SOUTHERN NETWORK Into subsidiaries
("filialisation");



12
h) Personnel regime: common law;
i) Streamining the work force through systematic retirement, appropriate application of
the pre-retirement system, generalized incentives for retirement following 15 yea  of
service, and establishment of a social plan in which contract employees, temporary
workers and jobbers, are separated. Creation of a pool of service providers;
j) Change in the status of the SEIRNCFM and creation of a stock company and one or
several line-haul companies;
k) FinancW restructuring;
1) Creation of an emergency decision-making committee;
m) Restoring financial balance by the end of 1993.
5. Cooperation Between the RNCFM and the Bank
There has been excellent cooperation between the Bank and the RNCFM in implementing the
project. The Bank consultants provided constant assistance throughout the project period, making
a significant contribution in terms of advice and recommendations.
Al In all, the RNCFM is satisfied with the Bank's activities.



- 13 -
MA-AGSCAR
MllD RlAILWAY 1ERQ(= -(CREDIT1
PROD= COMELfflQN EPO
EART 111: ESEQR M
1.      Relatd Bank Credits:
Cr. 488-M)A          6 milon dollam would be spe    97 2           Closd           Thre ye au   tn aci
Railwa  I           over$ Iba.yearperid for tnak                                   te prjct ld t be ali
ewal, prca of roling dok                                      dowawued beue of
ad provs oofcomuwas u sevik g                                             c<c  a  dmr i
tola           eepe mp_mageopertonal                                        Flusnelal ad
and inac  polce and pracei_ese
poor. lbe ematd     taof rum
_________ was lm than 10%.
Cr. 90g-M           43.7 mlo dollrs would be   t     1979          Cloe            Due to d   i b_e
Raiwas a            owra fve.yearpe sod t elowewI f
=d imm"aUNCIM. upbAt                                           a  woe   mde w aid few
boI_"6pcwehma 0 a r,                                          equinPtd"  ft_
moawF faktwasm  41m                                           W-                ftqw _i en   ;
sepie                                         bhowv  the need fw tabig ad
wodchop eqpkmentimprove                                             sausn  to RN(CP'
fincial anaganeL                                              Wut aufficiamy tae hino
Alo" with Railway UI. t
-           keqpaing opralos
P*the mos crca vaen "A o h
ldkeanspw tonnfttfue
bland



-14 -
2. Project timetable:
item               Date planed   Revised data   Actual date
at apprasal
Identification                         -       July 24, 1984
(Project Briet)
Preparation                 .                  Sept- Oct 1984
Appraisal                .                     Feb 1985
Credit negotiations      -                      Mar 17-21, 1986
Board approval     Dec 1985            .        May 8, 1986
Credit signature                                May 20, 1986
Credit effectiveness   Mar 1986        .       Oct 16, 86
Credit closing     Dec 31, 1989  Jun 30, 1991   Dec 31, 92
Credit completion    Dec 31, 1990  Dec 31, 1991  Jun 30, 93



- 15 -
3. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative disbursements
Quarter      Appraiia      RiviW            Aci          Actual/appmis-    A
estimate      estimate                      estimate (%)     estimate (%)
(Us$ million)  ($ miU Lo    (Us$ minion)
31-Dec-86              0.7             0            0.18             25.71             NA
30-Jun-87              2.1          0.65           0.68             32.38           104.62
31-Dec-87              3.1          2.86            1.94             62.58            67.83
30-Jun-88              4.5           5.5           6.03             134.00          109.64
31-Dec-88              5.9           7.77           7.47            126.61            96.14
30-Jun-89              7.5          7.77           7.78             103.73          100.13
31-Dec-89              9.3            8.9            8.9             95.70          loo.00
30-Jun-90             10.9          9.13            8.9              81.65           97.48
31-Dec-90               12          9.66            9.66             80.50           100.00
30-Jun-91              12          10.27          10.26             85.50            99.90
31-Dec-91               12          10.65          10.64             88.67            99.91
30-Jun-92              12          12.87           12.86            107.17           99.92
31-Dec-92               12          14.07          14.03            116.92            99.72
15
13 
12 -E
11 
10
9
B -
7 -
6
S
4
3 
2-
I
31-Dec-8             31 -Dcc .7831-Dec-90    I                 31-De~c-92
31-Dec-87           31-Dec-89             31-Dec-91
0 Appraisal estimate + Revised esdmate ° Actual
Date of final disbursement:  March 31, 1993



- 16 -
4.      Project Implementation
Actual and c~ete  hvaical comi,ltoXn
M44cr co~e _  .           f_Uhe ofoompletloo       of wuo compnoai         DM olu   of        eow      n
MCKSO
Trck rnomwatl               83 km                   60km                    MO_99   _99_
Numbert ofdep_              50,000                  10.000                 19_                Junc 1986
Wo&oon PC bg8e              l50 m                   l50. m          _                          Bad 1988
Rail mu ai_ cam             S                       5                      19_ 9 _u_1986
EQUIP NTAID TOOLS                                                                                          I
CoAiw eh.andlingdevloe      2                       2                      189                Aum1987
Cod olailng davoe.          I                       1                      1988               Jun.1981
Dialidose_                  0                       1                                         lum 1987
T    sck  nt_me                                     .9                                         Jun. 1987
1 ----
TeeomKn. MLA,               I eysam                 I syaw.                Octobe 1990        Jun 1986
$SpS paro                   I la                    Int                    198748              Apzl987
lblty  mml                  .                       .u.  1989
CYCLONE DAMAGE                                      .                      198849              1987
RWPARt                                          _
TECHWICAL ASSWFANC
QuArry etpMlokabo           53 Man-muatha           6 Manm-moas                                1986
T. amp   m psuz             323S man-months         8 man-aouhf.           1989                1986
Wordkhop ptsnai48           2 nun-wmouhs            8 man-mouhs                                1987
Track  aints e              .75 mn-uontha           8 man-monbs                .               1987
Trani_                                              48 man-movnth          1997
PIC2 bridge (aVpeMuono      S2 numnmonths           18 mnoths              1992                1987
STDf                        ___ _               _  _ _           _     _  _ _           __         _     _
I w s 
Seepr production            3.3 nwn-moths           12 nu-monsths          1989                1986
Teecom. b)AI                3.8 mau"unmuhs          8 maow-month           .                   1986
Ibhy tonnigJ                6 musamonths            -                      1986                1986
'AAW*OWX AJl C4t WO    in IMW 13UG  see SW copi ,:         I 47    t rf a



- 17 -
S. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project costs
Categwoy                ltmatadcOsm ( SDRt )       Ar(DR'M                  I   l I
._____________.______   Lacal  Foreign   Total   Loal ForTs otal tu
INFRASIRUCnIUR
Tracks (MIA line)                          939   2941       380    1940   3501       541             140
Bridge PK2 (TA line)                       976   2430       3406      13   1450      1463            43
Ancillaiy faciities (Ibity)                359     264       623       0      0         0             0
Tunnel                                       0       0         0      92    698       790           NA
Otherwo*s                                    0       0        0      794      0       794           NA
Total                                     2274   5635       7909   2838   5650       8488            107
ROLLING STOCK
LTcomotnies                                  0   3331       3331    1242   6379      7621           229
Passenger equipment                          0   3136       3136      0       0         0             0
}e oy"t equiprnent                    0     652       652       0       0        0              0
Total                                        0    7119m     7119   1242   6379       7621            107
TELECOMMUNICA7TlONS
Switchboard                                 23    397        420       7     106      114            27
Radio sWtem MIA                            177    600        777    134    649        783           101
Totl                                       200    997       1197    142    7S5        897             75
CONTAIDNR  EQUIPMENT                        30     470       500     28    476        504            101
MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
Toos                                       111   2135       2246    724   2247       2971            132
Sparn pars                                  41    1611      1651       0    2778     2778            168
Rai mainteuano cam                          24     150       174     41     431       472           271
ToWa                                       176   3895       4071    765   5456       6222            153
CYCLONE DAMAGE                             308    1720      2028     6      1456     1519            75
MISC trainin studies, techim auisL         691    2418     3109    336   2952        3288           106
~CODPTINOE3NCI3S                          1W      1646 __7__                  0         0A-           0
l TOTAL                                1   48171  o9o1   287181  S4131 23126w   285391                99
Tho exchnge rates used for the estmated o   e those of Marc 1, 1986 (appras
IUSS$' 631 FPM; IUSS - 6.8317P; 1SDR - l055 US$
Tbe eXChange rates used fr the actual Cs   an those of Februay 18,1993 :
1USS  186.38 FMG; 1US$ *5.0S FP; ISDR - 137229 US$



Projec     - SDRancinh
Planned   cF         (l96) Pm           al 2 2 ma              Fina    ( 
1. Wozs undtrpat A of thepmject              2000  19.   1450  13.   SOO  5.1   5'139  S.4_ 889  27.   2297  16.
2.Trackmatoiial                              1900  1&    2660  25.   700  7.6   6434 6.i    625  19.   4960  35.
3. Spae pos for rollig stoc and mote ppor     1300  12.   2605  2S.  180  19.  21801  22.    117  3.6   1957  14.
4 Eqipmet and toos (a)                       1470  14.   1125  10.    700, 0      811  0       153  4.7    434  3.1
S. daoswtane srviaNos     ip8                 NO860  8.2   1066  10   10000  10.  14418  14.    460  14.    859  6.2
6. Woks and m uiab fr pat H oftbe proje       860  82    602  5.8       0   0       0   0    205  6.3    160  1.1
7.Wo*s-anmdmielsforpart I of thptect          860        &854  82       0   0       0   0       0   0        0   0
S.R.fbndiogofProjsctPPparatioa Adnc           170  1.6      0   0       0   0       0   0       0   0        0   0
9.UaLlocaed                                   980 9.4       0  0     4800   4.8     0   0    78 23.          00 _ 
10. Otber b)                                     0 0        00   513005  2. 48766  49.          0   O   3175 22.
IT(TAL                                   I  104001 10_0  103621 1001 980001 h1  97570 _100   32071 1001 138421 100
-In the Ciedit Aeemnt
Part A: zhablitation of tracks, _.Oz3 t  ofidgts, C0_tuctM of aCnilay fciites
Pat H: Rpaim neenitated byt hw amags caed by zeet qcdoks on faclities of RNCFM
Pant  Repaii neenduid by the damages caued by noecydnesat facilities of S5ff
(a) Equimnt and tools ae for woibops. materi handling. track maintenamce,            and taining
(b) Paned fin   g om  CCCE idude: Locomot    24,00 - Pamn    epm       t 22,600 - Fesight eqient 4.700
Fins fiacig fiom CCE ad inonduds lommos.
financig km RNCFM               b nddes locumotbm



- 19 -
6. PROJECT RESULTS
Dlrect benefits
II .98       1:98S.    1. :t      ...    . ;9.87~    198  1989  *990  1f9 .    1  199.::2]fw..........  t*
___ d. :' .cUa    ActUal   AoU* .i{  ^                            At?l 
PASSENGERTRAIC
Nb of passengers:
North                        2012500  2409100  2260200  2358700  1922800  197:W   1970600  1012806   754853
South                         275000  415700   484100   499500   473500    4.0_    324500   179854   2S07
Total                        2287500  2824800  2744300  2858200  239-S6300 2--       2295100  1192660  1035628
Passengers-kru ('000t): -    _  
Pnorthr                       157000   176000   179000   214000   178000   170000K  178000    84608    8085
South                          280       23000    26000    26000    23000    23660    18000    10164 _1834
Total                          1750001 199000  205000   240000   201000   193C00  196000    9472    9888
Evolution  asge 100 in 1986)       87.9    100.0    103.0    120.6    101.0       97.0     98.5     47.6      49.7
FREIGTTRAIC(a)
Nb of toans:
Rice                           99614    84481    60864    59380    41153   ILVM        25346    14714    18044
Wheat                          56298    61103    59067    69278    36542    5X         39428    24251    16461
Chromite                     100549   104781    86152   128183   144985   1300XO   1S3235   110982   112602
Hydrmcabon                    134518   132948   131585   125713   125979   153CW    144818   111448   128729
Containers                     24638    23101    19517    31878    29443    24060    41209    18646    11042
Other                         229794   234026   238796   214362   200083   247000   199513   162200   164470
Total                         645411   640440   595981   628794   578185   754000   603551   442241   451348
Tons-kin ('000):i
Rice                           32783    27071    18343    18052    12511   .53          7350     5753      5661
WReat                          21822    228S      23597    27780    14627    27()    20226    12489        8501
Chrorifte                      39415    41074    33913    50248    56834    5400       59915    43283    44046
Hydrocaron                     49319    48659    48393    48022    51502    61000    56479    43576    50006
Containers                      9510      8839     8062    12050    12861      9000   15329      6583      4130
Other                          76411    73505    68616    61804    56941    78000    51996    45622    48297
Total                  229260~~~----  221953   2094 2179561 205282   2821%    211295   157306   160641
Evolution (base 100 in 1986)      103.3    100.0      90.5     982      92.5    127.1      95.2     70.9      72.4
ITOTAL UNTS OF TRAFFIC    i404260   4209531  4059241  4579561  4062821  4 73CWJI 4072951  2S207Sf 259526
Eolution (base 100 i 1986)           961   100.0      96.4 l   108.8 1    96.5   112.81    96.8    59.91    61.7
Year of appraisal, during which the 1990 forecast was made.
(a) - From 1985 to 1989. the figures of traffic by categoty refer to the whole networlk
- For the years 1990 to 1992, the figures only refer to the Northern network. Othere hence includes other traffic for the Northem
network and the traffic of the Southern network (except for forecast 1990, for which ootbee refers only to the Northem network
- The Northern network is by far the most important one as the Southem network only amounts to an average of 7% of the
Northem one in terms of tonnage and to 2.4% in tenus of tonnage-km.
- The actual totals can be compared for the full range of yea as they al refer to the whole network. Hovmver. the forecast total of
1990 refers only to the Northeem network.



- 20 -
OPEBR.AIONS (a)
Main line locomoties
Total number                      18       16       20        20       20       20       20        20       29
Average monuty route (krn)      8273     7026     7925      9101     7412     8306     5883      6022     8220
Machines-km (yeady)          1786968  1348992  1647190  1939265  1778951  1893784  1341231  1373127    _
Railcars
Total number                       8        7        8         8        6        4        4         3    _
Average monthly route (kin)     3515     6504     6924      6760     5188     5922     4776      4338     6570
Machines-km  yery)            337440   546336   559459   401190   373569   284232   229261   156152    -
Switching locomotives
Totalnumber                       1S       13        12       11       11        7        2         1    -
Average monthly route (km)      1201     1713      1592     2091     1329     1324      967       943    -
Machines-km (yealy)           216180   267228   191560   200754   175446   111179    23215    11314    -
AVERAGE AVAIABILUTY %l
Motive power
Main line locoinotives         -           79       76       82        68       77       78        71       85
Railcars                       _           85       92       S0        29       33       75        80       70
Shunting loconofives           -           63       88       56        54       33    -           33        80
Wagons
Open wagons                    _           61       41       32        46       66    -            73    -
Tankwagons                      -          91       92        86       85       92       82        89       96
Covered wagons                 _           48       62       53        70       92       91        81       92
Flat wagons                    _           64       75       59        81       76       77        76       94
rippingwagons                  -           75       73        75       87       80       80        86       94
TURNAROUNDTIME (days)*
Open wagons                    -          173      26.5     10.6     10.7      113      39.3       1S        5
Tankwagons                     -           6.7      6.7      7.4      6.1      4.7       7.2     40.4      5
Covered wagons                 -           5.8      5.8      8.1       11      95       18.4     18.8        5
Flat wagons: platforms         -          27.9     25.6     18.2     18.4      17.7     38.7     47.1        9
containerwagons     -          9.5      83       8.3        9       7.1     21.4       4.5       9
Tigins waons                   -           7.1      5.9      43       35       2.81     3.81       2        5
(a) Ihe figures actually refer to the Northern network only.



-21 -
EVOLUTION- OF RAFIC UTMTS (PASSENGERS-KM + TONS-KM)
500
400 -
300-
200
0
1987 1988 1989fdrecastl90 1991 1992
B passeagers-km
tons-km



- 22 -
Ecoanomic Imvact
Ex-post ERRs have been calculated for different componetnts of the project and for
the whole project. The expected ERR for the Railways II project was 16%.
MA Une
Costs   Benefits
Chrome        line         Rice
____ ____ improvement  __ _ _
1987    756                                      -756
1988   1683                                     -1683
1989    866                                      -866
1990    649                      335       115   -199'
1991                             335       115    450
1992    971        1084          335       115    563
1993                             335       115    450
1994                             335       115    450
1995                221          335       115    n71
1996                221          335       115    671
1997                221          335       115    671
1998                221          335       11S    674n
1999                221          335       115   :4671
2000                221          335       115 -671
2001                221          335       115    671
2002  -3693                                       3693
1---01s
Spare parts                              Container equipment
Costs   Benefi_                                     1988       _
1990   1594            ----                              1989         101
1991                          0                          1990         171
1992           1313 :-                                   1991          77
1993                                                                    6 1992  .4
1994           1313        1).)                          1993 ;      -
1994         8$
[IIed  0.        ]                           1995   014803



- 23 -
Bridge PK2 TA line
Costs Bcnefit_s
1990    500               -500
1991    500               -5G
1992    594               -594
1993            178         178
1994            178         178
1995            178         178
1996            178         178
1997            178         178
1998            178         178
1999            178         178
2000            178         178
2001            178         178
2002  -1275  ____          1275
expected       Q14
1987 
1988    '-209
1989       -765.
1990      -2M1
1991         27
1992       132&
1994
1994       202i4R
1996        8;9
1997        849
1998 ,49
1999        849
2000        849
2001        849
2002       4968
expeted 0.16



Fianoian imDC
r          sal cted erev ape    of RNCFN
(FMG ooo, WOG
Feeihtl                                8,973     12,941    13,633    14,570     12,153     12,500               13,609    14,427    14,876
2,633     3,422      3,370     3,225      1,860     1,900                3,087      3,414     3,774
Niicelioness                  ~~~ ~~~~~212  411     3U9        304        67        50_ 
old operadng menses (1)               11,818    16,774     17,391    18,100     14,080    14,450                16,696    17,841    18,0
Chher revenues                       937       245        116       104        231     4,0                   1,362     1,471       S
porkprfonmed by Agency                  667      2,28S     4,123      1,647       778       200                           -
umncial revaueru                        758        727        141     3,240      3,873       100                                     _ -z
*  Ilancous                           1,990      2,905       737       792       1,023       10                -                    _
Scta revenms                          16,170    22,935     22,50     23,883     19,914   18,50                  18,058    19,312   20,238
EXENSES:
Pennrsol                                 ,S318     6,123     7,089     7,469      8,508     9,500                 5,036     5,330     5.641
Aatcdals and supply                     S,5S1     7,923      9,618     7,397      S.714     650                  3,477      3,739     3,9S7
expenses                          1,804     I,Sis      1,653     1,841      1,694     1,00                 1,101      1,189     1.24
ol opepating apenses (2)              12,673     IS560    18,5        16,706    15,916    17,5                  9,614    10,25      10,8I 2
ranse (1-2)                     .854      1,214      -968      1,394    -14,36     4,0?0                           7
Ireiation and provisons              2,031     2,617      3,471     3,864      9,132     4                    3,54       4,109     4,623
Net opating reveue                     .2,88s    -1,403      4,439    -2,470    -10,68      -755                 3S         3474      3
Wrks perfonred by Agency                 667       2,285     4,123      1,647      778        200                . 
bstr expenscs                           1,058     7,296     10,180     11H272    IS,172     10,001,616 
MIcellaucous expenses                   2,406       310        526       181       682        500                .         .          -
REVENE (-  LSM                     -2,665    -5,132    .14,151    -9,788   -21,697   -13,50                  3,281     3,W        2
Scum: Audit repons



Actua bala  sheet of RNCFM
(fMG '000. 000)
Iish                                 t1,359      1.759     1.272      1,358     1,61                 1,083      1,2l9     1 2t
eceivablc                              3,063      5,457     8,447      8,251      9,62299                        326        3,3
I n v o r t o f bes                     6,382     11,964     9,652      8,469     8,8652,                         3,00      3,31
uueat assets                          10,804     19,180     19,3?1    18.078    20.09                  6,970     7.4S5      7,893
ned assets                            65,790     76.287    87,321     90,876    92,                  70,947     82,176    92.466
reciation                           35,364     36.304    38,M       42,276     45,80                39,669    43,778     48.401
ci fiud assets                        30,427     39,983    48.593     48,60     47,08                 31.28     38,398    44,065
epad expenss                          25,824    30,867    30,581     29,0       38,3 43                          3,654 321C0
asose                               2,918       179       221        175        1                  8.141     7.590      6,018
otal ASSETS                           69.973     90.208    98,766     95.941    105,68                50,687    57,097     61.082
LABILITIES
stjfe4 liabiliies                      3,043      9,843     10,7B1    11,652     10,61 23403                     2.54      272
7,879     12,575    25.064    32,734     48,1                 .                    _
of LTD due within I yea              2,322     3,208      5.098     6,396      9,13                                     -
L   term debt                       43,893     ,323      59.724     56,620     64.3                 17,013    23.177     24.475
Subsidics                               1,103     2,883     3,536      3.46S      3,                   1,191     1,191     1I191
Provisios                            S1.540       318      3,655     3,954     10,35 7,69                      7,695      7,695
aita Stock and Reserves             12,357     12,357    12,3S7     12,357     12,3                 12,441    12,441     12.441
Rtained earnisigs/mula_d defiit          502     -2,164    -7,29     -21,447    -31,23'               7,824     10,873     13.405
Ntrevenue ofrthe yr                   -2,666    -5,132    -14.1IS     -9,787    -21.                  -         -         -
Tota Equity                10,193      5,061    -9,091   -18,87      -40,5                20.26      23,314    25.846
otal LIALBILrTES                      69,973     90,209    98,767     95,942    O1,68                48,567    57,941    61,928
Sour=e: Audit rWeorts



- 26 -
7.     Status of legal covenants
Creit or    Subject and deadnes for oomplance        status
CA 3.01 b    Subsiiary loan agreement to be signed   Complied with.
betwoen Borrower and RNCFM
CA 3.02     Borrower to ensure payments due to RNCFM    Not aldays compU;ed wth, but
to be made within 60 days               improvemens have tken place.
CA 3.03      Borrower to unplement an sction progam  Defcit reduced to USS 65,000 in 1990 but
conceroing  nsportion between            ireased gain in 1991 to about USS
Fisnarantsoa and the Bast Coast          150,000.
CA 4.01 b    Hav accounts audited by independent     Complied with.
auditor
CA 4.01 b    Furnish audit reports not later than six months  Complied with.
after the cad of the fiscal year
PA 4.02     Not to undertake any invstment not included   Complied with.
in itb 1985-90 investmet phan, unless tm
economic justification has beea eabheod by
RNCFM In consultation with IDA
PA 4.03     Take se  including tarff increase to obtain a  Not compled with since 1987.
.' _____  return on fixed assets of not lss thm 3%
PA 4.04     Not to hinur debt above 1.25 time equity for   Not complied with due to devaluations.
.._____ .RNCFM                                      I_I
PA 4.05     MaIntain a ratio of curmnt asse to curent    Complied with.
ii ______  I_ liabilities of not  ess than 2.5
PA 4.06     Mainain a worldng ratio of not mor than  Working ratio has exeede 65%. Due to
65%, as of Januay 1, 1986               accumuklatd loss, qualified audit for 1991.
PA 4.07     Swaure that no cuomer shll incw ar       Not ahlays complid with, but
for sevicn  rendered in exac  of 60 days  im oveme  have takn plac.
fi-m the billing date; discontinuation of
ces to ctoms whos accounts an
ova"u by mor than 90 days
PA 4.08     Enr (by adjusting tarff sruc  if         Not complied with cenain yeas until tariff
necessary) that income attributable to each  increse could be made or service
serioe is at aR times above the avoidable cost  suseded.
of such servic



27 -
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Staff inputs
[StageotTproject cyl J°' Fsca ye' 
Lending prewation        195.
Lending appraisal        1985         21.9
1986         7.8
I ______________         total         30
|Loan processng          1985          4.3
I  1986      14.2
total         19
Cofinanc!ng              1986          0.3
New  ations              1986          4.9
Supervision              1986          0.7
1987          7.1
1988         11.8
1989         8.0
1990         12.8
1991         11.6
1992         7.9
(a)                      1993         11.9
total         72
Total                         -      182.2
(a) as of February 161993



-28 -
Missions
Monrh4ear   Daysisn 6ld    No. ofyperson     Spe cdawiuon   Staff-uees Dait ofwport
- _________  .______,______                   repro seated-  ;________    ____s_t_d
Identification     Jul-84                                                         0.0
Preparation       Sep-84                                                          0.0
PM-apprais        Feb-85            18                 4 T. FAA HRS RE           14.4  21-mar-85
Appraisa          Feb-85                                                          0.0
Post-appraisal                                                                    0.0
Supervidon         Jul-86          NA                  2      RESFA              NA        _
Supervision       Oct-86            16                 3   T. FAA RE              9.6   27-Oct-86
Supevision        Dec-86           NA                  1       FA                NA        _
Supervision       May-87             7                 2      TB. RE               8   28-Dec-87
Supervision       Oct-88            11                 2     TB. FAC              4.4      _
Supervion         Feb-89             5                 2      TE. RE              2.0 
Supervision       Mar-89             S                 1       HERS               1.0      _
Supevison         Feb-90            15                 2     TBR EEC              6.0  31-May-90
Supervidon        Jun-90            12                 2     TB. REC              4.8   18-JIu-90
Supersion         Sep-90            19                 2     TFB REC              7.   19-Dec-90
Supevision        Feb-91            24                 3   TB. FA REEC           14.4   06-Jun-91
Supenision        Jun-91            17                 3   TB. FA. EEC           10.2   19-Sep-91
Supervion         Dec-91            14                 1       TE                 2.8   27-Jan-92
Superiion          Jul-92           16                 1       TE                 3.2   14-Oct-92
Superison         Nov-92            11                 2      TB FA               4.4  23-Dec-92
.87.6
TE transport eonomist
FA inanca anayst
FAC financi anayst cosutant
RE ralway engineer
REC raiway enge consultant
HIRS human mounes speciait



MAP SECTION



.-     .                                                      . 18RC13645R
RALA  NETWOK                                                                                                 WARCK I=
RAILWAY  PROJECT              -'.'   l &)    4
T¢ubl  R                  TRANSPORT SYSTEM
NOSSI-SE,
/  o>uN   R   =~~ ~~lhmVI^ O SUtfCoeWRR"ds                A ^/
ANTANANARIVO              R-dwAlliW.hniwoads                                 >            Ab
SwJ^4 en                                    No //omen Roade<bxsu
14'
/  //          ~~~MahjongaS         S         Se<ff
oAbsitr               /       ,                g                                             X1
</ KM 16         h-d .
0 ' <.  T  /  7n d ian
Oc ean    20J
t3   M ooone m beae>e /    _   _   -  t  j', h fibe ae            ____________________ /
S  /    A  -  W - soo /J/
(    Aok...bo7/oben                                        °,os  0 0  Iq0       I020 
X   t ~ ~ ~ ~~  s ~~~~~ \ \QQ,/;Wangana~~~~~~~~~~~~Inia
9   V   W ze9 X  Moenzi/                        ' .    ~~~~~~~~~~~A f R I c A
A-panihy t \   odOc ea
MA. ;A     iCAR



