.
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8439-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
AUGUST 28, 1991
Transport Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
Asia Regional Office
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the perfonnance of
their officiiul duties. Its contents may not othenrise be disclosed without World Bank auth wization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of Apr'l 1991)
Currency Name:  Rennlinbi
Currency Unit:  Yuan (Y)
$1.00  =  Y 5.22
$0.19  =  Y 1.00
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ctkm      =  converted tkm or traffic unit (lpkm = ltkm)
ha        =  2.47 acres
km           kilometer [=0.621 mile (mi)]
kWh       =  kilowatt hour (=860.42 kcals)
m         =  meter (= 3.281 feet)
M2        =  square meter (=10.764)
no        =  cubic meter (=35.315 cubic feet)
Mp        =  million passengers
mpkm      =  million passenger-kilometers
mppy      =  million passengers per year
mt        =  million tons
mtkm      =  million ton-kilometers
mtpy      =  million tons per year
mu        =  0.1647 acre - 0.0667 hectare (ha)
pkm       =  passenger-kilometer (=0.621 passenger-mile)
tkm       =  ton-kilometer (=0.621 ton-mile)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBC       =  Construction Bank of China
CIF       =  Cost, Insurance, and Freight
EARRP     =  Economic Analysis of Rural Road Projects
EPPEC     =  Economic Prices for Project Evaluation in China
ERR       =  Economic Rate of Return
FOB       =  Free on Board
FYP       =  Five-year Plan
GNP       =  Gross National Product
GOC       =  Government of China
GVIAO     =  Gross Value of Industrial and Agricultural Output
ICB       =  International Competitive Bidding
LCB       =  Local Competitive Bidding
MOE       =  Ministry of Energy
MOF       =  Ministry of Finance
MR        =  Ministry of Railways
NPV       =  Net Present Value
POH       =  Periodic Overhaul
RIS       =  Railway Investment Study
SOE       =  Statement of Expenditure
SPC       =  State Planning Commission
7FYP      =  Seventh Five-Year Plan
8FYP      =  Eighth Five-Year Plan



FOR OF0CIAL UK ONLY
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:       People's Republic of China.
Beneficiary:    Ministry of Railways.
Amount           $330.0 million equivalent.
Termst          20 years including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending
Terms:          Between the Ministry of Finance and the Hinistry of Railways:
20 years, including 5 years of grace at the interest rate of
5 percent per year. MR will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
ObLectivess     The overall objective of the project is to ensure that MR
becomes more efficient and continues to be financially viable
through better operations, maintenance practices, investment
planning, and tariff policies. The specific objectives are to
assist MR to (a) introduce recent developments in rail tech-
nology and maintenance and rehabilitation practices, in order
to enhance efficiency and capacity; (b) develop systemwike
plans and planning tools for its major subsectors; tc) adopt
modern planning techniques for establishing investment priori-
ties and tariff restructuring; and td) add urgently needed
capacity in a priority corridor.
Prolect
Descriptions    The proposed project would consist of (a) two systemwide com-
ponents, to assist MR on a pilot basis to introduce recent
technology and advanced materials in the maintenance and reha-
bilitation of track, and to meet the shortage of critically-
needed items of materiai, components, and equipment for reha-
bilitation of locomotives and rolling stock; (b) two capacity
expansion components, to complete double-tracking of the
944 km Zhegan (Zhuzhou-Hangzhou) line, and to expand capacity
at the Xuzhou marshalling yards; and (c) an action plan for
the implementation of the Railway Traffic Costing System lead-
ing to formulation of recommendations for tariff restructur-
ing. In addition, the project will rely heavily on five stud-
ies which started as part of the project preparation, focusing
on track maintenance and rehabilitation, locomotive and roll-
ing stock maintenance and rehabilitation, an integrated system
plan for electrification, an integrated system plan for tele-
communications, and a railway investment studv.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
Project Costs:
Local     Foreign       Total
…------- ($ million) --____
Permar.ent way                                       32.3        85.0        117.3
Locomotives and rolling stock                         3.5        56.1          59.6
Zhegan line                                         338.4       295.9        634.3
Xuzhou terminal                                      57.4        57.9        115.3
Base Cost                                     431.6       494.9         926.5
Physical contingencies                               22.8        11.6         34.4
Price contAngencies                                  19.5        25.2         44.7
Total Project Cost /a                         473.9       531.7       1,005.6
Financing Plan
IBRD - Proposed loan                                -        330.0         330.0
Government                                        473.9      201.7         675.6
Total Financing                               473.9       531.7       1,005.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY               1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
--_____-__------ ($ million) ------------------
Annual                14.8    99.7   117.1    45.6    25.6    17.6        9.6
Cumulative            14.8   114.5   231.6   277.2   302.8   320.4   330.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       33 percent
La   Import taxes and duties are not included in project costs and the
Government will not charge such taxes and duties on imports for the
project.



- Mii -
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
A.    Introduction  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
B.    Traffic  .  .    .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .  .    .    .  .    .    .  .  1
C.    Investment   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
D.  Transport Issues and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . .     2
E.  Bank Group Participation in Transport Sector . . . . . .     4
II.  THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
A. Organization, Management, and Training . . . . . . . . .      7
B.  Infrastructure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
C. Motive Power and Rolling Stock . . . . . . . . . . . . .      9
D.  Environmental Protection Activities  . . . . . . . . . .    10
E.    Traffic  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
F.  Operating Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
G. Planning and Inve3tment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     13
H.  Railway Tariffs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
I.  Budget, Accounts, and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
J.  Performance under Ongoing Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
K. Major Issues Confronting MR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     17
III.  THE PROJECT.                    ....                .19
II .    TEPO CT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
A.  Project Origin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
B.  Project Objectives and Rationale . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
C. Project Description    ..20
D.  Project Imlementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     27
E. Procurement    ..28
F. Disbursement   ..29
G. Environmental Impact    ..29
This report is based on the findings of preappraisal, appraisal, and updating
missions to China in September 1989, January 1990, and March 1991. Mission
members included Messrs./Mesdames A. Sabeti, M. S. Parthasarathi, E. Karman,
E. P. Anderson (ASTIN), M. N. Rasheed, T. Watanatada, S. Teravaninthorn
(AS3TP), and N. Holcer (AFTIE), as well as G. Elis, M. Melrose,
V. S. Bhatnagar, R. MacAfee, H. Wu, and A. Somani (consultants). The peer
reviewers for this project were Messrs. L. Thoipson (INUTD), K. Viswanathan
(EMTIN), C. Harral (AS3TP), and Mme. S. Shum (AS3IE).  The Division Chief is
Mr. Daud Ahmad and the Country Director is Mr. Shahid Javed Burki.



- iv -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION.    . .                              .     S1
A.    Introduction   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
B. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . .     31
C.  Permanent Way Systemwide Component ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
D. Locomotive mnd Rolling Stock Systemwide Component  . . .    33
E.  Zhegan Line Double Tracking  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
F. Xuzhou Terminal Expansion  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
G. Overall Evaluation and Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
V.   FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .7
A.   Introduction  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  37
B. Financial Arrangements between GOC and MR  . . . . . . .   37
C.   Railway  Costing    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  38
D. Management InformatiGn System (MIS)  . . . . . . . . . .   38
E. Financial Performance (1986-90)  . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
F.  Financial Objectives ....  .  .    . ......  .  .  .  .   .  40
G.  Future Financial Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
H. Sensitivity Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . .   44
ANNEXES
Annex 1   - Documents Available in Project File .46
Annex 2.1 - Organization Chart of the Ministry of Railways  . .      47
Annex 2.2 - Environmental Protection - Areas for Future
Assistance  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .   .  48
Annex 4.1 - Explanatory Note on the Economic Evaluation
of Systemwide Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   52
Annex 4.2 - Economic Evaluation of Zhegan Line Double-Tracking   .   60
Annex 4.3 - Economic Evaluation of Xuzhou Terminal  . . . . . . .    65
Annex 5.1 - Information on the Economic Contract  . . . . . . . .    69
Annex 5.2 - Overview of Railway Costing Study . . . . . . . . . .    71
Annex 5.3 - Overview of Management Information System (MIS) Study    77
Annex 5.4 - Notes and Major Assumptions Underlying MR's
Financial Forecast of 1990-95 . . . . . . . . . . . .   81
SUPPORTING TABLES
General:
1.1  Revenue Freight Traffic Intensities in Selected Countries
1.2  Railway and Road Network Density in Selected Countries
1.3  Freight Traffic by Mode
1.4  Passenger Traffic by Mode
1.5  Transport Investment vs. Economic Output in China
1.6  Investment in the Transport Sector



- v -
2.1   Freight Traffic Performance of MR
2.2   Originating Freight Traffic of MR
2.3   Freight Traffic Average Distance of MR
2.4   Passenger Traffic of MR
2.5   Selected Operational Statistics of MR, 1970-89
2.6   Indicators of Railway Asset Utilization
Investment Costs:
3.1   Investment Costs and Loan Summary (Y million)
3.2   Investment Costs and Loan Summary (S million)
3.3   Permanent Way Maintenance Program for 8Fm? (Y)
3.4   Permanent Way Maintenance Program for 8FYP ($)
3.5   Permanent Way Maintenance Systemwide Component (Y)
3.6   Permanent Way Maintenance Systemwide Component ($)
3.7   Locomotive and RollJng Stock Systemwide Component (Y)
3.8   Locomotive and Rolling Stock Systemwide Component (S)
3.9   Zhegan Line Double-Ttack-Ang, Bailutang-Xingtangbian Section (Y)
3.10  Zhegan Line Double-Tracking, Xingtangbian-Laoguan Section (Y)
3.11  Zhegan Line Double-Tracking, Laoguan-Wulidun Section (Y)
3.12  Zhegan Line Double-Tracking, Total Project (Y)
3.13 Zhegan Line Double-Tracking, Bailutang-Xingtangbian Section ($)
3.14 Zhegan Line Double-Tracking, Xingtangbian-Laoguan Section (S)
3.15 Zhegan Line Double-Tracking, Laoguan-Wulidun Section ($)
3.16  Zhegan Line Double-Tracking, Total Project ($)
3.17 Xuzhou Terminal Expansion and Modernization (Y)
*.18 Xuzhou Terminal Expansion and Modernization ($)
List of Goods to Be Financed by the Proposed Loan:
3.19 Permanent Way Maintenance Systemwide Component
3.20 Locomotive and Rolling Stock Maintenance Systemwide Component
3.21 Zhegan Line Double-Tracking
3.22 Xuzhou Terminal Expansion and Modernization
Implementation and Disbursements
3.23 Implementation Schedule (Zhegan Line)
3.24 Implementation Schedule (Xuzhou Terminal)
3.25 Cumulative Disbursement Schedule
Net Present Value and Rate of Return Calculationsi
4.1 Data Used in the Economic Evaluation of Permanent Way Component Evalua-
tion
4.2  Economic Rates of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analyses of Permanent Way
Systemwide Component
4.3 Data for Locomotive and Rolling Stock Component
4.4 Evaluation of Locomotive and Rolling Stock Component
4.5 Evaluation of Zhegan Line Double-Tracking
4.6 Evaluation of Xuzhou Terminal



- vi -
Financial Analysis:
5.1 MRt Income Statements, 1985-95
5.2 MRs Fund Flow Statements, 1990-95
5.3  MRs  Balance Sheet, 1990-95
5.4 MRs Sensitivity Analysis, 1985-95
GRAPHS
1. Freight and Passenger Traffic by Mode
2. Railway Investments in Comparison with Transport Infrastructure
Investments and Total Capital Investments
MAP
IBRD 22097 - China Railway Projects



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.1       The transport system ir. China is characterized by a high volume of
freight traffic in relation to economic output, seriously suppressed demand,
intensive utilization of assets, a strong emphasis on railways, and distor-
ti;as in tariffs and costs. Freight traffic intensity in China, measured in
tkm per dollar of GNP, is even higher than in the Soviet Union and is much
higher than in India, Brazil, or the United States (Table 1.1). The major
reasons behind this are a relatively large heavy induetry sector, a large
volume of other low-value-added products, reliance on coal as the major source
of energy, and underpricing of energy and raw materials. In addition, energy
efficiency in China is relatively low, and there is still little preprzQcessing
of raw materials before shipping. On the other hand, tie size of China's
transport network, compared with its area and population, ranks China's net-
work among the lowest in the world (Table 1.2).
B. Traffic
1.2       Freight Traffic.  The economic reforms introduced since 1979 have
provided the impetus for a large upsurge in both freight and passenger traffic
for all modes, severely taxing the transport system (Graph 1). Between 1979
and 1989, railway freight traffic grew at about 6 percent per year; port
freight traffic grew at about 9 percent per year. During the same period,
intercity highway freight traffic grew at about 16 percent per year--consis-
tently higher than the growth of gross domestic production. These rates would
have been higher were it not for the capacity constraints which are now evi-
dent in all modes. Many power plants and factories have fallen short of their
production goals because the transport system has not been able to deliver the
needed raw materials in time. Coal production in Shanxi province, the largest
coal producer, continues to be hampered by inadequate rail capacity. Rural
areas throughout the country are short of transport services, both for crops
and for local light industry. At the ports, lack of proper facilities limits
the handling in bulk of commodities such as fertilizers, cement, and grain.
1.3       Passenger Traffic.  The transport system is further taxed by the
marked growth in the demand for passenger travel in recent years. Between
1979 and 1989, passenger traffic grew at about 12 percent per year, illus-
trating the positive relationship between growth in income and growth in
demand for travel. Overall, passenger travel per capita in China remains very
low, in part because of severe capacity constraints. Civil aviation, although
growing very rapidly, is still limited, and most long-distance journeys are
made by rail.
1.4       Modal Split.  Although the railway's share of traffic has declined
over the last 10-20 years as the share of road traffic has grown, unlike in
other countries, rail tran-port still dominates freight and passenger traffic
in China. In 1989, 58 perctnt of freight (Table 1.3) and 50 percent of pas-
senger traffic (Table 1.4) were moved by rail, and the rest was moved by road,
inland waterway, coastal shipping, pipeline, and civil aviation. The contin-
ued preeminence of the railway is in part due to the structure of the Chinese
economy, wherein heavy industry is prominent and coal is the dominant energy



- 2 -
source. Coal and the large quantities of other bulk inputs associated with
heavy industry are well-suited for railway transport and const1tute the major-
ity of railway traffic in China. In the case of passenger tLansport, the
importance of the railway is due to the small length and backward condition of
the road network, poor intercity bus services, the virtual absence of private
automobiles and the limited use of aviation. Civil aviation's share was only
3.1 percent for passenger traffic and less than 0.5 percent for freight traf-
fic.
C. Investment
1.5       The Government considers transport bottlenecks to be one of the most
severe constraints to economic growth. Despite the increase in public invest-
ments for transport infrastructure, these investments have not grown fast
enough to keep pace with the growth in the economy.  Investntents in transport
infrastructure represented about 1.3 percent of GNP during 1980-89, compared
with 2-3 percent for countries such as South Korea and Brazil. Transport
investments as a percentage of GNP have been declining from a high of 2.4 per-
cent during the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1971-75) to 1.3 percent during the
Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85), despite an absolute increase in transport
investments during the period. Aftor rising to a high of 1.9 percent in 1985,
the relative investment level has again declined during 1986-89 (Tables 1.5,
1.6, and Graph 2). In the future, a substantial expansion of investments will
be needed if transport-related constraints to economic growth are to be
removed.
D. Transport Issues and Obiectives
1.6       The key issues in the transport sector are the followings
(a) chronic shortagee in the supply of transport infrastructure and
services due to underinvestment;
(b) excess demands generated by price distortions of transport services
and major commodities (particularly coal);
(c) uneven development of modes (i.e., exctssive reliance on rail, rela-
tive neglect of other modes, and the absence of modern, integrated
intermodal services);
(d)  outdated technology within each mode (obsolete vehicles, infrastruc-
ture, and operating systems);
(e) shortages of human resource skills in specific key areas, particu-
larly in multimodal planning and policy analysis, economic analysis,
and logistics management with emphasis on customers; and
(f) structural weaknesses in highway construction capabilities related
to procurement procedures, quality control of works, and project and
company management.
1.7       Achieving a better balance between demand and supply is vital
because chronic shortages of transport services are increasingly constraining
the growth of the Chinese economy. Millions of tons of coil have been mined



and stockpiled awaiting transport, while at the same time as much ae 30 per-
cent of thermal power capacity has been idled for want of coal. This has
contributed to power shortages which have idled 20 percent of the nation's
industrial capacity. Transport constraints are an economic problem well
beyond their effects on the energy sector. The poor quality of transport
services resulting from shortages of often outmoded equipment and substandard,
often congested infrastructure imposes high costs and impedes the integration
of markets, which is one of the major sources of economic efficiency in modern
societies. The ability of China to compete in world export markets is also
reduced, particularly for light manufacturing and high-value agricultural
exports, which require flexible, fast door-to-door services.
1.8       Pricing distortions are a major problem.  Cost analyses conducted
during the Guangdong Province Comprehensive Transport Study (Report No. 7708-
CHA, June 28, 1990) suggested that nationwide long-distance coal transport
services, for example, were underpriced by as much as 40 percent relative to
long-run incremental costs, thus generating uneconomic excess demands which
clog the transport arteries. Since this study, MR has increased tariffs
(para. 2.34) thereby reducing somewhat the underpricing of freight service.
Distortions in the opposite direction occur in highways and aviation, where
tariffs for other services may exceed long-run incremental costs by even wider
margins, thus distorting the choice of modes. It should also be noted, how-
ever, that these circumstances reflect more than a pricing distortion phenome-
non. Currently, actual costs as well as tariffs in these two modes may exceed
the estimated long-run economic costs because present conditions of infra-
structure and obsolescent vehicle fleets, particularly in the highways sector,
are far inferior to the modern technologies which have been assumed as the
basis for the long-run cost estimates.
1.9       China needs to exlploit more fully modern transport technology, in
particular, intermodal container services. Also, some traffic on the railway
could be more economically served by coastal shipping. The railway needs to
shed as much of that traffic as possible in order to free capacity to concen-
trate on other traffic where its comparative advantage is greatest, namely
long-haul bulk commodities. MR recognizes this, of course, and has taken
measures in that direction in recent years. But there is a limit to which
this strategy can be pursued in the short run, since slack capacity in the
other modes has by now largely been taken up.
1.10      Over the long run, however, China's choice of which modes to expand
and by how much should be based on an understanding of the differences in
costs and service characteristics of the different modes, on the one hand, and
prospective changes in the structure and level of transport demand, on the
other. To do so, China needs to strengthen its planning framework and analy-
tical tools to delineate those choices or to identify tthe instruments to
effect the necessary changes.
1.11      The Government has already taken steps to respond to some of these
challenges. It has made major adjustments in tariffs for all modes, and fur-
ther adjustments may be anticipated (para. 2.34).  In addition, it has allowed
local authorities more autonomy to plan, finance, and implement projects which
will expand transport capacity. Very recently, the Governritent has taken posi-
tive steps in creating investment funds for several activities. In addition
to the existing capital construction funds fed through the State finance bud-



-4.
get, the Government has approved a system of setttng up an investment fund for
major capital expansion program. These funds will be used, on a pilot case
basis, for technological improvement during 8FYP. A Railway Construction Fund
has been created which will be financed by supplementary tariff increases over
the next fi-ve years. The Government has also authorized private enterprises
and individuals to provide passenger and freight transport services on roads
and inland waterways and has encouraged provincial authorities to develop
local railway systems. The Government is introducing more modern technology
in the transport system, primarily by improving rolling stock technology in
the railway subsectors enhancing container and bulk handling capacity in the
port subsector; improving road pavement design and geometric standards for the
expansion of motorization in the highway subsector; and increasing the use of
computers in operations in all modes.
E. Bank Group Participation in Transport Sector
1.12      The Bank Group has supported the initiatives of the Government in
the transport sector through lending, sector studies, technical assistance,
and training. Through FY91. the Bank Group had loaned $2.1 billion to China
under 18 projects for the transport sector and presently is preparing several
new transport sector projects.
1.13      The railway subsector has received $1,035 million in lank Group
funding under five projects (Loan 2394-CHA; Loan 2540-CHA; Loan 2678-CHA/
Credit 1680-CHA; Loan 2968-CHA; and Loan 3060-CHA/Credit 2014-CHt). These
projects have assisted with the expansion of capacity on key routes and the
manufacture of electric locomotives, freight cars, passenger coaches, and
signaling equipment. The most recent project--construction of a new line in
Inner Mongolia--is the first project in which the Bank is financing the devel-
opment of a provincial railway in China. A pilot railway operations costing
system and a management information system are being introduced in MR, and a
strategic planning study is under way as a result of a collaborative Bank/MR
effort. The First Railway Project (Loan 2394-CHA) was closed on December 31,
1990; the Project Completion Report (PCR) and the Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) have been issued (para. 2.41).
1.14      The highway subsector has received about $723 million in Bank Group
financing under seven projects (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA; Loan 2811-CHA/
Credit 1792-CHA; Loan 2951-CHA/Credit 1917-CHA; Loan 295L-CHA; Credit 1984-
CHA: Loan 3073-CHA/Credit 2025-CHA); and Loan 3316-CHA/Credit 2226-CHA).
These projects provide for the construction of high-quality national and pro-
vincial roads totaling about 1,100 km, and the expansion and improvement of
some 2,800 km of rural roads and major bridges. When completed, some of these
roads will help to provide vital missiig links in the national highway net-
work; others will help to ease severe congestion in parts of the network or
provide access to remote areas. The projects are also designed to provide
foreign technical assistance and training of Chinese personnel in areas such
as supervision and quality control of road construction, design, and planning.
Finally, the projects support studies on key issues of highway development,
such as road safety, pavement management, user charges, and methods of financ-
ing the expansion, improvement, and rehabilitation of the road network. The
First Highway Project (Loan 2539-CHA) is completed, and the PCR is being pre-
pared.



1.15      The ports subsector has received about $495 million of Bank Gr.uup
finar.cing under six projects (Loans 2207-CHA, 2689-CHA, 2907-CHA, 2877-CHA,
3006-CHA, and 3007-CHA). Most of the loan funds are being used in Shanghai,
Tianjin, Dalian, Huangpu, Ningbo, and Xiamen for construction of terminals.
jetties, and berths for handling bulk commodities, general cargo, and contain-
ers, as well as the dredging of navigation channels. Funds also have been
used for training, technical assistance, and various studies such as port
planning, operations management. and containerization. The Three Ports Proj-
ect (Loan 2207-CHA) was closed, the PCR and the PPAR have been issued. The
PPAR's principal findings were that the project objectives were met and the
project is fully sustainable. Its major reco¢mendations were that the Bank
should adhere to safeguards against unwarranted contract awards to Chinese
suppliers and strengthen supervision missions with adequate frequency and
staff continuity.
1.16      The dialogue between the Government and the Bank Group on transport
sector operations and strategy has been strengthened both through the project
preparation activities and project-financed studies mentioned above and
through independent studies carried out in collaboration with Chinese authori-
ties. A provincial transport study has been conducted in Guangdong Province
to support the design of a new multimodal transport plan in the province. The
Bank Group also conducted a survey of the national water transport system,
which has reaffirmed the need to exploit further the large potential of
Chinese waterways.  Chinese authorities and the Bank Group are conducting
transport studies which focus on long-term strategies for the country's trans-
port  fstem.  These studies include a multinodal transport study which will
examine strategic options in developing the transport system for the Yangtze
Economic Zone; the Railway Investment Study to prioritize future railway
investments on economic grounds; a coal transport study which will evaluate
strategies for alleviating coal shortages, including increment allocation
strategy in both the transport and energy sectors through the year 2005; and
Strategic Issues in Ports and Shipping to establish the rate of water trans-
portation in China's economic development.
1.17      These actions have spurred the growth and modernization of the
transport system in recent years. However. much more needs to be done to
bring about the changes required to alleviate the transport bottlenecks sig-
nificantly and to rationalize and increase the effectiveness of the transport
system. Over the next several years, the Bank in its dialogue with the Gov-
ernment will pay particular attention to encouraging measures oriented to:
(a)  increasing the level of total transport investments in relation to
GNP, to expand capacity to clear up the backlogs caused by past
underinvestment and to meet the new traffic demands;
(b)  realigning further the prices of freight transport services and
those of the major commodities, to bring them closer to their true
costs and therefore:
- provide a better guide for more rational industrial location
decisions, which sb-uld help reduce the high transport intensity
of the economy;



- help promote a rational economic distribution of traffic among the
various transport modes, especially as the Chinese economy
diversifies and changes the structure of transport demand;
- enhance cost recovery from the users of transport services which
should increase the sector's ability to finance new investments;
(c) increasing further the productivity of existing assets through tech-
nological modernization and managerial reforms; and
(d) improving investment decisions, both across and within modes,
through the use of analysis and planning tools that more optimally
determine the economic priorities of transport investments under
budget constraints.
1.18      The Eighth Five-Year Plan (SPYP) (1991-95) foresees stepped-up
investments in the transport sector and envisages price adjustments and
reforms, as well as a greater decentralization in decision-making and in the
financing of investments. The Bank strategy should be to support the Govern-
ment in the implementation of these policy directions and generally to assign
increasing importance to supporting reforms oriented to generating more compe-
tition within and among the various transport modes, promoting better alloca-
tion of investment at.d current resources mainly through pricing, and improving
transport sector and transport companies' management.



II. THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Organization, Management, and Training
2.1       The Chinese rail system, in absolute terms, has the fifth largest
track length in the world and carries the second highest combined freight and
passenger traffic. The Ministry of Railways (MR), the principal institution
in the railway subsector, administers a nationwide, interconnected system of
53,000 route-km. In addition, there are 4,400 km of local railways. MR has a
staff of some 3.3 million people. Several other ministries administer rail-
ways for uses associated with their own operations, and provincial governments
administer railways for limited service within their own jurisdictions. Even
though the Government is giving some freedom to railways, the overall manage-
ment is still fairly centralized: all strategic decisions are taken by MR or
by the Central Government.
2.2       MR operationally is headed by a minister, who is assisted by five
vice ministers and a chief engineer. Under them are 24 bureaus and offices
concerned with specific functions and 12 regional administrations responsible
for day-to-day operations (Annex 2.1). MR also controls a number of factories
which produce the bulk of its requirements for locomotives, passenger coaches,
freight cars, signaliLg and communications, track accessories, and parts and
components. MR's construction bureaus carry out most of the construction.
Design, engineering, and architectural services are also carried out "in-
hou3e" by a number of special design institutes and bureaus, although some
rectntly have been restructured as companies with limited financial indepen-
dence. The lacter serve both the national network and provincial and other
railways.
2.3       In 1986, in keeping with its policy to transfer responsibility for
the operation of selected state enterprises to their own managements, the
Government established an "economic contract" with MR in which certain opera-
tional parameters were set for a five-year period (concurrent with the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (7FYP), para. 5.2). At the same time, a number of incentives
were also introduced, such as welfare allowance, payroll bonuses based on
traffic growth in each administration and distributed according to individual
performance evaluations. This package of reforms represents a very signifi-
cant change in MR's relations with GOC: its success will require continued
changes in managers' attitudes and ways of working, which will take some time
to bring about. Given the newness of the approach, the "economic contract" is
yet to be fully understood and implemented.
2.4       MR also operates 11 universities and 20 staff colleges which offer
in-service training in technical subjects and provide support services for
employees. More than 60 vocational schools provide training for locomotive
driters, other operations staff of MR and the local railways, and support
services such as hospitals.
B. Infrastructure
2.5       The MR network in 1989 consisted of 53,200 route-km and 65,700 main
track-km. (In 1949 the network had only 22,000 route-km.) About 12,500 km
are double-tracked and 6,400 km are electrified. MR considers some 25,000 km



- 8 -
of main track with an annual density of 30 million gross tons or greater to be
the core network. Most of this core network needs renewal and upgrading to
handle even present traffic requirements. The standard main line rail for the
core network of 60 and 75 kg/m weight is laid on only 8,000 km (one third) of
core main lines. The other core main lines are laid with 50 and 43 kg/m
rails, which are too light for current traffic volumes and axle loads:
75 kg/m               225 km                      0.92
60 kglm             7,774 km                     31.32
50 kg/m            14,811 km                     59.62
43 kg/m             2,038 km                      8.22
24,848 km                   100.0O
2.6       Rail tensile strength, hardness, and other characteristics appear
satisfactory for most service applications so long as the rail is not over-
stressed by weak or failed track components. However, MR's standard core main
line rail (60 kg/m) is well below the wear resistance of heat-treated rail
used elsewhere in the world on sharp curves in high-density sections (some
double-track sections carry over 120 million gross tons per year on each
track). There would be significant maintenance savings if longer-lasting,
heat-treated rail were used on these curves, as well as added capacity
benefits, since the line would need to be blocked for maintenance less often.
2.7       Concrete sleepers are installed on 67 percent of the main track and
treated softwood sleepers on the remainder. Sleeper and fastener design defi-
ciencies, inadequate ballast and subgrade, and lack of maintenance have short-
ened the life of concrete sleepers.
2.8       There are three types of concrete sleeper rail fastenings, all
designed and produced in China. However, even the most advanced design, the
Omega type, is proving unsatisfactory for the severe traffic conditions found
on most main lines. Much of the poor limestone ballast, as well as the bal-
last of more acceptable quality, is overdue for cleaning. Improvement is
needed in the turnout crossing and rail fasteners.
2.9       Many official maintenance standards are too restrictive and not
cost-effective. But since some standards are not actually being applied,
maintenance tends to be somewhat arbitrary, and train operating safety may be
compromised.
2.10      Maintenance and rehabilitation are presently carried out mostly with
manual methods, using basic small tools. However, considering the future need
to increase train densities, speeds, and axle loads; lengthen the economic
life of track components; and reduce long-term maintenance costs, mechanizing
several functions will be necessary, including tamping, lining, leveling,
ballast regulating, and ballast cleaning.
2.11      MR has prepared a track maintenance/rehabilitation program for 8FYP.
which is to be carried out with rails and other track components whobe service
lives will be less than if they incorporate proven, cost-effective technolo-
gies being applied elsewhere in the world. With severely limited resources,
it is very important that MR apply these technologies and use longer-life
materials and components.



- 9 -
C. Motive Power and Rolling Stock
2.12      MR has large holdings of motive power and rolling stock as well as a
vast network of factories, depots, repair shops, design institutes, and train
yard rolling stock inspection and servicing facilities at several hundred
locations to support the design, manufacture, and maintenance of this fleet.
The fleets of locomotives, passenger coaches, and freight cars are diversified
in types and technologies. This situation is further complicated by a manage-
ment organization with several bureaus at MR headquarters, 12 administrations,
and 48 subadministrations.
2.13      MR's locomotive fleet of just over 13,000 units consists of about
6,900 steam, 5,200 diesel, and 1,100 electric units. Maintenance of the die-
sel fleet is inefficient and expensive because of 18 different designs. A
major scheduled overhaul that requires 30 to 45 days is done every four to
five years. A second less extensive overhaul requiring 20 to 30 days is done
every one to two years. Between these overhauls, scheduled maintenance total-
ing 3 to 4 days is performed every five to six months. However, the poor
quality of many spare parts increases the frequency of unscheduled repairs.
Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance combine to produce a low diesel locomo-
tive service availability of 77 to 82 percent, depending on the locomotive
model.
2.14      Maintenance of rolling stock is also inefficient and expensive, with
25,000 passenger coaches of several imported and domestic designs and 350,000
freight cars of six general types and numerous designs and capacities.
Coaches are scheduled for a major overhaul that requires 32 days every six
years, a lighter overhaul requiring 10 to 20 days every two years, and air
brake equipment inspection and repair that require two or three days every six
months. Freight cars are given a major overhaul which averages 12 days every
five years, and air brake equipment is inspected and repaired once a year,
which requires three or four days out of service. Very few of the freight
cars are special-purpose cars.
2.15      Manufacturing and overhauls are carried out in 34 locomotive and
rolling stock factories, and maintenance is decentralized in 185 diesel loco-
motive depots and several hundred coach and freight car depots. In many
cases, the workers in the depots perform activities similar to those performed
in the factories. Factories generally are not specialized as to function,
which prevents the realization of production economies and efficiencies
through the use of modern machinery and processes. The absence of adequate,
specialized facilities to manufacture critical components results in shortages
of high-quality spare parts, so that depot managers have set up their own
less-efficient facilities to manufacture critical components.
2.16      As a result, the time of scheduled overhaul is long, and the quality
of maintenance performed and components used is often unsatisfactory, which
cause the time between scheduled overhauls to be shorter than it should be.
The result is that the maintenance workload and the cost are higher than
necessary.
2.17      The reasons for the complex problems in the locomotive and rolling
stock areas can thus be summarized as follows:



- 10 -
(a)  the rapid growth in the fleet has not been accompanied by a commen-
surate buildup of the necessary specialized facilities in a rational
manner;
(b) MR's fleet of diesel and electric locomotives comprises too many
types and designs;
(c) many workshops are engaged in a variety of activities, preventing
the realization of production economies through the use of modern,
specialized machinery and processes;
(d) a large number of diesel locomotive depots undertake work that
should be done at the workshop level with specialized machinery and
trained specialists (e.g., machining of engine blocks);
(e) absence of adequate, specialized facilities to manufacture critical
components results in shortages of high-quality spare parts, so that
workshops endeavor to set up their own less-efficient facilities to
manufacture critical components; and
(f) local workshop managements are reluctant to give up suboptimal and
uneconomic manufacturing and maintenance activities and to rational-
ize workload, perhaps due to fears about the adverse impact on the
work force and the loss of control over sources of supply.
2.18      While detailed diagnosis of problems and preparation of action plans
for their long-term solution will take time, the proposed project will, as a
first step, help meet a few critical requirements. In the longer term, MR
would need to follow a six-pronged strategy to solve its locomotive and roll-
ing stock maintenance problems:
(a) Rationalization of workload and facilities to minimum essential
levels;
(b) Standardization of designs for locomotives, rolling stock, and com-
ponents;
(c) Specialization of manufacturing facilities and equipment;
(d) Modernization of systems and methods;
(e) Upgrading of quality, organization, and training methods; and
(f) Acquisition of an adequate stock of critical components for an
efficient unit exchange system.
D. Environmental Protection Activities
2.19      MR has strengthened its environmental pollution control activities
during the last several years. In 1972, MR established the Department of
Public Health and Environmental Protection. Its size and expertise have grown
steadily since that time, so that at present over 2,400 full-time staff across
the entire railway system are engaged in environmental protection work. This
staff includes 30 at MR headquarters and more than 1,000 environmental spe-



- 11 -
cialists and 1,000 support staff in the field. Every field unit has set up a
special environmental protection office. The organization includes an envi-
ronmental protection department at each regional railway administration as
well as environmental sections at the station and factory level. Lanzhou
Railway College and Baotou Railway Engineering School have environmental pro-
tection courses to train specialists for MR. Also, the Labor Safety and
Environmental Protection Institute conducts scientific research in environ-
mental protection.
2.20      MR has established environmental rules and regulations, with respon-
sibilities spelled out for each employee. For construction projects, an envi-
ronmental impact assessment is prepared by the regional environmental protec-
tion office every year, which outlines protection measures to be taken during
the following year simultaneously with the projects. thereby preventing new
sources of pollution and environmental damage.
2.21      From 1981 through 1989, MR spent in excess of Y 400 million (more
than $80 million) to correct environmental problems. As stipulated and
required by the Government, over 60 percent of boiler, industrial, and hospi-
tal wastewater was being treated at the end of 1988. Boiler slag and ash are
treated and used in construction activities. Progress is being made in the
treatment of noise pollution and waste gases.
2.22      To implement its program of environmental and waste management con-
trol and treatment more effectively, MR needs assistance in the medium term
fort
(a)  upgrading its professional and technical staff to familiarize them
with modern environmental management and state-of-the-art control
techniques in air and noise pollution, wastewater treatment, solid
waste management, and analytical and monitoring technology;
(b) conducting air pollution, noise pollution, and wastewater treatment
studies to assess in detail the current problems faced by MR, to
evaluate abatement measures, and to recommend control and treatment
technologies to remedy the problems; and
(c)  enhancing and upgrading existing capabilities in MR for environmen-
tal impact assessment (EIA) by holding seminars, conferences. and
short courses in EIA methodologies.
2.23      As part of the Bank's work, it is proposed to assist MR in the prep-
aration of specific proposals for financing under future projects. Recently,
at MR's request, a specific proposal was made for UNDP financing in three
areas of health hazard related to sterilizing passenger coaches, treating
garbage and night soil in coaches, and reducing severe noise pollution in
factories. Annex 2.2 provides additional details.
E. Traffic
2.24      Freight traffic averages nearly 20 million net tkm per route-km,
ranking China's railway traffic near that of the Soviet Union and much higher
than those of India and the United States. During 1980-89, railway freight
traffic in China grew from 1,086 million tons (571 billion tkm) to 1,468 mil-



- 12 -
lion tons (1,037 billion tkm), or 4 percent for tons, and 7 percent for tkm
per year. Three quarters of all freight traffic in China is accounted for by
ten important basic commodities (including coal, iron and steel products,
grain, and construction materials; see Tables 2.1-2.3). Coal is by far the
largest item and a critical source of energy for the economy. In fact, the
spatial pattern of the railway network largely reflects the location of coal
mines and industrial centers.
2.25      The shortage of freight transport capacity has emerged as a key
constraint on economic growth. Because demand far exceeds supply, rail traf-
fic is heavily rationed, a process which in itself is slow and cumbersome.
Insufficient capacity has caused millions of tons of coal in the producing
regions to be stockpiled on the ground. Some users arrange to truck coal over
distances of several hundted kilometers in order to secure supplies, even
though truck tariffs can be ten times as high as rail tariffs.
2.26      Rail passenger traffic during 1980-88 has grown rapidly from 138
billion pkm to 326 billion pkm, about 11 percent per year (Table 2.4). The
traffic declined to 303 billion pkm in 1989 and then to 261 billion pkm in
1990. There is an acute shortage of passenger coaches, and on crowded routes
passenger trains compete for space with freight trains. Due to the rationing
of passenger traffic in the railway system anu insufficient development of
alternative modes, the Chinese have one of the lowest mobility rates of any
people in the world--about 500 km per capita per year. This compares with
about 900 km per capita per year in India.
2.27      Even with a relatively modest traffic projection of about 4 percent
annual growth rate, railway traffic demand would, by the end of the 8FYP
(1995), reach about 1,400 billion tkm for freight and 460 billion pkm for
passengers. These projections are 41 percent higher than the 1988 levels. In
order to satisfy this demand with the limited resources available, China's
railways must continue efforts to be as efficient and well-managed as possi-
ble.
F. Operating Performance
2.28      Despite a number of major operating, technological, and administra-
tive limitations, MR has been able to maintain a high level of operating
efficiency, as exhibited by high utilization of both infrastructure and equip-
ment (Table 2.5). Freight car and locomotive utilization ratios exceed those
of the United States and compare favorably with those of the Soviet Union,
particularly considering that the fleet is less modern and less powerful
(Table 2.6). China's railway passenger traffic density is about 6 million pkm
per route-km and is the highest in the world. Despite the high traffic densi-
ties, track and other fixed facilities are carefully (although not always
well) maintained, and the average freight car turnaround time of about four
days is the world's best. However, the railways are unable to provide service
to the potential traffic due to acute capacity constraint.
2.29      Still, the rigidity of the operating system has greatly reduced the
quality of service for customers, and the lack of modern technologies has hin-
dered further improvements in operating efficiency. Further substantial pro-
ductivity increases are possible only through rather sophisticated changes in
the overall operating system; track maintenance and rehabilitation; and the



- 13 -
manufacturing, maintenance, and management of locomotives and rolling stock.
The systemwide comiponents provided in the proposed Fifth Railway Project will
assist MR in bringing about some of these changes.
G. Planning and Investment
2.30      On the basis of national production plans and origin-destination
data for key products and its own observation of passenger movements, MR
develops five-year traffic forecasts by principal routes throughout its net-
work. At the regional administration level, these forecasts are translated
into traffic density patterns and compared with existing line capacities.
From these comparisons are derived the railway's requirements for motive power
and rolling stock and for route capacity enhancement. Production schedules
and work programs are then developed for MR's factories and construction com-
panies, and the total investment plan is submitted to the State Planning Com-
mission (SPC) for approval. SPC may indicate the need for some adjustments,
and further iteration of snme or all of the processes may be required.
Finally, a total plan is developed which is consistent with the national eco-
nomic plan.
2.31      From this plan, various subsidiary plans are derived, including a
manpower development plan and a schedule of material requirements (in particu-
lar, rails and other steel products) from external suppliers. At present,
there is no detailed financing plan corresponding to MR's physical investment
needs mentioned above. The recently-instituted economic contract between MR
and the Government provided simply a set of five-year aggregate financial
targets for MR to achieve (para. 5.2). Government still controls MR capital
expenditures on a year-to-year basis as well as by individual contracts.
2.32      All major projects are subjected to substantial engineering, eco-
nomic, and financial feasibility analyses. Attention is also given to deter-
mining priorities, in view of severe ca)ital budget constraints.  However, the
analytical tools employed still are relatively fragmented, and lack the degree
of automation to permit quick response times. Moreover, much of investment
analysis is limited to individual rail corridors, ignoring network effects or
interactizn between railway linsks and yards. This makes it difficult for MR
to identify where future bottlenecx6 are likely to be and what kind of capa-
city expansion projects will be effective in alleviating the bottlenecks.  A
dialogue with MR's Planning Bureau has been initiated to improve investment
planning methodologies under the Railway Investment Study (RIS) (para. 3.24).
2.33      After falling to Y 1.4 billion in 1981 during a period of budgetary
stringency, railway investments increased from Y 2.6 billion in 1982 to Y 9.0
billion in 1989 (Table 1.6). A total of about Y 40.0 billion has been allo-
cated for 7FYP (1986-90). It is reported that MR has recently received
approval for a capital expenditure program of Y 116 billion for 8FYP (1991-
95). To finance this program, the Ministry has set up a Railway Construction
Fund to be raised by levying a surcharge on selected freight traffic. A sur-
charge of 2 fen per tkm has been proposed, but not yet approved.
H. Railway Tariffs
2.34      As in other sectors, tariffs in the railway subsector changed very
little between the 1950s and the 1980s. Freight rates were increased in 1983,



- 14 -
the first change since 1967 (at which time they were reduced); passenger fares
remained at the 1967 level for many years. The 1983 reform doubled the mini-
mum chargeable distance to 100 km and increased rates by an average of 23 per-
cent on many bulk commodities such as coal, cement, oil, and fertilizers. To
discourage short-haul traffic, further increases in rates were made in 1985:
(a) 37 percent for passenger trips of lese than 100 km; (b) 50 percent for
monthly suburban season tickets; and (c) Y 4.00 per ton for freight transport
up to 200 km. Approval for tariff increases is granted by the State Council
and the Materials Price Bureau based on the tariff adjustment proposals of
MR's Transportation Bureau.
2.35      MR runs a financially profitable operation, and its tariffs are in
excess of unit operating costs in aggregate. However, financial operating
costs appear to be lower than economic costs, because depreciation is under-
funded and artificially low prices are paid for coal, diesel fuel, and elec-
tricity. Recently, the acceleration of inflation has substantially increased
railway operating and construction costs. To protect its financial health,
the Ministry has taken major steps in increasing fares and tariffs on a large
scale. On September 1, 1989, passenger fares were increased by an average of
112 percent. On March 15, 1990, freight rates were increased by 24 percent
and on March 1, 1991, by another 7 percent on the average. In 1990, the com-
bined freight, passenger, and other revenue after business tax yielded an
average revenue of fen 2.98 per traffic unit (converted tkm) compared with a
total operating cost of fen 2.11 per traffic unit. The most important
increase in tariffs of all is the surcharge of 2 fen per tkm now being pro-
posed on selected traffic in order to raise the newly created Railway Con-
struction Fund for financing the 8FYP capital expenditure program (para.
2.33).
2.36      The Government is also looking into the pricing structure of the
transportation sector. As part of the Government's efforts, MR is beginning
to look more closely at the profitability of individual routes and services;
this will be reflected in the costing system currently being developed under
the First and Third Railway Projects. While present tariffs cover operating
costs, taxes, and benefits, the tariffs need to be carefully related to the
cost of each freight commodity and passenger service by class. The readjusted
tariffs should discourage the low-volume (less-than-carload, or LCL), short-
haul traffic and encourage bulk-volume, low-value and long-haul traffic.
I. Budget, Accounts and Audit
2.37      Currently, an operating budget is prepared at the base unit and
adjusted at the subadministration, administration, and Ministry levels. The
budget is commonly prepared by the base unit three to five months before final
approval by MR before the beginning of each year. MR produces two types of
budgets, namely, the annual budget and the five-year budget. The annual bud-
gets are in two sections: the operating budget and the capital expenditure
budget. While the Finance Bureau of MR is responsible for producing the
operating budget, the Planning Bureau of MR prepares the capital expenditure
budget. MR has the final authority to approve the operating budget; SPC over-
sees the capital budget. The five-year budget is finalized by joint efforts
of SPC and the Planning Bureau of MR (Tables 1.6 and 5.2).



- 15 -
2.38      Capital investment for each year is determined under the framework
of the five-year plan. The Planning Bureau typically determines the invest-
ment project, analyzes it, and determines the investment amount; in the case
of track renewal, however, it works closely with each local administration.
Capital investment financing is based on internally-generated funds of MR.
Government contributions, and external loans. (There are two separate
internally-generated funds: 'major repairs," currently funded at 6 percent of
fixed assets, and "basic depreciation,' curLently set at 4 percent of fixed
assets.)
2.39      MR allocates the total revenue of railways to each of the 12
regional administrations based on traffic carried and operating costs. The
administrations and the factories %re self-accounting units. Each of these
has its own special fund. The consolidation of individual administrations'
accounts is done in MR. The income statement is prepared in a satisfactory
and complete manner, but the funds flow statements and balance sheets are not.
The inability of MR to produce balance sheet and funds flow statements is
related to the way it accounts for its transportation investments under the
MOF accounting system and its construction investments under the Construction
Bank of China (CBC) accounting system; they require MR to maintain separate
sets of books. MR follows its own guidelines for accounts receivable and
accounts payable. For the accounting of investments in operations and mecha-
nical parts (such as factories), it follows MOF guidelines. For the account-
ing of investments in construction work, it follows CBC guidelines. Besidec,
the CBC investments are shown as a global figure for all ministries. Because
of these different accounting guidelines, MR is able to prepare only income
statements in a satisfactory manner. The balance sheet and fund flow state-
ment do not cover accounts of all investments on railways. Unifying these
systems, preferably under the MR accounting system, would facilitate future
production of balance sheet and funds flow statements.
2.40      Until 1982, the financial statements of public enterprises were not
subject to comprehensive audit. In September 1983, the State Audit Adminis-
tration (SAM) was established by the People's Congress. SAA has been func-
tioning directly under the State Council. The audit regulations and standards
prepared by MOF, based on international auditing practices, were promulgated
by the State Council in October 1988. SM has a separate section called the
Foreign Investment Audit Bureau, which audits public enterprises receiving
loans from abroad. This bureau audits all Bank-financed projects, including
railway projects. The Bank has accepted SAM as a suitable external auditor
for MR. SAM has indicated its willingness to work closely with the Bank to
ensure that audit reports are up to Bank standards. Since the proposed proj-
ect also includes components on a systemwide basis, the auditing would require
an examination of MR's consolidated accounts, in addition to the current prac-
tice of examining pLoject eubunits in respect nf the project. A careful exam-
itation of S(Es would also be required with auditor's separate opinion. In
pri.nciple, MR agreed to comply with these requirements. However, for the
reasons mentioned in para. 2.39, MR is able to produce the audit report of
only the consolidated income statement. It was, therefore, agreed that MR, as
a starting point, will forward to the Bank an annually audited consolidated
income statement commencing with FY91. At negotiations, it was also agreed
that during implementation of Railway V, the Bank will work with MOF, MR and
SAM to agree on a procedure for incorporating, in MR accounts, information
related to foreign loans and other items which should facilitate the produc-



- 16 -
tion of a full audit report. This will help MR to fulfill the Bank require-
ment of sending a full audit report in future projects. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that MR will have its accounts of the project subunits
in respect of the project, special account, SOEs and the consolidated income
statement of MR audited annually by SAM and will furnish the Bank such an
audit report within six months of the end of each fiscal year, beginning with
FY91. The auditors will give a separate opinion on SOEs. Agreement was also
reached that MR will furnish to the Bank the annually certified copies of
unaudited consolidated balance sheets and sources and application of funds.
J. Performance under Ongoing Loans
2.41      The Bank Group has supported the Government's strategy for the rail-
way subsector through five operations to date. The first project (Loan 2394-
CHA, July 1984), closed on December 31, 1990, contained components to allevi-
ate bottlenecks on two key routes. The PCR and PPAR (No. 9735, dated June 24,
1991) have been issued. The physical components of this project were success-
fully completed. The PPAR notes that the transport intensity problem in China
has been created by price distortions in the economy which have encouraged
excessive demand for transport causing heavy investments and that efficiency
gains to be made at the macroeconomic level are probably more substantial than
those at the microtechnical level since China railways are generally efficient
and technically well run. The second project (Loan 2540-CHA, November 1985)
focused on further route capacity improvements and the expansion of coach
manufacture. The third project (Loan 2678-CHA/Credit 1680-CHA, October 1986)
continued with further route capacity improvements and the modernization of
signaling equipment manufacture. The fourth project (Loan 2968-CHA) provides
not only for improvement in the capacity of a key route, but also for modern-
ization of three locomotive and rolling stock factories and for three studies
to develop strategic plans for the Beijing-Shanghai corridor for telecommuni-
c.ations, computerization, and further capacity additions. The fifth project,
for construction of a new railway line in Inner Mongolia to transport coal
from Inner Mongolia to the industrial northeast (Loan 3060-CHA/Credit 2014-
CHA), became effective in January 1990.
2.42      Under the technical assistance components of the ongoing projects,
the Bank Group is supporting several key efficiency-related studies for MR. A
costing study (para. 5.4) is being carried out to set up a computer-based
system to perform cost-accounting of railway operations by December 1993 and
to compile operating statistics (see Chapter V for details). This will help
railways to introduce tariff reforms and to gain higher efficiency. Another
study is being carried out with the objective of designing and installing a
management information system (MIS) for use by MR administrations and subad-
ministrations. Further, the Strategic Plan Study for the Beijing-Shanghai
corridor agreed in the Fourth Project--including the plan for telecommunica-
tions and data transmission, and the operations information system are also
under way and should be completed by December 1992. (See also Annex 5.3.)
2.43      Overall performance of the ongoing railway projects in China is
satisfactory. However, the most common problem with the ongoing loans con-
tinues to be delays in the procurement of goods and services. As a result,
disbursements under the ongoing portfolio have been slower than estimated
forecasts. Because of the complex nature of railway procurements and compli-
cated procurement procedures in China, long delays occur before tenders are



- 17 -
issued and contracts are awarded. Bank staff have been addressing these prob-
lems through (a) establishing a special department in 1987 with MR to handle
all foreign-funded projects; (b) preparing tender documents early and issuing
them as soon as possible after loan effectiveness (this has proved to be a
worthwhile exercise in the Railway Four Project where the disbursements are
meeting appraisal targets); and (c) improving the preparation of technical
specifications. The two systemwide components have also been designed so that
procurement and disbursement can proceed telacively faster than would be pos-
sible for capacity expansion projects and improvements such as the Zhegan
component.
K. Major Issues Confronting MR
2.44      The most important protlems confronting MR at this time are
(a) shortages of both route capa.ity and rolling stock, which constrain both
freight and passenger traffic; (b) outdated technology in many aspects of
operations, maintenance, and manufacture of railway requiremer.ts; and
(c) overly centralized and cumbersome management procedures in some areas,
combined with excessively decentralized and fragmented investment planDing and
work distribution in certain other areas.
2.45      These problems are due partly to inadequate investment in the rail-
ways relative to traffic growth and due partly to inadequate demand manage-
ment. China's railways have, in some cases, had to carry traffic for which
the rail mode is not the best-suited. This misallocation of traffic to rail-
ways has been due both to underpricing of railway services relative to those
of other modes and to the inadequate facilities and services offered by other
modes. Examples are LCL freight shipments and both passenger and freight
movements over short distances. Moreover, it must also be noted that there
are some railway tariffs well below cost, which encourage the uneconomic use
of commodities such as coal and which vacilize railway capacity better used for
other traffic. The tariff structure is distorted,' is not cost-based, and
needs pricing reforms. To address both demand and supply dimensions, railway
tariff adjustments have baen made (para. 2.34), and further adjustments are
anticipated. Other agencies of the central and provincial governments, as
well as the Bank, are also encouraging the development of other transport
modes. But the magnitude of pent-up demand in an economy dependent on coal as
the primary source of energy will mean that shortages in railway capacity will
persist for the next 10 to 15 years.
2.46      To solve MR's problems, the Government must continue to expand the
system's capacity by increasing the productivity of existing facilities and by
making new investments. Thus MR is increasing line capacity through double-
tracking, electrification, and better signaling on about 7,000 km of the core
network, and is augmenting locomotive production capacity by over 50 percent.
MR is attempting to improve operational efficiency by modernizing the telecom-
munications network; modernizing and standardizing its fleet of locomotives,
rolling stock, and other equipment; computerizing its management information
system; and delegating decision-making in appropriate areas to regional admin-
istrations.
2.47      Accomplishments to date are very impressive.  As indicated in para.
2.28, the overall productivity of MR's existing assets is one of the highest
of all the world's railways; average traffic density in ctkm per route-km has



- 18 -
risen from 10.5 million in 1970 to 25.2 million in 1989. However, much of the
infrastructure is now at or near its maximum economic utilization, assuming no
change to more modern technologies. The introduction of these technologies
will also require systemwide planning for large investments and the implemen-
tation of complex management information systeme and procedures.
2.48      Worldwide, new and economically-desirable developments have contin-
ued to occur in motive power and rolling stock, telecommunications and signal-
ing technologies, maintenance and rehabilitation of infrastructure, and
upgrading of equipment maintenance plant and machinery. However, in applying
these developments, MR has had to contend with inadequate manufacturing and
maintenance capacity, limited local funds, and a severe shortage of untied
foreign exchange. The result generally has been a series of partial solu-
tions to problems leading to (a) a proliferation in the types of locomotives
and rolling stock, in maintenance and workshop facilities, in component
designs, and (b) a suboptimal permanent way. Under this project, the Ministry
is preparing plans to modernize and rationalize the maintenance and rehabili-
tation of its track and equipment. These plans are expected to be implemented
under the future Sixth Railway Project.
2.49      The five past and ongoing Bank operations in the railway subsector
in China have generally focused on augmenting rail capacity, in terms of both
route capacity and manufacturing capacity. Under this project, the MR-Bank
dialogue has shifted to addressing policy reforms in full support of the
Bank's overall objectives, and to systemwide issues related to railway tech-
nology, operations, and management. The Bank is actively pursuing with the
Government ways to reduce excess demand for railway service due to a sharp
rise in GDP and the irrational allocation and pricing of traffic. The Govern-
ment, however, needs to invest larger sums in the railway subsector to elimi-
nate the backlog of underinvestment and to accommodate continued traffic
growth. It therefore calls for prioritization of future investments on eco-
nomic grounds. Purthermore, although MR has substantially increased tariffs
recently, the increase did not rectify distortions in the tariff structure.
Railway tariffs need to be restructured based on the railway costing system
currently being installed. On systemwide issues, emphasis is placed on
improving the level of technology in railway operations and management. The
present project is a direct result of this ongoing change in the content of MR
and Bank dialogue.



- 19 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
3.1       Following discussions in the Bank on March 22, 1989, Mr. Zhang
Xiaogiang of SPC expressed keen interest in Bank participation in Railway V
lending. In May 1989, an identification mission explained to the Chinese
authorities the Bank lending strategy dealing with systemwide investment pro-
grams so that the technical, operation, and managerial issues could be tackled
appropriately. In September 1989, a preappraisal mission was scheduled, which
focused on systemwide priorities and the technical studies on telecommunica-
tion, electrification, and track and equipment maintenance. In January 1990,
the appraisal was carried out.
3.2       In order to implement the systemwide approach, agreement was reached
between MR and the Bank on two measures. The first was that MR and the Bank
would exchange information on important issues and possible solutions through
a series of expanded dialogues covering the railways' operations, track and
other infrastructure, motive power and rolling stock, telecommunications,
information systems, investment planning, and finances. The second measure
was that future railway projects would increasingly focus on economic reforms
and the use of analytical tools to select systemwide economic investments
needs that would be ideatified in these dialogues and would entail the upgrad-
ing, expansion, modernization, and efficiency improvement of major aspects of
railway operations over the entire network.
3.3       During project preparation, MR identified four systemwide needs:
(a) track upgrading and rehabilitation of its high traffic-density core net-
work; (b) motive power and rolling stock manufacture and maintenance; (c) main
line electrification; and (d) telecommunications. To provide a basis for
expanded dialogues with the Bank on these systemwide needs, it was agreed that
comprehensive studies and action plans would be prepared which would examine
relevant economic and technical issues in each area. These studies were ini-
tiated in 1989 and are currently being carried out. It was also agreed, dur-
ing project identification, that the proposed project would include systemwide
financing for track upgrading and for critical components required for locomo-
tive and rolling stock maintenance as pilot projects in the use of modern
technology and practices.
3.4       During identification of this project, MR also requested that the
Bank finance the completion of two components which originally had been part
of the Fourth Rai'way Project proposal. These two componenti--double-tracking
of the remaining single-track sections of the Zhuzhou-Hangzhou (Zhegan) line,
and expansion of the Xuzhou terminal--were originally proposed for the Fourth
Railway Project in October 1986, but later withdrawn during preappraisal of
that project in April 1987 due to the resulting size of the Railway IV loan.
Meanwhile, MR began work on double-tracking the Zhegan line and expanding
Xuzhou terminal without Bank financing. It was agreed that the Fifth Railway
Project would include completion of these two traditional components, as well
as the two systemwide components.



- 20 -
B. Project Objectives and Rationale
3.5       The overall objective of the project is to ensure that MR becomes
more efficient and continues to be financially viable through better opera-
tions, maintenance practices, investment planning, and tariff policies. The
specific objectives are to assist MR to (a) introduce recent developments in
rail technology and maintenance and rehabilitation practices, in order to
enhance efficiency and capacity; (b) develop systemwide plans and planning
tools for its major subsectors; (c) develop mo,;rn planning and analytical
techniques for establishing investment priorities and tariff structure; and
(d) add capacity where such additions are urgently needed and justified.
Without the Bank's participation, MR would be more likely to continue to seek
solutions to problems in a piecemeal, less than optimal, fashion.
C. Project Description
3.6       The proposed project (summarized in Tables 3.1 and 3.2) includes
(a) two systemwide components, to assist MR in introducing recent technology
and advanced materials for maintaining and rehabilitating track, and in meet-
ing the shortage of critically-needed items of material, components, and
equipment for rehabilitating locomotives and rolling stock; (b) two capacity
expansion components, to complete double-tracking of the 944-km Zhegan
(Zhuzhou-Hangzhou) line, and to expand capacity at the Xuzhou marshalling
yards; and (c) an action plan for developing and implementing the Railway
Traffic Costing System, leading to formulation of recommendations for tariff
restructuring. In addition, the project will rely heavily on five studies
initiated during project preparation, focusing on track maintenance and
rehabilitation, locomotive and rolling stock maintenance rehabilitation, an
integrated system plan for electrification, an integrated system plan for
telecommunications, and a railway investment prioritization. The project
would be carried out by MR and is expected to be completed by mid-1998. The
individual components are described below.
3.7       MR gives the five studies, which are now at various stages, high
priority, since they will assist it in looking at future investment require-
ments in a rational, systemwide context. Furthermore, the studies would rec-
ommend investment plans in their respective areas for the 8FYP, and at the
same time provide the basis for future Bank Group assistance to MR. Finally,
the studies would be linked directly to improving operational performance in
their respective functional areas, since they will, where practical, identify
meaningful parameters of performance, set targets for these parameters, and
measure actual results against the targets.
Systemwide Components
3.8       Permanent Way.  MR has an adequate program of track rehabilitation.
Average annual expenditures in the past few years have been Y 847 million and
for 1989, Y 1,262 million. As mentioned in para. 2.11, MR has prepared a
comprehensive track rehabilitation program for 8FYP (Tables 3.3 and 3.4),
which provides for approximately 4,000 km of track rehabilitation per year,
but uses materials whose service life will be less than if these components
incorporate the proven, cost-effective technology being applied elsewhere in
the world. The proposed project will be carried out during 1992 and 1993. It
will include on-track machinery to install and maintain the rails, sleepers,



- 21 -
and fastenings of improved quality covered by the project (Tables 3.5 and
3.6), in order for MR to observe their combined performance and evaluate the
higher-quality materials and mechanized practices. Hard rails will be
installed on selected high-density curved line sections totaling 500 km of
track including installation of imported concrete sleepers and fastenings on a
5-km test section. The list of sections to be improved was agreed with the
Bank during negotiations. This component is in addition to the 4,000 km per
year of track rehabilitation which MR agreed to carry out during the 8PYP with
its own resources.
3.9       The proposed permanent way component would strengthen MR's long-
range track upgrading program and thereby help to support MR's objectives for
increasing the existing maximum speed of passenger trains from 120 kph to
140 kph, the maximum speed for freight trains from 70 kph to 80 kph, and the
axle load for freight cars from 21 tons first to 23 tons and then to 25 tons.
There are no technical objections to higher speeds after the upgrading of main
track has been completed, since train spe.ds can be selected in accordance
with existing alignment and track conditions for individual lines. However,
introducing higher axle loads, whether on specific routes or more generally
across MR's network, will require (a) a track upgrading program that provides
for the correction of poor subsoil conditions, heavy mud pumping areas, and
poor drainage systems, as well as the improved designs of rails, sleepers,
fasteners, and turnouts envisioned in the permanent-way systemwide component;
(b) a bridge-upgrading program that strengthens the load-carrying capacity of
bridges; and (c) construction of new freight cars designed for he&aier axle
loads. MR's long-range track rehabilitation and upgrading program will uti-
lize the experience gained from this pilot project (see also para. 3.19).
3.10      Locomotives and Rolling Stock.  In the area of locomotive and roll-
ing stock maintenance, detailed diagnosis of the problems discussed in paras.
2.12-2.18, and preparation of action plans for their long-term solution (para.
2.18) will take time. In the meantime, the proposed project will, as a first
step, help meet a few critical requirements, as follows:
(a)  procurement of wheels to meet partially the shortfall in domestic
production capacity;
(b)  procurement of critical components for imported diesel and eleccric
locomotives; and
(c)  procurement of some critical machinery and equipment for the work-
shops and depots.
3.11      The current annual shortfall in the domestic production of wheels is
nearly 33 percent or about 100,000 units. The proposed import under the proj-
ect (Tables 3.7 and 3.8) is expected partly to make up for this and will be
used systemwide in manufacturing and repairing of about 200 locomotives and
about 6,000 freight and passenger cars. MR has been procuring from abroad
certain components for imported diesel end electric locomotives, using foreign
exchange released by the Government. The amount of foreign exchange has grad-
ually diminished over the past few years and the availability of components
required for maintaining these locomotives has reached critically low levels.
If these components are not procured, availability of these locomotives will
progressively diminish. To avert such a possibility, MH proposes to procure



- 22 -
critical components for certain classes of imported locomotives. MR could
then maintain the availability of these imported diesel and electric locomo-
tives at 82 percent. It was accordingly agreed during negotiations that the
availability of imported diesel and electric locomotives will be maintained at
82 percent.
3.12      In addition to shortages of critical items, MR faces several other
problems in maintaining diesel locomotives and rolling stock. Some critical
machinery and equipment are proposed to be procured to focus action on the
most crucial of these problems, namely the following:
(a)  improving the quality of manufacture of axle boxes for passenger
cars, since annual failures had increased from 18 in 1985 and 26 in
1986 to over 60 in 1989. Also, improve the quality of periodic
overhaul (POH) of passenger cars;
(b)  improving the quality of brake equipment for freight cars, which
will enable improved maintenance and an increase in the trailing
loads of freight trains; and
(c)  improving quality and capacity for POH of diesel locomotives.
The experience gained from this pilot project will help MR in developing an
appropriate long-range program for the mechanical area (see also para. 3.20).
Capacity Expansion Components
3.13      Zhegan Line.  The Zhegan line connects Zhuzhou in Hunan province and
Hangzhou in Zhejiang province and has a total length of 944 km. One of MR's
major east-west routes with several branch lines and also one of its most
congested routes, different segments of the Zhegan line now carry 13 to 22
pairs of passenger trains per day and up to 30 million tons of freight traffic
per year (in both directions). Capacity has gradually been expanded, mainly
by double-tracking several sections and by expanding facilities at stations to
handle longer trains.
3.14      The double-tracking started during 7FYP and covered the sections
with the most serious bottlenecks; by the end of 1990, 350 km or 37 percent of
the line was double-tracked. The doubling of tl'e remaining 594 km is expected
to be completed by 1995, at a cost of about $489 million (Tables 3.9 to 3.16).
The Zhegan component includes replacing the existing single-track 2.6-km
bridge over the Gan River with a new double-track bridge to provide better
clearance for ships. The new bridge will be built 90 m downstream from the
existing bridge, thus minimizing new access track construction, land acquisi-
tion, and resettlement of people.
3.15      Xuzhou Terminal.  The Xuzhou terminal is situated in Jiangsu prov-
ince at the junction of two major trunk lines: the east-west Longhai Line
(Baoji-Lianyungang) and the north-south Jinghu Line (Beijing-Shanghai). The
Xuzhou terminal plays an important role in facilitating the exchange of goods
between North and South China and between the eastern ports and the inland
provinces. However, it has become a bottleneck in the past several years, and
the marshalling yards of the terminal have been operating beyond their normal
capacity. Because of this congestion, a number of incoming trains must wait



- 23 -
at nearby stations practically every day (about 20 trains per day since 1985).
Also, the lack of marshalling capacity at Xuzhou has created costly demands
for marshalling at other major terminals, including Beijing, Tianjin,
Zhengzhou, Nanjing, and Shanghai.
3.16      The Xuzhou terminal is in the midst of a multistage expansion pro-
gram, which began in 1986 and is expected to be completed in 1994. The expan-
sion is intended to remove bottlenecks in the terminal and at stations around
it, as well as to eliminate the need to expand the capacity of other marshall-
ing yards whose space limitations make their expansion difficult and costly.
The project will help provide additional land, improved and new roadbeds,
bridges, culverts, buildings, machinery, and equipment. The total cost of the
project is about Y 628 million ($119 million), of which Y 190 million ($35
million) remains to be invested in the 1991-94 period (Tables 3.17 and 3.18).
Most earthworks, track-laying, and bridges (totaling 10 km) are already com-
pleted. Power supply, road accesses, and buildings are scheduled for comple-
tion by end-1992, and all the equipment available domestically has been
installed. Between 1992 and 1994, MR will equip the terminal with a number of
imported equipment and management tools, which will substantially increase
marshalling capacity.
Planning Studies
3.17      In order to help MR to deal better with systemwide issues that
affect the quantity and quality of its services, five studies are being car-
ried out by teams composed of MR staff supported by external specialists. The
five studies comprise the following:
(a) permanent way maintenance and rehabilitation;
(b) locomotive and rolling stock maintenance and rehabilitation;
(c) system electrification;
(d) system telecommunications; and
(e) railway investment evaluation and priorities, or Railway Investment
Study (RIS).
3.18      Terms of reference for the above studies are available in the proj-
ect file. While the RIS is near completion, the first four studies are in
progress. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from MR that the
reports on the initial phases of the first four technical studies, will be
furnished to the Bank for review and comments by March 31, 1992, with the
support of internationally recruited specialists satisfactory to the Bank. An
understanding was also reached that the findings and recommendations of the
studies will be discussed with the Bank and used as a basis for MR's future
development and for establishing systemwide priorities. The environmental
aspects of the recoaviendations of the four technical studies will be reviewed
and appropriate measures included to protect the environment in follow-on
projects.
3.19      Permanent Way Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study.  This study
consists of a comprehensive review of track rehabilitation and maintenance



- 24 -
standards and methods in order to help MR develop a technically and economic-
ally optimal program. Because of the duration of field service tests, the
study will extend to 1995. The initial phase report is scheduled for comple-
tion by December 1991 and is intended to provide a basis for improvements in
permanent wey maintenance during 8FYP (and for possible financing of these
improvements under future Bank loans). Total study cost for 1990-95 is esti-
mated at $4.8 million. The research program involves the following four prin-
cipal tasks:
(a) general investigation and analysis of track rehabilitation and main-
tenance standards and procedures at home and abroad;
(b) dynamic measurements and tests on the test track and in the field;
(c) tests to be conducted using the Chinese Track Dynamics Test Labora-
tory; and
(d) comprehensive high-volume durability tests.
3.20      Locomotive and Rolling Stock Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study.
This study will prepare action plans to optimize the maintenance, reliability,
availability, and utilization of diesel locomotives and rolling stock. Total
study cost for 1990-95 is estimated at $4.3 million. The problems associated
with locomotive maintenance and utilization are so broad in scope and of such
pressing nature that it has been decided to concentrate study team resources
on the locomotive issues in the beginning and take up the rolling stock issues
later as the team becomes more experienced and the results of the locomotive
studies begin to be realized. To focus on the most pressing problems and the
areas which ought to produce the earliest practical results, the study has
been divided into two groups of taskes
(a)  short-term tasks, ten in number as per MR's inception report of
January 1990 in the project file, for reduction of out-of-service
time for scheduled maintenance including periodic overhaul (POH) and
for urgent assessment of requirements of facilities and equipment to
reduce maintenance time and to improve maintenance infrastructure.
These tasks are expected to be completed by December 1991; and
(b) longer-term tasks, seven in number, expected to be completed over
the next three to five years, for dealing with technical issues
related to design, manufacture and the criteria procedures for, and
the management of, maintenance of diesel locomotives and rolling
stock.
3.21      System Electrification Study.  HR has undertaken an economic and
technical study of the future electrification of its railway network; a draft
final report is planned for December 1991. Estimated study cost is $0.6 mil-
lion. The overall objective of the electrification study will be to prepare
plans for electrification of railway lines for 8FYP. The final selection of
candidate lines for electrification will be determined on the basis of eco-
nomic priorities and optimal timing of investments.
3.22      System Telecommunications Study.  This study involves preparing a
long-range plan for modernizing and expanding MR's telecommunications network,



- 25 -
including facilities for voice, data, radio, facsimile, and teleconferencing,
not only for the railways themselves, but also for ancillary activities such
as factories, universities and other schools, hospitals, various support
activities, and MR staff and families (particularly in isolated locations not
served by public telecommunication services). A draft final report of the
first phase of the study is planned for December 1991. Estimated study cost
is $1.2 million over the period 1990-95.
3.23      The period irom 1991 to 2010 is viewed by MR as the period of tran-
sition from its present inadequate analog communications network to a digital
network capable of providing both the quantity and quality of services
required. However, this transition will involve continued installation of
analog equipment at less critical locations until the year 2000, when all new
installations will be digital, although analog equipment will continue to be
used until worn out. For the principal forms of communications--voice, data,
radio, and teleconferencing--network plans will be prepared in the study to
meet MR's needs for the next 10 to 20 years. The choice of major technologies
for the network plans will be based on both technical and economic criteria.
3.24      Railway Investment Study.  The Railway Investment Study (RIS), whose
first phase was completed in June 1991, represents an initial effort tc ')ring
systemwide technical and economic analysis to the planning of railway capacity
expansion projects in China. The analysis tools developed under the first
phase of the RIS quantify for the first time future systemwide effects of
traffic flows and their related costs and benefits. This capability allows
the Ministry of Railways to project 5-15 years into the future, with some
degree of accuracy, where in the railway-waterway network bottlenecks are
likely to occur and to project how cost-effective its options for railway
capacity expansion, with respect to the location, scale, and timing of invest-
ment, will help solve the bottlenecks. The RIS system also helps the Ministry
answer the questions of what will be the required size of railway investment
programs in the future and what costs to the economy will be if these required
investment programs are not fully implemented. Estimated study cost is
$1.1 million for 1990-95 period. Since the Government is faced with large
investment needs in the railway subsector due to excess demand of transport
service, MR must prioritize these investments on economic grounds and by using
the analytical techniques recommended by RIS. In order to ensure that such
analytical techniques are used, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that, upon satisfactory conclusion of the study, MR would institutionalize RIS
techniques for its future development and in preparing economically optimal
systemwide investment programs.
Cost Estimates and Financing
3.25      Civil works cost estimates are based on final engineering and on
unit costs of similar works carried out by MR in recent years. The costs of
equipment and materials to be imported are based on current world market
prices for such items. The cost of equipment and materials to be procured
locally and not to be financed by the Bank was estimated on the basis of cur-
rent domestic prices. The estimated project cost, expressed in June 1991
prices and including consulting services and training, and contingencies, is
$1,006 million, of which $532 million represents direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs. Cost estimates are summarized below and in Tables 3.1 and
3.2; full details are given in Tables 3.3 to 3.18. The Government has



- 26 -
requested a loan of $330 million, which would cover 33 percent of the total
project cost and 62 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The Government will
finance other materials, equipment, and construction from its own resources.
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(April 1991 pricen)
Foreign
y million                 S million           as 3 of
Local  Foreign  Total  Locol Foreign Total  Loan    total
§19omlde C wnont
Pormanont Way                 108.8   448.0   612.0  82.8  86.0   117.2  85.0    72.6
Locomotive/rolling stock      18.8   298.0   811.8   8.6  68.1    69.0  66.1    94.1
Zhegan Line
Bollutong-Xingtnblan        608.8   524.2 1,181.1 116.8 100.4   216.7   -        46.3
Xingtanbion-Laoguon       1,054.2   928.9 1,978.1 202.0 177.0   879.0   -       46.7
Laeoguan-WIulIdun           104.9    98.6   201.4  20.1  18.6   88.8   -         47.9
Subtot al              1.766.9 1.544.7 8.810.6 880.8 295.9   684.2 140.7   46.7
Xuzhou Terminal               800.8   802.2   602.5  67.6  57.91! 115.4  18.1L*  50.2
Base Coot              2.252.9 2.503.5 4.836.4 481.8 494.9   926.6 300.0    63.4
Physical contingencies b      119.0    59.7   178.7  22.8  11.0    84.4   7.9    88.7
Basolino Estimate      2.371.9 2.64a.2 S.016.1 464.4 S06.5   9eo.9 807.9   52.7
Price contingenclos /c        214.8   274.8   489.1  19.6  26.2    44.?  22.1   56.2
Total Proiect Costs L    2.68.2 2.910.0 5.604.2 478.9 681.7 1.006.  830.0    58.0
/a Includes 80.2 million for consultant sorvices and training.
/b Physical contingencies are about 8.7 percent of base cost.
/! Local and foreign price contingencles are about 9.7 percent (in Y) and 4.6 percent (in 8) of
base cost plus physical contingencies.
/d The project Is exempt from taxes and duties.
Source: Ministry of Railways and mission estlmates.
3.26       An average of 3.7 percent physical contingencies is included in
estimated project costs. Annual price escalation rates were applied to local
and foreign costs respectively as followst 10.0 percent and 9.0 percent for
1991, 8.0 percent and 1.1 percent for 1992, and 5.0 percent and 2.95 percent
for 1993-95. The exchange rate of Y 5.22 to the US dollar was used for trans-
lating the foreign exchange costs.
3.27       The proposed Bank loan would finance the following:
(a)  for the systemwide permanent way component ($90 million):  track
materials ($47.4 million), on-track machinery ($31.6 million), and
other equipment ($11.0 million) (Table 3.19);
(b)  for the systemwide mechanical component ($60 million):  freight and
passenger car wheels ($28.0 million), locomotive components
($10.0 million), and workshop machinery and equipment ($22.0 mil-
lion) (Table 3.20);



- 27 -
(c)  for the Zhegan Line ($160 million):  basic materials such as steel,
rails and accessories, switches and timber ($111.9 million), signal-
ing and telecommunication equipment ($40.7 million) and other equip-
ment and machinery ($7.4 million) (Table 3.21); and
(d) for the Xuzhou Terminal ($20 million): an operation dispatching
system ($3.2 million), marshalling yard equipment ($6.7 million),
communication equipment ($7.2 million), operation control equipment
($2.7 million). and technical assistance and training ($0.2 million)
(Table 3.22).
3.28      External Loans.  The Government borrows all foreign loans and
relends to local public entities. Since the Bank's First Railway Project in
1984, the Government has taken positive steps in converting the customary
grants to interest bearing loans and has gradually increased the onlending
rate.  Up to 1984, the Government gave grants to MR for investments.  There-
after, it started relending foreign loans at 3-4 percent (loans from Japan at
3 percent, loans from the Government itself at 3.6 percent and loans from the
Bank's Third Railway Project at 4 percent). The relending rate under the
Fourth Railway Project was 5 percent. The onlending terms between MOF and MR
under the proposed Fifth Railway Project are 20 years, including five years of
grace at the interest rate of 5 percent per year. MR will bear the foreign
exchange risk. It is the intention of the Government to eventually fully
eliminate the interest rate subsidy and to ensure that MR bears the full cost
of its future loans.
D. Project Implementation
3.29      Implementation arrangements would be similar to those of the previ-
ous railway loans. Final engineering of the Zhegan line double-tracking was
carried out by MR's fourth Design Institute (Wuhan). Construction is being
carried out by various construction bureaus of MR: the fifth (Guiyang), the
third (Taiyuan) and the 14th (Jinan), plus the Major Bridge Bureau (Wuhan).
Construction of the Xuzhou terminal extension is being carried out by the
fourth (Hehui) for the northern part, the 14th (Jinan) for the southern part,
and the first (Xi'an) for the bridges. These construction bureaus were
selected under LCB; they are all well equipped and have long experience in
this type of work. Similar works have been successfully implemented in this
manner under previous projects. Implementation of the other components of the
project will be carried out by MR with the help of consultants as needed.
3.30      To avoid procurement delays experienced in the past (para. 2.43), MR
was requested to prepare and submit to the Bank all bidding documents for the
first year of construction. Actually, MR has already submitted documents for
$235 million worth of materials and equipment, or 71 percent of the loan
amount. The planned implementation schedules are shown in Tables 3.23 and
3.24. The proposed project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998, and
the closing date of the proposed loan would be December 31, 1998. Because of
advanced stage of project preparation, no unusual supervision requirements are
foreseen. Initially, the Bank's supervision efforts will focus on technical
studies and procurement.



- 28 -
E. Procurement
3.31      Procurement of all materials and equipment to be financed from the
loan will be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank guidelines for procurement, except for (a) concrete sleepers az.d
fastenings for the 5-km test track (para. 3.8), which would be purchased
directly from selected foreign sources ($0.5 million); (b) critical locomotive
components (para. 3.11), which would be purchased by direct ccoitracting on the
basis of quotations solicited from the original manufacturers of locomotives,
their subsidiaries, or their suppliers ($10.0 million); and (c) a number of
small items worth less than $200,000 per order and totaling less than $5.0
million, which would be purchased by international and local shopping on the
basis of quotations solicited from at least three potential suppliers.
3.32      All bid packages valued at over $1.0 million will be subject to the
Bank's prior review. In bid evaluation, Chinese manufacturers will be allowed
a preferential margin of 15 percent of the CIF cost of competing imports, or
the relevant prevailing level of customs duties, whichever is lower. Techni-
cal assistance will be contracted in accordance with the "Bank Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants." The expected procurement methods and the likely
amounts involved are shown below.
PROCUREMENT METHODS /a
($ million)
Project element                ICB           LCB          Other            Total
Civil works                                 365.0           -               365.0
Materials                     221.4           37.1        111.5             370.0
(106.6)          _                            (106.6)
Equipment                     207.7           47.2         15.5             270.4
(207.7)          -           (15.5)/b         (223.2)
Technical assistance            -                           0.2               0.2
and training                 -              -            (0.2)             (0.2)
Total                   429.1          449.3         127.2           1,005.6
(314.3)          -           (15.7)           (330.0)
/a  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Bank.
/b Includes: direct contracting (10.5) and international and local shopping
(5.0).
3.33      For items not financed by the Bank, Government procurement proce-
dures will apply. Such items comprise civil works, various local materials,
and miscellaneous equipment. It is expected that the LCB in accordance with



- 29 -
Government standard documents and procedures recently reviewed by the Bank
will be followed.
F. Disbursement
3.34      Disbursement of the proposed loan would be for (a) 100 percent of
foreign expenditlres for the CIF ccst of imported equipment and materials:
(b) 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally procured equipment and mate-
rials, excluding taxes; and (c) 100 percent of consulting services and train-
ing. Domestic transport from port or factory would not be eligible for Bank
financing.
3.35      Disbursements against contracts for goods and services valued at
less than $200,000 each would be made on the basis of Statements of Expendi-
ture (SOEs). To facilitate disbursements for these items, a special account
will be established with an initial deposit of $16.0 million representing
about four months of expected expenditures. Replenishment would be made
monthly or whenever the special account is drawn down by 50 percent of its
initial deposit, whichever occurs first. Documentation supporting the SOEs
will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be kept in the project office in
Beijing and made available for review by the Bank's supervision missions.
3.36      An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 3.25, where
a comparison is made with the Bank-wide profile for railway projects. All
components, except the Zhegan line, are scheduled to be implemented in about
three to four years. Disbursements are therefore expected to be faster than
the standard profile during the early years. The schedule is based on the
assumption that the proposed loan would become effective by the end of 1991.
G. Environmental Impact
3.37      None of the components involved in the proposed project will have
any adverse impact on the environment. The Zhegan line double-tracking will
follow the existing alignment on over 90 percent of its length, and will have
no material environmental impact. The Xuzhou terminal component will help
improve the operations of the terminal already nearing completion. An assess-
ment of environmental issues facing MR and several possible remedies are given
in Chapter II, Section D, and in Annex 2.2.
3.38      China has promulgated detailed laws and regulations for acquiring
land for construction projects. The Land Administration Law was passed in
1986 and was further clarified by the *Implementation Regulations of Land
Administration Law" promulgated by the State Council on February 4, 1991. The
Land Administration Law and the Implementation Regulations are elaborate and
clearly spell out procedures for acquiring land and resettling people, as well
as spelling out methods of compensations. The Bank staff have reviewed these
laws under the ongoing railways and highways projects and found them to be
fair, equitable, and satisfactory. MR provides the Bank a schedule of land to
be acquired, buildings to be demolished, number of people and homes to be
resettled, and their related costs. An agreement was reached during negotia-
tions on the details of the resettlement program as shown in the following
table.



- 30 -
IMPACT OF LAND ACQUISITION FOR ZHEOAN LINE La
IFYP                     OFYP                   Total
1986-90    1991    1992    1993    1"4    1995 1991-9
Area of lend to be acquired (mu)  9,178   8,206   4,875   8,856   2,474   1,918  16,827
Area of houeoo/tu)ldingo to be
emolished (Cm)                160,898  62,689  71,?64  68,289  40,676  31,464 269,602
No. of poople to be resettled   15,040   5,257   7,176   6,824   4,057    8146  25,960
No. of houese to be resettled     8,008   1,052   1,435   1,264    811    880   6,192
Costo (V millIon)                 129.8   46.2   61.7   64.4   34.0   27.0   228.2
La Further detaIls for thee subsections are In Project File (Anaex 1).
3.39       The compensation MR gives the affected persons varies according to
the agricultural production value of the land. Besides the monetary compensa-
tion, HR also provides the displaced persons with materials for building new
houses as well as jobs on the construction project. Less than 10 percent of
the new second track will be on a new and separate alignment, and the nuwber
of persons to be relocated is relatively small. No problems were encountered
in the past nor are expected in completing the land acquisition and resettle-
ment work, since MR has taken the necessary preparatory steps well ahead of
time. During negotiations, we have obtained assurances that the land will be
available well ahead of time to avoid implementation delays.



- 31 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
4.1       The economic analysis for the proposed project focuses on the two
systemwide components and the two capacity expansion componenta, which account
for over 90 percent of project base cost. The economic analysis was done
separately for each of these components, as reported below.
4.2       All input and output elements for the costs and benefits evaluation
were obtained by converting financial costs to economic costs using conversion
factors. These conversion factors have taken into account a shadow exchange
rate, which is higher than the official rate. For traded goods, the CIF
prices of imports and FOB prices of exports were used to estimate the cost of
materials and equipment; adjustments were made for the cost of inland
transportation.
B. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.3       The cottribution of the project will be in three areas:
(a) the proposed Bank-MR cooperation in the systemwide components relat-
ing to track, locomotives, and rolling stock would benefit MR in the
form of:
(i) cost savings on track maintenance and train operations due to
improved management and timely and proper performance of main-
tenance tasks, and
(ii) increases in traffic capacity and in the quality of service
over the whole system;
(b) the investments in the Zhegan line and the Xuzhou terminal would
contribute directly to MR's overall plan for capacity expansion on
one of the most congested rail routes and in the second largest rail
terminal in China, respectively; and
(c) the study components would be used as vehicles to initiate better
planned railway maintenance and investment programs to be incorpo-
rated in MR's 8FYP, such that:
(i) users will benefit from infrastructure that is safer and
cheaper to maintain and operate because of better design, and
(ii) MR will benefit from the more cost-effective use of its scarce
resources, including reductions in future capital expenditures
due to longer life of facilities.
C. Permanent Way Systemwide Component
4.4       About 68 percent of MR's main line rail on its core network is sub-
standard and too light for prevailing traffic volumes. Replacing heavily-
trafficked sections with a better standard of rail, as well as better concrete



- 32 -
sleepers, fastening systems, and turnout components is one of the most impor-
tant requirements for running a more cost-effective and safer railway. The
permanent-way component includes the subcomponents of track rehabil.tation and
on-track machinery. Quantifiable benefits of this investment are the follow-
ingi
(a) Track Rehabilitation.
Reduction in Track Replacement Costs: This represents the most
important type of benefit for the track rehabilitation subcomponent
investment. The 500 km of head-hardened rail financed by the proj-
ect would replace existing rail on the sharp curves of some heavily-
trafficked sections. Without the project, rail on these sections
must be replaced every year, whereas with the project, the rail
would be replaced every three to four years. The benefit of the
Investment is estimated as savings derived from deferring replace-
ment of rail for three years.
(b) On-Track Machinery.
(i) Benefits from Increase in Track Capacity. This is the largest
benefit of the on-track maintenance machinery component. As
most major lines of the Chinese railway are operating at or
close to capacity, an increase in line capacity would permit
more frequent trains, thereby allowing more goods and services
to be transported. This benefit derives from the fact that
mechanized maintenance uses less track time than manual main-
tenance, thereby allowing more trains to use the track per day.
The saving in track time, in turn, derives from two sources.
First, to achieve the same track condition standard, mechanized
maintenance, because it produces better quality of work,
requires a longer time interval (once every two years) than
manual maintenance (once every eight months). Second, mecha-
nized maintenance, requires less time per operation than manual
maintenace (2.5 vs 3 hours). These two sources combine to
yield a unit saving in track time of 705 days per set of track
maintenance equipment. It was conservatively estimated that
two-thirds of the increase in track capacity due to this saving
will be utilized, i.e., resulting in actual benefits.
(ii)  Savings in Labor and Material Costs.  In addition to minor
savings from reducing labor costs by about 60 percent (Table
4.1), use of on-track machinery extends the economic life of
components and improves work quality, so that derailments are
reduced.
(Iii)  Improvements in Quality.  Complementary benefits from the bet-
ter quality track resulting from mechanized maintenance, such
as reduction of risks of track failures--with consequent fewer
sections under speed limitations--lower operating and main-
tenance costs of rolling stock, and fewer derailments, have not
been evaluated, for lack of reliable data.



- 33 -
4.5       The proposed investments would yield economic rates of return of
26 percent for the track rehabilitation investment, 32 percent for the on-
track machinery investment, and 28 percent overall. Net present values at the
12-percent discount rate are Y 38 milli,n, Y 252 million, and Y 289 million,
respectively. The detailed computation and sensitivity analyses are shown in
Annex 4.1 and Tables 4.1 and 4.2.
D. Locomotive and Rolling Stock Systemwide Component
4.6       To be able to continue coping with existing demand and also to han-
dle the projected traffic growth, MR needs to strengthen its efficiency and
capacity for maintaining and manufacturing locomotives and rolling stock. The
fleets of 13,000 locomotives, 25,000 passenger coaches, and 350,000 freight
cars were hard pressed to handle 1,025 billion tkm of freight and 300 billion
pkm of passenger traffic during 1989. With an additional 5 percent annual
growth of traffic projected between now and 1995, together with declining
availability of equipment, these fleets would have to be larger unless better
utilization of the fleets can offset part of the need.
4.7       For the locomotive fleet, the conversion from steam traction to
diesel and electric traction should provide continuing increases in locomotive
productivity by improving utilization through the next five to ten years. In
contrast, significant future improvements in freight car productivity will
depend mainly on improving availability and relatively little on improving
utilization. This is because freight cars already have a high rate of utili-
zation: the car fleet in 1988 averaged over 250 km per day and carried 79 car-
loads per car per year. But there are still opportunities to make significant
gains in freight car availability by reducing the overall time that freight
cars are out of service for overhauls and maintenance and by reducing the
backlog of cars awaiting maintenance and overhaul.
4.8       To deal with the most critical causes of maintenance backlogs of
locomotives and rolling stock, MR and the Bank have together identified three
short-term action plans:
(a) to replenish through imports the existing unit exchange component
pools for MR's 654 imported diesel and electric locomotives and
thereby facilitate their overhaul and return to service; if this is
not done within 18 months, the availability of imported locomotives
would drop to 41 percent from the current 82 percent, which mearts
that about 327 units of locomotives would be lost to service, caus-
ing an estimated loss in transport capability of about 19 billion
net tkm per year;
(b) to offset through imports the current shortage of wheel production
capacity in China, which has reduced the manufacture of passenger
cars by 200 units and freight cars by 4,000 units, and the periodic
overhaul of about 1,500 freight cars in one year; this causes an
estimated loss in transport capability of about 16 billion net tkm
per year; and
(c) to import a limited number of the most critically-needed items of
machinery in order to realize a reduction in the time in shop for



- 34 -
locomotives and rolling stock; if this is not done, about 9 billion
net tkm per year in transport capability would be lost.
4.9       The lost transport capacity, if these actions are not taken, would
mean that little of the corresponding freight traffic would move by another
mode. This would adversely affect economic activities and production that
depend on such movements. For purposes of economic evaluation, only two-
thirds of the frustrated freight traffic is counted for beneCiit calculation.
Project benefits would be the total economic value of additional freight that
has been allowed to be transported by rail. The economic value of this addi-
tional freight is estimated by using the total additional fteight revenue as a
proxy. Operational parameters used in the analysis are given in Table 4.3.
4.10      The economic rates of return obtained are 59 percent for the invest-
ment in the unit exchange components pool, 26 percent for the investment in
imported wheels, 22 percent for the investment in machinery and equipment for
improving locomotive POH quality, and 25 percent overall. Net present values
at the 12-percent discount rate are Y 564 million, Y 443 million, Y 179 mil-
lion, and Y 1,186 million, respectively. Detailed analyses are shown in Annex
4.1 and Tables 4.3 and 4.4.
E. Zhegan Line Double Tracking
4.11      In its original single-track configuration, the Zhegan line had a
capacity of about 28 mtpy (both directions) plus an average of about 14 pairs
of passenger trains a day. In view of MR's shortage of investment resources,
this double-tracking is being carried out gradually, section by section, over
a seven-year period. The upgrading will increase capacity to an average of
about 68 mtpy freight and about 23 pairs of passenger trains per day in 1995.
The composition of freight carried is heterogeneous, but coal, timber, mining
products, and iron and steel are the more important items.
4.12      The benefits of the Zhegan line expansion are calculated in terms of
the value added of freight traffic that will be shipped on the line when addi-
tional capacity is available, plus the value of extra passenger travel made
possible. Benefits of the freight traffic are estimated according to the
economic value added per ton of coal. This is a conservative assumption since
the value added per ton is significantly smaller for coal than for other com-
modities. The value of incremental passenger traffic is conservatively esti-
mated in terms of the value added of the freight traffic that could otherwise
be carried.
4.13      Apart from the direct cost of the expansion project itself, the cost
streams also include the necessary complementary investments in coal mines and
other industries, as well as in locomotives and rolling stock. Over a 20-year
period beyond project completion, the net present value (NPV) discounted at
12 percent for this package of complementary investments is Y 8.0 billion, and
the economic rate of return (ERR) 35 percent. (For details, see Annex 4.2 and
Table 4.5.)
P. Xuzhou Terminal Expansion
4.14      MR regards the expansion of the Xuzhou terminal as an integral part
of the expansion of the Jinghu line; the latter could take place in 8FYP if



- 35 -
funds are available. However, given the uncertainty in the availability of
funds, the economic evaluation of individual investments to expand the Xuzhou
terminal must be made on a stand-alone basis.
4.15      In 1985, the Xuzhou terminal was operating near its capacity.  The
total volume of freight traffir 'hrough the terminal via the Jinghu and
Longhai lines in that year was about 105 mt. The expansion program is
expected to increase the terminal's total freight capacity frum about 110 mtpy
to about 175 mtpy vhen completed in 1995, enough to accommodate new traffic
through the year 2000 (assuming that the traffic growth will be constrained by
the existing capacity of the Jinghu line).
4.16      The benefits of the Xuzhou terminal expansion are calculated in
terms of the value added of the increment in freight that will be shipped
through the terminal when additional capacity is available. For simplicity,
the value of extra passenger travel made possible by the expansion is ignored
in the calculation. As in the Zhegan line analysis, the value added of extra
freight handled is conservatively estimated in terms of the value added per
ton of coal which represents about 40 percent of all freight traffic through
the terminal.
4.17      In addition to the direct cost of the expansion project itself, the
cost streams also include the relevant complementary investments in the acqui-
sition of locomotives and wagons as well as in the development of coal mines
and other industries. The NPV of this package of investments (at the 12-per-
cent discount rate) is Y 13.5 billion and the ERR 31 percent. (For details,
see Annex 4.3 and Table 4.6a.)
4.18      The above economic analysis is for the entire expansion project
covering the 1986-92 period. An economic analysis was also carried out for
the incremental investment in the automatic control system during 1990-92,
part of which is proposed to be financed by the Bank. This automatic control
system is expected to increase freight capacity by about 45 mtpy, out of about
65 mtpy in total capacity increase for the entire 1986-92 expansion project.
The value added of extra freight handled is estimated in terms of the weighted
average value added per ton of coal. The total cost of complementary invest-
ments other than the investment cost for the automatic control system includes
the costs of acquiring locomotives and wagons and developing coal mines, for-
ests, and other industries related to the incremental traffic. The NPV for
this incremental investment is Y 5.4 billion and the ERR is 26 percent. (For
details, see Annex 4.3 and Table 4.6b.)
G. Overall Evaluation and Risks
4.19      Overall economic evaluation shows that implementation of all project
components is well justified; the weighted ERR for the project as a whole is
33 percent. The works for line and terminal expansion involve proven technol-
ogies that are already in wide use in China and elsewhere in the world; tech-
nological risks are therefore small. MR has successfully completed similar
projects for a number of years, so risks from inadequate physical project
implementation and operation are 4nsignificant.
4.20      Testing of the new designs of track materials to be acquired under
the permanent-way systemwide component involves some risk if the designs prove



- 36 -
less satisfactory than the existing designs, but they also hold the promise of
broad-based improvements in operating productivity and would seem well worth
taking.
4.2l      The constraints placed on China's development by the railway trans-
portation bottlenecks ensure that the rail transport sector will continue to
receive Government attention and priority. What is not so certain is whether
the recent rapid growth of transportation demand that has accompanied the
economic reforms will continue, with rail traffic continuing to grow at least
as fast as projected. The risk is that the benefits of the project would fall
short of projections. Sensitivity analyses for the Zhegan and Xuzhou project
components are shown in Annexes 4.2 and 4.3 and Tables 4.5 and 4.6.



- 37 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
5.1       GOC's financial and institutional policies toward MR have changed
substantially over the past few years. Prior to 1986, MR functioned mainly as
an integral part of GOC. Although regional railway administrations had day-
to-day operational responsibility, the strategic planning, investment, and
policy decisions were taken by MR and/or the Ministry of Finance and the State
Planning Commission.  During the past decade, in line with China's reform
program, the relationship between the Government and MR has gradually improved
to provide greater autonomy to the railway system. It is an evolving process
designed to promote higher productivity and efficient management control.
Recent positive changes toward this goal are described in the following:
B. Financial Arrangements between GOC and MR
5.2       Chronologically, the financial arrangements have evolved as follows:
(a)  Before 1981.  MR paid 15 percent sales tax on gross revenues and
turned over net profits to the Government, which in turn provided
all funding for capital investment. The net flow was in favor of
the Government.
(b) 1981 to 1985. During 1981/82, MR continued to pay 15 percent sales
tax on gross revenue and transferred 79 percent of its profits,
while the Government gave funds for all railway investments. In
1983, it paid 55 percent income tax on operating Income and remitted
Y 1.2 billion from its profits to the Government. The Government
provided capital funding as a grant up to 1984 and thereafter in the
form of loans. For IBRD's first loan, HOF met the debt service up
to 1984, thereafter, HR has been responsible. During this period
also, the net flow was in favor of the Government.
(c) After 1986. In 1986, the Government entered into an "economic con-
tract" with the MR, in the form of a list of instructions, such as
for MR to pay a business tax of 5.3 percent on gross revenues and to
achieve traffic targets of 1.6 billion tons of freight and 1.4 bil-
lion passengers. Other details of the contract and the progress
made to date are shown in Annex 5.1. Since the economic contract is
a list of a few instructions from the Government to MR, it is neces-
sary to strengthen and improve the primary objective of achieving
high technical efficiency and financial viability. The contract
should give full authority to the railway coupled with full respon-
sibility to achieve planned financial, operational, and statistical
targets. During 8FYP, particularly from the next railway project, a
comprehensive economic contract based on a performance contract
should be developed. In this period also, the net flow of funds was
in favor of the Government. Since 1986, the Government has exempted
KR from the 55-percent corporate te.x to enable MR to self-finance a
good portion of its investments.



- 38 -
C. Railway Costing
5.3       The need for establishing a suitable railway costing system in China
was realized as early as the first railway project. In the mid-1980s, MR
decided to carry out a railway costing study to help improve the costing sys-
tem. The objective of the costing study is to establish tariff structures and
levels in line with operating costs, assist in analyzing investments, and
strengthen and improve railway operations and management. In 1985, MR began
to analyze operating costs by commodity, class of traffic, and line segment.
The study was financed under the First and Third Railway Projects, and
included visits to foreign railways by Chinese officials, the services of
foreign experts, and the purchase of computer equipment. Annex 5.2 cites
details of the study and its current status. The costing system can help the
Government, inter alia, in policy development, planning, subsidy control,
tariffs, selecting the most economic route, and evaluation of capital invest-
ments.
5.4       Although MR has increased tariffs substantially since September
1989, the increase did not rectify distortions in tariff structure (para.
2.35). MR is considerably behind in implementing the costing system. It
therefore seeks Bank assistance to introduce a comprehensive railway costing
system and to rationalize the current tariff structure. With this objective
in view, a plan of action for the implementation of the railway costing has
been prepared and agreed with the Bank, describing specific actions to be
taken by given dates (Annex 5.2, Attachment 2). Following this action plan, a
work schedule for the formulation of tariff restructuring was also agreed upon
during negotiations (Annex 5.2, Attachment 2).
5.5       Based on para. 5.4, therefore, it was agreed during negotiations
that MR will:
(a) develop and carry out a plan of action agreed with the Bank to
implement the railway costing system; and
(b) take necessary steps to formulate a program for restructuring tar-
iffs, based on results and recommendations of the costing study.
D. Management Information System (MIS)
5.6       The objective of the MIS study is to help MR improve its operations
and management through a systematic, useful, and timely computerized reporting
system. The study was initiated by MR in 1985 and partly financed under the
Bank's Second Railway Project. MR selected the Mudanjiang Subadministration
under the Harbin Administration to test the MIS on a pilot basis, before
introducing it over the whole system. The progress is slow. So far, dis-
bursement accounting, revenue accounting, and a quick revenue system account-
ing have been computerized. Full details of the MIS are given in Annex 5.3.
5.7       Currently MR is focusing on computerizing the financial accounting
portion of MIS, whereas the scope of MIS included in the Railway II SAR covers
much broader aspects. This, combined with the computerized operating informa-
tion system, will be a major component of MIS. This system will support key
transportation decision-making on an hour-by-hour and day-by-day basis. It
will produce a wealth of operating statistics for various sectors and sec-



- 39 -
tions. The managers will be able to make sound and timely decisions. The
study will also streamline the managers' functions to improve productivity.
MR is preparing a program of actions which will be discussed with the Bank
before it is finalized and before the remaining steps are taken to include
operating and statistical information for the management.
5.8       The shortage of computers has also slowed MIS progress.  In agree-
ment with the Bank, MR has placed orders for computers under ICB.
E. Financial Performance (1986-90)
5.9       MR accounts are prepared on a an accrual basis using a double entry
system. MOF has prescribed the regulations governing the presentation of
financial accounts. These regulations cover accounting methodology, taxation,
revenue distribution to administrations, forms of accounts, depreciation, etc.
MR accounting is basically concentrated at the subadministration level, but
other functions such as disbursements and revenue collections are decentral-
ized at smaller units. From the three major financial statements (income
statement, balance sheet, and funds flow statement), only the income statement
is consolidated for the whole railway network (para. 2.39). At the request of
the Bank, MR for the first time furnished a forecast balance sheet and funds
flow statement for 1991-95. As soon as the accounting procedural issues are
resolved, as stated in para. 2.39, MR should be able to prepare full balance
sheets and fund flow statements. Quite different from Western accounting,
depreciation has been calculated through two sources: (a) through a basic
provision of a fixed percentage on the book value of fixed assets, and
(b) through the provision of major repairs. This distorts the true earning
position of the entity. MR, however, is gradually developing other analytical
financial procedures to modernize its financial management practices.
MR'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1986-90
1986     1987       1988      1989       1990
----------------- -  millIon)      - - -----------
Revenue (net of solos tax)           22,040    24,823    26,675    29,982    88,886
Working expenses                      12,161    13,976    16,868    21,058    28,880
Depreciation expenose                 2,998    8,814       8,414     8,954      4,222
Operating expenses                   15,164    17,290    20,272    24,982      27,552
Net operating rovenue                 7,492    7,688       6,808     6,429    11,798
interest and repayments                   -      (992)     (754)    (1,871)    (1,895)
Profit froe oubsidieries and factories  849       999       885        479        485
Revenue before tax                    8,841     7,540      6,414     8,568      9,908
Income tax                                _         _         _                    -
Transfers to government                   -         -         -          -      2,000
Surplus after tax and transfers       8,841     7,640      8,414     8,668      7,908
Working rotio (3)                        64        56        63         70        6o
Operating ratio (X)                      67        T0        78         8         7
5.10      MR's financial performance over the past five years is given in
Table 5.1 and is summarized above. Although MR continues to maintain a
healthy profit margin, its operating ratio deteriorated from 67 percent in
1986 to 71 percent in 1990. While revenues increased by 72 percent to
Y 38.9 billion during the same period, operating costs increased by 82 percent



- 40 -
to Y 27.6 billion (or from 1.34 fen per traffic unit ir. 1986 to 2.11 fen in
1990). Net operating revenue declined from Y 7.5 billion in 1987 to
Y 5.4 billion in 1989. This is the result of costs increasing at a faster
rate than tariff increases, in particular a 62-percent increase in the per-
centage allowance for the major repair fund in 1989 over 1988. But thereafter
in 1990, due to substantial tariff increases, the net operating revenues
increased to Y 11.8 billion. Other expenses also increased substantially from
Y 2,437 million in 1986 tc Y 4,880 million in 1990 (Table 5.1). Labor and
material costs also increased steadily. In comparison with other railways of
the world, however, the labor cost of MR is very low--about 20 percent of
total working cost.
5.11      In order to reverse the deteriorating trend, MR increased passenger
fares by 112 percent in September 1989 and freight rates by 24 percent in
March 1990 and another 7 percent in March 1991. This has given an uplift to
railway finances. However, tariff increases resulted in a decline of pass-km
by 18 percent from 1988 to 1990. From 1991, it is expected to show increases
and reach to 334 billion pass-km by 1995.
5.12      It should be noted that the depreciation charges reflect the book
values, not revalued assets. I the past the rate of inflation has been mini-
mal in China, but recently it 'as been increasing and reached to about 18 per-
cent in 1989. MR has been tr mng to obtain permission from the Government to
calculate depreciation on re,-lued fixed assets. (Its preliminary revaluation
in 1950 indicated the value of 1 km of track at Y 100,000, but currently it is
estimated to be about Y 2 to 3 million per km.) HOF is reluctant to allow
revaluation since a large number of other parastatal organizations may also
wish to do the same. The Bank has encouraged MR to continue to pursue this
matter with the Government.
5.13      In the last forecast for 7FYP, MR was expected to exceed all the
financial targets of total revenue of Y 130 billion, business tax payments of
Y 7 billion, and capital expenditures of Y 29.6 billion. The actual results
were total revenues, Y 151 billion; business tax, Y 8 billion; and capital
construction, Y 34 billion.
P. Financial Objectives
5.14      MR's management has included in its financial forecast of 1991-95 an
investment program of Y 116 billion during the 8FYP. The Government expects
MR to self-finance a large portion of these investments. In addition, MR is
expected to cover debt service charges from internally generated funds. MR's
financial objectives should inevitably reflect and encompass such increased
responsibilities. The long-term financial objectives, therefore, should be
that the railways function on commercial principles and improve efficiency and
productivity, with the aim of maintaining financial viability by moving more
traffic as efficiently as possible, and by applying realistic cost-based tar-
iffs. MR should generate funds sufficient to cover operating costs and debt
service obligations, to contribute toward future investments for renewal and
expansion of assets, and to meet all other financial obligations on a timely
basis (para. 5.20).



- 41 -
G. Future Financial Performance
5.15      Financial forecasts for the total railway network were prepared by
MR for the period 1991 to 1995. The forecast is based on the proposed 8FYP
investment program (subject to approval by the SPC), anticipated traffic
growth, assumed tariff increases, expected inflation and other assumptions
which are detailed in Annex 5.4.
5.16      The forecast income statement is given in Table 5.1 in detail; a
summary is given below.
1991      199Z       1993      1994       1995
- _-------------- (Y million) ----------------
Revenues after business tax      41,487    43,605    46,692    50,248    54,460
Working expenses                 25,564    27,833    30,240    32,697    35,546
Depreciation expenses             4,517      4,788      5,075     5,380      5,702
operating expenses                30,081    32,621    35,315    38,077    41,248
Profit from factories                493       510        540       570        596
Net revenue                      11,899    11,494    11,917    12,741    13,808
Working ratio (Z)                     62        64         65        65         65
Operating ratio (2)                   73        75         76        76         76
5.17      Assuming that the traffic level and the freight revenue on a per tkm
basis will increase by 4 percent every year during the 8FYP period, as fore-
cast, MR would continue to be profitable. Operating revenues after business
tax would increase from Y 38,885 million in 1990 to Y 54,460 mlllion in 1995.
During this period, freight revenue per tkm would increase from 2.6 fen to
3.2 fen and revenue per pkm would remain at 4.4 fen. Operating costs, on the
other hand, would rise from Y 27,552 million in 1990 to Y 41,248 million in
1995 (Table 5.1). The operating ratio would improve from 83 percent in 1989
to 76 percent in 1995 in spite of rapid increases in the cost of electricity
resulting from increase in coal prices and in depreciation charges resulting
from increases in investments. Net revenues from operations will continue to
be more than sufficient to cover debt service charges and reasonable contribu-
tions to future investments. This satisfactory condition should be maintained
by MR. During negotiations, agreement was reached that MR will undertake all
steps necessary, including controlling costs, adjusting tariffs, and improving
productivity, to maintain an annual operating ratio of 82 percent or better
starting from fiscal year 1991.
5.18      The funds flow statement (Table 5.2) shows that, over the 1991-95
period, funds coming from loans will total Y 34.9 billion, or an average of
Y 7.0 billion per year. Debt service over the same period will total over
Y 19.1 billion. About 44 percent of capital requirement will be provided from
internal cash generation, 26 percent from borrowings, both domestic and for-
eign, and 30 percent from central and local governments. Over the five-year
period, debt service charges will improve from 15 percent in 1991 to 9 percent



- 42 -
in 1995 of the total application of funds. The yearly cash position will
remain satisfactory at about Y 3.6 billion, representing about one month's
working expenses. The reserves of special funds for health and welfare will
improve substantially from Y 1.6 billion in 1991 to Y 2.2 billion in 1995.
Since highway tariffs are said to be much higher (about 10 times) than railway
tariffs in China (compared with less than twice that in the United States),
the Government has adjusted freight and passenger tariffs upwards (para. 2.34)
and will consider further increases in the future. This should place MR in a
much stronger financial condition.
5.19      A ratio analysis of the balance sheets shows that the debt/equity
ratio will increase from 17183 in 1990 to 34/66 in 1995 due to increase in
borrowings (Table 5.3). For the same period, the quick ratio remains at 1.7
and the current ratio at 2.1, as shown below.
1991       1992        1993       1994        1995
Current ratio /a                2.2         2.2        2.1         2.1         2.1
Quick ratio /b                  1.8         1.7        1.7         1.7         1.7
Debt/equity ratio /c          20/80       23/77      27173       31/69      34166
la  Current ratio is the relationship between current assets and current lia-
bilities.
lb Quick ratio is the relationship between current assets excluding inventory
and current liabilities.
/c Debt/equity ratio is the relationship between the long-term debts and
total equity (including long-term debts).
5.20      MR's financial condition is expected to continue to remain satisfac-
tory during the forecast period. However, the substantially increased but
much needed investments for increasing traffic volumes and modernization needs
in the future, as well as debt service requirements, will require MR manage-
ment to maintain effective control of financial affairs. In particular, MR
will need to develop costing and budgeting systems and management procedures
that would enable it to monitor closely operating costs, traffic trends, and
tariff adequacy. In order to ensure satisfactory flow of funds, during nego-
tiations it was agreed that MR will take all necessary actions--including
tariff increases, productivity improvements, and cost reductions--to generate
sufficient funds to cover operating costs, debt service charges and other
financial obligations, and a contribution of 20 percent or more of the total
annual capital expenditures for 1991-93 and 25 percent or more from 1994
onwards.
H. Sensitivity Analysis
5.Z1      A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess the impact of dif-
ferent magnitudes of parameters from those assumed in the forecast. Since the
potential demand for rail traffic exceeds supply, the projected annual volume
increases of about 4 percent over the five-year period for freight traffic and



- 43 -
4.5 percent for passenger traffic are deemed realistic, if not conservative.
A test was performed to see the effect on the working ratios if the cost
increases 5 percent per year (cumulative) over the assumed costs in the base
case forecast (Table 5.4), and the results are as follows.
1991        1992        1993         1994        1995
…----------------------- (X)-
Working ratio
Base case forecast       62           64          65           65          65
If costs increased       65           70          75           79          83
5.22      The above indicates that the working ratio would deteriorate to
83 percent in 1995 as compared with the forecast of 65 percent. More impor-
tantly. the net operating revenue would decline from Y 9.9 billion in 1991 to
only Y 1.9 billion in 1995. This would not be sufficient to cover the debt
service charges of Y 4.0 billion from 1994. MR would not be able to contrib-
ute sufficient cash to fund either the capital construction reserve or the
reserve for health and welfare. It is clear from the pressure on the profit
margin that the freight tariffs as assumed in the forecast must increase to
bring the financial situation to the desired satisfactory level witb. a working
capital ratio of 65 percent in 1995. MR's financial performance is quite
sensitive to cost increases, which strongly supports the need for a cash gen-
eration covenant with MR (para. 5.20). Profitability can improve substan-
tially if passenger fares also increase, although this may be unlikely during
the next few years in light of the 112-percent passenger fare increase in
September 1989.



- 44 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Borrower on
the followings
(a) The project subunit accounts, special account, SOEs, and consoli-
dated income statement of MR will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and the audit reports will be sent
to the Bank for review not later than six months after the end of
the fiscal year, beginning with the effectiveness of the loan. The
auditors will also give separate opinions on SOEs. MR will also
provide the Bank the annually certified copies of unaudited consoli-
dated balance sheets, sources, and applications of funds (para.
2.40).
(b) MR will maintain the availability of the existing imported diesel
and electric locomotives in its fleet at 82 percent (para. 3.11).
(c) MR will (i) furnish to the Bank by March 31, 1992, for Bank review
and comment, a report on the initial phase of the four technical
studies and (ii) use the findings and recommendations of the studies
for MR's future development and for establishing systemwide priori-
ties for the railway network (para. 3.18).
(d) MR will use the RIS analytical techniques, upon satisfactory con-
clusions of the study, in preparing future economically optimal
investment programs (para. 3.24).
(e) Resettlement of people affected by the Zhegan line double-tracking
included in the project will be carried out in accordance with the
plans agreed with the Bank. and the land will be available well
ahead of time of construction (para. 3.38 and 3.39).
(f) (i) MR will develop and carry out an action plan agreed with the
Bank fer implementing the costing system (para. 5.5.); and (ii) MR
will formulate a program acceptable to the Bank for restructuring
tariffs based on results and recommendations of the costing study
(para. 5.5).
(g) MR will maintain an operating ratio of 82 percent or better starting
from fiscal year, 1991 (para. 5.17).
(h) MR will take all necessary actions, including, but not limited to,
tariff increases, productivity improvements, and cost decreases to
generate sufficient funds to cover all operating costs, debt service
charges and other financial obligations, and to contribute 20 per-
cent or more of the total annual capital expenditures for 1991-93
and 25 percent or more from 1994 onwards (para. 5.20).
6.2       Also during negotiations, understandings were reached on the follow-
ing:



- 45 -
(a) a program of rehabilitation of high density line sections (para.
3.8);
(b) a program of resettlement of the people affected by the project
(para. 3.38); and
(c) the implementation program of the railway traffic costing system
(para. 5.4).
6.3       Subject to the above, the proposed project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of $330.0 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan would
be for a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable rate.



-46 -                               ANNEX 1
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Documents Available in Proiect File
1.   "China - Railway V - Preappraisal Mission - September 16 - October 2,
1989 - Track Rehabilitation and Upgrading Program," by Gerhard Elis
2.   'China:  Fifth Railway Project, Preappraisal - Consultant's Report,' by
Milo Melrose (Consultant).
3.   "A Report on Locomotive and Rolling Stock Components," by V.S. Bhatnagar
(Consultant).
4.   "Current Situation of Chinese Railways and Upgrading Program," Inception
Report on Track Rehabilitation and Maintenance Study. December 1989, by
MR.
5. 'Railway Investment Study (RIS)," Inception Report, November 1989, by MR.
6.   "Study of Optimization of Maintenance, Rel'ability, Availability, and
Utilization of Diesel Locomotives and Rolling Stock on China Railways,"
Inception Report, January 1990, by MR.
7.   "Electrification Plan of China," Inception Report, January 1990, by MR.
8.   "Telecommunication Plan of China," Inception Report, January 1990, by MR.
9.   "Electrification Study - Background Paper on Technical Issues," February
1990, by World Bank.
10. "Electrification Study - Background Paper on Technical Issues," February
1990, by World Bank.
11. "China Railways - Environmental Protection Activities and Issues," March
1990, by H. Somani (Consultant).
12. Impact of Land Acquisition for Zhegan Line.



&%U
Fifth Railway Prolect
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Railways
Sw    I
tlFt~~~~~~~c,aa Coa.kacfl
wee(E                                            vi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aceih.bea
C<Fmco                  b.d.     E      c
fZ~~~~~~~eel                      f    E     WkUIR        Crnof 1tgudlo
Lobw a~~~~~~ibg
br-w$ ouke    awean                                   9*           Seaee,.
conqm" ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Rgoet&REN  tc
s ~~~EcoI.                                                                Cl..YI---1  
Peraftmo l                      Petil 1Doh_
a _ ¢-| 08k _ L_ g Woo   InzlSos  |  lFw-au      Co_ffied            p
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F* fS       *I 



ANNEX 2.2
- 48 -                           Page 1
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Environmental Protection - Areas for Assistance
A. Introduction
1.        The Ministry of Railways (MR) is keen to reduce pollution from its
depots, factories, hospitals, railway stations, electroplating shops, etc.
The main sources of pollution at MR includes
(a) noise pollution from factories, locomotive test facilities and rail
corridors;
(b) air pollution from boilers, locomotives, kilns, foundries, etc.;
(c) oil contaminated wastewaters;
(d) biomedical wastes;
(e) night soils and garbage; and
(f) miscellaneous other wastes.
2.        The Chinese Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has promulgated
air and water quality standards which are in most cases similar to the primary
treatment standards in North America. Over the past nine years, MR has made
considerable progress towards meeting the primary treatment standards set by
the Chinese EPA. However, because of the lack of regular monitoring, it is
difficult to assess the overall compliance.
B. MR's Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB)
3.        EPB employs approximately 2,400 full-time technical and professional
staff at its regional administrative offices and factories to deal with the
environmental and waste-related problems. However, EPB lacks a comprehensive,
coordinated management plan to prioritize problems, develop a long-term strat-
egy and allocate resources. It needs to develop a long-term (5- to 10-year)
and a short-term (1- to 3-year) environmental pollution control and management
plan. The long-term plan should address:
(a)  organization of MR's Environmental Division on national and regional
scale:
(b)  administration and reporting structure of the organization on
national and regional scale;
(c)  development of a comprehensive environmental response strategy;
(d)  development of a comprehensive manpower and resources requirement
and allocation plan; and



ANNEX 2.2
- 49 -                           Page 2
(e) development of a long-term technical assistance plan.
4.        The short-term plan should address:
(a)  prioritization of current environmental pollution-problems facing
the railways;
(b) development of a response strategy based on the priority;
(c) provision of input to the long-term plan;
(d) allocation of manpower and resources to implement the plan; and
(e) preparation of a short-term technical assistance plan.
C. EPB's Current Problems
5.        Noise Pollution.  MR is facing major problems with noise pollution
at its sleeper manufacturing factories, locomotive test facilities and along
rail corridors. Workers at its sleeper factories and locomotive test facili-
ties face noise levels of lOO dBA plus on a regular basis. EPB should focus
on:
(a) reducing noise;
(b) managing noise pollution; and
(c) developing long-term noise abatement plans along railway corridors
and other MR facilities.
6.        Air Pollution.  Although MR faces future SO2 and NO. emission stan-
dards, at present MR has to meet particulate emission standards only. MR has
been trying to achieve the particulate emission standard of 300 ug/ml by using
cyclones. It does not have funds to install cyclones or monitor their perfor-
mance at all facilities. It is difficult to assess the performance of these
cyclones without regular monitoring data. EPB will have tot
(a) evaluate and assess the performance of the existing cyclones to meet
the EPA requirements;
(b) become familiar with the state-of-the-art particulate, SO2 and NO,
control technologies in North America and Europe;
(c) develop long-term air pollution abatement and management plans;
(d) develop long-term monitoring plans; and
(e) develop manpower, resources and technical assistance pla:is.
7.        Biomedical Wastes.  At present, the majority of the liquid wastes
from hospitals are chlorinated prior to discharge to surface waters. Most
biomedical solid wastes are incinerated. Very little monitoring, if any, is
carried out to determine if the liquid wastes, after chlorination, still pose
a health problem. EPB's long-term management plan should:



- 50                              ANNEX 2.2
-                     ~~~~~~~Page 3
(a) develop an in-house waste management plan to segregate various types
of biomedical wastes;
(b) develop a biomedical waste treatment and disposal strategy; and
(c) develop a long-term monitoring plan.
8.        Wastewater Treatment.  Some facilities within MR have developed
their own treatment systems (based on visits to other plants and their own
expertise) to treat oily wastewaters. While a treatment system designed by a
university group worked very well, another designed locally seemed to have
operating problems. Again, monitoring is not carried out consistently or reg-
ularly and it is difficult to assess the overall performance. EPB will have
tot
(a) develop a long-term water minimization, reuse, recycle, and treat-
ment/disposal strategy for wastewaters from foundries, depots and
factories;
(b) become familiar with the current state-of-the-art abatement and
treatment technologies to treat oily wastewaters and electroplating
wastes;
(c) develop wastewater monitoring plans to gather database and assess
treatment performance;
(d) develop sludge handling, treatment and disposal options.
9.        Night Soil and Garbage from Passenger Trains.  The present passenger
trains in China do not have provision to collect night soils. As a result,
waste from the train is discharged along the tracks. This is a serious prob-
lem and the EPB musts
(a) become familiar with the practice of collection, treatment, disposal
and management of night soils and garbage from passenger trains as
done in the railways of advanced countries; and
(b) implement and install the system on the Chinese railways.
10.       Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).  Although three groups with
MR have been certified by the Chinese EPA as having the capabilities to con-
duct EIA's of railway projects, the groups are not coordinated and there is
very little interaction among the three groups. Discussions with two groups
revealed that because EIA's are a new process. the groups were not certain of
the actual process, the details of the EIA, the interpretation of the results
and the assessment of the impact. There is a need to:
(a) organize one or two natinnal groups responsible for carrying out all
EIA's for MR (thus developing long-term expertise); and
(b) organize and conduct EIA seminars/workshops for qualified MR person-
nel to address the process of EIA and the preparation of the EIA
statement.



- 51. -                             ANNEX 2.2
Page 4
11.       Sludge and Solid Wastes.  At present, MR sends all sludges and solid
wastes to the local municipal waste dumps or the nearest burial pits. These
practices are unlikely to change until better local disposal facilities are
established. MR produces oily sludges and electroplating sludges which have
the potential for causing long-term groundwater pollution it not handled in an
environmentally-safe manner. Environmentally safe handling, treatment and
disposal options for all potentially *toxic, sludges and solid wastes should
be developed.
12.       Analytical and Honitoring Capabilities.  Although MR lacks the
state-of-the-art instrumentation, it has the basic capability to carry out
most analytical procedures demanded by the Chinese EPA. However, it lacks the
central, coordinated lab facility and portable equipment and funds to carry
out field monitoring and data gathering. Thus, the lab responds only if
another group provides it with funds to collect, monitor and analyze samples.
As a result, the existing facility is underutilized. Comprehensive lab facil-
ities in the regional administrations are nonexistent. MR needs tot
(a) organize, set up and operate central and regional laboratories;
(b) develop mobile facilities to assist with EIA sampling and field mon-
itoring; and
(c) carry out the above functions and train personnel.
D. Actions Being Taken
13.       At the request of MR, the Bank is currently seeking UNDP financing
to carry out studies in three areas of environment and health hazards as fol-
lowst
(a) noise pollution in factorss
(b) night soil and garbage from passenger trains: and
(c) sterilization of passenger coaches.
Based on the recommendations of these studies, suitable action will be taken
to eliminate the said hazards. Additional studies will also be carried out in
air pollution, water pollution, and hospital biochemical wastes through future
projects.
14.       Under the proposed Bank project, MR has initiated studies in four
technical areas--track rehabilitation, locomotions and rolling stock rehabili-
tation, electrification and telecommunications to develop long-term action
plans. As part of the monitoring and review of these studies, the environ-
mental aspects of the study recommendation will be examined and adequate pro-
tective measures will be incorporated in projects resulting therefrom.



- 52 -                            ANNEX 4.1
Page 1
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Explanatory Note on the Economtc Evaluation of Systemwide Components 1/
A. Permanent Way Systemwide Component
Track Rehabilitation Materials
1.        Costs.  Initial investment in track rehabilitation includes the cost
of rail, sleepers, other track materials and machinery (OTM), and labor. On
MR's extra-heavy main track where annual traffic exceeds 60 million gross
tons, each kilometer of track requires 120 tons of 60 kg/m rail and 1,840
concrete sleepers. The cost assumptions are as follows:
(a) Without Project Case. This assumes that MR will renew its track
using the existing local technology for producing 60 kglm rail
(which would not be heat-treated) at a local cost of Y 920/ton. The
Jnitial investment cost is estimated at Y 586,000/km of track
renewed (of which Y 110,000 is for rail, Y 110,000 for sleepers at
Y 60 per sleeper, Y 77,000 is for fastenings, Y 10,000 is for turn-
outs, Y 70,000 is for on-track machinery, and Y 30.000 is for
labor). The economic life of this local rail when placed on the
sharpest curves of very high tonnage main line sections (where curve
radius is 300 m or 6 degrees 22 minutes) is estimated to be one
year. Therefore, in the without project case, MR would need to
replace rail every year at a cost of Y 354,000/km, which is the cost
of rail, labor, and half of the OTM.
(b)  With Project Case.  This assumes that MR would import heat-treated,
head-hardened rails which would cost $639 (Y 3,290)/ton and other
track renewal materials. Assuming that other costs are equal, the
imported rail would increase the initial investment cost to
Y 875,000/km. The economic life of the imported heat-treated rail
when placed on the sharpest curves of very high tonnage main line
sections is estimated to be three years. During the three years
between rail replacements in the with project case, labor and OTM
maintenance cost for a kilometer of track would be an estimated
Y 8,164/year (Table 4.1).
2.        Benefits.  The henefits of this component is quantified as savings
in rehabilitation costs which result from not having to replace rails every
year. The cost savings pertain to rails, labor and machinery.
On-track Machinery
1/   In this annex, all costs shown are expressed in financial terms.  For
economic analysis purposes, these costs were converted to economic costs,
using conversion factors given in a table at the end of this annex.



- 53 -                            ANNEX 4.1
Page 2
3.        Rationale for Mechanization.  On many parts of its railway system,
the combination of high traffic density and a heavy track structure of long
welded rails, concrete sleepers, and crushed rock ballast have caused MR to
conclude that certain routine track maintenance functions cannot be performed
efficiently by manual methods as they are now. Instead, more efficient mecha-
nized maintenance methods must be used for functions such as track lining and
leveling and ballast cleaning. Unlike some high-density railways in the world
where these maintenance functions can be and are done in the off-peak hours
(e.g., at night), on MR the trains are operated 24 hours a day at an average
interval of 15 minutes between trains. When this pattern of frequent train
movements must be rescheduled in order to provide an operation break or
"window" during which maintenance can be satisfactorily performed, it is
important that the maintenance be done as well and as efficiently as possible,
so that the next maintenance does not become due for as long as possible.
4.        In China sufficient data for a quantitative economic comparison is
not available on the deterioration pattern of track and on the differences in
the quality of the end-product under manual vs. mechanized maintenance. Thus,
it is necessary for the on-track machinery to be financed under the project to
be evaluated as a pilot program. The benefits realized from the pilot program
should guide MR in determining which maintenance functions to mechanize and
the degree to which these functions should be mechanized in the future. How-
ever, even though it is a pilot program, MR is not dealing with an unknown
technology. It has long been accepted practice for railways with even less
severe traffic and operating conditionis than MR has, in developing as well as
developed countries, to adopt mechanized methods. This practice has become
established because the most important contribution of the mechanized method
is that it is more likely than the manual method to result in far better qual-
ity work, thereby reducing the number of track failures as well as the fre-
quency at which maintenance is required.
5.        The major factor contributing to the relatively inferior quality of
the job done by manual methods is the limitation on the ability of what human
muscle can and will do, assisted only by simple hand tools. An example is
that of ballast cleaning. The essential functions of ballast cleaning include
digging the crushed rock ballast from beneath the sleepers, sifting it to
separate the reusable ballast material from the dirt and deteriorated ballast,
and restoring the cleaned ballast to the track, where it serves to provide
proper support to the sleepers, allow drainage to occur, and restrain the
track from lateral and longitudinal movement. Ballast needs to be cleaned
periodically to keep it permeable and elastic. The results of manual cleaning
of ballast are usually unsatisfactory. A large quantity of undesirable mate-
rial is left in the track either because it is too hard to dig out, or because
sifting the ballast with pitchforks does not do a proper job of separating the
adhering fines from reusable ballast. If ballast is not properly cleaned,
rain water stays in the track area and lessens t':^e bearing capacity of soil
under it, track level and alignment soon become unacceptable, the pumping
action of the sleepers compounds the problem in wet weather, and in dry
weather hard spots occur where the ballast is clogged. The result is that
design forces for specific track components such as sleepers and even rail are
exceeded. The increasing risk of component failure causes the imposition of
*slow r.rders" for trains and can lead to dangerous spots as track materials
wear cut faster than they should.



ANNEX 4.1
- 54 -                                Page 3
6.        Other maintenance functions where mechanization is justified because
it leads to a lower life cycle cost include the functions of leveling, lining,
tamping, and stabilization. Manual methods of performing these functions rely
a great deal on the human eye, and the process is usually very slow. Manual
tamping that is performed with picks, shovels, or forks with human muscle can
never achieve the degree of compaction or track stabilization that machines
are capable of achieving. Furthermore, with concrete ties, which account for
67 percent of MR's main track sleepers, manual tamping with picks and other
hand tools often damages the tie itself. (Hence, manual tamping is prohibited
in Europe and Africa on all track with concrete sleepers.) Partly because of
manual tamping methods and partly because of the sleeper design, statistics
collected by MR shows that an astonishingly high percentage of concrete ties,
about 60 percent, are cracked.
7.        Economic Evaluation.  The evaluation was made on the basis of a
track maintenance machinery 'set' consisting of two ballast cleaners, three
tampers, two ballast regulators, and one dynamic track stabilizer. The proj-
ect would procure two complete sets of track machinery plus several other
items of machinery. The analysis took a conservative approach by computing
only the benefits from the two complete sets of track machines, while includ-
ing in the cost computation the total cost of all of the on-track machinery.
The operational parameters of the mechanical method vs. the existing manual
method for routine track maintenance are shown in Table 4.1.
8.        Direct Costs.  Direct cost of the component is the import cost of
the machines and annual maintenance cost of the machines, assumed to be about
6.6 percent of their original cost.
9.        Train Operating Costs.  These have been estimated in the following
four categories as shown in Table 4.2:
(a)  Wagon Haintenance.  MR's experience suggests that a minor overhaul
every second year (costing Y 4,100) and a major overhaul in the
tenth year (costing Y 8,250) will be needed. Over a 20-year life-
span, this gives an average cost of Y 3,705 per year for each wagon.
(b)  Locomotive Maintenance.  For diesel-electric locomotives, the type
which MR is going to concentrate on in the medium-term future, a
minor overhaul every second year alternates with a major overhaul
every fourth year, yielding an annual average cost of Y 398,000 per
locomotive.
(c)  Fuel.  MR's diesel locomotives use about 2.9 kg of fuel for each
gross tkm. Using MR's operational parameters (Table 4.3)--an aver-
age of 2,128 net tons/train for an average distance of 702 km and a
ratio of gross to net tons hauled of 1.4--the average transportation
produced by each train would be 2.1 million tkm. At a world market
price of $0.195 (Y 0.92) per kg of diesel fuel, an average train
would incur Y 5,500 of fuel cost.
(d)  Labor.  In 1988 MR employed 3.3 million employees and produced 1,296
billion ctkm. Assuming that one-half of the work force varies with
output, then at the margin one additional worker is needed for each



-    -                    ~~~~~~~ANNEX 4.1
Page 4
additional 780,000 ctkm of output. The total salary paid to the 3.3
million employees was about Y 6,000 million with an additional
50 percent expenses for fringe benefits. About three-quarters of
MR's employees are classified as semi-skilled and one-quarter as
skilled or technical employees. Economic conversion factors of 0.8
for semi-skilled and 2.0 for skilled/technical employees were used
to yield an annual economic cost of Y 3,000 per employee.
10.       There are three main benefits stemming from mechanizing track main-
tenance.
(a) The first and foremost benefit in China's railways, where many lines
are operating close to capacity, with a high train density, is the
overall lower amount of time required for track maintenance, there-
fore more time when the track may be used for traffic. These reduc-
tions in ttack maintenance time stem from the high quality work done
by the mechanized equipment, which is not possible to replicate by
manual maintenance. Thus, as track deteriorates from its initial new
condition, mechanized maintenance can return the track much closer
to its original condition than manual work can. Track maintenance
must be carried out before a threshold deterioration condition con-
sidered to be dangerous is reached. As a result of the lower qual-
ity of manual track maintenance, the threshold condition is reached
earlier than it is when maintenance is mechanized. Table 4.1 pro-
vides the key data for economic analysis.  As a result of the faster
deterioration, the maintenance cycle required is 8 months for a
manual gang, and 24 months for the mechanized one. Given the high
train density, the maximum operating block for track maintenance, or
maintenance window, is one operation per day for no more than three
hours. This requirement is met for manual maintenance by using
three gangs per window. It is not possible to reduce the size of
the window with manual maintenance, since physical constraints on
the track and the use of personnel throughout the system limit the
number of manual gangs that can work on a given section of track.
Mechanized maintenance, in contrast, enables the requirement to be
met by completing one maintenance operation in 2.5 hours with just
one gang. Based on the above information, there will be line block-
ages of 1080 hours/year (360 days/year x 3 hours per day) for manual
maintenance, and 375 hours/year (150 days/year X 2.5 hours per day)
for mechanized maintenance. On a typical, well utilized line, there
are about 4 trains per hour. As a result, 4,320 trafs will be
blocked per year for under manual maintenance, compared with 1,500
trains for mechanized maintenance. It is conservatively estimated
that only two-thirds of these potential time savings will be real-
ized, providing an actual saving of 1,880 trains/year. The economic
benefits of these additional trains are quantified on the basis of
net revenues to the railway company. This is a conservative esti-
mate which ignores consumer and producer surplus and assumes the



- 56 -                              ANNEX 4.1
Page 5
value of transport is just equal to the low tariff that shippers
presently pay.2/
(b) The second benefit is from labor savings of about 60 percent due to
mechanization.
(c)  In addition, there are other benefits stemming from the better qual-
ity work done by the mechanized equipment that have not been quanti-
fied. For example, the uneven quality of manual labor, the faster
deterioration rate and the associated higher risks of track fail-
ures, generally lead to spot speed limitations, thus further reduc-
ing the number of trains that can circulate. Additionally, lower
quality track results in higher operating and maintenance costs of
rolling stock.
B. Locomotive and Rolling Stock Systemwide Component
Unit Exchange Components for Locomotives
11.       MR has 800 units of imported diesel and electric locomotives.  It
has been trying to maintain their availability at 82 percent, which would mean
that at least 654 units of imported locomotives would be available for service
at any given time. So far, the limited unit exchange system of repairs being
used in the maintenance of the imported locomotives has allowed MR to operate
them at about 5 percent better availability than the fleet of locomotives
which were built in China. In the past the unit exchange pools for the
imported locomotives was maintained at a foreign exchange cost of $3.0 to 5.0
million per year. Recently, however, due to foreign exchange constraints,
even this limited amount has not been available, so that, if the unit exchange
pools are not replenished, the availability of the imported locomotives would
decline within 18 months to half the present level, or to 41 percent. About
327 locomotives could thus be lost to service. It is estimated that the eco-
nomic life of the various items to be aquired to replenish the unit exchange
component pools would average five years.
12.       Benefits.  Benefits would be derived from the additional transporta-
tion services to be produced by the 327 locomotives. With an 82 percent
2/   An alternative approach would be to compute the value added of the com-
modities carried, which would provide a better estimate of the benefits.
However, because the track maintenance equipment is an investment for
system-wide use, it is difficult to identify the commodities carried by
the additional trains, to evaluate the commodities' value added, and to
assess which of them might have alternate transport routes. The value
added approach has been followed in the case of the Zhegan line and of
the Xuzhou terminal, which are location-specific investments, serving
clearly identified commodities, and there are no feasible transport
alternatives for the long-haul, bulk freight carried. The ERR for the
track maintenace equipment, based on an estimate of freight value added
from the commodities carried by the Zhegan line, would exceed 100 per-
cent.



ANNEX 4.1
- 57 -                              Page 6
availability rate, the investment would enable the production of an additional
38.6 billion tkm/year (the additional available 327 locomotives would make an
average of 79 trips/year and haul an average of 2,128 tons/trip an average
distance of 702 km).
13.       Direct and Complementary Costs.  The direct cost of this component
is the import cost of items to replenish the unit exchange pools of $10 mil-
lion. The economic cost of Y 55 million was calculated using a shadow
exchange rate of Y 5.5/$l. These components would be procured over two years
to haul the additional 38.6 billion tkm traffic. However, this additional
traffic would require a complementary investment in extra wagons. Assuming
existing factories have capacity to manufacture more wagons, the complementary
cost in this case means the variable cost of manufacture of the required wag-
ons, including cost of raw materials, labor, and other current inputs. The
financial cost of manufacturing a wagon wa3 Y 50,000 per unit in 1989. With a
conversion factor of 1.34 (weighted average for labor and equipment). the
economic cost was Y 67,000 per wagon. Again, according to the operational
parameters, the average loaded car per train was 40 cars. Thus, a total of
13,080 wagons would be required as a complementary investment for the locomo-
tives.
Wiheels
14.       MR proposes to import about $28.0 million worth of wheels to offset
in part the shortage being experienced due to lack of production capacity
locally. At an international market price of about $620 per wheel (Y 3,410
per wheel with a shadow exchange rate of Y 5.51$l), the proposed loan would
help MR to buy about 45,000 wheels which will be supplied to 4,000 new freight
cars, 1,500 existing freight cars awaiting repair, and 200 passenger coaches.
Since the major part of the investment would benefit freight cars, for the
sake of simplicity, the analysis takes into consideration only the benefit
accruing to freight traffic.
15.       Benefits.  The extra 5,500 wagons will be available only because of
the availability of wheels. Referring to the operational parameters (Table
4.3), each wagon carries an average load of 53 tons for 79 trips per year.
Accordingly, these extra wagons would produce an extra 16 billion tkm of traf-
fic each year. The manner of estimating the economic value of the extra traf-
fic was explained in para. 10.
16.       Direct and Complementary Cost.  Direct cost refers to the $28.0
million for import of wheels (Y 154 million in economic terms). The comple-
mentary cost refers to costs for manufacturing wagons--other parts of wagons
aside from the wheels--and complementary locomotives. The computation of
wagon manufacturing cost was explained in para. 13, except that the cost of
wheels is subtracted from the cost of wagons. As with the method of computing
manufacturing cost of wagons, the analysis assumes that existing locomotive
factories have capacity for producing the additional locomotives. Therefore,
the manufacturing cost here includes the cost of raw materials, labor, and
other current inputs. The unit financial cost was Y 1.1 million in 1989.
With a weighted average conversion factor of 1.34, the economic cost would be
Y 1.5 million.



ANNEX 4.1
- 58 -                              Page 7
Machinery and-Eguiment
17.       MR proposes to import about $22.0 million (Y 121.0 in economic
terms) worth of machinery and equipment to be used mainly for improving the
quality of POH in workshops and depots. The items can roughly be divided into
three groups as followsz
(a)  Diesel Locomotive POH.  MR plans to modernize two of its diesel
locomotive POH factories in Shenyang and Lanzhou. The total invest-
ment cost was estimated at $40 million which includes the $10 mil-
lion in the proposed loan for procuring machinery and equipment for
the two factories. The investment would increase both the quality
and capacity of POH from 72 locomotives per year to 150 per year in
each factory.
(b)  Roller Bearings for Passenger Coaches.  The existing roller bearings
exhibit serious design shortcomings which caused an increase of
failures from 18 in 1985 to 26 in 1986 and to 60 in the first eight
months of 1989. All of these failures seriously affected the safety
of passengers and interrupted the smooth flow of traffic. This
investment will reduce the number of failures, and this will in turn
increase traffic safety, reduce traffic interruption due to equip-
ment failure, and reduce damage to rolling stock.
(c)  Freight Car Air-brakes.  The proposed machines to be imported will
improve the quality of air-brake equipment for locomotives and roll-
ing stock produced in China. This should increase the time between
repairs from six months to two years and save at least 8 wagon days
per year. With these machines, not only will the quality of brake
valves be improved, but plant capacity will be increased by 20,000
valves per year, which would allow an increase in availability of
160,000 car days.
18.       The investments in roller bearing and air-brake machinery are scat-
tered throughout China and their safety benefits are difficult to quantify;
therefore, the analysis in this case focuses on the quantifiable benefits only
from the diesel locomotive POH investment, vhich is by far the largest item.
However, the analysis includes the cost of all three types of investments.
19.       Benefits.  The investment will increase total POH capacity of the
two factories by 156 locomotives per year. The added availability of these
locomotives would help MR carry an extra 9 billion tons of traffic per year.
The method of benefit calculation was explained in para. 10.
20.       Direct and Complementary Costs.  Besides the direct investment cost
of $22.0 million, the annual machine maintenance cost is estimated at 6.6 per-
cent of the original cost of machines. As in the case of the investment in
unit exchange components for locomotives, other complementary costs include
manufacturing cost for complementary wagons and extra track investment to
reduce congestion. Estimation methods are explained in para. 13.



ANNEX 4.1
- 59 -                               Page a
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR ESTIMATING ECONOMIC COSTS
Conversion /a
Commodity                                     factor
Labor
Unskilled labor                             0.64
Skilled labor                               1.51
Diesel                                        1.13
Steel                                         2.07
Machinery                                     1.5
Maintenance (weighted average
of labor and machinery)                     1.34
La The convetsion factors for goods which involve
imports or exports are based on a shadow exchange
rate of Y 5.SI$l.
Source: China Department, World Bank



- 60 -                             ANNEX 4.2
Page 1
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Zhegan Line Double-Tracking
A. Introduction
1.        This annex presents the methodology and data employed and results
obtained in estimating the economic benefits and costs of the proposed double
tracking project. All benefits and costs used in the analysis are expressed
in 1990 prices and have been shadow priced as explained below.
B. Traffic
2.        The annual freight and passenger traffic projected for the Zhegan
line for analysis purposes are shown in Table 4.3. The projection takes into
account the line's traffic capacities which will continue to increase as the
double tracking work progresses. The table below gives a summary of train
frequencies and traffic capacities. The statistics shown represent weighted
averages over individual sections (by section length) for the line.
Year      Train frequency (pairslday)         Traffic capacity (each direction)
Freight       Passenger         Freight (mtpy)      Passenger (mppy)
1987           25              14                  14                   11
1990           29              17                  19                   13
1995           31              23                  34                   18
2000           40              28                  61                   21
Source: MR and mission estimates.
C. Capital Costs
3.        Due to the relatively large size of the complementary investments
required to realize project benefits, the proposed project is evaluated in
economic terms jointly with other railway investments (including additional
locomotives and rolling stock) and also with the complementary investments in
the development of coal mines, timber forests, cement plants, and other indus-
tries that result in the expansion of capacity to produce additional freight
traffic carried by the Zhegan line. The imported component of financial con-
struction costs (47 percent) was converted to renminbi yusn at a shadow for-
eign exchange rate of Y 5.5/S1. These capital costs, including physical con-
tingencies, are summarized in Table 4.3.



- 61-                               ANNEX 4.2
Page 2
4.        For locomotives and rolling stock, fleet requirements and related
investment costs are determined on a year-to-year basis from projections of
future freight and passenger traffic, plus detailed information on the eco-
nomic costs and productivity of locomotives, freight cars and passenger
coaches. DF4 locomotives will be acquired to handle new freight traffic and
also to replace steam locomotives now hauling existing freight traffic; ND2
locomotives will be acquired to handle new passenger traffic. The existing
steam locomotives, assumed to be phased out gradually through 1994, will be
transferred to other lines and their salvage value is taken as 30 percent of
the price of new units. The basic data and the resulting economic costs are
summarized below. A factor of 1.5 is used to convert financial costs to eco-
nomic costs based on data presented in the report entitled, "Economic Prices
for Project Evaluation in Chinau of the China Country Operations Division
(EPPEC report), June 1988 (originally issued) and January 1990 (updated).
No. of        Annual       Economic      Total
units   Utilization        Price      Economic
Acquired           (km)        (Y)          Cost
(Y million)
DF4 diesel locomotives            207        130,000      2,123,000           440
ND2 diesel locomotives              73       130,000      3,763,000           275
QJ steam locomotives /a         (222)         85,000        525,000           (35)
Freight cars                  11,574          49,000         68,000           787
Passenger coaches               1,186        120,000        191,000          227
is The figures in parentheses represent retirements.
Source: MR and mission estimates.
5.        Other locomotive and rolling stock data used in the analysis are
shown belows



- 62 -                              ANNEX 4.2
Page 3
Gross freight train tonnage capacitys  DP4 diesel               2,800
Gross freight train tonnage capacity:  QJ steam                 2,400
Net-to-gross-train tonnage ratio (Z)X/a                            60
Freight car load factor (X)s                                       90
Number of freight cars per trains  DF4 diesel                      44
Number of freight cars per trains  QJ Steam                        33
Passenger train capacity (no. of passengers)s/b                 2,100
Number of coaches per train:lb                                     15
la At 90 percent car load factor.
lb The figure shown is an average for all passenger trains
Sources MR and mission estimates.
6.        The urderlying unit investment cost for coal, expressed in financial
terms, is taken as Y 150 per ton of annual production capacity (adapted from
the appraisal of the Inner Mongolia Local Railway Project--Staff Appraisal
Report No. 7459-CHA, April 19, 1989). This is converted to the economic unit
investment cost of Y 210 per ton using a financial-to-economic conversion
factor of 1.4 obtained from EPPEC report.
7.        For each ton of additional production capacity of coal, the cost of
coal mine development is assumed to be spread uniformly over five years before
the first year of production. The total development cost for the total pro-
jected increase in coal production is spread over time according to the year-
over-year increases in coal traffic. The unit investment costs and the gesta-
tion period for the other commoditiea are assumed to be the same as for coal.
D. Costs, Benefits, and Value Added of Additional Traffic
8.        Coal, whose share of total freight traffic is about 12 percent, is
the largest commodity by volume carried by the Zhegan line. The economic cost
of producing a ton of coal at the mine mouth equals Y 20, based on cost data
obtained during the appraisal of the Inner Mongolia Local Railway Project in
1988 (the IMLR project) (Bank Staff Report Buff Cover No. 7459-CHA, April 19,
1989) and on a conversion factor -i 1.3 suggested in the EPPEC report. The
Y 20/ton figure is a weighted average of operating costs for local and state
mines and excludes depreciation. The economic cost of transporting a ton of
coal from the average minemouth to the average user served by the Zhegan line
comprises: loading at the minemouth railhead (Y 1), rail transport (650 km @
Y 0.0381km - Y 25), transfer to truck (Y 1), truck transport (20 km @
Y 0.28/km = Y 6), and unloading (Y 1), totaling Y 34. The unit costs of
transport, Y 0.038/tkm for rail and Y 0.28/tkm for truck, are based on the
estimated "long run incremental economic costs (LRIECs) of transport" given in
the report entitled, "China--Guangdong Province Comprehensive Transport Study'
(the GPCTS report), by the China Transport Operations Division, May 1989



ANNEX 4.2
- 63 -                              Page 4
(Yellow Cover) and February 1990 (currently under revision).l/ The economic
costs of delivering a ton of coal equals the sum of the production cost (Y 20)
and the transport cost (Y 34), or Y 54.
9.        Given the severe shortage of energy in China the economic contribu-
tion of coal will undoubtedly be greater within the domestic economy than as
an export to the international coal markets. The economic benefit of the
extra coal traffic for this project, therefore, is conservatively measured in
terms of international border prices.2/ The current export price of coal
with heat ccntent of 12,000 BTU per ton, ash content under 12 percent, and
sulphur content under 1 percent is about $40.5 FOB at. New Castle, Australia.
Given that the costs of shipping coal are about $10/ton from Australia to
Japan and about $4/ton from China to Japan, the export price of coal FOB at
Shanghai is imputed as $40.5 + 10 - 4 - $46.5 or Y 256 per ton at the shadow
exchange rate of Y 5.5/ton.
10.       To allow for the difference in quality of domestic coal, the Y 256
per ton price is adjusted downward by Y 15. The cost of transporting a ton of
domestic coal from the average user site served by the Zhegan line to Shanghai
comprises: loading to truck (Y 1), truck transport (20 km e Y 0.28/km = Y 6),
transfer to rail (Y 1), rail transport (600 km e Y 0.038/km = 23), and port
handling (Y 4), totaling Y 35. The economic value of coal to the average user
served by the Zhegan line equals the export price of coal FOB Shanghai (Y 243)
adjusted downward for quality difference (Y 15) and for transport cost (Y 35),
or Y 206 per ton. This economic value of coal is adjusted downward by
25 percent to Y 155 per ton, to reflect the elasticity of coal demand, i.e.,
the fact that as more coal is satisfied, the economic value of coal to the
marginal user is reduced. Therefore, the economic value added of additional
coal traffic made possible by the project equals Y 155 - 54 or Y 101 per ton.
11.       Other Commodities.  The economic value added for other freight traf-
fic per ton is assumed to be the same as for coal. This assumption is conser-
vative, since the economic value added per ton for coal is significantly
smaller than for most other commodities.
12.       Passengers.   The economic value of additional passenger traffic
made possible by the project is calculated as the economic value added of dis-
placed freight, assuming that one passenger-kilometer displaces one ton-
kilometer of freight. Although ideally passengers' willingness-to-pay should
1/   As derived in the GPCTS report, the unit LRIECs are expressed in 1988
prices, as Y 0.03/tkm for rail transport and Y 0.22/tkm for truck trans-
port. The figure for rail transport is an average of unit LRISCs for the
construction of new lines and the expansion of existing lines. The fig-
ure for truck transport is for medium trucks operating on bituminous
roads in good condition in terrain ranging from rolling to hilly. These
figures have been inflated by 25 percent to reflect 1991 prices.
2/   Strictly speaking coal is not considered to be a traded good for economic
evaluation purposes, since less than 3 percent of its annual production
is being exported by China.



ANNEX 4.2
- 64 -                              Page 5
be used to compute the economic benefits of providing additional passenger
traffic, this information is not available.
E. Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return
13.       Based on the analysis period of 1987-2015, which incorporates 20
years of benefits beyond the project completion (in 1995), the net present
value of the investment in the Zhegan line construction, along with the com-
plementary investments in locomotives and rolling stock and the development of
coal mines and other industries, at 12 percent discount rate, is Y 8.0 bil-
lion, and the economic rate of return (ERR) is 35 percent. The annual benefit
and cost streams are given in Table 4.3. By allocating the direct project
capital cost between freight and passengers on the basis of one passenger
equal to one ton of freight and between commodities on the volume share basis,
the NPVs attributable incremental passenger and freight traffic by commodities
are derived as shown belows
Y billion _
Incremental freight traffic:
Coal                                      1.7              22
Incremental passenger traffic:                 6.3              78
Total--all traffic                        8.0             100
F.  Set itivity Analysis
14.       The following table summarizes results of sensitivity analysis for
the Zhegan line double tracking project:
ERR
(Z)
Base case                                                     35
50? direct project cost overrun                               28
Benefits delayed by 2 years                                   24
Traffic growth half of projected                              23
Coal price 30? less than projected                            19
Coal development cost 5OZ more than projected                 36



- 65 -                  ~~~~~~ANNIEX 4.3
- 65 -                       Page 1
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Xuzhou Terminal Expansion
A. Introduction
1.        This annex presents the methodology and data employed and results
obtained in estimating the economic benefits and costs of the proposed termi-
nal expansion project. All benefits and costs used in the analysis are
expressed in 1990 prices and have been shadow priced as explained below. The
economic analysis is carried out for two cases:
(a) the total proiect case--for the entire investment of the 1986-92
expansion project (compared with no investment); and
(b) the automatic control case--for the (partially Bank-financed)
investment in upgrading the control system for train marshalling to
an automatic status during 1990-92 (compared with the non-Bank
financed investment in expansion up to the installation of the semi-
automatic control system during 1986-89).
B. Traffic
2.        For simplicity, the economic benefits of the expansion project are
estimated only for freight traffic, giving conservative estimates of the net
present value and the economic rate of return. The projected annual freight
traffic used in the economic evaluation is shown in Table 4.6 (the same total
traffic for both total project and automatic control cases but different
incremental traffic). The projection takes into account constraints imposed
by the traffic capacities not only of the Xuzhou terminal itself but also of
the Beijing-Shanghai and Longhai lines. To economically evaluate the Xuzhou
project on a stand alone basis, the capacities of these two main connecting
lines are assumed to remain at their present levels through the analysis hori-
zon. This is a conservative assumption based on the expectation that expan-
sion of these two lines is not likely to occur through at least the 8FYP.
3.        In 1985, the Xuzhou terminal was operating near capacity and handled
about 105 mt of freight traffic. For economic analysis purposes, the termi-
nal's freight capacity in the 'without project case" is assumed to be 110
mtpy. Since the beginning of the expansion project in 1986 in which several
yards in the terminal have been enlarged and upgraded, the traffic capacity of
the terminal has been gradually increased. By the time the semi-automatic
control system is fully installed in the first half of 1990, the freight capa-
city will be about 130 mtpy; and by the time the entire expansion program is
completed with the control system upgraded to the automatic status in 1995,
the freight capacity will be about 175 mtpy.



ANNEX 4.3
- 66 -                              Page 2
C. Capital Costs
4.        As in the economic analysis of the Zhegan line double tracking proj-
ect in Annex 4.2 (Zhegan analysis), the proposed project is evaluated in eco-
nomic temss as a joint investment which comprises not only the direct invest-
ment in the expansion project and additional locomotives and rolling stock,
but also the complementary investments in the development of coal mines and
other industries that result in the expansion of capacity to produce addi-
tional freight traffic handled by the Xuzhou terminal. As with the Zhegan
line, the imported component of the financial construction costs (50 percent)
was converted to domestic currency at a shadow exchange rate of Y 5.51$1.
These capital costs, including physical contingencies, are summarized in Table
4.6a for the total project case and Table 4.6b for the automatic control case.
5.        For freight locomotives and cars, fleet requirements and related
investment costs are determined on a year-to-year basis from projections of
future freight traffic, plus detailed information on the economic costs and
productivity of locomotives and freight cars. DF4 locomotives will be
acquired to handle new freight traffic. As in the Zhegan analysis, the factor
of 1.5 is used to convert financial costs of locomotives and wagons to eco-
nomic costs based on the EPPEC report. In addition. an average freight haul
distance of 700 km is employed in estimating the fleet requirements. The
resulting investment costs are summarized belows
Total
No. of        Annual      Economic    Economic
Units      Utilization    Price          Cost
Acquired        (km)         (Y)      (Y million)
DF4 diesel locomotives:
1. Total Project Case              214        130,000    2,123,000        454
2. Automatic Control Case          148        130,000    2,123,000        314
Freight cares
1. Total Project Case           10,462         48,500        68,000       711
2. Automatic Control Case        7,243         48,500        68,000       493
Sources MR and mission estimates.
6.        The locomotive and rolling stock data used in the analysis are shown
below:



- 67 -                              ANNE  4.3
Page 3
Net freight train tonnage capacitys DF4 diesel                        2,200
Freight car tonnage capacity (at 90? car load factor):                   45
Number of freight cars per train                                         49
7.        The underlying unit investment cost for coal, the financial-to-eco-
nomic conversion factor of 1.4, and the procedure for calculating the develop-
ment costs are the same as in the Zhegan analysis (see Annex 4.2, para. 7).
D. Costs, Berefits, and Value Added of Additional Traffic
8.        Of all freight traffic handled by the Xuzhou terminal, the share of
coal is about 40 percent, by far the largest. The economic value added of
additional coal traffic made possible by the Xuzhou project is taken to be the
same as the corresponding value for the Zhegan project, i.e., Y 101 per ton.
9.        Other Commodities.  Similarly to the Zhegan analysis, the economic
value added for other freight traffic per ton is assumed to be the same as for
coal.
E. Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return
10.       Based on the analysis period of 1985-2014, which incorporates 20
years of benefits beyond the project completion (in 1994), the net present
value (NPV) (at 12 percent discount rate) and the economic rate of return
(ERR) of the investment in the Xuzhou terminal expansion, along with the com-
plementary investments in locomotives and rolling stock and the development of
coal mines and other industries, are given below for each of the two casess
NPV (Y billion)       ERR (2)
Total project case                           13.5                31
Automatic control case                        5.4                26
The annual benefit and cost streams are shown in Table 4.6a for the total
project case and Table 4.6b for the automatic control case.
F. Sensitivity Analysis
11.       The following table summarizes results of sensitivity analysis for:
the Xuzhou terminal expansion project for the total project case:



ANNEX 4.3
- 68 -                              Page 4
ERR
(2)
Base case (total project)                                     31
5O0  direct project cost overrun                              30
Benefits delayed by 2 years                                   24
Traffic growth half of projected rate                         17
Coal price 302 less than projected                            23
Coal development cost 50Z more than projected                 22



ANNEX 5.1
- 69 -                            Page 1
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Information on the Economic Contract
1.        In 1986 the GOC gave a list of instructions to MR to achieve certain
operating and revenue targets and laid down certain terms to be observed by
the GOC and MR. This came to be known as the 'Five-Year Economic Contract",
whose objective was to give greater freedom to MR to manage the railways and
also take more responsibility for financing future investments. An incentive
was provided in the contract under which, if MR achieves its targets, its em-
ployees would receive a bonus and welfare allowance.
2.        A summary of the targets to be achieved under the 7FYP contract and
the progress made by MR to date is as followst
(a)  Traffic Movement.  MR is to increase freight traffic from 811 bil-
lion ton-km in 1985 to 1,060 billion ton-km by 1990 and passenger
traffic from 241.3 billion passengers-km in 1985 to 261.0 billion
pasengers-km by 1990.
Progress Achieved:
Billion             Billion
Year                  ton-km              Dass-km
1986                    870                 258.0
1987                    936                 288.0
1988                    972                 324.0
1989                  1,025                 302.0
1990                  1,048                 260.0
(b) Tax and Transfers to GOC. MR is to discontinue all taxes and trans-
fers to GOC except the business tax (para. 2c). MR then partly
would self-finance ite development program under the Seventh Five-
Year Plan, estimated to be Y 29.6 billion, including debt service.
MR is also to contribute to the staff health and welfare' funds (such
as housing allowance, medical costs, nursery, etc., but not the
pension fund).
Progress Achieved:
The actual funds financed were Y 31.6 billion.
(c)  Business Tax.  MR is to pay a business tax of 5.3 percent (or
*Y 7.0 million) of gross operating revenue, in bi-monthly install-
ments.



ANNEX 5.1
- 70-                                Page 2
Progress Achieved:
MR has paid Y 8.0 billion.
3.        MR also received instrttctions from the People's Construction Bank of
China to deposit with it all profits remaining after debt service charges and
the contribution to the Special Fund for the purpose of capital construction;
this was to be effective in 1986.
4.        In addition, SPC asked MR to incorporate the following target in its
investment program:
New and Electrified Lines:   MR is to construct by 1990*
- newly built electrified lines        400 km
- newly built double track lines   3,300 km
- newly built single track lines   3,600 km
Actual Progress:              New lines - 1,745 km
Double track - 2,427 km
Electification - 2,764 km
5.        The lplanned as well as the actttal figures in the manufacture of
locomotives and rolling stock have been as follows:
Plan &  Plan &  Plan &  Plan &
Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual    Plan   Total
1985   1986    1987    1988    1989       1990  t86-90)
New Locomotives:
Steam                             363     365     228       53      24    1,033
Diesel                            334     402      443     460    *466    2,105
Electric                          121     142     173      167     165       768
Total                 746     818      909     844      680     655    3,906
New Freight Carst       19,300  20,592  2i,639  22,323  24,051  18,597  108,202
New Passenger Coaches:  1,450   1,522   1,791   1,980   2,000   1,866    9,159
6.       'While the GOC has taken positive steps in the right direction, the
concept of an economic contract, or performance contract, needs further re-
finement. It is intended that this refinement will be carried out as part of
the continuing dialogue between MR and the Bank.



- 71                              ANNEX 5.2
- 71 -                   ~~~~~Page l
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Overview of Railway Costing Study
A. Objective of the Study
1.        The main objective of the Railway Costing Study was to strengthen
MR's costing techniques in order to:
(a) improve operating productivity and managerial capabilities;
(b) carry out reliable cost analysis of the railway operations and pro-
vide comprehensive cost information to the State Price and Haterial
Bureau as a tool to make sound decisions on structuring and setting
levels of tariffs in line with costs;
(c)  help Government in policy development, subsidy control, planning and
comparing cost of various transport modes for selecting the best
economic alternative;
(d) conduct economic and financial evaluation of future investments,
evaluation of economies from changes in technology and to help Gov-
ernment promote economic growth in the country.
2.        The study began with financing from the First Railway Project in
1984, and was continued under the Third Railway Project. In 1986, a costing
seminar was arranged at the railway institute in Shanghai where costing ex-
perts from the United States and Canada explained their respective costing
techniques. Thirty-four Chinese counterparts attended the seminar. Bank mis-
sions also briefed the Chinese personnel during 1984-87. A group of Chinese
costing experts also visited railways in the United Kingdom, United States and
Canada. Based on tiese developments MR is developing the Costing System in
three stages. Stage 1 relates to the preparation of a costing manual pre-
scribing detailed methodology and procedures. Stage 2 refers to the carrying
out of pilot tests of the costing manual. Stage 3 is to implement the costing
system on the entire network based on experience gained in pilot-testing.
B. Contents and Progress of the Costing Study
3.        MR began the Costing Study with the development of a reporting sys-
tem based on a revised Chart of Accounts, prepared by the MR development team.
This Chart is similar to the United States Interstate Commerce Commission's
(ICC) Chart of Accounts which each US railroad is required to file annually.
The reporting system, which is being implemented or tested at all the regional
administrations, will require each subadministration to file an annual report
under the Chart of Accounts to the regional administration.  The regional ad-
mitnistration is then responsible for consolidating the reports from all the
subadministrations under its jurisdiction and forward them-to MR.



ANNEX 5.2
- 72 -                              Page 2
4.        once this system of reporting is implemented throughout MR, it will
be possible to obtain very detailed cost information on MR operations. Par-
ticularly since the Chart of Accounts attempts to separate freight costs from
passenger costs, a more detaitled analysis of MR's freight and passenger opera-
tions will be possible. Another example would be that the Chart of Accounts
will provide specific cost information on locoukotive repair expenses by type
of locomotive, train crew wages by type of service, maintenance expenses for
passenger coaches and wagons, and various categories of track maintenance.
S.        MR completed Stage 1 of the Costing Manual in 1987.  This Manual
contains the following information:
(a) official regulation on the railroad transportation cost management
methodology;
(b) methodologies in allocating certain rail expenses (Annex 1);
(c) Chart of Accounts definitions (Annex 2);
(d) operating statistics used in costing (Annex 3);
Ce) rail transportation cost planning (Annex 4);
(f) steps to meeting cost targets and reducing cost (Annex 5);
(g) calculation of fixed assets depreciation rate of railways (Annex 6);
(h) passenger and freight costing methodologies (Annex 7);
(i) method of compiling price index for railways (Annex 8); and
(j) computerizing of costing (Annex 9);
Because of its complexity and importance, the manual is undergoing detailed
reviews. With the help of consultants, MR is scheduled to finalize the
railway costing manual before the end of 1991.
6.        Pilot testing is planned in Shanghai, Datong and Taiyuan
subadministrations. Line Costing testing for Datong-Taiyuan line (at the
Datong and Taiyuan subadministrations) is progressing well. At this point,
the development of line-specific cost is done by assigning line-specific cost
element at the base reporting units and aggregated at the subadministration
level. Programs have been developed to aggregate the costs at the
subadministration level and to segregate line-specific costs from other costs
at the base reporting units. The methodology for line costing can capture
very specific costs for a particular line segment. The major obstacle at this
time is the development of revenue attributable to the line. It is relatively
simple to capture the revenue for the traffic originating or terminating on
the line, but it is difficult to allocate revenue from 'pass-through" traffic.
However, a methodology is being tested to develop revenue for through traffic.
The cost being developed for line costing is, again, on the fully allocated or
total cost basis. Costing procedures to calculate unit passenger and freight
cost are being tested at the Shanghai subadministration. All the other



ANNEX 5.2
Page 3
procedures and methodologies listed above are urnJer development. As soon as
the costing manual is finalized, it will update all costs in the pilot
testing.
C. Shortcomings of Costing System
7.        Even though the Costing Manual discusses variability and variable
cost, the current test effort is concentrated on developing fully allocated or
total cost. Attachment 1 provides the preliminary estimates of system
averages of 1986 fully allocated cost by commodity and by distance developed
by the staff of the Transportation Economic Section of the Railway Academy of
Science (not to be used for costing purpose, per MR). Current study effort is
concentrated on developing a cost matrix by commodity and by distance. There
is, however, little effort to develop costs on specific point-to-point basis
utilizing unit costs for a specific region and specific operating information.
8.        Furthermore, the methodology of developing variable cost that MR
plans to use is rudimentary because it assumes accounts (mostly transportation
accounts) to be either 100 percent variable or 100 percent fixed. Very little
has been done on determining variability percentage by using statistical
techniques such as regression analysis.
9.        During a study on target costing by staff at Northern Jiaotong
University, a preliminary statistical study on cost variability was done using
1986 data. For the entire MR, variability for the operating expenses is
estimated to be 61 percent vs. about 90 percent in the United States. The
methodology used needs to be examined. The variability cannot be determined
by studying one year's data. MR will not be able to determine true long-term
variability by accounts until it has accumulated sufficient years of data (at
least five years) under the new Chart of Accounts reporting system.
Nevertheless, a start should be made with the available information which
should be refined as more information becomes avail.cble.
D. Conclusions
10.       MR is considerably behind on impleme-.ting the costing system.  Its
costing manual needs some improvements. This manual was, therefore,
translated into English and was given to CANAC consultants of Canada to review
and comment on its adequacy. This was done in mid-1990. Following this, HR,
in agreement with the Bank, sent a costing team to CANAC, Canada, for three
weeks in June/July 1991 to study and discuss a western railway's costing
system and to improve MR's manual. Once the stage 1 is completed, MR will
move to Stage 2, the pilot testing of the costing system, and then to Stage 3,
the full implementation of the costing system on the railway network. In
order to avoid further delays and complete the implementation of costing
system and formulate the tariff restructuring, a plan of action was agreed
with MR (Attachment 2).



ANNEX 5.2
- 74 -                          Attachment 1
Page 1
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Cost Matrix by Commodity (1986 database) /a
(Fenlton-km)
Commodity   \    Distance (km)    50    100    200    500  1,000  1,500  2,000
Average                           3.23   2.13   1.59   1.26   1.15   1.11   1.09
Coal                              2.89   1.94   1.47   1.19   1.09   1.06   1.05
Coke                              3.32   2.18   1.62   1.28   1.16   1.13   1.11
Petroleum                         3.41   2.34   1.80   1.48   1.38   1.34   1.32
Steel                             2.96   1.97   1.48   1.18   1.08   1.05   1.03
Metallic ores                     2.82   1.92   1.47   1.20   1.11   1.08   1.06
Nonmetallic ores                  2.84   1.91   1.44   1.17   1.07   1.04   1.03
Building materials                2.86   1.93   1.46   1.18   1.08   1.05   1.04
Cement                            3.00   2.02   1.53   1.24   1.14   1.11   1.09
Lumber                            3.02   2.00   1.50   1.19   1.09   1.06   1.04
Fertilizer                        2.96   1.98   1.48   1.19   1.09   1.06   1.04
Grain and grain products          2.90   1.95   1.47   1.19   1.09   1.06   1.05
Cotton                            3.78   2.46   1.79   1.40   1.26   1.22   1.20
Salt                              2.85   1.90   1.43   1.15   1.05   1.02   1.01
Perishables                       5.24   3.44   2.55   2.01   1.83   1.77   1.74
Carload                           3.00   2.01   1.52   1.22   1.12   1.09   1.07
Less than carload                11.91   6.70   4.09   2.52   2.00   1.83tr  1.74
Container/TOFC                    9.05   5.42   3.61   2.52   2.15   2.03   1.97
la Costs at fully allocated or total cost basis.
Sourcet Transportation Economics Section of the Railway Academy of Science.
October 1989



ANWEX 5.2
_ 75 -                         Attachment 2
Page 1
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Action Plan for the Implementation of the
Railway Traffic Costing System
Starting date       Completion date
A.  Installation of computers for             ongoing           October 31, 1991
pilot testing (financed by
Railway II)
B. Completion of costing manual:
(i) give reasons for revision
in the manual                         ongoing          December 31, 1991
(ii) define financial and             December 31, 1991    February 28, 1992
statistical data required
for cost analyses, indicate
sources of such data and the
units responsible for
providing such information
(iii) revise, improve and complete   February 28, 1992         June 30, 1992
the costing manual
C.  Adoption of costing manual              July 1, 1992        August 31, 1992
D.  Pilot testing of costing system,    August 31, 1992          March 31, 1993
using the adopted costing manual,
in the selected railway subadmin-
istrations of Shanghai and Datongs
(i) perform the study; and
(ii) analyze results and revise
the manual
E.  Expand pilot testing to all            March 31, 1993      December 31, 1993
subadministrations under the
jurisdiction of Beijing and
Shanghai administrations:
(i) perform the study; and
(ii) analyze results and
revise the manual



ANNEX 5.2
- 76 -                           Attachment 2
Page 2
Starting date        Completion date
P.  Implement the costing system         December 31, 1993    December 31, 1994
on rest of the network includ-
ing developing plan for future
improvement
G.  Submit the findings and                       -             December 31, 1994
recommendations of costing
study to the Government with a
copy to the Bank
Work Schedule for tne Formulation of Tariff Restructuring
(a) prepare a comparative analysis for costs               by June 30, 1993
and revenues for the subadministrations
of Shanghai and Datong;
(b) prepare a comparative analysis for costs                by March 31, 1994
and revenues for all subadministrations
under the jurisdiction of Beijing and
Shanghai administrations; and
(c) submit findings and recommendations of the              by December 31, 1994
costs and revenues for the entire railway
network to the Government with a copy to
the Batk.



_77 -                             ANNEX 5.3
Page 1
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Overview of Management Information System (MIS) Study
A. Objective
1.        The original concept for the MIS Study as stated in Annex 1 of the
1985 SAR for Railway II was for a MR study team with the assistance of outside
consultants be formed to undertake the following four tasks:
(a) record present information flows to each level of management;
(b) determine for each level of management what is the minimum of essen-
tial information;
(c) recommend improvements to present information flows and ways of
speed up the flows; and
(d) implement the improvements including the provision of computer hard-
ware and software.
2.        As was discussed in the 1985 SAR, MR collects expenditure informa-
tion in great detail at the 'grass roots level* with no clear definition as to
how this information should be consolidated in a timely manner to support
management decision making at the subadministration, administration, and MR
levels. To be successful, a study of this type must consider organizational
structures, decision making responsibilities at various levels of management,
the budgetary process as well as accounting information flows.
B. Current Status of the MIS Study
3.        Initially. the study started with computerizing the existing finan-
cial information system. The original $500,000 which was allocated for the
study has been used primarily to purchase equipment for a pilot project to
computerize the existing financial and revenue accounting systems on the
Mudanjiang Subadministration in the Harbin Administration. Approval has been
recently granted by both the Bank and the SPC for an additional $300,000 of
Bank financing to purchase additional PCs and telecommunications cabling
equipment to complete the pilot project in this subadministration.
4.        There are essentially three independent accounting system flows in
the Mudanjiang Subadministration (a) disbursement accounting, (b) revenue
accounting, and (c) "quick revenue accounting:
(a)  The disbursement, i.e., "financial," accounting system originates
with the accounting offices in 60 cost centers in the subadministra-
tion. The 400 accountants in these 60 offices handle all of the
accounting for payroll, staff benefits, fuel, other direct expendi-
tures, fixed assets, and the like. They summarize the results in



ANNEX  .53
- 78 -                              Page 2
great detail in 10 monthly tables which are sent to the subadminis-
tration within six to seven days after the end of the month. This
data is consolidated at the subadininistration and forwarded to the
administration who further c-nsolidates it for submission to MR.
(b) The revenue accounting system originates with 110 station accounting
offices in the subadministration. Each day at 18sOO, the station
accounting offlces prepare and submit a report which summarizes the
revenue received by category during the preceding 24 hours. This
information is consolidated by the subadministration and forwarded
to the administration every 10 days within 2 to 3 days after the
close of the period. The administration further consolidates the
revenue information and forwards it to MR at the end of each month.
(c) The 'quick revenue" system is a recent innovation. At 15:00 each
day, the 110 revenue accounting offices telephone gross freight
revenue and passenger revenue for the preceding 24 hours to the
Statistics Room of the subadministration. The subadministration
enters this stumary freight and passenger revenue data in their VAX
Computer Equipment and transmits it computer-to-computer to the
administration at 18:00. Revenue data for che six subadministra-
tions are then transmitted to MR by 19:30, and the Oquick revenue'
report is produced for MR management by 20:30 each evening.
5.        Present plans call for the completion of the computerization of the
existing disbursement and revenue accounting systems in the Harbin Administra-
tion by the end of 1994 in accordance with the following milestonest
By December 1991:    New PCs will be installed in all but a few of
the remaining cost centers and station offices.
By June 1992:    Telecommunications cabling will be upgraded
between these additional cost centers and sta-
tions and subadministration headquarters and
the Mudanjiang pilot installation will be fully
operation.
By December 1993:    PCs and minicomputer equipment will be
installed in the other five subadministrations
of the Harbin Administration.
By December 1994:    The necessary telecommunication cabling will be
installed and the new computerized accounting
system will be fully operational for the entire
Harbin Administration.
C. Reported Benefits
6.        The MIS Study Team believes that the Pilot Project has produced
direct and indirect benefits as follows:
(a) The principal direct, quantifiable benefit has been the elimination
of previously required staff overtime expense to produce the



ANNEX 5.3
- 79 ~                         Page 3
monthly, quarterly, and annual financial tables within six to seven
days after the end of the period. Prior to the introduction of PCs,
the average cost center required 40 man-days of overtime per year to
prepare the required tables on time.
(b) The local accounting staff now has sufficient time to analyze the
accounting data and to control costs rather than merely to account
for disbursentents.
(c) Because of reduced work load, memliers of the accounting staff have
been able to attend accounting classes, and as a result, 59 of the
400 members of the staff now hold some form of accounting degree.
7.        In spite of the above achievements, the overall progress on the
implementation of MIS is slow and the scope should also include all those
items that were envisaged in Railway II Project. Furthermore, the above bene-
fits did not result in the expected decrease in the size of the accounting
staff.
D. Action to be Taken
8.        The introduction of a modern computer based, operating information
system (OIS) will be an important component of the MIS. Not only will a well
designed OIS provide the necessary information to support key transportation
decision making on an hour-by-hour and day-by-day basis, but it can also pro-
duce as a by-product a wealth of accurate, key operation statistics for vari-
ous sectors and sections of MR. These operating statistics when combined with
financial cost and revenue data can produce important ratios in a timely man-
ner which can be used to judge the operating performance at various levels of
transportation management. Examples include direct train costs per train hour
or per gross ton kilometer, revenue per net ton kilometer per commodity, shunt
engine direct costs per wagon handled for each marshalling yard and the like.
9.        Five hundred thousand U.S. dollars has been provided under Railway
IV for technical assistance to make an OIS Strategic Study. The principal
study objective is to evaluate alternative approaches to designing and imple-
menting an OIS and to select the optimum approach for MR. MR has engaged
consultants (CANAC) to assist with the study effort, and study recommendations
are expected in early 1992.
10.       MR agreed to prepare an action plan for broadening the MIS Study
effort in line with the study scope described in the Railway II SAR. The
action plan will involve the following general steps:
*    Define the key decisions that should be made by various levels of
management that directly impact the short-term and long-term profit-
ability and viability of the enterprise.
*    Determine what specific information is required for each of these
management positions to make these decisions intelligently.



ANNEX S.3
- 80 -                              Page 4
*    Document what information is presently available for these levels of
management and identify deficiencies in terms of content and timeli-
ness.
a    Obtain agreement as to how the decision making performance at vari-
ous levels of management should be evaluated and develop recommenda-
tions to modify the budgetary process to accomplish this end.
e    Develop recommendations for accounting information flows, computer-
ization, report formats to implement the proposed changes to the
existing management information system.
Source:  MR and the Mission
July 1991



ANNEX 5.4
-81-                               Page 1
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Notes and Major Assumptions Underlying
MR's Financial Forecast for 1990-95
1.        Current Term.  The forecast is prepared in terms of current yuan.
2.        Exchange Rate.  The exchange rate used was $1 = Y 5.22.
3.        Investments.  The investment program of Y 116 billion is based on
MR's estimates for capital expenditure in the 8th Five-Year Plan (8FYP) sub-
ject to SPC's approval. It is assumed that Y 38.4 billion of the investment
will be provided by the Central and Local Governments as equity contribution.
4.        Traffic Forecast.  The following traffic growth has been used based
on the past five years' experience (particularly the experience in 1990 when
peakitng traffic decreased and freight traffic remained more or less same) but
using a slower growth for the years 1991-95. During 1985-89 the growth rate
was 6 percent annually for freight on the average and 5.8 percent for passen-
gers.
(a)  Freight -       1991 - 3.0 percent over prior year
1992 - 3.5 percent over prior year
1993 - 4.0 percent over prior year
1994 - 4.5 percent over prior year
1995 - 5.0 percent over prior year
(b)  Passengers -   1991 - 3.0 percent over prior year
1992 - 4.0 percent over prior year
1993 - 4.5 percent over prior year
1994 - 5.0 percent over prior year
1995 - 6.0 percent over prior year
5.        Revenues.  Freight revenue increases, in addition to traffic growth,
are estimated based on traffic growth, estimated changes in composition of
commodities and assumed tariff increases for a total of 2 percent annually for
1991 and 1992 and 4 percent annually for 1993 to 1995 keeping in mind a recent
24 percent increase in freight tariffs. No passenger tariff increase was
assumed during the forecast period as FR has recently approved major passenger
fare increases (112 percent) in September 1989. It is assumed that no operat-
ing subsidy would be forthcoming from the Government except the relaxation of
the corporate tax (para. 8) and lower interest rates for future debts to allow
MR to contribute to the financing of future investment plans and to strengthen
the special funds. No MR debts will be paid by the Government in future. MR
would be onlent required foreign and local currency loans on specified condi-
tions.



ANNEX 5.4
82 -                              Page 2
6.   Operating Costs
(a) As per Government rule, wages are assumed to rise in line with traf-
fic volume increases. In addition, an increase of 3 percent in
1991, 1 percent in 1992-95 is assumed to. increase wages in real
term.
(b) Material costs are estimated to rise at the rate of 5 percent p.a.
plus 6 percent in 1991-93 and 4.5 percent in 1994-95 due to an
increase in maintenance work. Fuel oil and coal cost are estimated
to go up annually based on the traffic volume carried by diesel and
steam locomotives plus 5 percent annually due to expected price
increases. Electricity cost is estimated to go up by 10 percent
annually due to increase in traffic volume carried by electric loco-
motives, plus 5 percent in 1991 and 1992 and 2 percent in 1993-95
due to increase in cost of electricity.
(c) Major repairs are assumed to rise by 6 percent of fixed assets annu-
ally. This decision was based on past experience of 3.5 percent
increase annually during 1980-85 and 4 percent increase annually
during 1986-88.
(d)  Other costs comprising overhead, administration and expenses regard-
ing computers and office equipment are assumed to increase as fol-
lowss
1991 - 15.2 percent increase
1992 - 13.4 percent increase
1993 - 13.0 percent increase
1994 - 12.0 percent increase
1995 - 11.6 percent increase
Because of fixed nature of these expenses, the percentages are declining as
the traffic is increasing.
7.        Terms and Conditionr of Borrowings.  The Government will onlend
foreign loans such as IBRD loans tn MR on the following conditionss
-  Amount of IBRD Loan   - $330 million
-  Duration of the Loan  - 20 years
-  Grace period           G  5 years
-  Interest rate          -  5 percent
MR has assumed that it will borrow altogether $250 million equivalent per year
during 1991-1995 at 5 percent interest rate for 20 years including S years of
grace. In addition, MR will borrow an average of Y 5.67 billion per year in
local currency at variable interest rate of 3.6 to 9 percent with repayment
period of 10 to 20 years. MR would be fully responsible for losses on foreign
exchange.
S.   Taxes.  MR to pay 5.3 percent business tax on gross revenues.  The
55 percent corporate tax is discontinued since 1986 to enable MR to contribute
to future railway investments.



ANNEX 5.4
- 83 -                              Page 3
9.   The balance sheet items are estimated as followst
(a) Cash - 1 percent increase annually
(b) Receivables - 2 percent increase annually
(c) Inventories = 7 percent in 1991, 8 percent 1n 1992 and 5 percent to
5.5 percent for future years.
(d) Depreciation is taken at 4 percent on gross book value which is
equivalent to 7 percent in 1991 over 1990 and 6 percent thereafter;
in addition, proviston is also made for periodic overhaul at 6 per-
cent of the gross book value.
(e) Work-in-progress - 45 percent of past 5 years of investment accumu-
lated including equipment investment plus special fund in opera-
tion.l/
(f) Long term loan - prior year loan minus repayment plus current year
loan
Source - MR and Mission Estimates
March 1991
1!   S2ecial fund pro2ortiont
- Major repairs fund
- Depreciation
- Replacement
- Other



CWINA
FIFTII RAILWAY PROJECT
Revenue Freight Traffic Intensities in Selected Countries
Tons ori-                  Average                     Tons/
Country            Country area    ginatedla       Ton-kmla    distance   Estimated GNP   81,000   tkml
(million km2)   (millions)   (billions)       (km)     (US$ billion)   of GNP   $ GNP
China (1987)             9.6           8,660        1,526         176            320         27.1     4.77
USSR (1987)             22.4          33,381        8,339         250          2,375         14.1     3.51
USA (1987)               9.4           5,261        3,702         704          4,486          1.1     0.83
India (1987188)          3.3             551          335        608             241          2.3     1.40
6ratil (1987)            6.5             847          35/1b      419             315          2.7    ..13
La  Includes rail, highway, internal waterway, pipeline and air freight only.
b 1986.
Sources:  Chinat   Statistical Yearbook of China, 1988, p. 448.  GNP from The World Bank Atlas 1988,
p. 6.
USSR:    Narodnos Khozyaistvo SSSR v 1987 R.  (The USSR National Economy in 1987),
pp. 306-307. GNP from Handbook of Economic Statistics 1988, p. 31. Truck traffic
estlmates from Vladimir Kontorovich and Holland Hunter, Transport Performance In
1987, p. 6.
USA:     Transportation in America, 1989, p. 8.  GNP from The World Bank Atlas 1988, p. 9.
lndia;   World Bank estimates based on Government of India, Economic Survey, 1988189 and
Perspective Planning for Transport Development, 1988. GNP estimate from The World
Bank Atlas 1988, p. 7.
Brazils  World Bank Appraisal Report, Highways Management and Rehabilitation Report, 1989.
GNP from The World Bank Atlas 1988, p. 6.



CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Railway and Ro94 Network Density in Selected Countries
Rail          Rail density           Road            Road density
Population      Area        length        (km/         (km        length        (kmI      (kml'OOO
Country   Year    (million)   ('000 km2)  (l000 km)   '000 pop)   '000 km2)   ('000 km)   '000 pop)   '000 km2)
China     1987      1.081         9.600          53        0.05          5.5           982        0.9         102.3
USSR      1987        282        22,403         146        0.52          6.5         1,610        5.7          71.9
USA       1987        244         9,400         213        0.87         22.6         6,242       25.6         664.0
India     1987        797         3.287          62        0.08         10.9         1,800        2.3         547.6
Brazil    1987        145         6,500          30       021           3.5         1,500       10.3         176.5
Sourcess  Chinas   Statistical Yearbook of China, 1988, pp. 3, 428-429.
USSR$   USSR State Statistlcal Commission, Narodnos Khozyaltvo SSSR v 1987  .  (The USSR National
Economy Ln 1987), pp. 312, 327, 671.
USA$    Transportation In America, 7th Edition.  (Westport, Conn.t Eno Foundation for Tranasporta-
tion, Inc., May 1989), p. 1. HigLway StatistLcs 1986, US Department of Transportation, Fad-
eral Highways Administration, p. 115.
'esdias   States' Road Project, No. P-4812-IN, October 3, 1988, p. l and Government of India, Ministry
of Finance, Economic Survey, 198889, p. S-1.
trazil.  vorld lank Appraisal Report, Highways Management and Rehabilitation Report, 1989; and
Brazilian Railroads Statistics, 1989.



Table 1.3
- 86 -                                      .....
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic by tbde
(biltion ton-km)
DOmestic   Pipe-  Civil              Oceon
Rail   Road waterway /_I lines aviation  Total    Shipping
1952              60.2     1.4    11.8      -     0.002    73.4       2.8
Nodal split (C)   82.0    2.0    16.0     -       -     100.0        -
1977             456.9   25.1   102.1    38.7  0.076   622.9        174.1
Melal split (2)   73.4   4.0    16.4      6.2     -     100.0        -
1979             559.9   74.5   ¶39.3    47.6  0.123   821.4         317.1
1980             571.7   76.4   152.1    49.1   0.141   849.4       3S3.2
¶981             571.2    78.0   150.7    49.9   0.170   850.0      364.3
1982             612.0   94.9   170.8    SO.1   0.198   928.0       376.9
¶983             664.7   108.4  181.1    53.4  0.229 1,007.7        39?.7
1984             724.8   153.6   196.1    57.2  0.311 1,132.0       437.4
1985             812.6   169.3  237.1    60.3   0.415 1,279.7       532.9
1986             876.5   211.8   270.0    61.2   0.481 1,419.9      594.8
1987             947.1   266.0   288.9    62.S   0.650 1,565.2      657.6
1988             987.8   322.0   310.4    65.0   0.730 1,686.0      696.6
1989           1,039.4  337.5   349.8    62.9   0.690 1,790.2       768.9
Nodal split (2)   58.1    18.9   19.5     3.5      -    100.0        -
Growth rate X p.s.
19M2 - 77          8.4    12.1    9.0              1S.7    8.9       18.0
1983 - 84          9.0    41.7    8.3       7.1    35.8   12.3       10.0
1984 - 85         12.1    10.2   20.9       5.4   33.4   13.0        21.8
198S -86           7.9    25.1    13.9      1.5   15.S   11.0        I1.6
1986 - 87          8.1    25.6    7.0       2.1   35.1   10.2        10.6
1987 - 88          4.3    21.0    7.5       4.0    12.3    7.7        5.9
1988 - 89          5.2    4.8    12.7    (3.2)   (5.5)    6.2        10.4
1980 . 89          6.9    17.9    9.7       2.8   19.3    8.6         9.0
/_I: Extludes ocean-going transport.
surcoes staistical Yearbook of China- 1990, p. 533.



- 87 -                      Table 1.4
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
_________________.___
Passenger Traffic by Mode
…------------------------
(billion passenger-km)
Civil
Rail     Road  Waterway  aviation   Total
1952                  20.1      2.3      2.5    0.024       24.8
Modal split (%)    80.9       9.1      9.9       0.1     100.0
1977                102.3      44.8      9.7    1.834      158.7
Modal split (%)    64.5      28.2      6.1       1.2     100.0
1979                 121.6     60.3     11.4    3.499      196.8
1980                138.3      73.0     12.9    3.956      228.1
1981                 147.3     83.9     13.8    5.016      250.0
1982                157.5      96.4     14.5    5.951      274.3
1983                 177.7    110.6     15.4    5.896      309.5
1984                204.6    133.7      15.4    8.350      362.1
1985                241.6    172.5      17.9   11.695      443.7
1986                258.7    198.2      18.2   14.631      489.7
1987                284.3    219.0      19.6   18.700      541.6
1988                326.0    252.8      20.4   21.448      620.7
1989                303.7    266.2      18.8   18.684      607.5
Modal split (%)    50.0      43.8      3.1       3.1     100.0
Growth rate % p.a.
1952 - 77              6.7     12.7      5.7      18.9       7.7
1983 - 84             15.2     20.9      0.0      41.6      17.0
1984 - 85             18.1     29.0     16.1      40.1      22.5
1985 - 86              7.1     14.9      1.9      25.1      10.4
1986 - 87              9.9     10.5      7.6      27.8      10.6
1987 - 88             14.7    1L5.4      4.1      14.7      14.6
1988 - 89             (6.8)     5.3      (7.7)   (12.9)     (2.1)
1980 - 89              9.1     15.5      4.3      18.8      11.5
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China- 1990, p. 531.



- 88 -                           Table 1.5
CHINA
FIFTN RAILWAY PROJECT
Transport Investment vs. Economic Output in China
(Y billion)
Annual            GNP            Transport
transport       (current           investment
Year           investment        prices)           as % of GNP
1966 -70  3FXP    15.0 / 1          935.0               1.6
1971 -75  4FYP    31.8 /-1        1,323.0               2.4
1976 -80  SFYP    30.2 /_1        1,758.0               1.7
1981 -85  6FYP    41.9            3,130.5               1.3
1986 -89  7FYP    71.1            5,077.0               1.4
(4 yrs)
1980               5.9              447.0               1.3
1981               3.6              477.3               0.8
1982               5.2              519.3               1.0
1983               7.2              580.9               1.2
1984              10.0              696.2               1.4
1985              15.9              856.8               1.9
1986              16.7              969.6               1.7
1987              17.4            1,130.1               1.5
1988              19.0            1,398.4               1.4
1989              18.0            1,578.9               1.1
1980-89 average                                         1.3
/_1: Investment of FYPs includes Post and Telecommunications
(about 4% of total).
source: Statistical Yearbook of China- 1990, p. 33, 171.



CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
lIvestment In the Transport Sector (including Posts and Telecomueications)
.........................................................................  ...........................
(Y bitlion)
6th FYP                             7th FYP
lst FYP  2nd FYP            3rd FYP  4th FVP  5th FVP   --------------------------------------    --------------------
1953-67  1958-62  1963-65  1966-70  1971-75  1976-80    1981        1982     1983      1984  1985    1986  198?  1988  1989
Transport:
Railway               5.916   10.416    3.395   11.250   17.308    4.047    1.445    2.637    4.221    5.852   7.7         8.5   8.7  10.2   9.0                1
Hi&hway                 -        -         ^        -                         0.799    0.887    o.m        1.196   2.3     2.?   3.3   4.2   4.3               co
waterway                     -             -        -         -        -      1.295    1.545    1.937    2.629   3.7       3.?   3.9   3.2   3.6               %O
Avivation               -        -         -        -         -        -      0.070    0.14S    0.295    0.263   2.1       1.3   1.4   1.3   1.0                I
Pipeline                     -        -        -         -             -      0.018    0.017    0.006    0.010   0.1       0.5   0.1   0.1   0.1
subtotal                                   -        -         -               3.627    5.231    7.185    9.950  15.9    16.7  17.4  19.0  18.0
Post & Telecm.           -        -         -        -         -        -      0.420    0.490    0.619    0.896   1.2       1.3   1.6   1.8   k.3
..............
Total                 9.015   16.330    s.378   16.001   31.759   30.245    4.047    5.721    7.804   10.846  17.1    18.0  19.0  20.8  20.3
…...... ...... , .............       ...... . ...... . ...... . .............       . .....    ....   .. --...--...--...--
Total Capital
investmnt           58.847  120.609   42.189   97.603  176.395  234.217   44.291   55.553   59.413   74.315 107.4   117.6 134.3 1S2.6 155.2
..... ..  .........   ..... .   .......  .......  .......   ...... ........   ......   .. ..... .. ...   .. . .. ..... ..I.. .....
Transport as X of
total investment /1      15.32    13.52    12.72    16.42    18.02    12.9X    8.22        9.42    12.1%    13.42 14.8X   14.22 13.02 12.52 11.6X
/_1: Investment of FYPs, before 1980, lncludes Post and Telecommmlcatfons (about 42 of total).
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China- 1990  p.157  167, 171.



FIft0 RAIJAIUY IOECT
Freight Traffic Performce of KR
.....   . .......... ...     .. .
(bililion ton-k)
1970  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  19M0  1981  1982  1983  198  1985  1986  1987  1988   1989 %('89)
coal                   96.00 110.20 101.10 124.20 148.10 16.70 176.70 183.20 19.76 213.1S 233.5S 2S9.59 27.00 285.74 299.51 316.18  30.5X
Tixar                  32.40 39.00 33.60 39.80 43.60 4S.60 51.20 49.50 49.32 53.15 S7.49 62.93 66.23 64.89 58.32  57.89   5.6e
Iran & Steet Products    26.30 34.20 30.30 35.50 49.50 52.70 46.80 42.40 44.59 49.43 56.83 ".1 74.94 75.61 69.86  72.62   7.0X
Construction Naterials   16.20 25.40 26.10 30.40 34.90 34.10 33.30 30.40 39.68 41.97 42.11 45.69 4.SS 48.32 49.49  52.02   5.02
Petroteu3              35.00 41.20 34.00 33.70 35.60 33.10 30.10 28.70 28.85 29.96 31.26 34.07 37.53 39.69 39.12  39.99   3.9X
Monwtallic Ores        12.30 19.30 20.40 23.50 27.90 26.10 24.60 24.20 24.17 28.06 31.42 33.87 3S.45 35.39 38.22  43.99   4.28
Grain                   9.90 12.50 12.40 14.20 12.00 16.90 22.10 24.70 24.06 26.32 28.36 42.59 42.41 57.33 55.54  53.61   S.23
Netallic Ores          14.80 17.50 15.50 17.') 23.40 20.60 18.80 16.40 16.96 18.73 21.33 25.82 28.39 29.58 32.11  38.11   3.72
FertiSIzer              5.90  6.30  5.0  6.70  9.20 10.90 15.70 17.90 18.69 18.06 19.38 16.55 16.10 19.98 22.58  25.81   2.5X
CemW4t                  7.80  5.60  S.00  5.60  7.10  8.00  9.00  9.60 10.30 11.00 11.58 13.42  4.42 15.20 14.81  17.22   1.72
Coke                    4.10  4.90  4.5T  5.10  6.60  7.30  6.90  6.90  6.49  7.30  7.68  9.59 10.38 13.61 15.36  17.28   1.72
Satt                    6.20  5.30  5.00  6.50  7.20  S.60  5.10  5.40  S.56  6.23  6.60  7.36  9.27 10.32 11.90  15.43   1.52
Cotton                  1.10  1.20  1.20  1.30  1.20  1.10  1.30  1.60  1.94  2.19  1.82  1.88  2.89  3.50  2.81   2.4A   0.22
Hiscetlaneos           82.20 102.00 91.60 112.40 126.90 132.00 129.10 129.30 140.52 157.89 174.06 192.99 213.4 247.41 276.41 284.68  27.42
Total         350.20 424.60 386.17 455.90 533.20 558.70 570.70 570.20 610.91 663.4 723.47 811.16 815.02 94S.57 986.02 1,037.3 100.02
Sources Nintstry of Railweays



CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Originating Freight Traffic of KR
(mtlfion ton)
1970  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1964  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989 X('89)
Coat                   254.40 316.20 295.70 347.40 402.40 413.20 414.90 412.00 438.4 460.20 48.08 518.56 531.06 543.43 564.80 608.91  41.52
Tlber                   28.70 35.00 32.20 35.30 38.00 39.60 42.40 40.30 40.98 42.96 45.81 47.14 48.08 46.02 42.53 41.22   2.81
Iron & Steel Prochcts   30.60 41.80 38.90 42.60 58.90 63.90  60.80 55.20 58.76 62.39 67.59 74.53 8S.24 84.92 79.44 79.42   5.4"
Construction Naterials    88.90 136.00 136.00 152.20 170.00 166.70 158.50 139.50 162.75 161.29 158.65 158.44 149.83 147.27 149.03 146.73  10.0O
Petroleum               37.00 62.20 58.00 56.20 61.20 59.30 55.60 49.80 S0.42 53.79 56.09 58.11 62.51 65.69 64.63 64.58   4.42
Eoretatlic Ores         32.30 47.40 48.80 54.00 62.20 60.60 59.80 57.90 58.62 62.98 65.85 70.61 72.53 71.78 75.43 81.98   5.6X
Grafn                   20.80 21.90 20.50 24.60 24.60 28.40 31.50 34.30 34.6S 35.0 35.67 45.03 46.S1 55.4  54.64 53.19   3.62
Netallic Ores           40.70 51.80 4.40 49.90 64.90 61.80 S9.00 53.40 56.46  60.33 64.30 67.24 69.95 72.55 74.21  79.92   5.42
Fertilizer              10.00 10.90  9.60 12.00 16.60 18.80 22.10 24.50 25.00 25.45 26.75 23.13 22.71 26.65 28.95 31.58   2.22
cemt                    12.90 16.00 14.80 15.80 19.60 21.90 23.60 24.30 25.0S 26.06 27.75 30.07 34.10 34.58 32.87 35.29   2.42
Coke                     9.10 12.00 11.30 12.00 14.40 14.10 14.00 13.00 12.16 13.01 13.84 1S.75 16.80 19.17 20.82 23.07   1.62
Salt                     8.80  8.90  8.50 10.00 10.10  9.00  9.30  9.00  8.98  9.02  9.29  9.52 10.79 10.42 11.17 13.15   0.9X
Cotton                   1.50  1.40  1.40  1.5S6  1.50  1.40  1.60  1.80  2.05  1.99  1.55  1.50  2.19  3.65  1.82  1.40   0.12
fscelttaous             90.00 105.90 99.00 113.60 130.60 136.40 132.80 133.50 136.19 145.63 151.75 155.53 169.89 18S.93 205.21 207.60  14.12
Total           665.7 867.4 821.1 927.1  1075 1095.1 1085.9 1048.5 1110.5 1160.7 1212.1 1275.1 1322.1 13.S 1405.S 1468.0 100.02
Source: Ninistry of Raltways



CHINA
FIFTH RAILVAY PROJECT
Frelgbt Traffic Average Distance of MR
. ......... ............. ........ ................ ...
(in km)
197M  1975   1976   1977   19?8  1979  1980  1981   1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987   I988  1989
Coal                        377   349   342   358   368   399   426   445   456   463   479   501    522   S26   530   S19
Tiaber                     1,129  1,114  1,043  1,127  1,147 1,152  1,208  1,228  1,204  1,237  1,255  1,335  1,377 1,410  1,371  1,404
Iran & Steel Prodacts       859   818    779   833   840   825   770   768   759   792   841   870   879   890   879   914
Construction Materials      182    187   192    200   205   205   210   218    24    260   265   288   311   328   332   355
Petrolem                    946   662    586   600    S82   558   541    576   572   557   SS7   586   620   604   60S   619
eoretatflic Ores            381   407   418   435   449   431   411   418   412   446   477   478   489   493    507   537
Grain                       476   S71   605    571   488   595   702    720   695   739   791   946   912  1,034  1,016  1,008
Netatic Ores                364.  338   334   341   361   333   319   307   300   310   332   384   406   408   433   477
Fertilizer                  590   578   563   558   554   580   710   731   748   710   724   715   70    750   780   817
Cemnt                       605   350   338   354   362   365   381   395   411   422   417   446   413   440  450    48
Coke                        451    408   404    425   458   518   493   531   534   S61   555   609   At6   658    38   749
Salt                        70    596   588   650    713   622   54    600   619   691    710   m              89   991 1,065  1,173
Cotton                      733   857   857   867   800   786   813    889   946 1,101  1,175  1,250  1,331  1,323  1,542  1,755
Miselaeous                  913   963   925   989   92   968   972   969  1,032  1,084  1,147  1,242  1,06  1,310  1,347  1,371
lotat                       526   490    470   492   496   S10   526   544   550   572  597   636   662   690   702  707
R"..ce: Ninistry of Railways



CNINA
FFTH RAILWAY PRoJECT
Passenger Traffic of KR
1975   1976    1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1966   1987   1988   1989
Passengers (mitlion)
Siturbmn       162.6  167.7   1Q6.2  190.0  194.6  195.0  192.5  208.7  212.5  202.4  168.3  154.7  152.1  163.9  1ST7.
other          533.9  537.2   600.4  617.3  661.5  717.5  749.9  780.2  836.9  920.3  940.8  918.7  962.1  1052.1  970.9
Total          696.S  704.9   766.6  807.3  856.1  912.5  942.4  988.9 1049.4 1122.7 1109.1  1073.4 1114.1 1216.0 1128.0
Passenger-km (bilion)
._. ..............
St¢ibam         3.64   3.84    4.30   4.41   4.S8   4.62   4.60   S.01   S.20   S.08   4.11   3.62   3.64   4.6S   4.40
Other          91.62  91.63   97.72 104.68 116.80 13.42 142.39 152.19 12.1  199.24 237.1S 254.49 280.12 321.08 299.00
Total          95.26  95.47  102.02 109.08 121.37 138.04 14.99 157.20 177.34 V04.32 241.2S 258.31 283.96 325.73 303.40
Average Olstance (km)
.....................
siakubmn          22     23      23      23     24     24     24      24     24     2S     24      2S     25     28      28
other            172    171      163    170    177    186    190    195    206    217    252    277    290    305    308
Weighted Ave.    137    135     130    135    142    151    156    159    169    182    218    241    25S    268    269
Source: Ninistry of Raflways



OUR
Seileqes | solteO operatInnl Stbtiettee, t1970-1989
..._ . ,,,,.._ ...................____ ......................__
1970  1973   1976   I977   1W78   1979   1980   1981   1902   1903   1904   19Ss   It"    1987   t980    1909   19
A. Raut, LPgtb  (s, at year a")
Stendard gau               40,154 45,218 43,711  43,917  44,778  49,034  49,223  49.474 49.833  30,905  51,041  51.419  S1.7   31.911 S2.067 S3.17 533.37
(1.435 a)
uIb  ame                      830   77    770    770    756    769    710    7            703    694    65    69         693    695    69        700    700
(1.0.o ed 0.6n)
Vi6ugSAPe                       s      5     S       s       $       5       3      5       3       3       5       5      3       S       3       3       5
Soerl                      40,985 45,992 46,446 47,382  48,618 49,806 49,940  30,181  50,541  31,60 $ 31,741 32,119  32,487 32,611 32,767  53,092  S4,063
of ubie,t
Double track             6,549  7,161  7,285   7.376   7,630   7,900  S,119   8.263  0,613  9,18    9.671   9n989  10.013  11,186  11.771  12.328  13.024
3Iectrfale                  94   669   741   1,026   1.026   1.031   1.66I    1,667   1,707  2.334   3,014  4.151  4.430  4.643   5.73#  6.372   6.941
S. Staff (at Yer and)
api0noy.  ('000)            1,851  2,222  2,300  2,345   2,542   2,565   2,615   2,710  2,763   2,844   3,053  3,124   3,200  3,247  3.293   3.300   $.381
C. Rolive Stedk  aurage of tmber at beginnin  end ead of year)
stem loontetu
I Ibr In fleet           6.878  7.824   n.e.   n.e.  7.828   n.G.  7.801    n.a.   a.e.   n.e.  7,S51   7,674   7,342  7.381   7,130  6.687  6,2"
(eol. r.e.wee)
Available, 2              n.e.  n.a.  n.G.   n.a.   A..          932  n.S.   U.a.   A.G.   n.e.   .aS.   U.S.   n.e.   A.G.   n.e.   A.G.   n.G.
Diesl loca.ativee
number gn fleet            366  1,332  U.S.   n.a.  1,805  2,000  2,190   n.e.   U.S.   a.e.  3.102  $*ltl  4,01J  4.400  4,036   5.256  5.6S0
&vsUable. 2               n.a.  n.a.  n.G.   n.G.   n.a.         84t  n.S.   n.e.   n.e.   a.a.   n.a.   n.a.   A.a.   n.G.   U.S.   n.e.   n.a.
Electric loconotivee. nte line
Umber in fleet              60   191  n.e.   n.a.    221    206    287   a.a.   n.e.   n.G.    484    587    707    748   1.197   1.430   1,6J3
Available S               n.S.  n.e.  n.&.   n.a.   a.e.         952  n.a.   n.G.   a.e.   t.a.   U.S.   n.e.   n.G.   n.e.   A.a.    n.e.   n.a.
Paaseer care               11,279 13,713  n.a.   n.a. 14,044  15,000  16,157   n.m.   a.e.   n.e. 19.600  20.872  22.138 13.474  24,917  26.304 27,261
freitht cre ('000)
am care                   39.8  38.7  n.e.  nU..   40.1   40.0   40.4   ns..   U.e.   n.e.   49.6   32.7   54.6   53.5   38.0   62.2   66.7
Gondolas                  94.7 139.1  n.G.   n.a.  150.7  159.0  165.4   n.e.   n.e.   n.e.   170.7  183.7  197.7  209.9  219.2  226.8  233.0
Flat care                 16.6  21.0  n.a.   n.e.   20.7   20.0   20.8   n.e.   n.e.   n.e.   19.1   t8.6   18.5   17.8   18.2   l6.3   18.7                                       C
Tank eats                 22.8  31.1  n.e.   n.e.   33.0   33.0   33.5   n.e.   n.a.   n.e.   32.2   31.8   31.4   32.1   32.5   33.3   33.6                                      0   V
efWrigerated               2.4   2.3  n.e.   n.e.    2.4    2.4    2.5   n.e.   n.e.   n.e.    3.7    4.0    4.0    4.S    4.4    4.7    S.2
Otbera                     2.0   2.9  n.e.   n.a.    3.1    3.9    3.8   n.s.   n.e.  nU..    7.9    7.9    8.4    0.6    8.0    7.S    7.8 
Total fLeet              178.3 233.3  n.a.   n.e.  250.1  238.3  266.4   n.a.   a.e.   *a,.  291.2  300.9  314.6  328.2  340.3  353.0  363.0
&eilable. 2               96.62  94.8S  n.e.   n.e.   a.a.   97.1   n.e.0  100.02 1n0.02  n.e.   n.G.   n.a.   n.e.                                                               P  Ul
_ceatod 



1970  1973  1976   1977   1978   1979   190    1981   l99    19M    1904   1995   1986    987   198s   989    1990
D. S£note
Peunm tref1
eeaaUoz                   $37   69  703    787    so?    836    91            94-    989  1,049  l,n   1,109   1,074 1,114.0  1,216  tons    949
?asomeee r4m            71,394 95,259 93,470 102,013 109.081 121*373 138,037 146,987 17.200 177.339 204,315 241.231 25831Sl 294,000 323,731 303.400 261.000
Azee JCMney                139   137   133    1SO    133    142    151    136    1S9    169    182    218    241    253    268    269    27
fv
pheigt treff to
Mte to" toll.)           663.3 667.3  821.2  927.1 1.074.9 1o,03.0 1,083.8 1,048.4 1,110.3 1160.7 1,212.2 1,273.2 1,322.2  1.370  1.486   1,4S8  1.462
fle eeD40t "di.)           349   423   386    456    3         353    371    370    611    663    724    811  873.0    944    986  1,037  I.60
&mrag. 1(h)                323   489   470    492    494   s3o    326    344   s30    372    397    636    662    691    701    707    725
COerted      Ilijin)         421   S20   482    338    642   60  t09    717    768    841               28  1,032   1,133   1,2)0  1,312   1341   1,321
(CM - -  + 10a
?nfc dmtte  (.1)3m)
par ranto km             1.80 .O ..  n..   a.*.   U.S.   n.e.   2.90    3.10   1.,;   3.70   4.24   4.79    5.06   5.43   6.17   3.7t
U er route km            8.70  9.40  .n.m.   n.m.   n.e.  11. 0   11.00   1.9   12.76  13.63  15.00  16.12  17.13  18.07   18.68  19.50 
C    per rat. In         10.50  11.60  n.e.   n.k.   U.S.   U.S.  14.90   u.00  16.05   17.32  19.24   20.91   22.19  23.52  24.83  25.21
'A
TOW  ieetiw.4a              n.S. 741.19 716.25 797.29  883.83 918.14    .e.       a.  n..   n.  1099.86 1183.01 1230.64 1270.00 1)17.00 1341.00
-By tpe o trein,
Peeeuze               n.s. 169.85 160.60  185.22  203.75  215.24    M.e.   n.e.      .   n.. 266.4s 290.15  301.73 S3O.60  324.00 324.26
Vre*at                 n.e. 353.39 523.47 589.37 66.14 691.06   n.e.   D.e.   n          De.   020.8  880.60 913.93 934.00 97.00 1002.11
- By type of treet.tu
stow                  U.. 409.46 S37.9  62t.99 674.SS 689.70   U.S.   U.S.   n..   n.a. 702.92 68S.63 646.17 S95.00  S32.00 516.20
lei                    I.. 121.S1 126.97  152.32  192.77 214.00   a.e.   n.S.   U.e.   n.. 348.83 433.16 307.38 370.00  422.00 637.49
etr                    n.e. 10.42  10.13  12.70  14.51  14.44    U.e.   n.e.   n.e.   *.e.  48.12  68.23  86.89  113.00  133.00  168.13
Se       a loc.-ht (tWen4W  n.e. 520.02 499.33  334.03 629.06  653.93   U.S.   U.e.   a.s.   a.S. 784.14 848.81   81.91 922.00 956.00  983.3)
- By typ  of treetlen
St                    U.e. 425.7  397.56  4s0.96  4n.43  482.49   n.e.   a.e.   n.e.   a.e. 491.42 448.91  434.21 389.00 361.00 324.40
olemi                 U.S. 9S.SS 9S.14  112.33  1".43  159.00   n.e.   D.e.   n.e.   n.e. 254.68  12S.06  304.62 442.00 487.00 316.0
Electri               n.e.  8.72   8.63   10.74   12.10  12.36   n.*.   n.S.   n.S.   n.e.  35.04  34.04  71.15  91.00  108.C0 136.91
fe"igt w-b1 (niU.)
La""                     U.e. 10.262 9,316  10,764  12,396  12.907   n.e.   n.e.   n.e.   n.e. 20.115  22.779   n.e.   U.S.   n.e.   nt.e.
+ Su).                   u.e. 3.037 2,703  3,037  3,530  3,742   ne.    .e.   n.e.   n.e.   a.e.   n.e.   n.e.   U.S.   n.   n.e.
taboos"
Total                    U.S. 13299 12,019  13.801  15,926 16,649   n.e.   U.e.   n.S.   a.e.   a.e.   n.e.   n.e.   n.C.   n.e.    m.                                       '   '
tee friglt car e
feerere  per 4y        42,264 51,789 4U,541 54.234 62,234 42,789 *61298  38.620 61,300 63.149 64,834  67,228 68.9l  70,000 e 70400 72,919  72369                               
Aerge fgt ar
t_rnre  t   (dep)    3.21  S.46   3.62  $3.5    2.99    3.00   3.02   3.21   3.22   3.30               3       3      4       4      4       4       4 
Amg fregt om.
toxamr.mme ditane (D)   757    46   660    481    687    711    747    770    770    791    821    870    901    934    952    932                  M 9V9
040913246 . 



M1970   197   1976    1977    19t8    197     19      19 1981    198  1983   .964    1985    198    1987    1988    199    t990
1V. Pefrtnes inictoee
laeust per pasne
traIn                      n.e.    604    608     632     610     642    n.e.   n.e.    n.e.   n..   n.e.   n.e.   n.e.   n..   n.e.    1.C.   n.e.
hsi traffics
Avrae train els
Laeded ears por train   n.e.    28       7      27      28      28   n. U. n.S.   n.e.   U.S.   a.*.   n.e.   n.e.   U.S.   U.S.   n.e.   n.e.
0    ean per tr*an    a.e.        a      a       8       a8    0.0            a.. *.e.   S.A.   U.S.   a.e.   U.e.   n.e.   na..   n..    a.-.   a.e.
Tetel ae  per train    U.e.    36    35         35      53      36    n.e.   n.*.   n.e.   n.e.   n.e.   a.&.   U.S.   n.e.    n.e.   1M..   n.e.
bwonp   traia wihtt
Ore" tn                1 5   2.012  1,998   2,0t4   1.985   1.992   1,994   It9 9     M 021   2,073   2Ul  2211   2,291   2.343   2.365   2,409   2.414
let tow                 U.*. 1, 19  1,126   1.1U9   1,182   1,200    U.e.   n.S.   D.C.   ne.   S.&.   U.&.   n.e.   U.S.   D.C.   U.S.                 e.*.
kerag  lo   per leaded
friagt car (not t)        43    45    '6        44      47      47    48.0      49      49      50      51      52      52      53      54      jS      55
-era, ped of freiht
trota( h)                5O.5 t 28.5  n.e.   U.e.      ..       29      2       29    28.0      28      27      28      29      28      28      29       0
pwr eperationalh             25     28    29        1       3      U2      St      34      35   53.0   34.2        55      36      37      27      36       36
berly  *istame ceren   Pe
syllable lce, ('0000)
Di1eee, mta lis"        n.e.    147    150     152     167     169   n.a.   n.e.   U.S.   n.e.   U.S.   n.a.   n.a.   b.C.   Q.&.   a...    n.e.
glactric. main lin      U.S.    156    160    155      1"      165   n.a.   n.S.   U.e.   S.&.   _.e.   n.e.   D.a.   r.e.   tna.   B.e.   n.e.
Steen                     n..    122    li9    122     127     129    n.    . n.S.   n..   O.*e.   n..    n.e. S       .. .   n.*.   D.C.   n.e.   n.e.
Net tU l4A  per evilol
fratgbt car (*Ullan)       n.e.      2      2       2   2.80        5    n.e.   U.S.   nS. ..e.    n.e.    .e.   D.e.   n.e.   n.e.   n.e.   n.
Suries  xintstry of SeiInas, ezcept where markd Cb . owh   a   miss  estimts.
I.!
O *
Ft0



_ 97 _Tabl 2.
CIZA
InDZCLTOU OF RAILVAY ASSEPT UTIUATIONI
A. C.PRIO      ..IEE .HM& .SR   .S.iDI   IBA
China     USSR      USA Ja   kdia Ic
_;~~ ~~~~~~~~ _                                          grazi_
Inadicator               (1.9a8)   (198 7)-   (19a7)  (1987-88)  (1987)
Freight ton-kmroaute-km (mil)    18.7        26.2       6.5       3.6       6.0
Passenger-knlroute-km (ail)         6.2       2.8       0.1       4.4      0.05
Fceigh  tcon-kmlfreight car
gwned Cmii)                       2.9       2.2       0.8 Jb   o.$        1.7
Freight tonnage/car load.rl        54.1      53.6      66.6      20.1      55.0
-4--
Freight cars per train            60-30     50-75        71     n.a.         35
Fcr tght car turnaround
time (days)                        3.1       6.6      18.8      11.6      12.0
Freight car turnaround
distance (km)                      95Z     16.10    2,115    1,274         750
Freight hauling distance (km)       702       943    1,106        776       460
Freight ton-t/ locomotive
oved (millions)  ,                74.9      68.5      70.6    224.3       25. 0
Freight train-km/route-km/day    36.1        42.9       6.1      10.6       6.4
(est.)
Freight train speed (inc.
-ttops) (kmlh)                    28.3      31.8      n.a.     22.7       30.0
Freight train gross trailing
weight (tons)                    2.365     3,085    4.300    2.050       2.200
Freight tonnage per train         1.300     1.800    2,390    1,033       1.200
to       (est.)
1.500
(Got.)
La CLass I Railroads only.
Lb  Includes cars owned by car companLes and shLppecs.
/c  90.58  of all freight ton-kilomters are carried an broad-gauge rails,
so most above estimates are foe beoad gauge only.  See ITdian Railways
Yearbook, 1987-88. p. 23.
Sources s
Chinas   Miniatry of Railways and mission estimates.
USSR:   Niarodnoc khovaistwo SSSR v 1987 g.  (The-USSR Nationl eo-nom  in
1987). pp. 21. 307-308, 312. 313.  Various estimates from Bunter
and [aple. 1983; Hunter and Kontorovich, 1983; [ontorovich, 1986:
[api., 1984 and Saymyr and Dunn. 1985.
Infdia:  Economic SurveY, 1988-89, pp. 27, 35-36, S-30; Indian Raiklwys
Yearbook 1987-88. pp. viii, 40, 70, 78-79 and 80-81.
USA:    Railroad Facts, 1988, pp. 9, 31, 32, 35. 36. 43, 46.  The World
Bank. Railroad Database. June 1989.
graLls OfficiaL Government sources.



FIliRMLWAY PROJ~,
investment Cos NW LoSon
.~~~ I                                           I                 -         .       m                  u.~                ~. ,  .
1 s_   3084 512145 136  30          .                                      253  46   60  406  1SW   MA  6130
49 26  27.5 1 UU   3    4a   ) t 17 ST                                        a1s  la    2    U2   us  31
m   an  mz m am   m MIA
2899.   Ms at  9.1 14U 244        *U332a  47.3"                          1 2 801.me   I    me  3s1U
_ 4 as  0*2 49  I33W   . 5 n 12                                           10 0 4 s8 5 w __2   104 .9 9
4NU          M W AUIaa MuMa              R MB   NA                                       an  MA ma ma
_           4173 412 an    MO 9 2195 n 0u WmS 22274 21.8 402 2142 M4   1 2 43MR   Sn? = 5 4W   tea MaS 3W AU1    .4 1.01.1 sM' I7 a.MS %$ftl VW
Vdf%o"ft                    2.1 Q2 SU   2. 1    3315   7  21A 147  4tl 3tU  221 S0 3   99 WP     8  8        5.4  114*  53  14d4  Sl7  t14   UI6 tt
Fdo                                      ns2.5 24    S* IU   mg9 49.4   W11  3. U6 391886 &I  5U  48 2   12   IUD  tdSt 21 1         $ U  SO 1      3SL. ?
_-S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
am 4s to" M.  IOU ma    soW aema nu no =a im m  matmamma ma mamu u &MAM ga mu man                                               a Ama
r_a_        2X9 Ml ON  tS6 1S 36  19.6 8t9  18848U8   43 15   291 a8  IS  V21  45                                  4A        16t  8  96   MS  1      MS
C _9LOA                     1   8  U 2.4  2    5   64    4 9U4 8          9. 0A  s.1t 8                            4t   62    )   47   4.1  62   to
141mcn*a                                  to9  84  114  45  U8  ?7   2    7  OA  ad  is                             it  tt.?  148   1     Al  1L7  24
m  _  _ AU _ _a _am n a   _ em  - _H  EA _UaMLIa   WA _                                                                                au_
M 875.3S SU 4  1.5 2263U 109 43 181.  6"  166A 448646 1M5  MI 29  20.7 SM7         asM  am ma WU   M   LMu  WU %MD A=  225  40 
226 aL     7  24t7 153  490 :49  .5 11A  40  IU  2U3 ILO 343  QO9 taO  Ul 25  S4 M It9D   A1  MT?  41A  ttBO   8? 17 Ml
PdptitwcbM2   5    6u   31ag                                75.4 121  t12t 49  SU  SOt5tLI 2S1t ILI 48 09 tS2 214U 274*8  4. t25 2ti      443  54*
ml mu #AM MA m mu ma nu  ma m  go IN Sam au mau ma Ot m  ma aIm mg mu U3N amt am& ama ama am.a
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   1"                                                                   SX6 ^  1.uz 8U 16BU
Cbm ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       k 4L   k        41A    as   as
_.          8757.3.s28 au   2521 299 427.1 252t  .  O17? 6494  O 609. 17 MA8 2   217 2t7 25S te3 a3  258 102 S   WI4$14 1.. AM  1$.    225 U.?  i  4593.
rdLC_Ut                    226 1   3L7  24.7 IS   49  149  315 114  469 1U   DJ tt. US  99  t9  W  5    4   11L0  SR  t?L.  41A            0   .1U  M2t17
2i.1 SU   09  3211 7. t35   1.1 49  53 A0 1 E2J1  52t 1 488 9t 1t3  214) 23 L 419W 1151 tt42  2W           4 MO
_    a         _   _   _   _ u mu         _   _   _ u                 _ m



CAM
Fwm RAILWAY PROJECT
Inve_mnt Cost- and Lo  S&MMa(    millon
--tXlln£1                                       43                  3                   50B                131.             ?1 m)
Ii.._ Ven  a.Vw  .8lm              .83        .  Vw1.1  3m Pm    u11   m 10.  _4.11    m lm   ..  ~3                        u   o.11
_44  4L1  u5s  4l1  21.  3   3   349                                          3.3 pSO IV A       1no  asWA  1
05  24  29  24  IA6  U 26   2                                                 it 2.   59  21 70       So   I1
- --                                               -                     - -   -
at i  " m  a ninin                                                            ii urn U!   m ma
_    m Ias   1.726no10   10  *1  1                                            2           31 13 la5U   14 Su   i a    S6
9 to LO " 0  1               U *  90 9L9                                      di  £ 9411   03 "   1
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
u3aafmt&13 3 a                    4m1 UV                                      n  2uam  M   B e   !
_.8t      1t13  17SW    2.0 410  5.           6413  8      10   S S5   1U   44  44  4.  8   3           4                 MD     * 2 17 313   o  0u2
pkC_f                         40  Lo  Ss  44  at  OA  U    So  is  "   St   A   it   0              WLo  U   15 4J LO  2W   w   as  zo  not
2.4  22  4L5  21  46  42  40   U   SM   O  45   5   4.1  48  41  Q2   29  568  1   no  12  us  1in   as
________________  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___               _______________    _______________    ________________    _ _ ____ __ __ __ _ ___ ____ _o
IU | 1163  M7L 2 lM  44A 212  Uk 83                                                                                                                %a.4 12gE1g1D J
1_1_ 406  34*   1U8 30  3                0 69  38  171   0   *44  08      Si 1U     a 03  05  09                           29  3.?  36        523  529  114
F;S Q3                         0ai3             0s  U UI Ql 2  ao at   usa  u  03  a                                       "  aiUM
tbeu$~~~~~~~~~G  02 9                         tt a9   "   GI2 w    t  Go at   a                                63   U    th  U a U 
.~~ -     - '                                                                                                                                           
162n9 4n no Fm   413  SU   8 910  33    W U 1 14  6.9 1243    tu   456   3   9  4         4      0a  216  =   3S10 d17    0 401  490   MS1
Pt p.                         43  t1  64  47  It9   7  "   60             4  9           U Ll   6   19  3   U   4      0  3   t    4U        SO  116  344
4 .5   16              49  114  U   $I  19  VA   S0  48  41 t2    9  1   23  447  3             a 31 5    4?
Mm mla nt no as MMMS   mam ma ma  m  nu m m E                                                              n         I
can                                                                                                                        W   39  119        Go   0   1 19
A4 "     4              04  IU
- -- - - - -
_wmob    t61 tW MSL   43 M     M               S  1ff 181 1X4   t2 OU   t2  W2  4U  M          0  4S, ML W         0 ML Ml   9 G   3    4M   M M
OIL °_nmt                                a  ma s 7        i     0   "  m           U at a  0            a   .  a    a  us  " ma          "   us  "
o_~~ lt ti4 0 3 4t1 I2 5XS   9sss L q W L
2~~~~~U"                                  ^2^Sff OaAf U Sf                S                  S S  LU  4M   =I    Uff 2M
dS  "i_ S -                                                          . _.                                -.                            _*  *o Z



CHIN
FIFrH RAILWAY PROJECI
Permanent Way Maintenance Progam for the Eighth Five-Year Plan
Investment Costs (Y  million)
1991                    1992                    199                      1                       199                       Told
Locl Felp   Tw            el  F_egm    ToW    l11  Foesp    TowaI           rooets   load    Lea  torov    Yoe Ld IA     FloIp    Tow
C_ofa cUk   wnwa          33   1,4793  1,8324   3S3.0  1,4793  t12=4   353.0  1,4793  1,32.4    30   1,4793  1834    3S3   1,4793  1,4  1,765.1  7, 7   9,161.8
Shewermalw                134.1   327.    462.0   134.1   327.    462.0   136.1   3278   462.0   134.1   327.    462.0   134.1   327.    4620   67.  14 392   2,30
Olber_mateb                303    21.1    51.4    303    21.1    51A    303    21.1    51A          303    21.1    31A    303    2t.t    51A    1513    15.6    269
Mabiy and eupd             32t 7   136.9   169.    5       =4    2751 . 5          29.0   3603    693   291.0   36.503       63   398   36          301*   1,2613   1t3
sWI L82              M sfl    s  2UlJ                                      MS172 3  gA 02                     $                      2A&   1&uu
Phyakd aWAbgeneia          5s.0    983   1333      7.0   1025   ' 9A    S87   10660  164           57   1060   164.7    594   107.4   1662   288            52.1    89
_ _  _~           ~~~ _!               _~    _       _U    _!P       _4   _U~       _!7       _~    _&        _~      _L   _!~        _!    _!~   .A -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         -m       ;-  2S         Li6 2      -3    0-7  L2m  B        _W    UXT 70 fi[1u1t
Pdcscadpae
peryewr                 10.00   10.00           &80      8.5              SAO    1430             5.00    S.0            5300    5.00
%apo ed                  0.00    0O.       0D    9.00    9.00            16.07   1672 217   21.87                         27.97   27.97           1524    1528
amount                    0Q0    O0        0.0    56.4   193.7   20. t   103.7   357    461t3   t4t2   487   67.9   MU    6308   613.4   48t40   1,468   2,1
Sow=na Minh"  of Rawas and mImI eadmate.                                                                                                                    Reybed 271 MaG l
E



FW M- RAILWAY RJE1
Permanent Way Maintenance Progam for the Eigh  Five-Year PlM
lwestment Costs (USS milMon)
13                   132                   150                   tII6                 1995                   Tldd
,MM VmA"   Tooi  Lad Vawo    To  m            i 1md   i  Ted    ie  Va TOMoed..P    .     led 1.~ Tee   1.    Vd.W    Tee
OE$b tm*mad             674   2BA   351.    676   334   gS1.    676   23.   31.0   67.6  24   3510    67.6   34    M0   sai  217.0  1,7
USe~mm~1p257   62*                    85 2S5.7   42         SU    25.7   43      65    25.7   62       N5    25.7   6.    MS   I.    314.0   4a5
od_mteb                  5.8    4.0    9.     53      4.0    9      5.     40    9.8   S    4.         9.8    5      4.0    9.8   3*       W2    42
_mW==d equk=a            63    262   3US   10        426   52      11 a3    55*   49.1   133    55*    0.1   146   613    75.    57.?   21         393
1bpkd amdualdes_ 105    18.    2A    10.    19Q    MA    III    23    31. 112 1                 23    3i  11.I   206   380    SU            9)    1A*
… _ -   _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ -      -
N_ aM  SM   U A    41   WA  38  ma. gt  WA  msa   Q   AWAm
Spwym                 O9.     9.            1.10    110           2295                 13i    1"                    235
%amp_omud                                   4gg   498            7.10   7.10          10.6  t1026               1351              7.3    73
-                                      68   b20      26.5    8*    3D3   30    127   0          54.    149   58A    753    463  W 9    MI
~…                                                                                                       -g1F -    -   - -                   -R 



- 102 -                                      IObik1
FEFT RAILw-AY PROJfl=
Permanent Way Maintenance Svsewd   opnn
00km TUrack RenWl Pro,ect (X011O
1992  1993                 Total
, . Loal F      n   Tot  gm   Lost Left     Totd 9Q    Lacal FwFg    Tol
fails (km)         208         83,413  83,413 292        116,778 116,778 $00        200,191 200,1
wc. Meepe (km)  208 12434   1,921  14,355 292 39,468             39,468 500 51,902   1,921  53,823
fastein (kn)       208         16,104  16.104 292 12,043  10,518  22,61 500 12,04   26,2  38,66
turouts (lot)        1          S,220   5,220                             1           5,220   5,220
labor, matas (km) 208 41,736          41,736 292 62,664          62,4 500104,0              104,400
ft171  B0UL460            1X1§  23    171            i§434  254   °M
Tamping madchIne    5          18,2   1827   5            18,270  18,270 10          36,40  36,540
Ballst  ulators     S          5,220   5,220                              5           S,220   5,220
Ballast ceas        2          7=0  20,8    2             20,880  20,80  4           41,760  41,760
Track stabzes       2          10,440  10440                              2          10,440  10,440
Rail flaw detecton  3          28814  28814  2            19,210  19,210  5          48     48,024
Tracreckrding ar                               1           6,786   6,786  1           6,786   6,786
Flashbuttwelder     1          6,786   6,786                              1           6,786   6,786
other almu
Gauge ma& equip.    7          3,395   3,395                              7           3,395   3,395
Test equipment      1          11,641  11,641                             1          11,641  11,641
Sleepet facL equip.    1      38,6Z8  38,68                               1          386    38,628
Flane lubricators   6            470    470                              6             470    470
mm      S      JIM7 2SIA20 30L372        111175 ULM44 3OUO          16L346 41361  (A
P~~~~~ig  ~ ~ ~ p
Pricecontingeadw
%peryar                  &800    &00                5.00    5.00
%winpoun4ed              9.00    9.O               16.07   16.07              13.79   12.06   12.54
amount                  4,73  22,597  27,469      18,346  30,923  49,269     23,219  53,S19  76,738
ToWdPro "Ml                                       139.M4 3 L   233W  MAll    194I6l4 97.La 6iL727
SourWe Ministry oR Raways and Mission esimates.                                    Revisde 13.Aug-91



- 103 -                                      IIh     6
FWTH RAILWAY PROJEC1
Permanent Wav Maintenance Svstemwide Component
500-km Track  tenewal Prolect  M 0
1992                       1M3                        To3sl
On. Local 1o*     Tota   n.         l Ford a    Tota  gm  Loca  LOME    Totls
rail (km)          208         15,980  15960 292         22,371  22,371 500          38,331  38,351
conr. sleepes (km)  208 2=        368   2,750 292  7,561           7,561 S0   9,943    366  10,311
fastng (km)        20           308    3,5 292  2,307   2,015   4,322 500  237   5,100   7,407
turuts (lot)         1          1,000   1,00                               1           100   10
labor, materls (m) 208 7,9S             7,995 292 12,005          12,005 SW  20,000           20,000
lom  Le" 2 10    Im  Urm 432!2 amI&= T2
Tamping mahns        S          3,0   3,50   5             3,50    3,0   10            70M    7X0
Ballast we-ato       5          1       1                                 5            10      1,0
Ballast leans        2          4,000   4,000  2           4,00   4,000  4              00    8
Track stabilu       2          20   2,00                                 2            2,000   2,00
Rail flaw deteczoo   3          5,520   S,S5    2          3,68    3,8   S             90    92
Tr   rwording car                              1           1.300 1,301                 L3001
Flash bute           1          1v30     ,3      1.30    130
17320  17320               12A0   12AiU  UE
Othrequloan
Gauge meas equip.    7           650    650                               7             650    650
Trstequapmeat        1          2,230   2,20                               1           2,230  2,230
Sleesper fcequip     1          7,400   7,400                              1           7,400   7,400
Fange lubrcators     6            90      90                              6              90      90
10.370  J90                                           10.370 1 37j
ToWa           loin   p.123 58         SQ 21.J73  36&8t    "79    824  U17239
Price otingenciw
%peryear                  .10    1.10               2.95    2.95
%compounded              4.98    4.98               7.10    7.10                6.41    5.90    6.04
amount                    516   2,394   2,911       1,552   2,616   4,169.     2,9   5,011   7,080
Sou_r  D                                               _oa o uRs   1-Au.91
Sour= lmy  of RaDwy and mhbon eo!ates.                                              ReWsed:- 13Aug 91



FFrH RAI LWAY PROJEDi
Locomotive and Roiling Stock Maintenance SsteMwde Com
Investent Cost (Y X O
1t92                       1993                       1994                       Totl
Loel  F..*.    Totl    Loal  FE              Toal    Lol  yfod          Tot      Lal  LOME          Tol
Whleel                167    4,8        ,050                                                            167    4,883  Sll51
Madalnezy             219    2,082    2,301    1,535   14,S72   16,107    1,378   13,065   14,463    3,132   29.739   32,871
38 16SW         73SI  1"         143S72   1617    I.-8      MM"W    ^    9    &M        M       32
C
Wbeds                1,503   439      45,453    3,007   87,90   90,906                                4,      131,849  136,
Madnery               219    2,123    2,342    1,535   14,89   16,39       13       13,343   14721    3132   30,25   3457
La723    W3      47J 4J41  102.759  1!    MM U343                       tr 7y  MM162.I1    117
Dlssd beoswmdw
Compoas              1,49   41,996   43,406       230    6,837    7,066                               1,639   4833   50472
Mahiney               401    3,316    3,717    2,806   23210   26,019    2,522   20,842   23,364    5,732   47,8   53,10
2IL  AW   47.23 3I0  MM   UM   ZI                               2        3364 7l    I 1
To0al    3b                _9   ".35W 112X29- 9114          1     43ISU"    &       4e78O   58312   Min19 M.               31WI
%peryr                8.00     8.00              5.00     5.00              5.0      5.00
%c mpoandod           9.00     9.00             16.07    16.07             21.7    21.87              16.23    143
amont                 353    8,847    9,200    1,465   23,682   25,146    1,154   10,339   11,493    2,g72   42,86    45,839
Tota ProJect Cost        7   107.197  111 40"l   3M      17L3    tat"2    6A2    7A!6   MM             aR                37I4 49
Soure: Ministry of Railwas and mission estimats                                                                    Rcvisbd:   Mar-91



CINA
FIFrH RAILWAY PROJECT
LOComotive and Roflin, Stock M4ltenance Svemwide Component
Investment Costs (US= 000)
199                        1993                       399                       TOWa
LoCal  Foeg       TOl   LoCa   ForE          TOa          Foreign    TOta       tAl  Forig        Tol
Wbmhee                 32      935      967                                                             32      935      967
Machinery              42      399      441      294    2,792    3,086      264    2,507    2,771      60    5,97    6,29
74    JJU      1A B         4    &2                 24      2j?    2.771       63               7
lF0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
WheelS                288    8,419    8,707      576   16,839   17,415                                 864   25,58   26,122 
Madhinery              42      407      449      294    2,847    3,141      264    2,556    2,20       60    589    M4
331  UN   9155  Swe  19264 2i                               2&   2A21  L    3
Components            270    8,04S    8,315       44    1,310    1,354                                 314    9,355    9,669
Madhiney               77      635      712      538    4,446    4,984      483    3,993    4,476    106      9,074   1%172
S47    &4A 21       !       Z    37541    6                                       1   MM    1341
Price continoen.
%peryear              1.10     L1O              2.95     2.95              2.95     2.95
% oempounded         4.98     4.98              7.10     7.10             10.26    10.26              7.55     6.89
amount                 37      937      975      124    2,004    2,128      104     929    1,032      26S    3,870    4,135
TotalprctCost                  V        20D!        Z    fl1Z0   3=2a7       &U      2       1LS  9&     12             3.I&3            I "M
Souce: Ministry of Railways and    estiats                                                                       Reviso  06-Mr-91



X  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-mmgp- 11 0 p   al
mu - w. - --  EU lif E  W - ---  WV  - -   --   -W~
5s  N       gwsu    nts  am    wu   san  gin  am  am  m   aiim sam  own ta t t             Li" &t1
V U          96 1  lwa   mi          wa  on       t£ £ tau        Wm   t         an  06
on  anS        n   an         ns  an        an  an         am  a 
am    L     WSam U             mut an  an s"  a£nlt s"  9 %  u             tltm    *01  ie*"  on     t 
CP  Cbti      Ot 00"I           0      mo         vm       nSMl smi o          l#ot  SPI fSK   on  M    08V Swll  on  Ge
MUt 1go      MU9 MU  git   Mu OZSOMO    iOM SI  saiv  =11 9t 4M W   dnU#  I'  an  Lal  Oc"   OVOL   pnVUd
Gl    r      W'   mn   u       tigt   Su^ sto as san  on   an  onm "   o                 Ir                 s   on 1        ELC       0  ^t"I oi1
r"% aim   caw   a"    am   no    am  gm  oo  ou  ang   4lmS fft tl am Slt oa  $101 0S   uo   M t _wo                        GM *t-m
anw a c5     a     Can  5m  a         00 9 451  01 n   to aoW   m       go wI   on W eI  91  tiS  se  51*0
WE  WEE  mm   gain  s              NM   amwNM Eu           u  m   oEt  am  am EU  UN   -  0801  -t mu    a"    m  eu                uWe "UorLs 4M
aimot      m oo   u           m    a   to 616Wgm &Wls0an  an £1           an0  0I  OR g    M    o m%a                 tM
0 Z1 #Sw   09  555.  OsaW    0lS mmii 002 00  0l as SS05 9   5£t1 05   WI 595  9SI9  01# tNt _U                           0
ten s11  0*   o  maw        to"   OK"        am  tam sO   uisn   aml       amn 00  00   06  sawn  isl        on1         a"1 06  00
_0   110  GI    -10t S   (5    Ul    vs         m F  111  a   mn  CI ems gt a o      n91 m4  est e3  0om   1 tPo   mIl  "ut _S
oA,,2 10W     W m          I     W 00   001  011  0te   UiGSA Df1 slB eOUl 0K   91  eaZl orat n i1 il ff'Z305S E  9ew    nOw Qsee    tu-    i
aum   auot uwrl  psw   seo            sew esin   saim          ai os. mss m         r  zur  se  aim ous  ue  ow   asrs oem                 _
'.   si  so    s    011 F;S   ml    911  96   3t _6  fWi   61  I_  11  _E   El  965  _6   0596 9
P*NJM     wllpanl                          astI          "al            flI            ant           PPla 
uop:S                                                 ourll  - EUE 50  104o
IOf-G  AA&P 



QIWA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECI
Zhegan Line Double-Tracking - Xingitanbian-Laoguan Section
Investment Costs (YO000
amtAm                      AM29=1=4.)  1391  lPI 1am 093                                                       Ulm               os.o.0      O      M71               s
lmdmimMdq            4.              600   23268  It        3.28   2O           3.A   34,0   KM2241 24341  21.746                               1.7X46 141MA67            3 X1.6AM19m 4now11        294
Pdwrcmu134 2."                 0     13e,40  t42      920  52 M     *0    91"      I    4 up          7.1 MO        1      4no   UV w4      9  477                5t       .103     3"       1*4    KM
M         -           42 4 2  736  149l0   275  14tS    A3   2443  1a7  42.1   la   21,753  t6to  34.548 t0   5150  20                       1 93        543      84    2M    2 7    34   31
mtdm                 27208 7         97,.3     6 I26   3    22     1    3834  42.13    391 4                                           t872tl5   171.S  s1u                      9I*0    t     I   In302     g 
2.000   4*0    3.080                                                                                                                             1.840 m1.260t am 103m7.= 7.0  A  A  A   Am00 *
11a                  36.198  971   13.8    8727  45214  61.83  205  4495  41.41  24424  4806  00.448  3.12  54.16  36M   2531  41.406  54.730   *42   253.148  347.60   120.046  31.43    4SU1 G
O          )E,-,            37*A               I" t   12   281O10  148  232 2MU IO     24828    O 21,W X4t30  21.23  24I0 340  1160             8       08   6SUM   t513.          1520   00   257
ftlo_mdftft          ISO447  436    4130 t,6n    219   11 t                197  1.710   2.3S     280 t .64   2.00    23D 2.a 2 t .48      46 A  .460 2            1.121 t.1* 1,31            1.294   2430
7e.  2s5to0  1*.    33                        0,t31  2.419  1W60     1 tO41 t 2.424 s 40o    1A   37 s   0    S1      t4  2s260  1*8 X2.   e 0    486    23.747    5473              15      2.61   93
4   .3a46   430   121   2.08  15.260  128  2.2  15.20  1497  38  248  t830  50  1                             47  24 1450up2am1t8340                                    a   t 3n t
mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 am -awm    ma   im  Miii am M  m4 am mm mm mm70 ft"   Mm "Om .amgn itmn  MM  now
ftgid4         .                             1U72M7  5,J97 t  .473  12.240  512  12 A  1't     6     2WM    15M397 t ,25 20 14 5I3W   14                an    am          0739 3I                     1.739
mmm         mmmii.m  am   m   m   a Iam amas                                                     am  uuiii mL5 msm mama un   am  LU
*"s~~~~~~~20    13OJ                                8.0    8.0                  5.3           5.0    50    SJ00   5.0t
*mmaadd                                                       00    8.0             4?      7          214    107           2.72*             "     15      15.0    131        2034    200      2046
_ U,1U t0A t 7 t 1212   0.32301   433   .404158  704  33   1.773.28313   4.13                                                      64.1014.          t     t11.10 28.0   t1
___    __                                     _             ______                                                                  __                                   __i.aasmsmm    m  mm  u    .5  uam  mm  m~~  m
hCS  2  usss w # 4 U s 22 4n ss Qg 7r f tJ U~~~~~~~~~~~b~   I8a.9



- 108 -                             I,akltL.1
Ii   I:                                  ' f       a!§5!1    0 i
.             1-
E l                    ~~~I    I   E   I
]                    ~~~~I    I   aX  I
I ~              If~III                    I1
<,~~~ I                         33k!! {     ggi       1515 313151
i  I13g     05  If I'R          I, '     §1531             13
I!   IXI         33 !           I5I    I   13  s§2  1
I 1  3           I3 '          II  II       1  il
Ii                                   ii       i    §a§§ 11§1
| Z | F§    F!     B       1111        1
]  § g§ g    §§ R !!   1  21  |   lIt
1X § | | § ! X i | ! 11 1  i
j s  $ ! §    g | s | ffi  1#   1#  1~~~~~~~~



v~E                 FRU WIW                  -        --                            -        -U                    - WE - 
tilia am   uW      "fV   -1 aMt    -6U  mU               au  LOU  ia            &     arn  mu
SI  Ws        o n   a        o     s enn  on              G 
WI                                                                                                        Wm         g W1               amc - EW  W  w 
itS  11i  (SWS5WX   S  05W  LSL    5 98W  SSlt t isa9 muA sWg tqt X135  3W  mn un u   SSWIZ 
m    amu           ew   Sul           sass: u.n  am W M £       SW  as n        ma MU t
am <U   ISgnat  am   sOT   WtL   ow  on  ant amU* am  Oulu5W  00  mm a" WV I"S   55W  wt  am  *U%   am SMI                          tinswuoAwtn_
SlwS OMu  Go"W  amw  95W mW          ms am    n n  eall swugmg" uss ausNo sam   Sn   MtO  a5Wv  eve  muI  mms  sOW  am   eqamps4£mw
awn   $sot SM      wmw         M's st sUw an  u          ur  an  OM  il "an  Ul  OM  a           r  m      rO   KM  an      t LlW   npa-o
l~~~~~~~wt  so  9@               m    W"a         U  otldiSN    mml S##t sot tw aSZit itZ WIS am amt u1t  MUz owt NM                t      MA
ons  Suln  issa  on       rn   anu si   mu          Ng avi ur  en    ons musm  msu te on ursm   mu am  amv   an  an    qpm                mU
-   MLW  OWL   SEW   MW   SOi   5               e 95  mOWS 05  LEI OSSS  fl55 OWL O9e5 L' 5W LOW  OWL 556   ues            1 099WI
dews             mr"    am   as   isl     on  es  is  is  aSt it    m       ot u a s NM  IN         is   u  a   Mew   ass   S
gm    M en        sew   son%   ams  saz  se  an  en  us  ans an  Us  dolt sow  is  ass ong  LS   an   amw  SLIg too                   =unkm~
au%&        maim  tSw          taw S Wg   SW" MVI             9u 1Su"       5II4  NMS      95W  SeS       am   sww        two
$a    -ta  Ps1   us   do9v  us1   iqt         un  ,%5 O  us', "   O    pwgi PP4 tUea ..  pqa bwp.t .',  gl,  v4-s peW
Woo A)L %SOSC )UMIJSDAU1
oiDa PoiL J,   uup      !4jLalqnou ouf UUB94z
JDEIOld AVA1IVU  IL'ldd



1 - 
ii       ii   i1i        |          i  e{    gi 
lI1      Ii. B1 5i~    | i I *                     I   Z Xf
Iulig     Bi El     u       £   i   8i i      I                  F 
t 1iI11ii         1i     i g              i|@g [g                        f



ml                       7.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
tm el 1    Ig|s|      if   
t 1   11I1i i i   g; i S |  i;
1i~   II iIhi  . fi g               Is                  12 ggg
I   S     I     I    §    I  ' XIs[
hi; SE1   |&ug| E     
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1 1 1_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  
S1i;~~~~~~~        ITT -1Zi|f        



- 112 -                                     a   31
3                                  I      I      §111 51
J                                   I     I  ~      I
3                   SiR               II  I!B  I
I              I]                   I    IN         IN I
- {                                    



X                                                                          ~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- t,I p c
an-   we             w          mu MtWV WW uw uw imo              am       on we                -      u
@0 0                  S 0             U  Wi   ASUt Sf Ua  S1 £S01          O%"SY _
an  WI      WS oS        Ws   S an    a   an 0        cm                     JX
mmUaa o  mmu     w    r   am    am  muw m n am       mu ONm  no mm Om  Om  mm  u m Wmu Noa     mm am ma  em
am   mm3 U"U  am   Gm3  WmW  WJZ* fin1 ani %11? Mtf n~ "L's Ann a"~ t0v on an0  A"  15L1 Mir                    =    -OPIPAI
mm  a    am,   nom    am   so  SWn an am  am fm  mmnur gm am      amn gm  am  un we   - am  mm                      P
ame  am         un  am    mn  ton            "ana   on  gos ,l    sit's  us                                      - I
am  tsvs  mu   gnu  %*  085   gm  Su    an Wsno  go  14  n  WI, #1*t 06  hV  an  as  0 am? am  on  ami
am  am   amu  NMW  ewo  fbn;  so  09  85ri 9mn us  W'San  "n £sr      tat ass  an Ul tvi en  an  am  4on  gmGmonum-
aw   us   an   an   o    snB    E   a   to  no  1         us  W       on  5   5   0   9  an  oun Pu  s'  E
I"   lb,  -tf   om   u1w  em   wvs ono  wev  Mus Uo  si, un  's MnsMtWWV so   no   Ws WVn us  iwwWm55 e5ww  *UgwPYIwai
mW; siflt  am   mu  mu  go" Witn I   u SW" sa   m   SKMu         sria ur  ms anO   ewe on gm_e  NM #5th
w ca   O Kst us u9t  W   as 1 e i  a   ut  a   as cs ai  ci                                9S  It    s   ea _
' M  WUS MU   WM  NO   sri:  srtSt gin 9itS tt3a 1IU GOV Ull illlt S9At  a'; Mss WOs OMa  Ie"  OsM  OM  am _5     loa
U6W  5WU  LOW M SOW  515W   SWV85On  MtW S      in        WVS0'  i's@' gte Of"s W0' ae' us's Ion sat W's  witU OWL ,PV
Sn   sus   ZN   Mt  to   in   IV  a.  ugs  M  III  u   sOS Let  sm La  151    so Iesn w   at    e    *ei us           P OKO _w
-     t g #> _g  soNle  altbX 5,91   Wtm    M.9?  m*S p,tW       WI, an.                  M tut  Ss 'U6 nc 
p       tu       P 'UM I        551 ML  *fI 5t                                     051 #h Inslaa.Ps @V tt 1S1 VW  Aw Ull   L  Cap" t
S_Jd _e;oi -       -     up                              _ -9jqnoD3 ouin uSD94
J1HfOHd AM1[II HIdN



III It1  111ff''| e| 
it  ,,      Ihiii,~  -1          
II|11   1 II  g  i  Z | t 
Iii sl    1I UI i   i    B             
--~ ;1g 11 I  [1                                 a         
j E8iE5  *1   j    j1            f i             i  i_.  
El   Si Sli                  
112f    [1s       
11g   115 11 g  - flT -    



RIuT V Was Wm  # Wa u                       W  1 mu w  m  Wa     U  mu am Pmu
anI Gal  mgNV Wl  SC at  to a a01  6K                on9460    OK
2Wi U'  '                  KU  g  S      IL  OVd     an  It                                  VW U  U 
ssi  sn                   "   onan  ann on  w   23 
-ow
Wl - - --  UT UP -          Iu5WWTSWW      Y5555
GU m S1 SC  mW 9am       SOLa 91  IC  atS  us         518  KS 9        E OD 
Wm  mg at   MR am  mm I    m   m  i   am   u   Tan                               ona_mN
M9  ff%' U55  !CCZ a    n      Su1      3 Ut £9   S Oa   8af  am am  MA  la  to      53I       m*t
Wm   35 seit an ama                            m o t        o    t os  sn  s    t't  Ur amet an    m b 
l SXW DS11 cstW m    tlPtz gsW SVg so  515 IW%  100  11%! SMl             aWl 81! UL  V9  3K  mCb £1S^    4*g-siD
tss a"  an  Os V5£                                 a W a   I £01    to1          amt WA  son
anIl~   _SW                                                                     or. 65  0
FSgWl >1_I #t FE w                                                              s" E       wig    Ism    PMR tdMo=ppSnS
iwMAIMA   w1[ m  -         53a          MO160
UO).Uvz!jwO)  pug u=iffoaff  IMI flo4zf(
IDHIOUJ AVAiIUVFI HIA±
vNIID



- 116 -                                       Table 819
£WIA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Permanent WHa Maintenance Sstemvd    om              ent
List of Goods to be Financed by the Proposed Lnan (US$ 000)
1991  1-93                      Toea
Un        Price
ES$)  QuauL Amount  Quaint. Amount  QuL. Amount
Tik Mtial,bs
heat treated rails (import)  ton          639   25,000  15,980   35,000  22,371   60,000  38,351
concrete sleepers (import)   each       40.00    9,200    368                      9,200    368
fasteners (import)           se-        10.00    9,200      92                     9,200     92
fasteners (ICB)              saet        800  374,133   2,993  251,867   2,015  626,000   5,008
turnout components (ICB)     lot    1,00,0           1   1,O0                          1   1,000
LOI13%                           4.19
On-track macp er (CB)
Tamping machines             each     700,00         5   3,500        5   3,500       10   7,000
Ballast regulators           each    200,000         5   1,000                        5   1,000
Balast cleaners              each   2,000,00         2   4,000        2   4,000        4   8,000
Dynamic track stabilizers    each  1)00,000         2   Z000                          2   2,000
Rail flaw detetors           each   1,840,00        3   5,520        2   3,680        5   9,200
Track recording car          each   1,300,0                           1   1,300        1   1,30
Mobile flash butt welder     each   1,300,000        1   1,300                         1   1,300
317320           12_4_ 29_0
Other  pment CB)
Gauge measuing equipment     each      92,900        7    650                         7    650
Maintenance & test equipment   set    2,230,000      1   2,230                         1   2,230
Concrete leeper factory equip.  set    7,400,000     1   7,400                         1   7,400
Wheel flange lubricators     set       15)000        6      90                        6      90
1.370                            10.370
Total                                             123           Am               849
Price contingencies:
%peryear                                                  1.10             2.95
% empounded                                               4.98             7.10             5.90
amount                                                   2,394            2,616            5,011
TOW9                                           50.517           3983             geIR
Source: Ministry of Raiyas and msion esfimates.                                   Revised: Mar-21-91



- 117 -                                      Table 8JD
FIFTH RHALWAY PROJEI
Locomotive and Roflini Stock Maintenance S%stemwnde Component
List gof Goods to be Financed In w r fth   gggRop    Loan  M     MS 00
Unit
PrIce     1992            1993            1994           TOWal
(US   Quan. Amt Qut. Amont Q26n  Amount 2unt Amount
Wbeds
for passenger cas     582   I,500    873                                    1,SO0     873
for freight cas       582  14,500   8,440  29,000  16,881                  43,500  25,321
L40   2313  2930    LM                                 26M1
iLcomotive comwonents
forND4                 naa     32      86       5      14                      37    100
forNY5,NY6,NY7         Ufa     84    776       14    126                       98    902
for ND5                n/a    568   S,875      92    956                      660   6,831
for DF6                a/a     45    108        7      18                      52    125
for 8K                 nta     98    764       16    124                      114    889
for 6K                 n/s      4    437        1      71                       5    SOB
8          ~~~1.310                        9S
MaMMInMa and equounen
for passenger can      nal      1    399        3   2,792       3   2,507       7   5,697
for freight cms         /a      1    407        3   2,847       3   2,556       7   5,809
for locomoti           /al      1    635       10   4,446      10   3,993      21   9,074
_441           _!L-            _.5            _MM
Total                       1799            2275             905            56129
Price contingences:
%peryear                              1.10           295             2.95
% compounded                          4.98           7.10           10.26
amount                                935           2,007             929           3,871
Total                          438                           9.984          ____
Source: Minsty of Railways and miion estimatea.                            Revised: 13-Aug-91



- 118 -                                                  Table 3.21
CHMA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECI
Zhegan Line Double-Tracking
List of Goods to be Ftnanced by tha Props n  (US$ 0OW)
unit
Untd    Pdn        1992             19              14               1              TO
me,,,   QuamnL   Amnunt Q2n  Amoun  Quant Amunt QuanL  Amount 2!!!   Amoun
Be* Co_*uonMatrli
Ordinart a teel            ton      400  14,392   5,757  12,336   4,934  10.280   4,112   4,112   1,645  41,119  16,448
Rails and accwasce         ton      600  40,530  24,318  34,740  20,844  28,95   17,37   11,58    6,94  11500  69,40
Ordasy witches              set    3,00     245      882     210     756     175     630       70     252     700   2.520
Spedcal fswitces            set   16,700     21      351      18     301      15     251        6     100      60   102
limber                    aim       180  17,00   3,150  15,0   2,700  12,           2,250   5,000     900  5000    9,000
mmS             AW53            24Z12             9m84           9SA5
Mcrowave network           km    11,441      94   1,080     283   3,240      283   3,240     253   3,240      944  10,800
Telephone eochange        Une       500   1,000     500       0   1,500   3,000   1,500   3,000   1,500  10,000   5,000
Automatic bkck system      km    21,186      94   2,000     253   6,000      283   6,000     283   6,000      944  20,000
IN S°1940                      IQ740            10740 
Other  -eI
Infrared hot box detects    set   30,000                                      80   2,400                       80   2,400
Survey Instuments          set  450,000        1     450                                                        1    450
Optical dietae mtrs        set   12,500      20     250                                                        20     2S0
Ele6 omsicsanner            set  300,000       1     300                                                        1     300
Computems (#4200)           set  22S,000                       4     900                                        4     900
Computers (#3400)          ut  100,000                         2     200                                        2     200
Loads (awlr)                set  140,000      4      560                                                        4     560
Loader (rail)               set  100,000      2      200                                                        2     200
Excavatlo                   set  150,000      8   1,200                                                         8   1,200
Micelaneous                 Aet   40,000       1      40                                                        1      40
iSts                                       4am37            an*7                             ZJ am           140.750
PhydeW     ca l_gandes                               2,0S2           2,069           ,88              1,029           7,037
R    IN"Jte E3,9                                                    43A44            gm              21.614          147.787
% perpsear                                          1.10            2.95             2.95            2.95
%         aampounded                                4.98            7.10            10.26           13.51             826
Ma.at                                              2,144           3,083            4,066           2,920           12,213
id                                         4amS                7             am              mm
Soiur  Ministrya Rao was and miso  stmates.                                                                 Revised: 12-Mar491



- 119 -                                 Table 3.22
£kil1~iA                                 Page 1
FIFnH RAILWAY PROJECT
Xuzhou Terminal Expansion and Modenization
List of Goods to be Financed by the Promosed Loan (US  000
unit
Ualt    price     199             19M            ToWa
(USO  Qvt. Amot QWM  Aomut Qsaat. Amomst
A. O    _erato DspatetlaN System
1. CC dispatcher switchboards  set  235,000  2      470                     2      470
2. CrCterminals             set   13,800    3'      511                    37      511
3. Repeater (boosters)      set    5,000      7      35                     7       35
4. Operation plotter        set   52,000      6     312                     6      312
S. CIT displays             set   38,000      2      76                     2       76
6. Display pauels (18 & 10 m)   set    8,0   28     224                    28      224
7. 20-inchdisplaymonitors   set    5,000      4      20                     4       20
& Interlock surveilance equip.   set   16,000  4     64                     4       64
9. Train number input terminal  set    1,500    12   18                    12       18
10. Software development equip. set    8,000  2       16                     2      16
11. Systen software         set  830,000      1      830                     1     830
12. Signal concentratots    set    8,000      4       32                     4      32
13. System spare parts      set   49,000      2       98                     2      98
14. Power supply (with UPS)    set   60D0     2      120                     2     120
15. Dispatcher consoles     set    1,700      3        5                     3       5
16. Instruments and meters  set   10,000      2       20                     2      20
17. Air conditioning units  set   2S,000      2       50                     2      SO
B.  _______    Y__________
L Hump control computers    set  253,400     2      507                     2      507
2. UO interface board       set  438,000      2     876                     2      876
3. Control & indication panel   set   96,000  2     192                     2      192
4. System software          set 1,175,000     2    2,350                    2    2,350
5. Hump low radio control   set  200,100      1     200      1      200     2      400
6. Computer power supply    set  132,000      2     264                     2      264
7. Morological station      set   12,100      2      24                     2       24
&Tracklengthmeasuringeq.   set    3,800    30       114    30       114    60      228
9.Carcounters(atthehumps)   set    2,000      4       8                     4        8
10. Car speed measur. equipment set    3,000    38   114    38      114    76      228
11. Wheel sensors (in yards)  set    800   290       232   290      232   580      464
12. Auxiliaryequip. and spares   set  212,900  2     426                     2     426
13.Airownditioningunits     set  .25,000      4      100                     4     100
Source: Mnistry of Raitways and mission esimates                           revied: 23-Mar-91



- 120 -                                     Table 3.22
O&A              ~                         Page 2
FIFT- RAI:LWAY  EMOJE
Xuzho  Tennina  &        &anso  and Modemniation
LfSt_of Goods to be Finnce  by I   ft=ePrno            L4oan(US00
Uskt
Unit    Pit.       199             199             TOWa
fUS  2uant. Amount Q..tS  Amount Qouait Amount
1. Digtal prava contro eac.  st 5.0000         1    5,000                      1    5,000
2. Multiple-fuaclon pbone    adt      I      200       30                    200       30
3. Digtal temnWal (2B+D)     set      150   200        30                    200       30
4. Digta phon                sot      1SO    700      105                    700      105
5. Operators console         set     1.00    25        25                     25       25
6.rrri tfaceboad           set     1,00       5       5                      5        5
7. Main dkoltrluln fnsm      set   26,000      1       26                      1       26
8. Power supply equipumet    se      8,500     2       17                      2       17
9. Optical fibermu an.equip.   sot   763,500                   1      764      1      764
10. Digital infterac equipment   set  5.00                     16      so    16        s0
11. Optical fiber cable      km      9,400                   18.5     174   18.5      174
12. TernmInl Inftefac equip.    set   33,300    6     200                      6      200
13. Air condItonIg unit      set    25,00       2      SD                      2       so
MA              1.01           fBim
1.bb Mancmpute (double. units) see 150,000     1    1,50                       1    1,500
Z UPS 20KVA)set    60,000               2      120                      2      120
3 Noth  aboumWwpoW set   65000          1      650                      1      650
4. tIS (4KVA)set   40,000               2       SD                      2       so
5. Aircod       vowigunt     set    25,000     4      100                      4      100
TM~                                                  1M41             IA!            18.123
PhydW Cmdagocia                           sil81           83             894
Rndiw RidwAft                       17im            ii-6-0~~17.4   19.016
%perycar                               ~~~~~~1.10      2.95
%compow"                              ~~~~~~4.98       7.10            5.17
anoun                                                859             125             984
190                                    ~~~~~Lug                         20!  _
sow=~ Ministy of 3allwa~ and mission Cadimats.                                revised: 23-Mar-91



CHINA
FIFT RAILWAY PROJECT
Zhegan line Double-Tracking
Implementation Schedule
1991                1992                 1993                 1994                1995
LandA  ulsition
_  !    :    :   ~I    :     *    :    1    :    :       :            *               
Preparation                                                :         
I~~~                       ~~~        ~      ~ I     -   '' '-1'--A  
I . .~~~.,I   .          ._  .       L . .                                              .    *
Earthworks
I         *    S    I       ~-II,  
:    :    :         :    :    :          :    :    :         :     *    :         * :    
Track aiQ:
I    :    :                        -7: :   L    *   T: . 
I       _              ~~~~~~~Bridges                                              1 
:    :; :           :    :    :          :    :    :      E    Tunnels:
r *    .  *.  I     allng and Communicat:ons
Souro: Ministry of Railways and mLssion estimates.                                    Revised: 30-Mar-91



- 122 -                             Tabl 3.24
CHINA
FIF'H: RAILWAY PROJECT
Xuzhou Terminal Expansion and Modernization
Implementation Schedule
1991                19                  19                   1994
Land Acquisition   I    :
Roadbed
*  Bridges adCulverts
3--r~Oepration D'  tci: :  : : 
Communication Fuipment
.    .      .              *    .       .      .    .          
peEratio       emna t Equipment
e b _ _ b + ~~~~~~~*                              S          *X
Bulls       :and Culves                              revised:   :
1-   -   ~~*    *     * :       :                    
OePassen er Statcion Ssei
Suc:  :llsi of :alwy a: miso  :ias            r:vised: 30M:9



~~~ 
bt[1                                            t       t
Is                                              g~~~~~~~~~~~
B.                                                       W
grg sia.                                   -      -                 



-  124 -                                          Table 4.1
CHINA
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Data Used in the Economic Evaluation of
Permanent Way Systemwide Component
A. Track Rehabilitation (1991)
Total rehabilitation cost  (Y million)                                            402
Total length of rehabilitation  (km)                                              500
Rehabilitation cost   (Y/km)                                                 805.000
Actual track maintenance cost (Y/km)                                            6.397
Projected track maintenance cost with project (Y/km)                           8,164
Average economic cost of MR employees (Y /day)                                     10
Cost of imported heat treated rail (Y /ton)                                     3,290
Cost of local rail (Y /ton)                                                       920
Average life of imported heat treated rail on sharp curves                     3 years
Average life of local rail on sharp curves                                     1 year
8. On-track Machinery    (1991)
Comparison of Manual and Mechanized Ballast Tamping and Cleaning
(for one set of machanized maintenance equipment)
Manual Method                    Mechanized Method
Section Length                    360 km                           360 km
*Maint. Cycle                     8 monthes                        24 monthes
Km/year of maintenance            540 km(=360x12/8)                180 km (-360x12/20)
*Maint. Window                    3 hours/day                      2.5 hours/day
*Production Rate                  0.5 km/gang-day                  1.2 km/gang-day
Gang-days per year                1,080 (-504x1/0.5)               150 (.180/1.2)
*6angs per window                 3                                1
Line Blockage                     360 days/yr (-1080/3)            150 days/yr (4150/1)
(1,080 hrs/yr-360x3)             (375 hrs/yrl150x2.5)
Trains per hour                   4                                4
Trains Blocked per year           2,880 (-4320x2/3)                1,000 (*1500x2/3)
Added Trains per year
by mechanizing                    n.a.                             1,880 (-2820x2/3)
Note: the data with * in on-track machinery category are orginal input,
while the others in that category are derived.
Source: MR and misssion estimates.
May 1991



cm"
PluTE RUALAi PROJECT
econcmic Rates of Return (E;) ;ni Sensittvity Analyses
Permanent Way Systomwid. Component
I. Permanent way Component
(a) track Rebabilitation
_.__________________
------…----------------Bas  Case--......... ..........  .................Sensitivity Analyss …-----
------Cost ---------            -----Benef it-----       Net      ---------Case I---------   -----Caso 2--------
Track   Waint.                         Track             Flow      Coast.                       Coast.
Rebab.   cost                          Rehab.             of       costs   Sen£fita             coasts    nef its
Year                       Total                savings          Senefits   (+102)                not              (-102)      not
1992     469.69            469.69               256.33            (213.36)  316.66   256.33  (260.33)  469.69   230.70  (239.00)
1993                4.08     4.08               155.25             151.17     4.49   155.25   150.76       4.08   139.73   135.64
1994                4.08     4.08               ISM2S             IS1.17     4.49   ISS.25  10.76        4.08   139.73   13S.44
ERR a       26.752                       10.382                        8.882
UPV(122)M   37.61                        (4.95)                       (8.71) 
I
Sourcst HR and  iasia estimates.
way 199
0I9g
O 4W
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F



CaM
rc l  Bat.. et  tuiu (tl  e  SaLlety b4oo
______....................__ ...  _____
Peuaot way Syatmear Coepo et
t?allou amB)
t. Parment way Coqpomant
(b) Oa-trmlk llacbaz  (for two eat ot UUbtaory
._.__ . ...........____......... .__ .. .............._
_   ___.       ....                              ......._.  ._. _ a ae ....    .... .  .  .  ...
--- Coete----  --_------ ------ -------------------------------------_t-------------- -                          et
laveat- maint.                   Value of                                                     Labour   Total   rlo
at  Ceet    No. Of                     __-----------T-- rran Operating Coat -----------
isn    of    Train            AdItlnal                                              Total   Coot               of
Track  Track  Senfited  Add.               vatea   LOcO.  Track   Ptel   Labour   Tra                 Saving
tlchi" mchio               tls   Raoa   Mat.  HeLat.  Klait.                         Operatin  sw enpf it.
Coot    Coat    Coat    Coat    Coat    Coat
year   CT au1) nT edi    ()      MUt.)  ty mu.) tt all.) tO au.) t all.) tt1 all-) (I all.) tt mdl.) tV cul.) (t 3il-) (TtZL.)
1992    163.35   10.75  94.00       1.40   50.47    2.36    6.15      1.76    S.10    1.71   17.94    0.S1   11.06  (161.06)
199              10.761 880.00      2.81   63.06    4.73    12.69    3.51    11.39    3.56   35.88       1.02    28.21    17.43
1994             10.76 3,760.00     5.62   130.57    9.45   25.35    7.02   22.78    7.13   71.77    2.04   60.84   50.06
1995             10.78 3,760.00     5.62   135.14    9.45    25.38    7.02   22.78    7.13   71.77    3.05    66.42   55.64
1996             10.78 2,760.00     5.62  I1.87    9.45    25.38    7.02   22.78    7.13   71.77        4.07    72.17   61.39
1997             10.78 3,760.00     5.62  144.76    9.45   25.38    7.e2   22.78    7.13   71.77    4.07   77.07   66. 29
19M             10.7  3, 760.00    5.62   149.83    9.45    25.38    7.02   22.78    7.13    71.77    4.07   82.13   71.35
1999             10.78 3 ,760.00    5.62   155.07    9.45    25.38    7.02   22.78    7.13    71.77    4.07   67.36   76.60
2000             10.78 3 760.00     5.62   160.50    9.45   25.38     7.02   22.78    7.13   71.77    4.07    92.861    2.02
2001             10.78 3,760.00     3.62   166.12    9.45   25.36     7.02   22.78      7.13    73.77    4.07   98.42   67.64
2002             10.78 3 766.00     5.62   171.93    9.43   25.36     7.02   22.78    7.13   71.77       4.07   104.24   03.46
2003             10.76 3,760.00     5.62   177.95    9.45    25.38    7.02   22.76     7.13    71.77    4.07   110.25   99.47
2004             10.78 3 760.00     S.62  164.18    9.45   25.38      7.02   22.78     7.1    71.77    4.07   116.46   105.70
2003             10.78 3,760.00     5.62   190.63    9.45   25.38    7.02   22.75       7.13   71.77    4.07   122.93   112.15
2006             10.76 3,760.00     5.62   197.30    9.45   25.38     7.02   22.78    7.13   71.77    4.07   129.60  I11.02
331 *      32.34%
3(121)o 251.76
…-----------6.SJItlvtit  hnalyece …----_--
-_____ Case I -._---  ---- -Como2-
Coats  Bmoefte            Coats  8tnfit.
WM102)             net            (-10%)    not
1992   191.53   13.04  (178.49)  174.11   11.73  (162.38)
1993    11.86   28.21   16.35   10.76   25.59   14.61
1994    11.66   60.04   48.90   10.78   54.75   43.97
1995    11.86   66.42   54.57   10.78   59.78   49.00
1996    11.66   72.17   60.31   10.78   64.95   54.17
1997    11.86   77.07   65.21   10.78   69.36   58.58
1998    11.86   82.13   70.28   10.78   75.92   63.14
1999    II.86   87.38   75.52   10.78   78.64   67.86
2000    11.86   92.81   60.95    10.76   6S.S2   72.74
2001    11.66   98.42   66.54   10.76   88.56   77.60
2002    11.86   104.24   92.38   10.76   93.81   S3.03
2003    11.86  110.25   98.40   10.70   99.23   66.45
2004    II.86   116.48   104.62   10.76  104.63   94.05
2005    11.86  122.93   111.07   10.78   110.64   99.86                                                                             x1
2006    11.66  129.60   117.74   10.78  116.64  105.S6 6
331t *     29.252                    28.942
OVUM122)- 229.85                    204.68
Sources HM  NW alsoea ostiatee.
May 1991 



- 127 -
Table 4.3
CHINA
FIFTO RAILWAY PROJECT
........ ....................
Data Used In the Economie EvaLuation of
Locomotive ad Rolling Stock Systeiwide Component
.,.  ........................ ......... .................. _.
OPERATIONAL PARAMETERS   (1987)
........................... ....................................
Total U of locomotives (all types)                          12.729
of which allocatet! outside IR                          1,141
under repair & servicing                      2,086
allocated for special purpose                   200
marshalling and helper service                2,100
freight locomtives                            5S002
passenger locamotives                         2,200
Total gross tkm (billions)                                   1,723
of which freight                                        1.232
passenge                                        491
Total net tkm (billions)                                     1,230
of which freight                                          96
passenger                                       284
Ratio of gross/net haul                                       1.40
Average net tonnage per train                                2.128
Average freight car load (tens)                               53.2
Average loaded cars per train                                   40
Average distance hauled. (1988)                                702
Car cycle  (days)                                             3.77
Freight locomotives under repair or servicing               la%
Annual working days per car                                    299
Anual utilization (# of carLoads/car-year)                      79
Average train interval (minutes/train)                           15
Source: Nisosion estimates.
Pay 1991



i
Zee1to ROtee of Retur  (ttB) id  Setttvitj AnalIoea
l.ooetlwo an  Rolln  Stockt Sy t.,. C_eoant
_ _ ___ .....___.......__.__........._.
(nlle  ln)
11.  ecanta Comoet
t) Ibit  Euckag Coapouet for Locomtive.
..___._._..........___ . .............
-----------*----------------*8  s^--------.--........... . .... .... . ...................... ..........  4   C    -----------. ........ . ...... ......... .-- --- ... 
-~~~~~~~~~~~--------                         -Rout ite -- -----po
Dtt-                                --t                                                                                total   flmw
Project           Cot of           Roat ited  Zztra  Value of ---------    .-- a-iTCL Operatig Cout--------
Coat          aWMUCOturtnt                                                                                   fotOl              Of
of           Coslaentarty                            atra    W         Lre    loco.   Track                Triau
Quit              lee.. Capacity    tin    lI.    Waint.   blat.  Pool   Labour Operatbg  enftit. Benmfts.
Tear   Ct) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CotCoat  coot  cost  coot  Cot
Vot    "4-              aZ oil.)               (1)   (bil.tbtttI mu. tt ............  t  ,C") C¢T OL .tTrO cA .IC   l.)O oil...........) TD.)(al.)( 1.) CTSU-)
m2        2t.50           434.16             163.50    19.30   416.11    32.47      7.120    24.12   39.13    24.49   201.40   111.31  (252.98)
199s      21.             436.16             363.50    19.30   433.16    32.47    67.20    24.12  "3.13    24.40   201.40   225.96  (38.32)
94                                           321.00    36.59   091.07    64.94   174.40    46.24    16.26   46.97   414.61   462.26   482.26
1995                                         321.00 3o.50   92.46    64.04   176.40    46.24   7I."6    4e.97   414.1   511.65  $51.65
1996                                         121.00    S6.9   040.        64.94   174.40    48.24    76.26    46.07   414.61    4.U    546.15
m .         59..  _
EWWI-22). 563.14
..._   c"e a  .....-                Ca" a--
Coot.  Benfits              Costs Beefite
(0101)             met              t-lOI)    Nat
1992    510.71   211.31  (299.40) 464.26   190.17  (274.11)
1993    530.71   225.96  (264.75) 444.26   203.36  M260.92)
1994     0.00   462.26   462.26      0.00   434.03   414.05
1995      0.00   513.65   513.65     0.00   462.29   462.29
1996      0.00   S46.15   S46.15     0.00   491.53   '91.53
UR *        46.002                     47.01t
PVC.2-  465.21                        426.90
Sciarcoe Wl end sloelom  eetinetes. 
:i "
Sco IIE zd dentz zttst v-                                                                                    zj; ¢~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* I-
Hap 191                                                                                                                                            e  14



(b) Uholo
---Cost.---~~'~~--~~~~                      --------- ila--____ ,_,,________,_
.. .-  --------- Cut- _--- ......... -.._,-_----.---------------- -....... ------S--  eoflCao---_--------- ........ ---.-----_------- -..-.--------..---ae
Dtr~~~ ct ..........    ............. .......................... tnio.... ................ .oo .......lu
Olgect        ~~~CoOt Of                                                                                            Total   Ties
Oroject           8feanfecturlag      Add.     EUtra  Volvo of -----        ---- Trolai Opratloa Co ot --    --
Coot          -pCowleaotary--                                                                                  totol              of
of                                                    Add.    Venon    Loco.   track    luel   Labour   ti.ta
t1o1to4           U gop     Loco.   bUag  Capsol4                 Wailt.  ftsbt.  Itsitt.                     Oposatlu1 Oo(to Sooftto
wb"ls                                     tko~~~~~~~ib  Cost  Cost   Cost      Cost     coat     Coot
yor       Oett);         IU.           I11.     0     b.k)( SU.  Co ti ( a°ll.) (S Cett ) (Y oil-$ 1Y  tlL.) CT t3tl.1 (I al.I Tal.)O
2992      77.00            61.95    803.13 2,750.00       6.L1   176.06    13.65    73.33    80.14    33.03    10.30   140.45    35.61  (232.46)
I993      77.00            81.95    103.13 2 750.00       8.21   882.23    13.63    73.33    10.14    33.03    10.30   140.45    41.7?  (226.30)
1994                                        $.500.00    16.23   377.21    27.31   146.66    20.20    66.06    20.59   280.90    96.30    96.30
1993                                        5,500.00    16.23   390.41    27.31   846.66    20.28    66.04    20.59   290.90   109.31   109.51
1996                                        S.SOO.00    16.23   s04.07    27.31   146.66    20.20    66.06    20.39   260.00   123.11   123.17
1997                                        S5,00.00    16.23   *10.22    27.31   1*46.66    20.28    66.06    20.59   280.90   231.31   13S.31
1990                                        5.s00.00    16.23   432.85    27.31   146.66    20.28    66.06    20.59   280.90   131.95   131.95
1999                                        s.S00.00    16.23   446.00 2o.31   146.6          20.28    66.06    20.59   200.90   167.10  167.80
2000                                        5,s00.00    16.23   463.68    27.31   146.66    20.20    66.06    20.59   260.90  182.78   182.78
2001                                        s 500.00    16.23   479.91    217.1   1*6.66    20.21    66.06    20.59   280.90   199.01   199.01
2002                                        5,500.00    16.23   496.71    27.31   146.66    20.26    66.06    20.59   260.90   215.88   215.61
2003                                        .s5..o    16.13   514.09    27.31   846.66    10.20    66.06    20.59   280.90   233.89   233.19
20                                          SS,00.00    16.23   532.09    27.31   146.66    20.28    66.06    20.59   280.90   251.89   251.19
2005                                        5,500.00    16.23   550.71    27.31   M46.66    20.28    66.06   2".S9   280.90   269.8*   269.81
2006                                        5500.00    86.23    69.98    27.31   146.66    20.28    66.06    20.50   280.90   269.08   289.08                                    8
83  -       26.02                              I-
WVt(12).  443.33
-s---------------otitty AAl -o-..- …--------
-_----- Coo I --------   ------- Co" I  -------
C4 'to   hafito              Costs BestIto
(*102)              not              (-10)    not
1992    294.06    35.61  (259.27n  268.08    32.0S  (236.03)
1993    24.6s   V4.77  (253.11)  268.08    37.60  (230.48)
1994              96.30    96.30              06.67    06.6?
1995             109.51   109.51              96.56    98.36
1996             123.87   123.17             110.05   130.85
1997             137.31   137.31             123.56   123.56
199S             151.95    51.95             136.76   136.76
1999             167.10   167.10             150.39   150.39
2000             882.76   162.78             164.50   164.50
2001             199.01   199.08             179.11   179.11
2002             21S.81   215.68             194.23   894.23
200,             233.19   233.19            M2.        209.s7
2004             251.19   251.19             226.07   226.07
2005             269.8   269.81              242.63   242.63
2006             269.06   20.00              260.17   260.17
2I2 R       23.661                      23.451
2(122)-  39.02                         353.69
Source  111 Rad aisstta iotlmtoo.
way 8991
W.



te)    1 b i  atid        t
-~~~~~ ---_-- .  .. ......... DIC0 -------------------- -------- --------------
- -   ----- cots ---.------ -       .-... ----------------^- --,------- gotte -------- --------------------- ---- - -----^-
1Oct.11
utDC"..                                                         -'--------.'-----S4 Twr*i " ti  Cost -- ---------                   Bt
Cost to           Cet of                                                                                         total   Total     fl
limprov. mabia  Naafactortag                           Valu of  V.g.a    Leco.   Track                           troat              of
Loce.m    nt. Cmpleatary             eaflitod  Extra    Etra    Now1t,  1llt.  lIalt.  fool   La3ooi  lparotlug laoeflto Boomftta
quality    cost                  Loco.   Ca edtv  iba        Cost     cost      Coat     Cost     Coot    Coot
Teat   CT am  (lull)   (1 .1)                   tO)   0A.twutv 1u1.) (1 LL.) (1 all.) (1 olC. tY  au.) (1 SAX.) (n SU.) In sit.) (I On.)
1992      40.33    2.66    69.46               52.00      3.01    66.56    10.3,   27.?)       3.64    £1.03     3.89      6.92     9.7  (100.02)
1993      40.33    3.99    4.46               104.00     6.14   137.83    20.65   S.47        7.67    22.0$      7.19   113.63    24.20   M0A.60)
1994      40.3)    S.9     69.46              1'6.00      9.21   213.96    30.96    63.20    11.51    33.06    11.68   170.45    43.53   (66.26)
199S               7.99                       156.00      9.21   221.47    30.90    03.20    11.51    33.08    11.68   I70.45    '1.02    S1.02
1996               7.99                       156.00     9.21   229.22    30.98   63.20    £1.51    33.08    11.66   170.45    58.77 9       6.79
19"7               7.99                       154.00     9.21   237.24    30.96    63.20    £1.51    33.08    £1.68   170.45    66.19    66.19
99                 7.9I                       156.0O      9.21   24S.5S    30.98    03.20    11.51    33.00    11.68   1MA.4$    ".10 t       S.10
199                7.99                       156.00      9.21   254.14    30.98    83.20    11.5£    33.08    11.6O   170.45    83.69    63.69
20D                7.99                       156.00      9.21   263.03    30.96    83.20    11.51    33.08    11.60   170.45    92.59    92.59
200£               7.99                       IS6.00      9.21   272.24    30.96    03.20    11.S1    33.08    11.66   170.45   101.79   101.79
2002               7.99                       £56.00      9.21   281.71    30.96    63.20    11.51   13.08    11.68   170.45   111.32   111.32
2003               7.99                       £56.00      9.21   291.63    30.96    63.20    11.51    $3.08    11.60   170.45   121.18   121.1S
204                7.99                       156.00      9.21   301.64    30.98    83.20    11.51    33.00    11.60   170.45   131.39   131.39
200S               7.99                       156.00      9.21   312.40    30.96    03.20    II.51    33.08    11.68   170.4S   141.95   141.95
2006               7.99                       156.00      9.21   323.34    30.98    83.20    11.51    3.08    11.68   170.4   132.09   232.09
0-          22.442
7tV 122)   179.03
-  .                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
0
-__-_---.-.---- a- tt---                ---------
.... Ca" I  ----- --  ....... aDO 2
costs t  e motit             Costs Saafite-
(4101)              not              (-182)     tat
1992    123.70     9.77  (II.93)  112.4S      0.79  (103.66)
1993    125.16    24.20  (100.97)  113.7$    21.78   492.01)
1994    127.36    43.53   I65.83)  115.70      9.1is  (16.60)
1995      8.78    51.02    42.23      7.99    45.92    37.93
1996      6.78    58.77    49.99      7.99    52.69    44.9£
1997      8.78    66.79    58.01      7.99    60.11    52.33
1^'0      6.76    75.10    66.31      7.99    67.59    59.60
199       6.78    65.69    74.91      7.99    75.52    67.34
2000      8.78    92.59    83.80      7.99    8$.33    75.34
2001      8.76   101.79    93.01      7.99    91.61    83.63
2002      6.78   111.32   102.54      7.99   100.19    92.20
2003      6.N7   121.10   112.40      7.99   109.06   £01.00
2004      0.78   131.39   122.60      7.99   118.25   110.26
2005      6.74   141.95   133.t7      7.99   127.16   119.77
2006      0.78   152.09   144.10      7.99   137.60   129.61
ELU -       17.532                      17.312
3£V(12).  103.12                        69.73
00 a
Sourcs OA and adoola a aatUitoe.                                                             
way 1990 W
0.
Wa



cu  
r1im  lLjAiz;   PRDJ
Zhogan Line Double Trackings Vet Present ialue and Ecoutmie Rat @f Return CalCUlatiLo
,_ . ________ ...................__ ..... ___.___ ...............  -----------------------
(cets and benefits ln RIH utllien)
Calendar year                          Total      198?    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   20am    20lo
Freigbt tr ffie
(llioun teow)                          1.122      25      26      2?     29      30     31      32     32      33    i5       37     39      42     44     44
tacr m_tal frelght traffic
(%Willien tca)                           306       0       0       1      2       3      3       I      4      s       7       9     11      13     Is    1I
PFssDe  r traffic
(tiUteM  paoaeg"ar)                    1,093   21.6    23.0   24.5   26.1   27.7   29.4   31.2   33.0   35.1   36.5   38.0   39.6   41.2   42.9   42.9
Incronental passenger trafflc
(millUin peatengre)                      468    0.0      1.4    2.9    4.5    6.1    7.6    9.6   11.5   13.5   15.0   16.5   18.0   19.7   21.4   21.4
Direct project capital coat             4*266            362.9  362.9  362.9  566.S  634.4  843.8  642.3  470.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
lacr<emntel lceG  tive b rolling
teck eoe t                             1.722       0      as    143    166      II1    113   1I0    155    160    116    122    127    134    140           0
Coal1Ulm devlopcent cost                   415      53      21      18      15     22      so     so     47      55     45      35     24      12      0       0
Ceal vluo edd4d                          4.021       0        0     14     32      38      44     SO     i7      68     92    117    143    170    200    200
Development coete for
otbhr ce.smdities                      1.811    281      124    1S9      95    149    208    270    33s    389    320    246    169         67       0      0            F
Otber om_odti a' value added            26,781       0        0      0    190    223    260    297    334    417    584    760    946  1,143  1.3t"  !'352
PDO enger traffic benefite              47,262       0      143    293    458    618    789    96P  1, 161  1,364  1,510  1,662  1.820  1,984  2,156  2,156
Not benefits                            68,854   (334)   (449)  (354)    41        31    108      (6)   371    775  1705  2.136  2.389  3.066  3,567  3,707
set present vain. (at 122),              8,043
IEcomic rate of return (21.                 35
MeteJ AlU figures are cemtant for 2001-2013.
Source, Ilsion eatPatee.
may 189l
pg
,                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



cum
luxshou Tornial Epenselots Not Pr;;;at iau; end Econdic Rate of RettArn Calculation
Total Project Case
(Coats nd bmnifit  I EMS! sUlion)
Total    A9ss  19f6   1967   19B8   1969   1990   1991   1992   1991  1994   1995   1996   19"   1998   1999   2000  2001
Fre4gbt traffic (at)              4,669   104.0  112.0  120.0  128.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  151.0  155.6  160.2  164.8  169.4  174.0  173.0
lacraxatal freigbt traffic        1,375     0.0    2.0  10.0  16.0  20.0   20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  41.0  45.6  50.2  5h.8  59.4  64.0  65.0
(at)
Project capital cost                816     0.0  116.6  116.6  116.6  116.6  116.6  45.2  153.6  28.1    6.3    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
incraustal locomotive &
rollng stock cost               1,160    0.0   35.7  142.7  142.7  35.7   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0  374.6   62.1  S2.1  82.1   82.1  82.1  1u.S
Developmet costs for coal
and otber industries             13,650   2,960    756    420    86       0    662  1.075  1,266  1,462  1,655    966   615    622    428   *3S    42         0
Freight valus added             138,815       0    202  1,010  1.817  2,019  2,019  2.019  2,019  2,019  2,019  4,139  4,604  5,068  5,532  5,997  6,461  6,562         1
not benefit.                    123,189  (2.940)  (706)   330  1,414  1,867  1,020    699   597   529    358  2,799  3,707  4,364  5,022  5,660  6,337  6,544 6
Net present value (at 122)s      13,461
Ecoamic rate of return (2)t          31
Notet Ul figres are constant for 2001-2014.
Sourcest mission estlimtes.
way 1991



c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FUtm  RAUNA  PROJET
Zushou Terminal Eapngtious Net PreRent Value aud Ec _ Seate of Rottir Calculation
__...  ___........ - -----------------   -_______..............  ____.............  ----------   ____. ----------... - ---
Automatic Control Case
(costa and betefite In Nil! nillion)
Total    198s   1984   1987   1988   1969   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1991   1996   1991   1998   1999   2000   3001
Pre4obt traffit (at)               4,469   104.0  112.0           128.0  128.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  Ism   130.0  130.0  £51.0  155.6  IS0o.   144.8  169.4  174.0  175.0
Inarse_tal freight traffic           82S      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   21.0   25.6   30.2   34.0   39.4   44.0   45.0
(at)
Project capital cost                 350      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  116.6   45.2  153.6   28.1    6.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Incremental loceotive k
roUlas stock coat                  603      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  374.6   02.1   82.1   82.1   62.1   S2.1   17.6
Dowelopsant cost* for coal
other industries.                 9.430        0      0       0      0      0    882  1,075  1,268  1,462  1,65S    966    815    622    428    235         42       0
hrelght Vewn. added               63289         0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0  2,120  2,584  3,049  3,S13  3,978  4,442  4,54F
not hemtite                        72,68        0       0      0      0       0   (999)(1,120)(1,422)(1,4 M0)A1,461)   779  1,688  2,345  3,003  3,660  4,318  4.525
Nu. ptesent vahue (at 122)t         5,432
ecoomic rate o  return ()s             24
Notes All figuroe are costsnt for 2001-2014.
Sources Mission estlmte.
way 199



- 134 -
TWA   8.1
PM"I RAIMWY 260JMT
MR'. Cno lidebd Incom. 8St.t.nte
(1965 to 69 Actual, 19O Ejesato mnd  91-15 Patct)
(IIt million wurent YTo* )
Actual                  bElimbe                Protcaa
1988    1986    se1987  1        99    199       1991    1998    1998    1994    19
-  --- - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---           - -    - --- - ---   ------.
VEDIlO (RII.l J158)
6n9     6n      9       972   1e028   slow0   1.071   1.o0   I.I86   1,2095   1,200
241     as      gee     824      8W      267     27      g6       299     814     884
litiAtl (C.lonKW)                  1,8O0   1,128   1,219   1,296   1.827   1.80?   1.846   1,895   1,452   1.519   1.000
iniii,                             13.778  17,707  19.166  19,925  3.007  27,141  29.714  81.08101 88,94b  50.690  40,294
FARSOIOFI                          4,548   4 999      "a6   0881  I7.665   1996  12.100  12.5614  13.156  18,616  14.696
allt R6*                            1072 1o205   1.468  '1.75   1t988   1.924   1.998   2,076   2.20    2,884   2,826
(1uss                             21 890  2 ,911  26. 22  28.062  83 SW   41,061  4,609  46 045  41,808  O8.0t0  S7T 8
LESS. BUSINESS IAX  0.058          8,868   12SS65   1,869   1.467   1.675   2,178   2 822   2,440   2.610   2,d12   8,046
ItlAM REVEBI  AIFR TAX            16.022  928.64   24.,28  230578  29.982  8s.685  41,41?  48,605  4e.692   o,s28  84.,450
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  -  -   ------------------------  -  ------  -  ---  -  --------  -  ----
OPERrIM EXPO6S (NIALION YUAN)
rA;wj.                              1.57     5862   1,697   8.444   8.908   4,110   4.860   4,860   4.,79    5,060   5.887
iAtE21A1.S                          1.801  t1.88S   1,62    2,8s8   2,870   .190   8.340   8.929   4.805   4,710   S,17
4OlY                               2.014   2,290   2,84   8a o07s 88o8  a.760   4,046   4,8781  4.788   5,145   8,606
ECVLRICAL                            29"      800    8a9      5801    740   1.060   1.984   1,414   1.890   1,779   1,996
rOSJiON FOR KMAR  PAIR             2.80 ss 9 a   8,14   8,414   5874   6.3e0 s.77d  7To1              7,610    O068   88550
onIl *.                             1046   i.437   2,912   S:797   4.W    4,s*e0 6osen    6.e77  7?206   781   6.64t
TUTm. KWTIG EXPN8o                  9,641  12,161  18,976  16,65  10 21       ,80 28089   1,5564  27,68a 80,240  82,697  88.540
Zi  i; - - ------<v------w.-------- i" w ---  - -  - --  - - - -- - -- -    -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - - - - -
(IfVTAt6N                          28110   8,96   8,814   8,414   6.924   4.2S2   4.517   4,78e   8.07S   s.360   SI7M2
iItAL 8BR9ATINK EXPrSE             12, 151  18,184  17,290  80.272  w4,s92  27,882  80.01  82,621  8,818  8s,077  41,246
MEt    AINO 1lE-- 5,871   7,492   7,588   0.806   4,9S0   1.889  11.406  10,9    11,S77  12,171  18,212
cEv8  FM" WSIDIREB                   5S5      4738    6e      843     479      468     498     S10    s8o       s7o    5s9
lF* rUt rVACIUlIE2                            S16      21     222
NEr UEVBES                            6,S9    6,841   885a2   7,168   8,429  11,798  11,69   11,494  11,917  12,741  la,680
(L66 SERVIC
WUIrES1 a R8rAY.                  -        -       (992)   (784) (1.671) (1,95s)  (8,328) (8.96S) (4,190) (4,064) (8,970)
RFVRJm FMlnE TAX                      6.896   6,541   7,840   6,4t4    ,586   9.906   6,646   7,6961  7.727   6,677   9,688
R#rT TAXr s8n  upto 01              .5,17      0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0
711pir"74" *d on.                  1.g00       0       0        0       0   2,000       0        0       0       0        0
rV0NJE AFrER TAX                      1.079   6,s41   7,40   6,414   s,586   7,908   s,646   7,696   7,727   6,077   9,88
- - - -9--                    -.- -      - -- --_-- - -- - -- -- -- -- -- - - - -- - - -- - -__-- - - -  - - - -- - -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - - -
CAritAL C31R. SAM                    0   7,868   6 121   4.952   2.286   0,748   7,090   0,218   5,97   6.702   5.400
8PIAL FUnDS rtR nI A W              1,879  15,709  15,66l  11.866   1,80 0   1.480   1,580   160   120   1,975   2 180
vIIRIItm GRO                           8S     54       so      68      70      0o       62      64      6e       es      es
O011ANIHC RAtIO                       67      67       70      70      8S      71       78      is      76      76       76
riE1GiI RFV PER Ye"                0.019   0.020   0.020   0.020   0.01   0.028   0.028   0.088   0.02    0.081   O.O2
PASSBW Riar PER P.14               0.019   0.019   0.020   0.020   0.028   0.045   0.044   0.04    0.044   0.044   0.044
Cusr PMUt '. t..9 (OPRT)  Ytn      0.012   0.018   0.014   0.016   0.0)9   0.021   0.0S    0.028   0.024   0.028   0.026
WAOE w.o PR  c. tanN     Y,n"      0.0015  0.0028  0.0024  040027  0.002   0.0081  0.0082  0.0038  0.0068  0.008S  0.0064
WIAi1tML 13  Pm C.T*#40  Yuan      0.0018  0.0014  0.0015  0.0020  0.0022  0.0024  0.00o0  0.0028  0.0080  O.00S1  0.0082
RIEL CMST PER C. lani   Yuan       0.0019  0.0020  0.0022  0.0024  0.0028  0.0029  0.0080  0.0001  0.0068  0.0084  0.0068
ELECIRtCIfy PER C.t<4   Y,,n       0.0002  0.0003  0.0006  0.0004  0.000   0.0006  0.0009  0.0010  0.0011  0.0012  0.0012
REPAIR cosr rni C.tcnm    Yuen     0.0024  0.0027  0.0027  0.002S  0.004   0.0046  0.0080  0.0061  0.0052  0.0088  0.O008
* I1W1DES POAl. SERVICE, 1A11M   AtE PAWELS
W ILt.tl    1WIN OAIN PXWlND  . PENSION PArWIs, STATION AN TRAIN SeRJITY.
611 . MR A M41esi  Entlw "
Auot 1"1



- 135 -
TAKLE 6.2
CHIIMi
FIFl RAILWAY PROJECT
______________________
Funds Flow Statments, 1090 Estieste,1990 - 96 Foreocst
(in mIlIIon current Yuen)
1990    190       09      10      1994    1905
------------------------------------------   ______ __-_-----_--_-_--------_ ________ ________
Source of Fundas
Not Revenues                               11,798  11,699   11,404   11,917  12,741  18,808
Deprecilaion                                4,222   4,517   4,700   6,075   5,880   6,702
Central A Loeal ovto. contributions                           4,200   7,784  11,040  15,8U0
Loan (local A foreign )                     4,000   6,805   6,476   7,522   7,740   7,7?8
Working copital (Incroaso)/docroaso           851      818      270      250     220      248
Total Soureoa                              20,871  22,084  27,228  82,640  87,180  42,889
Applicatlon of Fund.:
Capital inveotment                         11,077  14,000  13,500  28,000  27,500  88,000
Debt oorvice:
Interest                                  1,690   2,807    2,805   2,$62   2,065   1,926
Principal                                   805      046   1,211   1686    1,979   2,046
Subtotal                                  1,805   8,268   8,606   4,190   4,064   8,070
Transftrs to GoverneAnt                      2000
Equlpment replacoent                        8,089   8,256    8,417   8,49S   8,501   8,789
Other                                         900
SpecI a fund for NOW                        1,480   1,550   1,080   1,620   1,075   2,160
Total Applicatlon                          20,841  22,059  27,198  82,606  87,100  42,350
Cash at beglin of year                        8,420    8,450   8,405    8,620   8,52    8,60
Pffoerence oourco/(application)                  80       85       85      42       s8       80
Ca0h at and of year                           8,450   8,485   8,520   8,562   8,600   8,880
-  ---  -  -------         ------------…-------------------------- -…--     _____________________
SOURCEs UR A Mlolon Estloates
August 1001



- 136 -                                    TALE 5.8
CHINA
FtIlT RAILWAY PROJECT
Foreet eelsnc  Shee,  1060 - 96
(in mlull.. ceurrt Yuan)
100     1091    169       199"    1094    1995
ASSETS
Carrent Assts
Cash                              8,450   8,435   8,520   8,662    8,00   8,6080
Inventories                       2,000   2,160   2,840   2,400   2,680   2,760
Rcetoveble                        2,610    2,660   2,610  2a650   2.660   2,720
Other                             2,997   8,010   8,040   8,100   8,1a0   8, 22
Subtotal                         10,657  11,205  11,610  11,602  12,070  12,886
Work In Progrems                   81,119  84,280  87,227  44,079  64,978  69,010
F stod Asets
Book vaIlu                      122,766  180,221  189,159  140,411  157,686  168,417
Lsw: Accumieted dprecletlo.   86,709  41,226  46,014   51,069  66,409  62,171
Not fixed aset                    0,049  66,995  98,125  97,2   101,167  104,246
Total Aoseto                      128,026  184,480 141,692 158,208  168,210 16,1092
LIAOILITIES & EQMITIES:
Lisbi I I ties
Currents
Short term dobts                  660      790    900   1,140   1,270    1,810
Payables                        4,004   4,245   4,820   4,872   4,440   4,450
Subtotal                        4,694    6,065   6,80   5,512   5,710   6,760
Lo" term dts                       20,64   20        80,28   8012  41,781  47,609
Central Leoc. Govt. Contribution                      4,200  11,984  28,088   86,898
Total  lablitles                 25,040  80,108    0,028   58,506  70,624  91,662
Equlties
Fixed asst emity fud             72,28   78,210  74,919  76,601  77,692  78,187
Current Asset Equity Fund         1,100   1,140   1,170   1,200   1,240    1,260
Surplus Productlon fund          2",697   7,862   8,286  19,194  15,669   12,168
Surplus NWl fund                  2,580   2,620   2,710   2,600   2,605    2,"0
Total equltiee                  102,665  104,882  102,084  99,S95  97,686   94,650
Total Llbilitioo A Equities      128,025  184,485  141,862  168,208  166,210  166,192
Current Ratio                          2.81    2.28      2.17    2.14     2.11     2.14
quick Ratio                            1.l0     1.60    1.78      1.69    1.65     1.66
Oebt/oqulty Ratlo                     17/68   20/60   28/77   27/78   81/89   84/66
…--…                  -       …- -------_-- -_-----------------------____________________________
S0URCE MR A Misselon Estiotes
Augs  105



- 137 -                                    T   4
O4TiM
Senhitlvlty Aaelyeie of M'sn Inceee 6tlaA t.for 1t11-19983
(1I8M tio 89 Aebust, t19o  biabt. eand 19  - 98 Forecst )
(In million currmnt Yuan )
Actuel                   Ebtbato                Forercst
1988    1WS86     t8 1987 183    19w89    1990    1991    1999    1998    1994    199
vMitE (i6ItUiOS)
rAREIJII  (l(onA)                     809     670      936     972   1,028   1,040   1.071   1.104   1. IM    1.205   1,266
maw    (r.(M)                         241     2        283s    324     802      267     278    g2a       29      '14      884
VOIAS. (C. ford4)                   I.0O0   1,128   1.219   1,296   1,827   1,80t   1,846   1,89    1,452   1.19   1.600
IiEIWIT                            18.,71   17,107  19,166  19,925  22,007  27,141  29.714  81.86  88.948  86 ,0a   40,264
UASSW4I18                           4.848   4.999   8,m68   6,8l   7.68i  11.98   12,e100  12,664  13,186  18,616  14,69
0Ftt116   *                         1,012   I,20m   1,463   1,t86   1, 968   1,924   1,98   2.076   2 206   2 .84   2,828
(31018 itEV@llJS                   21.a9tt  2, 911  26,212  26 062  81,607  41t061  48,609  4. 040  49,808  8,060  87,8 08
1ES8s PShIt4S TAX  0.08            8,s8e    1,208   1,869   1,487  1JM178   2.11    2,822   2,440   2.61f   2.612   8,048
tOtAl. RPFVIES APII rAX            198,0022  22,646  24,623  26,858  29.982  s.88e  41,481  48,605  4e,692  50,248  84,460
_- --  -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- - - -- -- -- -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - - - - - - -- - - _- - - - -- -- -- - -- - -- -- -- - -- - ---
OrFR1AIINn ExrENS  (MILLION YU4t)
I'AYROLL                            1n571   2,862   2,897   8,444   8,908   4,110   4.57s   8,027   8.882   6,1i8   6,878
KAIERIALS                           1.861   1.563   1,620   ?,S98   2.e10   8,10   8,71?   4 S32   4.9e4   S.725   6.582
Ett01C                              2,014   2,290   2,644   8,018   8.383   S,60   4,249   4,621   8,479   6,254   7.18?
ELE4 IR1CAL                           289     806    s88       880      740   1,060   1,268   1,889   1 .41   2,162   2,547
Innvt<ItIN ror MAJOR REEPAIR        2,510   2,998   8,84   8 414   8,814   8,880   7.112   7,916   6,810   o,604  10,912
tJlhI6'R .e                         1,946   2.437   2,92   8,197   4,286   4.6680    ,.902   1,081   3,842   9:640  11,298
h7IAL WOINO EXPSES                  9,641   2, 161  13.976  16,688  21,066  28,890  26,942  80,e68   88,007  89.748  48,867
tSl)CIAI ttN                        2,80   2.9     8,814   8,414   8,924   4,2    4.T4    8.279   S,675  6e,8         7.2
TnIAL OP8RAItNS EXPSSS             12.181  15,184  17,290  20,272  24.962   7,8612  81,586   8b.96,  40,682  46,268  62,644
W-1 (WEArAINlN                         8.7 s;    492   7,883   6,808   4,980  11,38N 9--,9    7,640   8,810   8,985   1,416
IEVIIE S5tlt 6l8DlAES                 525      478     6re     648      479     468     498      S10     S40      570     896
nEvEtIJE rm  rActutllES                        87s     321     222
tEl ne2Y1)ES                          6e,s8    6,841   8,882  T7,18    8.429  11,798  10,898   6,180   6,380   4,585   2,412
- --                           -^- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - - - __- - - -- -- -- - -- - - -- -- -- --
INTEREST A REPAY.                  -       -        (992)   (784) (1,871)  (1,69)  (8,266) (8,898) (4.190) (4.064) (8.910)
FvFNJE tlE11I  TAX                     6,896   6,841   7,840   6,414   8,588   9,908   7,142   4,854   2,1S0        411  (1,688)
INWE #TAXt(868), ATX So8            8,517       0       0        o       0        0       0       0        0       0       0
IWIMS 1i0s 9T                       1,200       0       0        0       0   2;000        0       0        0       0       0
;EVENE AtER TAX                        1,s79   6,841   1,840   6,414   38,s8  7,903   7,142   4,84    2,160         471  (1,886)
cAPITAL CMtM. ROM6                    0   7,866   6,121   4,962   2 288   e74    7.09    6 216   8 ,07   6,702   8,400
IPECIAI. fUN4S FOR H A V            1,679 S 18,7S  18,661  11,866   1.800   1,480   1,880   1,600   1,620   1.978   2,160
WO13(W RATIO                           as      84       so      es       70      sO      es       T0      iS       79     e8
rYtwUI DI  RAtI 0                      e7      67       70      76      as       71      76       62      6o      92       9?
VrEIWtt rFV rf  T""                0.0198  0.0204  0.0206  0.0205  0.0218  0.0261  0.027t  0.0266  0.0298  0.0606  0.081O
PArS4WIER reF Pelt r.P             0.0189  0.0194  0.0197  0.019?  0.0264  0.0449  0.0440  O.Of40  0.0440  O.0440  0.0440
COSt rEF C. T.mlOG (GM67)  Yuan    0.0116  0.0134  0.0142  0.016  0.01o8   0.0211  0.0285  0.02S4  0 0602  0.0108  O.029
WAAW COSt PM) C. T-41    Yuan      0.0015  0.0028  0.0074  0.0021   0.0029  0.0061  0.0084  0.0066  0.0086  0.0041  0.0048
MAI8TIIAL COSt rfR C.Itcl  Yuan    0.0018  0.0014  0.0018  0.0020  0.0022  0.0024  0.0026  0.0051  0.0084  0.006S  0.0041
IlEL CsIs tSt C.Thn16    Yu"n      0.0019  0.0020  0.0022  0.00214  0.0028  0.0029  O.006   0.00X6   0.008   0.0041  0.0048
ELEClnlCII Frl C lor4,t   Yua"     0.0002  0.0008  0.0008   D0.4  o.o000   0.0008  0.0010  0.0011  0.0018  0.0014  0.0016
PWJAIR tOSt rER C. 1o8    YUn"     0.0024  0.0027  0.0027  0.0026  0.0044  0.0048  0.0068  0.0087  0.0061  0.0065  0.0066
* 104l11411 rOSIA. $1WICE. W00AOR NO~ PAWcELS
e THRUtM  NON OPSIAt1t r894£  P854810N PAWTS, STATION AD TRAIN SeCITY.
SMIRV:Ft t4t Mission Eetiuet.e
August 1"9



- 138 -
Ch I
ChillA                                                         Paes 1 of 2
fIfTH RAILUAT PROJECT
?r.,;..................
Freeght torafic BY Nodo- 1979-89 (Bit. tkm)
0.9 -
ca -S        ",                Z       a                     =~
0.8 
0.7 
0.5 
0.46
0.4 
0.2
0.2 
0           __  6   I        I        aI __
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    is9s          1987    1988    1989
0    Rail            +    Road            O    Waterway
Freight Traffic- 1989 (tkm)
Modal Sptit (2)
Road (l8-9X)
Pipeline* (5.5%)
Rail (58.1%)
Watarway (19.5X)
Aviation (0.0%)
$ara: Stfatifcat Yearbook of Chin- 1990, P. 53.
Jume 1991



139 -
ra.ph I
CHNliA                                                            P  I o1 2
FIFTH NAiLUAY PROJECT
,,.....    ......-.
Passener Traffic Sy tode- 1979489 (Blt. pkm)
340 -_.- ... ..
300                                                                                          .
280 -
26 -0
240 -
220 -
200-
IO  R
j 140 
Z 1204
100 
40 
20
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
0    Rail       4~~ Road             0    Waterwaoy                a    Aviation
Passenger Traffic- 1989 (pkm)
Modal Split (Z)
Aviation  (3.X%)
Road  (43.8X)                                                      Rol(50.0%)
watenwoy (3.1%)
Source: Statfltdoat Yearbaook of Chins- 1990, p. 531.
June 1991



- 140 -
Graph II
CHINA
fIFTH RAILUAY PROJECT
.....................
RaiLway Investment in Comparison With Transport
Infrastructure Investments And Total CapitaL
Investments For 1981-89 (Y billionj
160
1501
140/
130
120
110
90
7 0
IU               |                                         - :  
60
40
39
20
10'
0-                         
1981       1982       1983        1984       1985        1986       1987       1988        1989
C    Total CopitoI nve.   +    Railway Invest.                             0    Tronsport Invest.
China: Investment In the Transport Sector (IneLuding Posts and Tetecommunicatina)
(Y billofn)
1981     1982      1983     1984  1985    1986  1987  1988  1989
RaiLways             1.445    2.637    4.221    5.852   7.7       8.5   8.7  10.2   9.0
Total Transport
Infrastructure     4.047    5.21t   7.804   10.846  17.1    18.0  19.0  20.0  20.3
Tatta Capital
Expenditure       44.291   55.553   59.413   74.315 107.4   117.6 134.3 152.6 155.2
Source: Statistleal Yearbook of Chfna- 199I   p.157, 167, 171.
June 1991



160,                             ilo                                lwo-     I2     #                 lio
C H INA                                                        (~U. S. S.R.so
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT                                                        > aUS. 
Proposed Project:t
so,                      Project Line                                                                                                     neoWnin'
@        Project Terminal
Previous Project:
Ekectrifcotionsog,/ 
~~Railroads                    MONGOLIA_> A                                     \               S;w         \    t 
1A     FactoriesMO G LAh
Non-Bank Financed                                                                     Ho.b4S5k.sh 
-.---.--#  Electrified Lines in operation
Electrified Lines under construction
-       Single Track Roilroods                                                                                       T.
Double Track Roilroods
Double Track Roilroads             (                                                     pin           Sorigr
under construction
---    International Boundaries
<                                       /    \           9tfuede          >        f<enyong   nJ~~~~~~~9~-d
n --   <  S A./DEM. PEOPLE-S
Hohh A.  9       _ong poinp                      /Dondong (    REP. OF KOREA
REP. OF
Shengli                                      KOREA
(anzhou \  3t  J  1  i   9o                                         JAPAN
>   \   }\     9ilEyYwest,o    \          UrLnynngang
Y rJng        pingiunn                 d eg .uoongh
_yg       /  '~AnlCO~        xie gt             H.t     i                g I, angkQl                               30t
Chq,ngd___ ,                                                   I                   lriurn
301
Ku+-~~~~~~~)                                          NonS  
'  i .chone    Nr  g               o,Zhi,ong  Lanidog .
1   *  ^                    \<~~~Gu                         gyan CaCA,  QOR    w
KKni
MYANMAR    %.1    \)   VIET NAM    \                                                  ~~~~~~~~~0,  190  290  300 400  5p0tOgMETIES
M_NA                ,       VIENA                                                     ,,6     100    200    3030MIWS
.,-S  j{^AO  PEOPlE'S           jl-                                                                 P     b     o*     W     'V         br      d
J           ; D~~~~EM. REP.cpoe, The dn,hoIon -.dndh boendo, s s, W.,                                                                       ^J eo o e k
THAILAND    4)                                                                                                                         e I.Odsb,Ue,ed - 
-  00  I           .        *'110N                                                                          12,0'
MAY 1991



