Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19331-CHA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
FOURTH RAILWAY PRtOJECT
(LOAN 2968-CHA)
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 3406-CHA)
MAY 24, 1999
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name = Reniinbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Yuan Rate per US$1.00
1985   2.94              1991   5.32
1986   3.45              1992   5.53
1987   3.72              1993   5.76
1988   3.72              1994   8.62
1989   3.76              1995   8.35
1990   4.78              1996   8.32
1997   8.29              1998   8.28
1999   8.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
Metric System     British/US system
1 meter (m) =    3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kIm) =    0.621 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2 =    10.764 square feet (ft2)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 km  =    2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
1 mu =    0.1647 acre = 0.0667 hectare
1 metric ton (t) =    2,208 pounds (lbs.)
1 passenger-km (p-km) =    0.621 passenger-miles
1 t-km  =    0.621 ton-mile
I converted t-km (ctk) =    1 traffic unit (1 p-km + 1 t-km)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
EIRR   -   Economic Internal Rate of Return
FCTIC  -   Foreign Capital and Technical Import Center
FCTIO  -   Foreign Capital and Technical Import Office
FEPS   -   Final Executive Project Summary
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
ICR    -   Implementation Completion Report
ITC     -   International Tendering Company
JGF    -   Japanese Grant Fund
MOF   -   Ministry of Finance
MOR   -   Ministry of Railways
OIS    -   Operating Infornation System
PCR    -   Project Completion Report
SAR    -   Staff Appraisal Report
SPC    -   State Planning Commission
TMIS   -   Transport Management Information System
TMP   -   Telecommunications Master Plan
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Program
YIS    -   Yard Information System
Vice President              Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director            Yukon Huang, EACCH
Sector Manager              Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Staff Member                Udo Marggraf, EASTR



CONTENTS            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PREFACE.                                                                i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .ii
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives .
B. Achievement of Objectives                 .3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .14
D. Project Sustainability .39
E. Bank Performance .40
F. Borrower Performance .43
G. Assessment of Outcome .44
H. Future Operations .46
1. Lessons Leamed .47
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT .49
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .49
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .50
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE                  .51
Table 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL.        1
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .52
Table 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .52
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .53
Table 8A: PROJECT COSTS .54
Table 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .55
Table 8C: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS .55
Table 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .56
(Yuan million, 1997 prices)
Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .56
Table I1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .57
Table 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .57
Table 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .58
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT .59
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .59
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .60
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .61
Table 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED) AND ACTUAL . 61
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .62
Table 6: KEY INDICATORS FoR PROJECT OPERATION .62
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .63
Table 8A: PROJECT COSTS    ..64
Table 8B: PROJECT FINANCING    ..65
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.|



- 2 -
Table 8C: ALLOCATION  OF LOAN  PROCEEDS ........................................................ 65
Table 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ............................................................ 66
(Yuan million. 1997 prices)
Table  10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ............................................................. 67
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ................... 68
Table  12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ........................................................ 68
Table  13: BANK  RESOURCES:  MISSIONS .............................................................. 69
Appendix A: 1CR  Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire ................................................. 70
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ............................................................ 71
Annex 1: Financial Evaluation of the Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects                                           ..  72
Annex 2: Economic Reevaluation of the Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects                                            ..  79



COMBINED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT - (LOAN 2968-CHA)
AND
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT - (LOAN 3406-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the combined Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth and
Fifth Railway Projects in China. Loan 2968-CHA in the amount of US$200 million for
the Fourth Railway Project was approved on June 23, 1988. This loan was closed on June
30, 1998, after being extended twice, each time for a year. Final refund was made on
February 10, 1999, and US$ 2.1 million of the loan amount was canceled.
A loan in the amount of US$330 million for the Fifth Railway Project (Loan 3406-
CHA) was approved on September 24, 1991. This loan was closed on December 31,
1998. Final disbursement was made on April 26, 1999, and US$7.65 million of the loan
amount was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs./Mmes. Udo Marggraf (Task Manager), Hennie
Deboeck (Financial Analyst), Richard Spero (Transport Economist, Consultant) of the
Transport Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, Daniel Gibson (Resettlement
Specialist, EASES) and Anil Somani (Environmental Specialist, EASES). It was
reviewed by Messrs. Bajpai and Scurfield. The borrower's irmplementation evaluation
summary for the project is included as Appendix B to the ICR.
The ICR began before the project closing date, and was based on material in the
project file and data provided by the Ministry of Railways (MOR). The Borrower
contributed some data and comments during the preparation of the ICR.






FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2968-CHA)
AND
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 3406-CHA)
CHINA
EVALUATION SUMNIARY
Introduction
i.   China's economic development, which accelerated after the Government adopted
the open-door policy in 1978, substantially increased demand for railway transport. In
order to sustain this pace of economic development, the Government has endeavored
since the 1980s to expand the capacity of its national railway system. In 1984, the Bank
first became involved in the railway sub-sector. By January 1987, three such railway
projects had become effective. All three were designed to assist the Ministry of Railways
(MOR) to develop its national railway network. The Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects
reflected this priority, as they were designed to help the MOR finance investments that
were urgently needed to increase its transport and production capacity.
Project Objectives
ii.  The Fourth Railway Project aimed to enhance the productivity of existing assets by
raising the level of technology used in different activities within MOR, particularly in
train operations, maintenance, administration, and manufacturing. The Fifth Railway
Project also focused on efforts to ensure that MOR became more efficient and continued
to be financially viable thorough better operations, maintenance practices, investment
planning, and tariff policies. Three major objectives were to: (a) introduce recent
developments in rail technology and maintenance and rehabilitation practices; (b)
develop system-wide plans and planning tools for MOR's rnajor sub-sectors; and (c)
develop modern planning and analytical techniques for establishing investment priorities
and tariff structure. These objectives reflected the Government's development approach
and the Bank's evolving strategy for the sector.
iii. The Fourth Railway Project included two major investments: (a) to increase
capacity on the Yueshan-Xiangfan section of the Jiaozuo-Zicheng line in the Beijing-
Guangzhou railway corridor; and (b) the modernization of three locomotive and rolling
stock factories. In addition, the project was supposed to carry out a Strategic Plan Study
in the areas of telecommunications and computerization in order to improve operational
management and transportation capacity. Provision of technical assistance and training
was included in the factory modernization and Strategic Plan Study components.



- 11 -
iv.  The Fifth Railway Project included two system-wide components to assist MOR in
introducing new technology and advanced materials for maintaining and rehabilitating
tracks. The project was also intended to address the shortage of critically needed
materials, components and equipment for rehabilitating locomotives and rolling stock. To
this end, two capacity expansion components were designed that would allow MOR to
complete the double-tracking of the 944 km Zhegan (Zhuzhou-Hangzhou) line and to
expand capacity at the Xuzhou marshalling yards. An action plan was for developed to
implement the Railway Traffic Costing System. This in turn led to the formulation of
recommendations for tariff restructuring. In addition, the project relied heavily on five
studies initiated during project preparation, focussing on track maintenance and
rehabilitation, locomotive and rolling stock maintenance rehabilitation, an integrated
system plan for electrification, an integrated system plan for telecommunications, and a
railway investment prioritization.
v.   Both project-planned investments were appropriate vehicles for reaching these
objectives. While the study components in both projects were somewhat complex, the
other components were traditional and not too risky.
Implementation Experience and Results
vi.  Implementation of the Fourth Railway Project proceeded somewhat slower than
expected, largely due to a change in the construction schedule of the Yueshan-Xiangfan
line. Further delays were encountered when the alignment of the Longmen tunnel had to
be altered to avoid damage to a famous Buddhist temple. Project start-up of the Fifth
Railway Project was postponed for about a year by the aftermath of the Tiananmen
incidents in May/June 1989. Two components delayed the completion of the project
substantially: the Zhegan line capacity expansion and one of the five planning studies that
required the testing of foreign materials. The main reasons for the Zhegan line's
implementation delay were design changes due to a switch to local technology for
signalling and to improve the original design for telecommunications. Tests with the
foreign materials as part of the Permanent Way Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study
began about one year later than originally planned because the schedule was somewhat
over-optimistic and not in line with the SAR and the late loan effectiveness, and were
completed by October 1998. A report evaluating the test results is currently under
preparation and is expected to be completed by June 1999.
vii. Project costs of the Fourth Railway Project were 58 percent higher than expected,
with an actual cost of US$945.6 million compared to an appraisal estimate of US$600
million. The main reasons for cost increase were: (a) the delayed start on the tunnel
works on the Yueshan-Xiangfan line by two years to April 1993; (b) a change in the
construction schedule of the Yueshan-Laoyang section; (c) inadequate estimates of local
costs for the Yueshan-Xiangfan line component; and (d) the impact of steep inflation on
the cost of materials and equipment in the early 1990s. In terms of local currency, total
costs were 135 percent above appraisal estimates. The difference between dollar and
Yuan costs was due to the devaluation of the Yuan over the life of the project from Yuan
3.7 per dollar to Yuan 8.3 per dollar.



- iii -
'viii. Project costs of the Fifth Railway Project were 61 percent higher than expected,
with an actual cost of US$1,550.3 million compared to an appraisal estimate of
US$1,005.7 million. The cost increase stemmed mainly from the Zhegan line component.
The main reasons included: (a) design changes to improve the original design for
telecommunications; (b) the impact of steep inflationl on the cost of materials and
equipment in the early 1990s; (c) inadequate estimates of local costs for the Zhegan line
component; and (d) use of the US$43 million loan balance with procuremiient undertaken
in 1997. In tenns of local currency, total costs were 124 percent above appraisal
estimates.
ix.  The Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects are likely to be sustained. With respect to
physical sustainability, MOR's record in maintaining infrastructure, locomotives and
rolling stock is good and there is no reason to believe this will change. Nevertheless,
deteriorating finances are a cause for some concern. MOR has been operating at a loss
since 1993 and has recently announced an unprecedenited near-term program designed to
improve dramatically bottom line earnings. From an economic perspective, sustainability
was assessed in terms of the sensitivity of the project component's EIRR to chaniges in
benefit and cost assumptions. All of the results were satisfactory.
x.   Bank performance during identification, preparation ancl appraisal of the Fourth
Railway Project was moderately satisfactory. The Fifth Railway Project was satisfactorily
identified, prepared and appraised. Both projects were consistent with the Government's
objectives, which were to increase railway transport capacity so as to sustain economic
development, and to enhance expertise needed to manage the railway's future
development. Project performance indicators, consistent with the practice in the 1980s,
were not developed with sufficient detail and specificity.
xi.  Overall, MOR's administrative performance was generally satisfactory. Civil
works were carried out according to current MOR standards and are of good quality.
Although the three locomotive and rolling stock factories participating in the Fourth
Railway Project had little institutional experience with Bank projects, relatively few
problems arose during project implementation of both projects.
xii. The overall outcome of both projects is rated as satisfactory. The objectives for the
Strategic Plan Study under the Fourth Railway Project were somewhat narrowly defined,
which made it quite easy for MOR to achieve them, although the study was intended to
help promote a broader-based dialogue between the Bank and MOR. The outcome of the
study may also have been affected by the Bank's desire to retain it in the project even
though the Beijing-Shanghai line modernization component had been postponed. The
Fifth Railway Project did not technically achieve several sub-components of the
Locomotive and Rolling Stock System-wide Component. The objectives for the five
studies under this project were more ambitious than those in the previous railway project.
This may help to explain why the objectives of the Locornotive and Rolling Stock
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study were basically not achieved.



- iv -
Summary and Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
xiii. Future operations will have to be consistent with the Chinese Government's
objectives for the transport sector. A Strategy for the Transport Sector' identified two
primary objectives. These were to: (i) enhance China's economic growth and increase its
competitiveness in world markets; and (ii) reduce income disparities between inland and
coastal provinces and rural and urban areas. Achieving these objectives will require the
Government to: (i) stimulate competition; (ii) promote development of the transport
network to alleviate capacity bottlenecks and provide capacity for economic growth; (iii)
open up isolated areas; (iv) charge for the use of infrastructure so as to cover long-term
social costs; and (v) implement institutional reform that recognizes the transport sector as
a whole, rather than as an aggregation of independent modes. Reducing the sector's
negative effects on the environment and improving its poor safety record should be a
third sector objective.
xiv. In recent years, the Bank has worked with the central and provincial govemments
and MOR to assess the institutional changes, pricing and regulatory measures needed to
stimulate a more market-responsive transport sector, based upon concepts of integrated
transport systems. The next stage, which is already underway, is to progress from
concepts to specific policies and actions, and then to their implementation.
xv. The problems identified in this ICR and new approaches taken by the Bank's
project team with respect to policy initiatives and technology are relevant to the
preparation and execution of future Bank-financed railway projects in China. The main
lessons learned from these projects are as follows:
a)    Bank management's re-assessment of the past lending strategies appears
to have had a fundamental impact on MOR's and the Bank's approach in
the Fifth Railway Project. The ICRs for the Sixth and Seventh Railway
Projects should evaluate whether the Fifth Railway Project, which was
regarded as a transitional operation, really paved the way for more
meaningful cooperation with MOR.
b)    Extensive studies proved to be a challenge to MOR. The Planning Studies
under the Fifth Railway Project were a somewhat ambitious attempt to
look at future investment requirements in a rational, system-wide context.
Although the range of achievements varied substantially, the ICRs for
subsequent projects should evaluate whether they really enhanced the
MOR's contribution to the transport sector in China.
c)    The Fourth Railway Project had three studies and two physical
components with six different locations. By contrast, the Fifth Railway
Project consisted of four physical components with nine different
China, Forward with One Spirit: A Strategy for the Transport Sector, April 23, 1998,
Report No. 15959-CHA



- v -
locations and eight studies. Both projects required a multitude of
professional skills for appraisal and supervision, which resulted in
expensive project appraisal and supervision. This may explain why the
Bank's involvement was not always adequate during implementation.
Therefore, in order for future projects to be more efficient, manageable
and cost-effective, they should consist of only a few components that are
specifically targeted to achieve the transport sector's objectives.
d)    MOR has historically been very reluctant to involve the Bank in broader
strategic planning, ostensibly because it has not wanted to spend Bank
loans on technical assistance. Some of the studies' objectives and targets
in the Fifth Railway Project were somewhat ambitious and one of the five
Planning Studies basically did not achieve its objectives. It is, therefore,
very important to receive MOR's full-hearted support and commitment
during appraisal of future projects.
e)    Future appraisals should avoid such arbitrary changes as were experienced
during the preparation of the Fourth Railway Pro ject. In addition, realistic
procurement plans, adequate estimates of local costs and implementation
schedules providing for inevitable delays are essential for successful
project implementation.
(f)   If the problem  of MOR's inadequate progress reporting cannot be
resolved, supervision of ongoing projects should focus more on collection
of information in a format conducive to the production of ICRs.






COMBINED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETICON REPORT
CHINA
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT - (LOAN 2968-CHA)
AND
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT - (LOAN 3406-CHA)
PART 1. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    As with most other centrally planned economies, China's economy is transport-intensive.
Railways, highways, inland water transport and coastal shipping are concentrated along the
eastern seaboard and serve high-intensity freight traffic. Due to rapid economic growth--
particularly after the Government adopted an open-door policy in 1978--demand for transport
outpaced the supply. This network has always been relatively small in proportion to China's
great land mass and enormous population. From 1952-1983, the sheer length of the railway
system more than doubled while that of the highway system increased nine-fold. Growth in rail
freight averaged 9 percent a year over this period, but slowed to around 4.5 percent a year after
1978, as traffic saturated existing lines and rolling stock capacity. Nevertheless, by 1983, the rail
system could not meet transport demand. Aware of these shortcomings, the Government focused
on developing the transport sector, and railways in particular, which played a critical economic
role in China by transporting coal, the main energy source, throughciut the country.
2.    The Bank first became involved in the railway sub-sector in 1984. By June 1988, three
projects had been designed to assist the Government to develop the railway network and to
enhance expertise needed to manage the railways' future developtnent. Another project, which
focused on expanding the capacity of "local railways", was also already approved when the Fifth
Railway Project was appraised.
3.    The Fourth Railway Project, approved in May 1989, had three objectives that reflected
the Government's railways' development strategy during the Seventh Five-year Plan (1986-
1990). These were to: (i) increase the capacity of key routes and terminals; (ii) enhance the
productivity of existing assets by raising the level of technology within the Ministry of Railways
(MOR), e.g. in train operations, maintenance, administration, and manufacturing; and (iii)
expand rolling stock manufacturing facilities.
4.    The project's four main components were to develop:
(a)  the double-tracking and partial electrification of the Yueshan-Xiangfan section of
the Jiaozuo-Zicheng (Jiaozhi) line in the Beijing-Guangzhou railway corridor;
(b)   the expansion and modernization of three locomotive and rolling stock factories;



- 2 -
(c)   a Strategic Plan Study of telecommunications and computerization, to be pilot-
tested on the Beijing-Shanghai railway corridor in order to improve operational
management and transoortation capacity; and
(d)   training and technical assistance needed for the factory modernization component
and the Strategic Plan Study.
5.    All four components, but especially the Strategic Plan Study, were chosen to provide a
bridge to possible sector lending. The priority given in the Strategic Plan Study towards
efficiency and modernization marked a significant departure from facility-oriented components
in previous railway loans to China. This component was designed to promote a broader-based
dialogue between the Bank and MOR.
6.    The Fifth Railway Project, approved in September 1991, had four objectives: (i) to
introduce recent developments in rail technology and maintenance and rehabilitation practices;
(ii) to develop system-wide plans and planning tools for MOR's major sub-sectors; (iii) to
develop modem planning and analytical techniques for establishing investment priorities and
tariff structure; and (iv) to add capacity where such additions were urgently needed and justified.
7.    The project included:
(a)  two system-wide components:
(i)   the introduction of recent technology and advanced materials for
maintaining and rehabilitating tracks; and
(ii)   eliminating the shortage of critically needed materials, components and
equipment for rehabilitating locomotives and rolling stock;
(b)   two capacity expansion components:
(i)   double-tracking of the 944 km Zhegan (Zhuzhou-Hangzhou) line; and
(ii)  to  expand  capacity  at  the  Xuzhou  marshalling  yards;  and
(c)   an action plan to develop and implement the Railway Traffic Costing System,
including recommendations for tariff restructuring.
In addition, the project relied heavily on five studies initiated during project preparation,
focussing on: (i) track maintenance and rehabilitation; (ii) locomotive and rolling stock
maintenance rehabilitation; (iii) an integrated system plan for electrification; (iv) an integrated
system plan for telecommunications; and (v) setting priorities for future railway investments.
8.    Project objectives were realistic, clearly articulated and consistent with the Government's
goals and the Bank's assistance strategy to develop the railway sub-sector. Planned investments
to achieve these objectives were also appropriate. While the study components in both projects



- 3 -
were somewhat complex, the other components were traditional and not too risky. As has been
the case with previous projects, implementation timing was optimistic.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9.    The Fourth and Fifth Railway Project's objectives were substantially achieved. The
railway infrastructure network was improved and expanded, resulting in increased freight and
passenger traffic. More specifically, progress towards achieving Fourth Railway project's
objectives were as follows:
Fourth Railway Project
10.   Increase the capacity of key routes and terminals: The prDject achieved this objective
by double-line tracking and partial electrification of the Yueshan-Xiangfan Line. The aim was to
substantially enhance the capacity of the railway's highest density routes and thereby increase
coal transportation south from Shanxi to the Han River at Xiangfan or to the Yangtze River at
Wuhan. The project resulted in double tracking 492 km of a single-track line and electrifying 113
km of the northern section from Yueshan to Luoyang.' Freight traffic increased from 29.3
million tons2 in 1992 to 64.8 million tons in 1998. By 2005, traffic is expected to reach a
maximum of 85.3 million tons. Passenger trips rose from 4.9 million passengers in 1992 to 10.9
million in 1998, and is expected to reach its highest level in 2005 with 17 million passengers. By
these indicators the project has successfully met its first objective.
11.   Enhance the productivity of existing technological assets: The project modernized
both the rail system's telecommunications network and the system's management of operational
information. A Strategic Plan Study was designed to develop telecommunications and
computerization to be tested on the Beijing-Shanghai railway corridor. The operating
information management part of the study analyzed a proposed Operating Information System
(OIS) and developed a Transportation Capacity Computer Modeling system. Overall, these
project objectives have been achieved with one exception (para. 15 (a) (i)).
12.   Telecommunications. The objective of the telecommunications study was to update
MOR's current telecommunications system based on such new technological developments such
as digitalization and fiber optics transmission. Specifically, the data transmission alternatives
were to be analyzed and solutions proposed. The study was successifully completed by the end of
1993, with the exception of one of the seven contracted tasks:
*    Between 1991 and 1993, the study laid the technical foundation to set up a modem
package-switching network. This covered the full cycle from design to bidding,
construction and cut-over. In 1994, all hardware for the 800 nodes under phase I of the
T Ihe above kilometer lengths were planned; the actuals are 490.8 kmn of double-tracking and 123.1 kmn of
electrification.
2 The SAR referred to traffic of 15.9 million tons of freight between Jiyuan and Luoyang, and 25.4 million tons
between Luoyang and Baofeng and six daily pairs of passenger trains in 1985 (para. 3.5).



-4 -
X.25 project was installed, and ready to be used for TMIS. Phase II is now underway,
and is designed to further enhance the system's capacity.
*    Staff training overseas and in China was so successful that those trained are now the
backbone staff for the expansion and application of TMIS.
*    The system master plan for telecommunications development elaborated through this
project began to be implemented in 1995.
13.   Operating Informnation System (01). The objective of the data processing strategic plan
was to develop a computer-based operating information system for MOR. The system uses a
real-time, integrated data base that can be used by MOR operating management at all levels to
monitor and execute transportation and other operating plans--including rolling stock
maintenance activities. With approval by MOR of the recommendations and the overall OIS
design (software acquisition), the objective for this component was achieved in August 1993.
14.   Transportation Capacity Computer Modeling. Another objective of the operating
information management study was to demonstrate the usefulness of computer models to
evaluate the relative benefits and costs of alternative operating investments and practices. To this
end, powerful computer models were introduced which permitted MOR study teams to evaluate
operating practices on the Beijing-Shanghai railway corridor. The Govermment hoped to increase
the capacity of this line as much as possible over the next five years. At negotiations, an
agreement was reached on the action plan to evaluate improvement measures on the Beijing-
Shanghai railway corridor.
15.  In 1991, the MOR acquired five computer software programs called "Program of the Line
Transportation Capacity Analysis Models." Three of the programs were successfully modified to
suit Chinese circumstances. On the other hand, two programs proved to be of very limited value
because they were written in APL/2, a software language rarely used in China. Nevertheless, the
objective of demonstrating the usefulness of computer models to help evaluate the relative
benefits and costs of alternative operating investments and practices was achieved.
16.   Expand rolling stock manufacturing facilities: Accordingly, the project focused on the
expansion and modernization of three locomotive and rolling stock factories. High-precision
machine tools were introduced that reduced or eliminated quality-control problems in the new
locomotives, coaches and freight wagons. This step alone significantly reduced fuel consumption
and maintenance costs for new locomotives and other rolling stock.
17.   The three factories assisted through the project have achieved the following:
a)    The February 7 Locomotive Works (F7LW) has increased the production of
locomotives as well as improved its quality and capability to develop new or
improved products. It was expected to achieve an annual production of 30 sets of
diesel locomotives model Beijing and 70 sets of shunting locomotives model
Dongfeng 7 (DF 7) in 1990. All Bank-funded machine tools are performing to
their rated capacities. The workshop authorities have set up an expert group of
software and electronic specialists who can provide a basic level of maintenance



-5 -
for the new computerized controlled machines. In this instance, project objectives
have been achieved, albeit 5 years later than planned.
b)    The Sifang Locomotive and Rolling Stock Works (SLRSW) had the following
objectives: (i) to enable SLRSW to produce 800 coaches and overhaul 100
annually by 1992, (ii) to increase locomotive production to 150 units annually by
1994, and (iii) to achieve quality improvements leading to lower fleet
maintenance and operating costs.
(i)   Coaches: While the coach factory modernization program was underway,
MOR introduced a more modern coach type YW25, for which the plant
capacity was now 600 coaches. As the design of the new coach was more
complex than the YW22 coach, conversion facto]rs were used to calculate the
achievement of targets. For 1995, the result was 864 sets based on 1.66 as
average of the revised factors. In addition, SLRSW overhauled 120 coaches in
1993 and 117 coaches in 1994. Since both average conversion factors are in line
the assessment of the Bank mission, and the production and overhaul targets set
at appraisal were met.3 the objective for coaches has been achieved.
(ii)  Locomotive Procduictioni: The objective of increasing locomotive production to
150 units annually by 1994 was in its literal sense not achieved. In April 1988,
MOR unilaterally lowered the production target to 100 units, citing actual
transportation needs. MOR's decision went undetected by the Bank for a
period of about six years. Plant capacity, however, was nevertheless assessed
by a supervision mission in 1995 as being far in excess of the capacity of 100
locomotives per year now approved by MOR. Indeed, in 1995 the Sifang
Works manufactured 122 locomotives.
(iii)  Produict quality, imtiprovements: The production quality of coaches and
locomotives has improved substantially due to plant modernization and the
use of such new materials as corrosion proof steel and fiberglass reinforced
plastic. Maintenance costs per locomotive were brought down from Yuan
500,000 to Yuan 80,000; and "warranty" repairs fell to insignificant numbers.
To the extent that plant capacity was assessed as far in excess of the
production capacity this objective has been substantially achieved.
c)    Qiqihar Rolling Stock Works (QRSW). Production targets at this factory
included: (i) increasing the manufacturing capacity to 9000 freight wagons per
year; (ii) improving freight wagon overhaul periodicity from the present five
years to an interval of 7 to 10 years with special emphasis on anti-corrosion
measures; and (iii) providing skill upgrading, especially to operate the new
equipment being procured as a part of this project component. The project was
also to address questions of process engineering and pollution control.
3 For reason of greater efficiency MOR re-directed coach overhauls to other factories from 1995 onwards.



- 6 -
(i) Manufacturing capacity: The objective of increasing freight wagon production
output to 9,000 units annually was not achieved, because in 1995 MOR used a
market forecast to set an annual production guideline of only 8,000 wagons for
QRSW. Production figures show a maximum of 8,562 freight wagons were
produced in 1994, followed by 7,777 wagons in 1995, 8,192 wagons in 1996
and 8,190 wagons in 1997.
(ii) Freight wagon overhaul periodicity: The objective of increasing this from five
years to an interval of 7 -10 years with special emphasis on anti-corrosion
measures was achieved. A freight wagon overhaul interval of nine years was
reached in 1995. In addition to better production methods and materials, a
contributing factor was MOR's policy of conducting more intensive repairs. As
a result, overhaul capacity increased from 1,900 wagons in 1987 to 3,600
wagons in 1995, and has remained on the same level since 1995.
(iii) Skills upgradinzg: Sufficient training and technical assistance was provided to
achieve this objective-particularly to operate the newly purchased equipment.
18.   Based on the fact that sufficient technical assistance and training was provided to upgrade
skills, specially to operate the new equipment procured, it is judged that the sub-components
objectives have also been substantially achieved.
19.   Technical Assistance and Training. A program to educate staff in new technology and
management was included in the Strategic Plan Study and the Factory Modernization
components. Factory Modernization was also supported through the financing of visits by
Chinese technicians to similar plants abroad, and by visits of foreign experts to factories in
China. Retraining of staff whose skills became redundant after modemization was financed
domestically.
20.   The technical assistance and training objectives were--with one exception--achieved. The
MOR believed that the 12 person-months of international technical assistance contracted for the
Operating Information System was sufficient. Evidently, the need for foreign assistance in this
area was over-estimated at appraisal. A five-member team was trained to work on Transportation
Capacity Computer Modeling. Of those, only the single staff member from CARS is still
working on this type of computer modeling. Therefore, this objective has been only partially
achieved.
Fifth Railway Project
21.   Introduction of new rail technology, maintenance and rehabilitation practices to
enhance efficiency and capacity: To achieve this objective, MOR formulated with Bank
assistance a system-wide component for regular investments in track maintenance machines.
Enhancing MOR's long-range track upgrading program would permit an increase in the existing
maximum speed of passenger trains from 120 km/h to 140 km/h. The maximum speed for freight
trains would rise from 70 km/h to 80 km/h, and the axle load for freight wagons would increase
from 21 tons to 23 tons and eventually to 25 tons. The Bank's financial contribution focused on
the purchase of on-track machinery to install and maintain the rails, sleepers, fastenings and



- 7 -
imported switch components to observe their performance and evaluate the higher quality
materials and mechanized practices. Hard rails were installed on selected high-density curved
line sections totaling 500 km of track including installation of imported concrete sleepers and
fastenings on a 5-km test section.
22.   Following a study's recommendations (para. 44), MOR organized track maintenance
machine groups. Each of these maintenance groups came equippec[ with 2 tamping machines, I
ballast regulator, and 1 track stabilizer. Similarly, track rehabilitation teams were equipped with
2 ballast cleaners, 2 one-tie tamping machines, I two-tie tamping; machine, lballast regulator,
and I track stabilizer. The purchase of the track machines enabled MIOR to set up 3 maintenance
and 3 rehabilitation groups of a current total of 37 maintenance and 13 rehabilitation personnel.
Some 487 km of hard rails were installed in 37 small curved track sections on heavy traffic lines.
Subsequently, MOR's long-range track rehabilitation and upgrading program showed remarkable
progress. Therefore, the component's objective under this project has been fully achieved.
23.   Improvement in the Rehabilitation of Locomotives and ]Rolling Stock: This involved
three components: i) the alleviation of shortages in wheels for passenger coaches and freight
wagons; ii) a systematic diagnosis of maintenance problems; and iii) the preparation of action
plans for their long-term solutions (paras. 37 to 39).
24.   Specific objectives included: (1) the provision of 4000 wheel sets which would restore to
service at least 200 passenger coaches and 1500 freight wagons awaiting wheel replacements; (2)
to achieve an availability rate of 82 percent for the imported diesel and electric locomotives; and
(3) to increase the overhaul capacity of the Shenyang Loco Works from 72 DFHI/2/5 diesel
locomotives per year to 150 locomotives annually; 4) to increase the production capacity of the
Shenyang Spare Part Works to manufacture 20,000 air brake sets of a new design per year; 5) to
increase the overhaul capacity of the Lanzhou Loco Works from 72 diesel locomotives per year
to 150 locomotives annually; 6) and to increase the production capacity of the Puzhen Works,
Roller Bearing Section to manufacture 35,000 sets of roller bearings of a new integral cage
design. Taken together, all of these actions were designed to bring a qualitative change in the
manufacturing processes.
25.   (1) Wheel sub-component. Orders had been placed for forged wheels (10,000 t, delivered
as 26,179 pieces) and cast wheels (8,000 t and 10,000 t, delivered as 47,264 pieces in total) in
November 1993 and March 1994 respectively, and delivered ten co fourteen months later. The
wheel inputs achieved the objectives stated in para. 24 by using the cast wheels for new gondola
wagons type 63A with 60 tons capacity, which were then operated as coal wagons on the
Datong-Qinhuangdao line. The forged wheels were used in coaches of a new design, the
improved type 25 G.
26.   (2) Locomotive sub-component. About US$8 million of the US$10 million earmarked
for critical components were used for maintenance of diesels locomotives and the balance for
electric locomotives. The last deliveries were made in November 1994. The objective to reach an
82 percent availability of imported diesel and electric locomotives (para. 24, item 2) was
achieved in 1995 and the years thereafter.



- 8 -
27.   Workshops and depots sub-component.
(3) Shenyang Locomotive Works. The objective to increase the overhaul capacity from
72 DFH1/2/5 diesel locomotives per year to 150 locomotives annually (para. 24, item 3)
was, in its literal sense, not achieved. During project implementation (at the end of 1992),
MOR revised the annual periodic overhaul targets from the project target of 150
locomotives down to 60 locomotives of DFH3 type. While acknowledging that the SAR
does state the higher capacity, MOR justified the downward revision by citing a change
in the nature of the workload. Simply put, the newer locomotives were able to run for
longer intervals between maintenance overhauls. The explanation is reasonable. Installed
capacity is actually higher than the revised periodic overhaul target because of the
additional inputs provided by the project. Quality of output has been increased
substantially. Overhaul intervals were extended from 510,000 to 630,000 km depending
on the type of locomotive to 700,000 to 900,000 km, thus reducing maintenance costs. In
addition, the locomotives' repair time in workshops was shortened.
(4) Shenyang Spare Part Works. Implementation was scheduled for completion by the
end of 1994. Delay in procurement and a long testing and acceptance phase for
sophisticated machinery sets prevented the sub-component to become fully operational
before May 1996. Once on stream, however, this spare-parts factory produced 22,000 air
brake sets of the new design, thus over-achieving the project objective of 20,000 sets
stated in para. 24, item 4. Actual production in 1997 was 20,026 sets. In addition, quality
was improved to such a level, that the works passed the ISO 9001 standard in September
1997, which is higher than the standard set by MOR.
(5) Lanzhou Locomotive Works. The objective here was to increase the overhaul
capacity from 72 diesel locomotives per year to 150 locomotives annually (para. 24, item
5). This goal was in its literal sense not achieved. As for the Shenyang Locomotive
Works, MOR revised the annual periodic overhaul targets downwards at the end of 1992.
After delivery and acceptance of the machines and equipment in November 1994, 50
locomotives should have been overhauled in 1994 according to phase I of the plan, and
150 Locomotives per year beginning in 1996 in a phase II. During 1994, 60 DF4
locomotives were actually overhauled, 84 in 1995, 102 in 1996, 130 in 1997, and 127
locomotives in 1998. Thus, the works' capacity has been increased substantially by the
Bank funded machines and equipment..
(6) Puzhen Works. All Bank funded machines were delivered by the end of 1994 and
became operational by the end of February 1995. Implementation was on schedule and
the plant was to produce 24,000 sets of roller bearings of new design by mid 1995 and
35,000 sets in 1996. The target for 1996 (para. 24, item 6) was already achieved in 1995
with the production of 36,018 sets. In 1998, 42,188 sets were manufactured.
28.   Expansion of the Zhegan Line Capacity: One of the project's aims was to add capacity
where such additions were urgently needed and justified. In the light of the rapid growth in
traffic, the Government's investment in railways had been inadequate. Much investment had
been in large projects such as construction of new lines, conversion of motive power from steam
to diesel and electric, expansion of large marshalling yards, and new facilities for manufacturing



- 9 -
and equipment maintenance. While these programs helped MOR carry more traffic, achievement
of the rapid rate of traffic growth was possible only because of more intense utilization of
existing infrastructure. Consequently, much of the existing infrastructure was used at its
capacity. Capacity of the Zhegan line had gradually been expanded, mainly by double-tracking
several sections and by expanding facilities at stations to handle longer trains. The double-
tracking started during the Seventh Five-year Plan and covered the sections with the most serious
bottlenecks. Bank assistance to MOR to complete double-tracking of the 944-km Zhegan line
was instrumental in achieving the objective of capacity expansion. Work involved the doubling
of the remaining 594km, including the replacement of a 2.6-km single-track bridge over the Gan
River with a double-track bridge at a new location to provide better clearance for ships.
Operations on the new sections began in December 1995, but subsequent installations of
operational and telecommunications equipment are expected to be completed by March 1999
(para. 95). The results are dramatic: freight traffic increased from 64.4 million tons4 in 1991, to
136.4 million tons in 1998. By 2005, traffic is expected to reach a maximum of 145.2 million
tons. Passenger trips rose from 51.2 million passengers in 1991 to 71.5 million in 1998, and is
expected to reach its highest level in 2005 with 76.7 million passengers.
29.   Expansion of the Xuzhou Terminal. Located at the junction of major trunk lines in
Jiangsu province, this terninal was already in the midst of a multistage expansion program
dating back to 1986. To assist MOR in its capacity expansion program, the Bank's contribution
focused on high technology. Specifically, this took the form of a computer-aided dispatching
system, including a Yard Inforrnation System (YIS). Also included in this package was
automation equipment for the marshalling yard, modernization of operational management
including appropriate communications equipment, and the pilot testing of high-speed switches
for marshalling yards. The component was successfully completed with the hand-over of the
operating system for the whole terminal and the adjacent northern (98km) and the southem (56
km) line sections on December 10, 1998. The systems are functioning well thus achieving the
objective of expanding the capacity of the terminal through improved operations.
30.   Planning Studies. In order to help MOR to deal better wvith system-wide issues that
affected the quantity and quality of its services, five studies were scheduled to be carried out by
teams composed of MOR staff supported by external specialists. The achievement of their
objectives varied substantially as explained below.
31.   Permanent Way Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study. The objective of the study was to
undertake a comprehensive review of track rehabilitation and maintenance standards. Also
studied were methods to help MOR develop a technically and economically optimal program. A
research program involved the following four principal tasks: (a) general investigation and
analysis of track rehabilitation and maintenance standards and procedures at home and abroad;
(b) dynamic measures and tests, both on the test track and in the field; (c) tests to be conducted
using the Chinese Track Dynamic Test Laboratory; and (d) comprehensive high-volume
durability tests.
4 The SAR's reference (para. 3.13) to a traffic of up to 30 million tons of freight and 13 to 22 daily pairs of
passenger trains on different sections of the line in presumably 1991 could not be substantiated for the economic
evaluation.



- 10-
32.   With the submission of the study report to the Bank in April 1992 the objective of task
(a) was achieved. The Bank judged the report as well done and very detailed, and supported its
action plan to achieve five objectives critical for MOR. These included: (i) expedite track
rehabilitation and augment structural strength; (ii) complete a "soft research project"; (iii) install
heavy on-track machines; (iv) undertake a research program; and (v) set up a Permanent Way
Equipment Center at MOR. The research program was to include two test sections on which
different track component designs and maintenance practices and management standards were to
be tested. Foreign consultants' experience, however, was not reflected in the study report. A visit
abroad in 1998 to study maintenance practices under conditions of heavy axle load combined
with heavy traffic and freight train speeds of 80 km/h and passenger train speeds of 160 km/h
rectified the earlier deficiency. With this, the study objective was fully achieved, albeit much
later than planned.
33.   Tasks (para. 39, (b) and (c)) were to test the wear of foreign and local materials such as
head hardened rails and 60 kg/m rails under 21 ton and 25 ton axle loads in the field and the
Chinese Track Dynamic Test Laboratory. Fatigue tests were applied to imported switch
components, and track sections under traffic were measured for changes of gauge, profile,
alignment, cross-level and twist.
34.   Comprehensive high-volume durability tests dealing with the reactions between rolling
stock and track, task (d) of the study, were also combined with "tests in Chinese Track Dynamic
Laboratory" in September 1995. In order to improve the depth of research, "computer simulation
analysis" was changed from "two-dimensional" to "three-dimensional" testing thereby delaying
completion of the activities.
35.   The study did not establish target dates for the numerous recommendations to be made.
During project supervision, however, they were provided upon the Bank's request. Most of the
test due dates were in 1998. A report evaluating the test results and presenting recommendations
is under preparation and expected to be completed by June 1999. It is, therefore, not yet clear
whether the test objectives for tasks (b), (c) and (d) have been achieved.
36.   One of the most important outcomes of the study was the recommendation to establish
track maintenance machine groups in eight of the twelve (at that time) railway administrations
covering 30,000 km of main line track with 30 million tons of traffic per year. Since 1992,
however, traffic grew to such an extent that all administrations now have line exceeding the 30
million per year mark adding up to 45,000 km by the year 2000. Therefore, MOR found it
necessary to provide each administration with at least one set of machines. Because of the
creation of the Nanchang and Kunming administrations, depots with some equipment were
installed in Nanchang at the end of 1997, and in Kunming in 1998. The rehabilitation machine
groups were created in six regional administrations. By the end of 1998, 37 track maintenance
and 13 track rehabilitation groups were established.
37.   Locomotive and Rolling Stock Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study. The objective of
the study was to prepare action plans to optimize the maintenance, reliability, availability and
utilization of diesel locomotives and rolling stock. Specifically, the objectives were to enable
MOR to:



- 11 -
a)    reduce the total amount of time required for repairs, including periodic and
routine repairs (Part I);
b)    improve its overall maintenance system, regulations, planning, facilities, methods
and procedures; apply the most economic methods so as to increase repair
efficiency and quality (Part II); and
c)    provide a basis for future levels of expenditures required for maintenance and
rehabilitation of locomotives and rolling stock assets (for years 1991-1995 in
detail and indicated levels for 1995-2000).
38.   The scope of work was divided into ten short-term studies and seven long-term studies.
In view of the diversity in stock and severity of maintenance problems, MOR decided to
concentrate first on studies related to diesel locomotives. Attention thereafter was to focus on
coaches and wagons.
39.   The study report, which was delivered on time in April 1992, constituted the final report
for the ten short-term studies. It left much to be desired and was, therefore revised in October
1992. The technical content needed to be improved and the report lacked a specific action plan.
Following Bank advice, the revised report focused on the DF-4 locomotive only, but MOR was
also supposed to indicate which type of locomotive or rolling stock would be next in line after
the DF-4 locomotive program. After completion of the Short Term Plan, MOR dismissed the
study team in December 1993. Subsequently, nobody was delegated to implement the action plan
for the DF-4 locomotives. The Long Term Plan was never developed. Apparently, its draft action
plan faced internal difficulties. During the ICR mission, MOR claimed that the study's range was
too ambitious, covering the whole railway network, substantial reforms as well as changes of
maintenance practices and workshop layouts. The study's objectives were basically not achieved.
40.   System Electrification Study. The objective5 of the study vvas to prepare plans for the
electrification of railway lines for the 8th Five Year Plan. The final selection of candidate lines
for electrification was to be determined on the basis of economic priorities and optimal timing of
investments.
41.   The specific objectives of the study were to:
a)    provide a basis for possible future lending operations involving the World Bank
and other financing sources;
b)    identify the items required for electrification that require foreign exchange either
because they are only available from abroad or because local supplies are
inadequate; and
c)    address technical issues related to design, operation and maintenance of
electrification projects.
5  SAR Fifth Railway Project, para. 3.21.



- 12 -
42.   The study report was very detailed and satisfactory to the Bank. Acceptable methodology
and technical design assumptions were used for each of the ten lines targeted for electrification.
EIRRs for each of the lines provided a suitable ranking for future MOR activities. Annual cash
flows properly reflected: (a) the year-to-year timing of initial investments in electrification
infrastructure and electric locomotives; (b) the year-to-year timing of the initial savings in
investment in diesel locomotives and rolling stock at the beginning of the assumed 25 year life of
the project; (c) the annual net operating cost savings up to full capacity utilization; and (d) the
incremental effects of extending an existing electrification to adjacent lines. With this study
report the specific objectives were fully achieved.
43.   System  Telecommunication Study. MOR intended to install a telecommunications
network to meet data communications needs for four principal users: a Transport Management
Informnation System; electronic mail; off-line management information system; and a passenger
seat reservation system. Under the Fourth Railway Project, a package-switching network for
MOR's "backbone" telecommunications network was studied. The System Telecommunication
Study was a continuation of MOR's efforts to modernize its telecommunications infrastructure.
44.   The objective of the study was to prepare a long-range plan for modernization and
expanding MOR's telecommunications network including facilities for voice, data, radio,
facsimile, and teleconferencing. Users of the system would include not only railway personnel,
but also individuals associated with such ancillary activities as factories, universities and other
schools, hospitals, various support activities, and MOR staff and families (particularly in isolated
locations not served by public telecommunications services).
45.   The specific objectives of the study were to:
a)    provide a basis for possible future lending operations involving the World Bank
and other financing sources;
b)    identify the items required for telecommunication that require foreign exchange
either because they are only available from abroad or because local supplies are
inadequate; and
c)    address technical issues related to design, operation and maintenance of
telecommunication projects.
46.   With the submission of a long term technical plan (Report A) and a short and medium
term implementation plan (Report B) the objectives of the study were fully achieved. The Bank
review of these reports acknowledged that a major task had been completed and concluded that
the study Report B was very useful for the proposed Sixth Railway Project. It contained a very
specific program, a detailed schedule and cost estimates for investments in the years 1993-1997.
These investments included upgrading the transmission, telephone exchange, data
communication, video conference networks, and mobile communication facilities. One of the
main study objectives - to assist in the preparation of the next project - was achieved. But both
reports needed further improvement to achieve the second objective. MOR also evidently needed
further assistance in developing a long term strategy in telecommunications by defining the short
and medium term plan (Report B) and the long term technical plan (Report A). The Bank,



- 13 -
therefore, recommended that both reports be treated as MOR's Telecommunications Master Plan
(TMP).
47.   Railway Investment Study (RIS). The primary objective was to develop and implement a
computer-based analysis system, within which the following specific objectives were identified:
a)   preparation of economic evaluations of critical investment alternatives for
expanding railway capacity;
b)   identification of expenditures which might expand capacity of 8th Five-year
Plan and more broadly of the 9t" and later Five-year Plans;
c)   comparison of capital investment alternatives, particularly for additions to
capacity;
d)   improvement of traffic forecast accuracy;
e)   estimates of quantitative and credible economic benefits for each type of
investment alternative; and
f)   identification of specific changes in operating practices with potential for
operating cost savings and energy conservation.
48.   The RIS achieved its objectives by developing a decision support system of traffic
forecasting, performance, network optimization, benefit/cost, and geographic information system
models. The February, 1993 Gray Cover Report, Chlinla's Railway Strategy (Report No. 10592-
CHA) summarized the achievement of all six of RIS's original objectives. The first and third
objectives-evaluation of critical investment alternatives, and comparison of capital investment
altematives-were closely linked. As a result, it became clear that ii: made good economic sense
to shift some investment in the original MOR investment program away from new line
construction and towards double-tracking, electrification, and new locomotives and wagons.
Electrification and double-tracking have lower unit costs of capacity expansion, while increasing
rolling stock would make use of underutilized existing lines.
49.   The second and fifth objectives-identification and justification of capacity expansion
expenditures, and estimation of economic benefits-were much more targeted. The RIS also
helped to identify ways of minimizing costs (investment costs + operating costs + costs of
unsatisfied demand) across a wide range of projects. Two optimal sets of projects were designed,
one for a low 6 percent GNP growth forecast, and one for a high 8.9 percent forecast. Economic
benefit/cost ratios were calculated for 16 individual projects within the optimal sets. The report
found that "the RIS methodology may help MOR design a railway network that offers 23 or 27
percent more traffic carrying capacity"6 for the same level of budget. About 10 percent of the 23
to 27 percent throughput gain would be due to optimization of the scale, location, and timing of
investments. Another 10 percent of the throughput gain could be attributed to improved train
routing. The RIS "traffic assignment" methodology provided a powerful tool to coordinate
6 China 's Railvay StrateD' (Report No. 10592-CHA), page 23.



- 14 -
simultaneously among multiple routing options for tens of thousands of origin-destination pairs.
Needless to say, optimal traffic assignment was impossible without computerization.
50.   The fourth objective-improved traffic forecasting-was achieved by developing a
traffic forecasting module that predicted inter-zonal and intra-zonal freight traffic for coal and
non-coal freight. The systematic nature of the methods introduced by the RIS was a significant
improvement over past methods used by MOR. With this, the objectives of what later was to be
called Phase 1 were achieved.
51.   Technical Assistance and Training. The project did not provide for any specific
technical assistance and training except for the YIS sub-component of the Xuzhou terminal.
During the period of project identification, US$200,000 was allocated for consultant services and
training. The five planning studies (para. 38) were taken out of the project after negotiations
because they are now financed from funds in the ongoing Second Railway Project and Japanese
Grant Facility Funds (para. 87).
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Fourth Railway Project
52.   The Board approved this project on March 15, 1988, and the loan became effective on
March 27, 1989.
53.   From the start, implementation proceeded with impressive speed due to advanced
preparation of procurement documents at Board presentation. This raised expectations that the
project could be completed by the target date of December 1996. By mid 1995, commitments
against the loan total of US$200 million had risen to US$197 million. The remainder was to be
used for two crankshaft grinding machines procured together under the Fourth and the Fifth
Railway Projects. A substantial delay in delivering the machines required two extensions of the
Loan Closing Date.
54.   The project was finally completed with the delivery and acceptance of the delayed
crankshaft grinders in March 1998, resulting in an overall project completion delay of two and a
quarter years. The planned project implementation time-a specific implementation schedule
was not included in the SAR-was, however, much more realistic than in previous projects.
55.   Yueshan-Xiangfan Line Double-Tracking and Partial Electrification. This project
component involved doubling or upgrading of 490.8 km of track of which 123.1 km was to be
electrified. The associated works included tunneling, new bridges, changing to heavier rails and
improving track structure, communication and signaling. Work had already begun in 1987, while
the project was still under appraisal.
56.   The partial electrification of the line was completed in December 1995 and double-
tracking by the end of January 1996. Electrical power, however, was not supplied by the Henan
Provincial Power Department in time, and, therefore, trains on the electrified line section were
hauled by diesel locomotive until April 4, 1997. The economic benefits of electrification were
nevertheless achieved with a delay of 15 months.



- 15-
57.   Originally, work was to be completed by the end of 1995. The delay in project
completion was caused by two main factors:
a)    The alignment of the Longmen tunnel to avoid damage to a famous Buddhist
temple. Three alternatives were considered for the alignment of the second track,
20 km away, 5 km away and immediately adjacent to the existing line. The
Ministry of Arts was afraid that a railway line toc close to the temple might
damage this national treasure, even though seismic research suggested otherwise.
The dispute with local authorities delayed work on the tunnel by two years.
b)    A change of the construction schedule of the Yueshan-Laoyang section was
required when delays were encountered in the newly built Houma-Yueshan line.
Electrical power supply for both lines was designed as one integral system, thus
permitting the use of electric locomotives only after construction completion of
both lines.
58.   The installation of a remote control facility for the electric sub-stations and the
construction of housing for staff, 6 underpasses for cars and 8 flood culvert, and water supply for
19 stations, was completed by the end of 1997.
59.   Expansion and Modernization of Three Locomotive and Rolling Stock Factories. The
Bank's assistance focused on the provision of modern machine tools, instruments and training.
Local investments for plant modification and expansion were initiated as far back as 1987, while
Bank funding was planned for the years 1988 to 1991. The individual amounts were:
* February 7 Locomotive Works - US$7 million;
* Sifang Locomotive and Rolling Stock Works - US$15 million;
* Qiqihar Rolling Stock Works - US$15 million.
60.   Planned implementation, identifiable in the SAR only through the years of investment
allocation, commenced in September 1988 and ran through:
* December 1991 for the February 7 Locomotive Works;
* December 1992 for the coach system and - according to information from MOR - to
* December 1994 for the locomotive system for the Sifang Locomotive and Rolling
Stock Works; and
* December 1991 for the Qiqihar Rolling Stock Works.
61.   Start-up, however, was delayed until May 1989 due to late effectiveness of the loan.
Concerns over higher than estimated bid prices and technical difficulties during bid evaluation
resulted in the signing of first contracts in March 1991, except for the Qiqihar Rolling Stock
Works which signed contracts for the first lot of 11 items between October 15, 1990 and
November 20, 1990.
62.   February 7 Locomotive Works. Deliveries and installation posed no problems. With the
last "acceptance" of equipment in March 1994, this sub-component was completed and fully
operational.



- 16 -
63.   This plant's capacity was to be raised to 100 locomotives per year in 1990. In 1991,
MOR established a structural adjustment of the work's production program. One line of diesel
locomotives was discontinued, and the resulting capacity allocated to the production of shunting
locomotives model Dongfeng 7. Target capacity was set for 100 DF 7 locomotives per year, and
as a result of this project, 100 DF 7 shunting locomotives were actually produced in 1993. A
supervision mission in 1995 established the work's capacity as follows:
* Manufacture of DF 7 shunting locomotives - 100 for MOR and 10 for others;
* Manufacture of diesel engines - 130 (110 for locomotives and 20 as spares);
* Supply of spare parts for repair of 150 diesel locomotives at Luoyang; and
*  Supply of spare parts for diesel locomotives model Beijing and shuLnting locomotives
model Dongfeng 7.
64.   In 1995, F7LW  instituted the five-day working week thus reducing working time
substantially. In spite of this, an output of 109 locomotives was achieved in that year.
65.   The Bank-funded modemization of the February 7 Works included a new paintilng
factory, using painting and fog purifying equipmenit to improve labor conditiolls. In addition, a
new sewage treatment station was built.
66.   Sifang Locomiotive anid Rollinig Stock Works. The modernization program for the Sifang
Works focused on the production systems for locomotives and coaches. The first batch of
machine sets, with one exception, arrived between July 1991 and April 1992. These machine sets
were promptly commissioned in early 1993.
67.   The original completion dates were revised three times: first to December 1993, than to
March 31, 1994 for the new coach facility and to June 30, 1994 for the modemization of the
existing locomotive works. The third targets were set for March 1995 for the coach works and
December 1994 for the locomotive works. A gantry type machine center, which was part of the
first batch, suffered quality problems. Sifang's engineers themselves finally overcame these
problems and integrated the machine center into the production process in May 1995. Similar
installation problems were encountered with two other machine sets, delaying their
commissioning until August 1995.
68.   Overall, the sub-component's completion was delayed by either one year - accepting
MOR's account - or two years usinig the investment schedule of the SAR as guidance. The delay
was primarily caused by the need to move the Bogie Shop to the new coach manufacturing
facility, a distance of about 40 km. At the urging of the Bank, MOR's management made this a
priority at the highest level, and by the end of 1993, the shop was moved. By the end of 1994, the
modernization program for the locomotive shop was completed. However, as the local funds for
the modernization of the forge and foundry shops has not been made available, a shortfall of
various components is still being met by outside suppliers. Technically, the locomotive shop was
fully operational by 1994. MOR did rationalize the locomotive and coach repair activities, which
were seized in 1994 and 1995 respectively. From then onwards, Sifang Works was to confine
itself only to the manufacture of new DF 5 locomotives and coaches.
69.   While the Bank funded modernization of the Sifang Works took place, two water
treatment stations, one each for the locomotive and coach systems, were built. Other pollution



- 17-
control measures funded locally addressed the problem of smoke control for the plants' coal
boilers.
70.   Qiqihar Rolling Stock Works (QRSW) is the largest freight wagon factory in China. It
manufactures a variety of freight wagons, as well as air brake equipment, wheel sets, bogie
components and couplers. Many of these wagons, however, suffered from corrosion due to
inferior painting and metal preservation. Bank funding was budgeted at US$15 million for the
critical machines necessary to solve this problem. The machines were delivered from December
1991 to early 1994, and they were placed into operation in August '1994. A second procurement
lot-instruments valued about US$784,000-were purchased between August 1992 and April
1993.
71.   The sub-component's completion originally scheduled tor the end of 1991 was
rescheduled four times. The problem, which had been anticipated and addressed by various
missions, was a delay in the commissioning of the production line f7or a finishing machine used
to mount axles and wheels in the wheel shop. The line should have been commissioned in June
1993. Delivery of an imported axle journal grinder was delayed by 10 months because of a
design change. At the same time, delivery of two domestic machines for the line was delayed by
13 months. After installation, the imported machine failed and problems arose with the
integration of this machine with the domestic-made material handling system. Test running at
low production capacity started September 1995, and the system was finally accepted in
February 1996, although the efficiency of the axle journal grinder did not fully satisfy the
production line capacity requirement. Nevertheless, productien quality has improved,
productivity has gone up and costs have been relatively contained.
72.   Three machines were not purchased, either because the offers did not meet technical
specifications or because management decided that such a technically complicated machine was
not needed for the production of freight wagons. Instead, management purchased simpler
domestic equipment to do the same job.
73.   The Bank funded modernization of the Qiqihar Works resulted in pollution reduction due
to the use of the newly purchased machine sets. Environmental improvements were achieved in
terms of dust, noise and gas emission in the steel preservation lines and better paint filtering in
the wagon painting shop.
74.   Strategic Plan Study. This study was intended to be replicated elsewhere on other major
railway lines in the country. At negotiations, agreement was reached to test and evaluate
improvement measures on the Beijing-Shanghai line. The study vas to be carried out by a
project team (MOR staff) in collaboration with foreign experts where appropriate.
75.   Telecommunications. The scope of the study included:
a) a general overview of the existing network operated by MOR and, if possible, the
Ministry of Post and Telecommunications, and an analysis of the constraints
associated with the use of both networks;
b) traffic analyses and demand projections of communication requirements for 5 and 10
years;



- 18-
c) a review of technological trends in voice and non-voice communications;
d) the formulation of overall system design principles;
e) the elements of technical plans;
f) a comparison of system architecture alternatives;
g) the principles of procurement policy;
h) a separate study to identify the optimal data transmission network for MOR by
analyzing options; and
i) a detailed cost comparison of alternative telecommunications approaches on the
Beijing-Shanghai railway corridor.
76.   MOR's goal was to establish a data communication network. Such technology was new
to MOR, and in order to understand fully its potential, MOR staff needed to compare network
systems from France, Germany and North America. Consequently, system evaluation took much
longer than planned. More than two years later than planned at appraisal, the technical service
contract was signed in January 1991 with Canadian/US consultants totaling US$499,900
financed from PHRD funds.
77.   Of the seven items, six were completed by December 1993. One item was a study of the
X.25 project. Its team began in early 1992 preparing technical specifications for procurement.
This was followed by pilot testing of the X.25 project at the end of 1994. The latter was said to
have been funded under the Second and Third Railway Projects. Part (i) of the study, the detailed
cost comparison of alternative telecommunications approaches on the Beijing-Shanghai railway
corridor was not carried out. According to MOR telecommunications staff, this task was
included in the Beijing-Shanghai Corridor study funded by Canadian International Development
Agency.
78.   The last task under the Telecommunications Study was the commissioning and trial
evaluation of a package-switching network. This required the availability of an IBM mainframe
computer, purchased for TMIS under the Sixth Railway Project. Due to a delivery delay of two
years, the consultants team returned home, and the seventh task was postponed. When the IBM
machine was finally delivered, the consultants resumed work, and the task of evaluating a
package-switching network was completed in September 1997.
79.   Operatintg Inforination Svstem. This study re-examined the findings and conclusions
developed by a MOR working group in 1985. Comparisons were made between the projected
benefits and costs of MOR's hierarchical computer architecture with the more common approach
of building an integrated data base that would support transportation decision-making at all
levels.
80.  In August 1988, MOR formed the OIS project team. In November and December 1989,
four foreign railway companies (two European, one US and one Canadian) presented their



-19-
railway OIS to MOR. For three weeks in August 1990, five MOR staff visited three foreign
railways to study the application of the OIS. After the selection of a suitable consultant firm, a
technical team of 12 people was trained abroad for four weeks in the system architecture of
Transport Reporting and Control System (TRACS), the chosen O[S. Foreign consultants began
their work in China, in January 1992, proposing the system architecture of a Transport
Management Information System in September 1992. A formal report jointly produced by MOR
and the consultants was sent to the Bank in October 1992. The report proposed a mainframe
based information system with central databases and transactions to serve railway operations at
every level. At the same time, mini computers were installed in MOR's regional offices and
yards to enable local data processing at that level. The use of a well proven existing information
system with some modifications to meet MOR's specific requirements was regarded as feasible.
The recommendations and the overall design were examined and approved by MOR in August
1993.
81.   Transportation Capacity Computer Modeling. The scope of the study included:
a)   the analysis of existing transportation capacity of busy sections of the Beijing-
Shanghai railway corridor;
b)   the application of an existing network simulation model to evaluate various
alternatives on the Beijing-Shanghai railway corridor;
c)    a study and analysis of possible types of investments, and changes in signaling and
operating practices at various traffic levels; and
d)   the development of investment cost estimates for each of the above alternatives,
and formulation of least-cost solutions for increasing capacity of the Beijing-
Shanghai railway corridor as much as possible.
82.   In 1991, MOR acquired a software set, "Program of the Line Transportation Capacity
Analysis Models," which contains five software programs:
a)    The Personal Computer Train Performance Calculation (PCTPC) is for the
simulation of train performance with different traction weight under different
running conditions, calculation of running time, evaluation of train traction and
running characteristics.
b)    The Line Capacity Train Schedule System (LCTSS) is a management software for
train time-tables and train-working diagrams. It provides the environment for the
management of the train-working diagram.
c)    The Capacity Model (C-Model) simulates train running. It evaluates the line
passing capacity, technical line conditions, train organization modes and various
capacity expansion options.



- 20 -
d)    The Princeton Transport Network Model (PTNM) is an analytic network tool for
diagram analysis. It is used to review traffic density and to select the optimized
routes.
e)    The Automatic Blocking Model-Geograplhy (ABM-GE) compiles and optimizes
train formations.
83.   After partial modification of the first three programs by the MOR team to suit Chinese
circumstances and to enhance the analysis of scientific research, the applicability of the model
was improved. On the other hand, the applicability of the two last programs proved to be very
limited because they were written in APL/2 language which is rarely used in China, and,
therefore could not be modified. Up to now, they have not been used.
84.   In early 1995, the programs were used to study V-type windows and equipment
requirements for stations and yards on the Datong-Qinhuangdao line. As a result, the calculated
running time of trains was used to draw the train-working diagram for the line. The modified
LCTSS system can now be used not only for editing train-working diagrams and train time-
tables but also for drawing double track train-working diagrams. The program was used to
prepare train-working diagrams for increased speeds and many other options on the Zhengzhou-
Wuhan and the Shenyang-Shanghai Guan lines. The C-Model was used for the analysis of: (i)
the saturated capacity of two single line sections of the Xiangfan-Chongqing line, each about 140
km long; (ii) actual achievement of double tracking a part of a single line section and of
additional stations for train crossing and overtaking, and (iii) the effect of changing the train
operation plan in the 180 km double track section Xuzhou-Fuliji of the Beijing-Shanghai line.
85.   Technical assistance for the Beijing - Shanghai Line Capacity Study resulted in five
computer models out of which three were used in MOR's studies of line capacity since 1995.
Transport Capacity Computer Modeling has been a continuous task since 1991.
86.   Technical Assistance and Training. Training of staff in new technology and management
was included in the Factory Modernization and the Strategic Plan Study. During negotiations, a
very specific program was agreed. The technical assistance and training program totaled 366
man-months, of which 210 man-months were for training Chinese staff abroad and 156 man-
months for technical assistance by foreign experts in China.
87.   Factory Modernization. Each of the works carried out an intensive program
complementing the purchasing of the machines. 150 man-months of Chinese staff training
abroad were planned at appraisal. This training was mainly for operational and maintenance staff
for the new machines. 118 man-months were carried out. Taking into account that a few large
machine sets were not purchased, this objective has been achieved. In addition, it was planned at
appraisal that foreign experts would spend 6 man-months in China in 1989. Actually, foreign
assistance totaled 10.5 man-months from 1991 to 1994. In addition, the Qiqihar Rolling Stock
Works provided more than 1,100 man-months of training for operational and maintenance staff
for the Bank funded machines. The Sifang Locomotive and Rolling Stock Works sent staff for a
total of 96 man-months to courses in China and other factories.
88.   Strategic Plan Study. 60 man-months of Chinese staff training abroad were planned at
appraisal. Related to Telecommunications, MOR management and technical staff training was



- 21 -
extended to 90 man-weeks or about 21 man-months. US consultants provided this training on
their premises. Trained staff played important roles in designing, constructing, operating and
managing the data network. Under the Operating Information System section of the study, 15.5
man-months were carried out. In connection with the Transportation Capacity Computer
Modeling, 30 man-months of training were performed.
89.   At appraisal, it was planned that foreign experts would spend 80 man-months in China
over a period of four years to assist in the Telecommunications part of the study. Actually,
foreign assistance totaled 64 man-months from 1992 to 1997. This objective has been achieved,
although with delay and a longer than planned implemllenitation time. Foreign assistance for the
Operating Information System totaled 12 mani-miionltlhs from December 1991 to May 1992,
although it had been planned that foreigni experts would spend 40 man-mnoniths in China over a
period of two years. In connection with the Transportationi Capacity Computer Modeling, for-eign
assistance totaled 30 man-months as planned from 1991 to 1994 instead of a period of two years.
Implementation Schedule - Fifth Railway Project
90.   The Board approved the project on September 24, 1991, and the loan became effective on
January 9, 1992. Negotiations were originally planned for end-April 1990. They were, however,
seriously delayed for 13 months as an aftermath of the Tiananmen 'incidents in May/June 1989,
which affected most investment projects.
91.   Permanent Way System-wide Component. This component comprised the purchase of
on-track machinery, hard rails, sleepers and fastenings. Nearly all of the track maintenance
machines were delivered in 1993 and 1994; a track-recording car was delivered in December
1995. Five rail flaw detectors were delivered in August 1997. Test equipment for the
Professional Design Institute of MOR in Beijing was delivered in 1 993. Equipment for a sleeper
factory was delivered in 1994 to the sleeper factory in Zhuzhou (1lunan). While the machines
and the track materials were purchased some procurement problems occurred.
92.   There were some minor deviations from the agreed upon purchasing program. Originally,
MOR planned to purchase 7 gauge measuring sets. Later, MOR decided to procure only 5 sets
but bigger ones. These were delivered in 1995 and distributed to Hohhot, Zhengzhou, Jinan,
Shanghai, and Lanzhou. MOR decided after one procurement attempt not to purchase wheel
flange lubricators. MOR wanted a specific technology--lubricators with sensors that can be used
on both curves and straight-line sections of railway track-but admitted later that it actually did
not know whether such technology existed. All bidders had offered lubricators without sensors.
93.   Locomotive and Rolling Stock System-wide Component. Purchasing progress for the
three sub-components was satisfactory:
a)    The wheel sub-component was to provide a Bank loan of US$28 million for
procurement of wheels, to meet partially the shortfall in domestic production.
Orders for US$10.26 million for forged wheels (10,OOOt), had been placed in
November 1993. These wheels were delivered in September 1994. For the cast
wheels, two orders for US$8.24 million and US$10.95 million for 8,000t and
10,000t were placed with two firms. All deliveries fro;m one of the firms had been



- 22 -
made by November 1994, and the last shipment from the second firm reached
China in May 1995.
b)    The locomotive sub-component was to provide a Bank loan of US$10 million for
provision of unit exchange and spare parts for diesel and electric locomotives in
seven depots. They were delivered in 1993 and 1994.
c)    The workshops and depots sub-component was to provide a Bank loan of US$22
million for provision of critical machinery and plant at different locations, the
important sub-components being Shenyang Loco Works, Shenyang Spare Part
Works, Lanzhou Loco Works and the Puzhen Roller Bearing Section.
Implementation was scheduled to be completed by the end of 1994. A five months
of delay occurred due to late placement of some orders.
94.   Zhegan Line Capacity Expansion. By the end of 1990, 350 km of the 944-km Zhegan
(Zhuzhou-Hangzhou) line was already double-tracked. Bank assistance to MOR was divided into
three sections of the line: (a) the 322 km section from Bailutang to Xingtangbian, (b) the 567.8
km section from Xingtangbian to Laoguan, and (c) and the 52.8 km section from Laoguan to
Zhuzhou (in SAR: Laoguan - Wulidan section, 48 km). Work under this project involved the
doubling of remaining 594 km including the replacement of a 2.6-km single-tack bridge over the
Gan river with a double-track bridge at a new location to provide better clearance for ships. Civil
works started in September 1983. In the years up to 1989, progress was quite slow due to a
shortage of local funds. Construction activities ceased in March 1989 and were resumed in May
1993 with funding from this project. From then onwards, implementation progress was good.
95.   The work program included: the construction of a second track; lowering of gradients
from 10 to 12 in a thousand to 6 in a thousand; the remodeling of stations and marshalling
stations; improvement of signaling through the installation of an automatic block system;
modernization of long-distance telecommunications, especially through the laying of a fiber
optical cable and setting up 'microwave telecommunications; and the installation of hot box
detectors, computers in marshalling yards, and operational equipment (minicomputers). The old
single track Gan River bridge (Zhang Shu bridge) was completely dismantled and replaced by a
double-track bridge of 3,069 meters total length at a cost of 255,218,400 Yuan (about US$32.9
million). It was opened for traffic on June 9, 1995. Operations on all new sections began in
December 1995.
96.   At the end of 1995, it was decided to purchase a 12 core fiber optical cable instead of the
planned 8 core cable to increase telecommunication capacity. Its installation was completed in
September 1998, and most of the subsequent installation of switching equipment was completed
in March 1999. The final part of hot box detectors installation, which depends on the completion
of the new signaling system, was completed in March 1999. Compared to SAR estimate, project
work completion on the Zhegan line was more than three years late.
97.   These delays, as well as the cost increases, can be attributed to: (1) design changes
required by a switch to local technology for signaling; (2) insufficient funds in the early years,
especially from 1983 to 1985; (3) budget revisions due to inflation; and (4) the fact that work



- 23 -
time allocated was often insufficient, and traffic operations interfered more than had been
expected.
98.   Xuzhou Terminal. At appraisal, the terminal was already in the midst of a multistage
expansion program, which began in 1986. MOR completed all infrastructure works without Bank
participation. The proceeds of the loan were to be used to upgrade and modernize dispatching
and marshalling operations, and to improve communications.
99.   Capital construction (bridges, track laying and buildings) for the marshalling was
completed in September 1990 and for the passenger station by the end of 1997. The computer-
aided dispatching system was installed between September 1995 and March 1997. Trial
operations and final acceptance occurred in November 1998. The late construction of a signaling
and telecommunications tower and the subsequent installation of telecommunications equipment
affected implementation.
100.  Progress of this component was also intimately linked to progress in procurement of
operational control equipment for the computer-based Yard Information System, because it
depended on the purchase of minicomputers. Installation was scheduled to be completed between
February 1994 and September 1994. The YIS encountered delays due to a Bank recommendation
that the hardware should be acquired only after software was completed. In March 1994, the
Bank's computer expert consultant recommended that procurement of the YIS mini-computer be
delayed and re-submitted at a later date when the Transport Management Information System
(TMIS) project team under the Sixth Railway Project was able to give assurance that; (i) the
Xuzhou YIS hardware configuration was in conformance with the standardized approach for the
YIS systems within the overall TMIS design; (ii) a more definite and practical evaluation criteria
had been developed; and (iii) the maintenance approach for the Xuzhou computer was in
confornance with the planned approach for maintaining YIS computers under TMIS. In April
1994, the Bank wrote the International Tendering Company (ITC) that it had decided to
recommend a delay in procurement. The Bank finally gave approval for procurement of the YIS
system hardware in September 1994, and for the procurement of the Xuzhou sub-administration
hardware in May 1995. The sub-component was completed in November 1998 with a delay of
about four years.
101.  Planning Studies. In order to assist MOR to deal better with system-wide issues that
affected the quantity and quality of its services, five studies were to be carried out by teams
composed of MOR staff supported by external specialists. The five studies comprised:
a)    permanent way maintenance and rehabilitation;
b)   locomotive and rolling stock maintenance and rehabilitation;
c)    system electrification;
d)   system telecommunications; and
e)   railways investment evaluation and priorities, or Railway Investment Study (RIS).
102.  Reports of the four technical studies were submitted to the EBank in April 1992. Those for
Permanent Way, Electrification, and Telecommunications (Reporl B) were found satisfactory.



- 24 -
However, the Locomotive and Rolling Stock Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study Report was
unsatisfactory and MOR was, therefore, asked to revise it.
103.  Permanent Way Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study. The task of the study was to
undertake a comprehensive review of track rehabilitation and maintenance standards and
methods in order to help MOR develop a technically and economically optimal program. The
China Academy of Railway Science (CARS) and the Permanent Way Bureau of MOR carried
out the research program. It involved the following four principal tasks:
a)    general investigation and analysis of track rehabilitation and maintenance
standards and procedures at home and abroad;
b)    dyniamic measures and testing on the test track and in the field;
c)    tests to be conducted using the Chinese Track Dynamic Test Laboratory; and
(d)    comprehensive high-volume durability tests.
104.  Task (a): In 1989, the MOR study team began an extensive and in-depth investigation of
the pernanent way of China's railway network. The final report was supplemented by a schedule
for completion of study tasks during the 1992-95 period and observations on the technical visits
to Europe and North America. After lessons from foreign consultants, MOR decided in 1997 to
conduct in 1998 a fourth and last visit abroad to study additional maintenance practices.
105.  Task (b): Procurement of the imported track materials for this task (60 kg/m hardened
rails for 20 km; fastenings; concrete sleepers for 5 km; 16 turnouts (switches); and glued
insulated joints) funded by the Bank began in February 1992, immediately after loan
effectiveness. The selected test line Beijing-Tianjin, which is part of the Beijing-Shanghai
corridor, was thought to have a quite constant traffic volume of 80 million gross tons per year. A
volume of 600 million tons of traffic was regarded as necessary to evaluate the track. Tests with
the foreign materials began in November 1994, about one year later than originally planned, and
were completed by October 1998. During the same period, switch components also imported
under the Fifth Railway Project were tested in a section near Xuchang, a site on the Beijing-
Zhengzhou line. A report evaluating the test results is currently under preparation and is
expected to be completed by June 1999. Important tests related to defects and service life of rails,
sleepers, fastenings and switches, and to the long term problem of track sinking (due to
inadequate embankment soil) will require a further three years. These tests cannot be finished in
the near future because: (1) track laying with the test material was completed in November 1994
instead of the end of 1991; and (2) a decrease of the annual transport load (68.6 million gross
tons in 1997 instead of the assumed 80 million). Until the end of 1998, only about 400 million
gross tons or two thirds of the necessary total load have passed over the test materials.
106.  Task (c): The study was to conduct tests using the Chinese Track Dynamic Test
Laboratory. The October 1993 supervision mission, reported that construction of the laboratory,
which began in 1991, was completed and the continuous cycle operation ramp already in use. All
testing equipment with the exception of a few small auxiliary items had been delivered. An
extensive acceptance phase of the test equipment, and testing phase of the data acquisition,
analysis and processing system followed until the laboratory's full operation. Tests began in
September 1995 and were finished by April 1998.



- 25 -
107.  Task (d) of the study, comprehensive high-volume durability tests (task no. 8), was
combined with task no. 4 "test in Chinese track dynamic laboratory" in September 1995. Part of
the task no. 8 were 21 ton and 25 ton axle load tests to be carried out in AAR's Transport Test
Center (TTC) in Pueblo. According to CARS's management, these tests could not be carried out
at the planned time because TTC was fully occupied with own 33 ton and 36 ton axle load tests,
and CARS had its own testing capabilities since February 1994. The third reason given was to
save costs. In addition, "computer simulation analysis" dealing with the reactions between
rolling stock and track was originally planned to be carried out as "two-dimensional" tests.
CARS changed these to "three-dimensional" ones thereby delaying completion of the activities.
Activities began in November 1993 and were completed in April 1998.
108.  Locomotive and Rolling Stock Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study. From the
beginning, MOR staff had been focussing on critical items identified in the Inception Report of
January 1990 for this study, which had been sent to the Bank. The scope of work was divided
into ten short-term studies and seven long-term studies. In view of the diversity (covering diesel
and electric locomotives, and passenger coaches and freight wagons) and severity of
maintenance problems, MOR decided to concentrate first on studies related to diesel
locomotives. Attention thereafter was to focus on coaches and wagons. In November 1991, seven
high-level MOR staff visited the USA, Canada and India for 15 days to study maintenance
practices, organization and characteristics of operations.
109.  The study report, which was delivered on time in April 1992, was the final report for the
short-terrn studies. It left much to be desired, because - according to MOR - a very young
translator had been used. The resulting report was nearly incomprehensible. In addition, the
report's technical content needed improvement and the report lacked a specific action plan.
Following Bank advice, a revised report focused entirely on the DF-4 locomotive. MOR also had
to indicate which type of locomotive or rolling stock would be next in line after the DF-4
locomotive program. Preparation of similar analyses and action plans was also to begin for the
new program. The Bank also suggested that MOR consider sending a team of locomotive
maintenance officers to selected North American railway shops for training in shop layout
planning, selection of shop machinery, and design and management of a unit exchange
maintenance system.
110.  The quality of the revised report sent to the Bank in October 1992, while improved, was
still not fully satisfactory. A detailed analysis of each of the submitted studies was handed over
to MOR in form of a check list. While actions on most of the items could be started, these having
collected an adequate data base, MOR was advised to: (i) set up an adequate organization for the
duration of the studies - the strength of 37 staff was considered inadequate; (ii) translate all study
recommendations into implementation plans, and stipulate target dates; (iii) prepare and forward
the overall Master Plan for all the studies agreed to in the Inception Report; and (iv) re-submit
revised action plans with target dates for three unsatisfactory DF-4 studies items.
111.  Work on the remaining studies related to freight wagons., passenger coaches, electric
locomotives and other locomotives, was limited to a few studies, such as an evaluation of repair
technology and standardization of rules. One report given to the Bank, a revised rules manual for
freight wagons, was not done in a structured manner. Apparently, the organization assigned to
this task at that time could not cope with the studies in addition to its own regular work.



- 26 -
112.  After the completion of the Short Term Plan, MOR dismissed the study team in
December 1993 (MOR's original target date). This was in contradiction to the SAR, which
envisaged a study time up to 19957 with the effect that nobody was in charge to implement the
action plan for the DF-4 locomotives. The Long Term Plan was never developed. Apparently, its
draft action plan faced internal difficulties. MOR claimed during the ICR mission, that the
study's range was too ambitious, covering, as it did, the entire railway network.
113.  System Electrification Study. In 1989, the MOR Electrification Study Team began a
comprehensive study of ten lines proposed for electrification, including several technical
investigations as well as complete economic and financial analyses. In December 1991, a first
study group of 9 specialists in the technical and economic evaluation of electrification proposals
visited railways in France, Germany, and Sweden for 30 days to investigate operational,
maintenance, technical design and economic issues. The report submitted to the Bank in April
1992 reviewed those discussions and made several recommendations. These included: methods
of inspection and maintenance; the remote operating of substations; design principles of reverse
running on double-tracked lines and complex junctions; appropriate harmonic interference
standards and mitigation measures; desirable technical design improvements; and organizational
changes.
114.  A second group of 6 staff including a specialist from the Ministry of Energy visited the
same countries in May 1993 for 20 days focussing on electric system interference problems and
related locomotive and electric power distribution issues. The group's mission report did not lead
to a revision of the April 1992 report, but influenced the design of electric locomotives and of
protective measures against electric power interference.
115.  System Telecommunication Study. Under the Fourth Railway Project, MOR designed a
package-switching network for MOR's "backbone" telecommunications network of five
principal and 40 sub-nodes with the assistance of foreign consultants. Under this project, MOR
drafted a long term technical plan (Report A) and a short term implementation plan (Report B) to
meet all of its telecommunications needs. This plan addressed not only the need for data
communications but also for voice, facsimile, and radio. A draft Report B was provided to the
Bank in mid-1991 and the final report in October 1992. Report A arrived at the Bank in July
1992. Bank review was completed in March 1993 and concluded that both plans needed revision.
116.  The Bank recommended that a long term Telecommunications Master Plan based on this
study be prepared. MOR agreed and proposed five topics for a seminar to be held first in autumn
1993:
a)    development trends of telecommunications technology (switch, transmission,
networking - IN, ISDN, BB-ISDN, - mobile radio, and new services such as seat
reservation, e-mail, voice mail);
b)    network optimization for structure and capacity, including tools (software);
c)    operations, maintenance, administration and commercialization;
d)    benefit analysis of telecommunications networks; and
e)    any other item the Bank may recommend.
7 SAR Fifth Railway Project, para. 3.20.



- 27 -
117.  A 3-day workshop on railway telecommunications arranged by a telecommunications
expert of the Bank was held in China in October 1993. Its purpose was to:
a)   focus  on  complex  factors  influencing  the  development  of  MOR's
telecommunications system;
b)    discuss if MOR's needs are properly planned, effectively implemented and
efficiently operated so that the latest technology is economically applied; and
c)    introduce and disseminate MOR's draft Telecommunications Master Plan as a
vehicle to achieve the above-defined purpose.
118.  The workshop's 70 participants reviewed and discussed the TMP under the guidance of
foreign experts. The workshop endorsed the need for further studies and Chinese experts' study
visits abroad to get acquainted with the latest developments in the rapidly changing field of
telecommunications technology. The draft TMP, a technical document aimed at facilitatipg
strategic decision making had shortcomings despite its overall usefulness. It was recommended
to augment the plan with Section and Access Networks, operations and maintenance
organization, and network management. A separate part of the Plan was to deal with reviews and
solutions for human resources management. The final TMP was used as a basis for the system-
wide telecommunications components of the Sixth and the Seventh Railway Projects.
119.  Railway Investment Study. During appraisal, RIS was already underway. Its TOR was
agreed between MOR and the Bank in February 1989. Signing of the Japanese Grant Fund
followed in April 1989, and the RIS Inception Report was approved in November 1989. A
policy/technical team consisting of experts and decision-makers visited the United States in Julv
1990. Five core RIS team members came to the United States for technical training from January
to September, 1990. With the production of the White Cover Reporl. in July, 1991, phase I of the
study was essentially completed. The final report titled Chinai's Railway Strategy (Report No.
10592-CHA), however, was finished as late as February 1993 because of the time needed for
MOR's official approval.
120.  Railway Environnmenital Studies. [see Environmental Protection (paras. 144 to 146 below)
with regard to achievements]
121.  MIS Study. MOR had agreed8 to broaden the MIS study effort in line with the study scope
described in SAR of the Second Railway Project. The action plan was prepared leading to the
inclusion of a Transport Management Information System in con.junction with a system-wide
component for telecommunication.
122.  Costing Study. During appraisal of this project, agreement was reached to avoid further
delays. Steps were taken to complete the implementation of a costing system on the railway
network and to formulate a tariff restructuring. The study, which had been started with financing
8 SAR Fifth Railway Project, page 79, para. 10.



- 28 -
from the First Railway Project in 1984, and continued under the Third Railway Project, was
considerably behind schedule and its costing manual needed improvement.
123.  In April 1990, a Bank consultant reviewed MOR's draft costing manual and made
recommendations for changes. MOR staff working on the development of the costing system
visited Northern American railways in June 1991 to learn about the costing systems applied by
these railways. Between November 1991 and July 1992, MOR produced a costing system to
meet the requirements of the Tariff Reform Study under the Sixth Railway Project. The results
were a unit cost system and the application of the unit cost system to the determination of a
cost/distance scale for each freight commodity, passenger seat type, train class and traction type.
124.  In July 1992, a Bank consultant related the cost scales to the railway's financial
statements, and documented the relationships between accounting and statistical data sources and
cost scales. The revised draft costing manual was reviewed by the Bank in March 1994. After the
endorsement of the costing manual by the Department of Science and Technology of MOR in
December 1994, the Finance Bureau of MOR submitted the costing manual to the Minister of
Railways in October 1995. Subsequently, an Evaluation Committee comprising representatives
of the State Planning Commission (SPC), the State Price Bureau (SPB), the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and the Department of Science and Technology of MOR endorsed the manual. Since
then, its application has been mandatory in MOR's administrations, sub-administrations and
stations.
125.  In November 1995, the Bank received an English copy of the manual entitled, "Costing
and regulation for China's Railway Transportation." The manual was incomplete because an
important element, the section for freight transport, was not included at that time; it was still
awaiting clearance from the Finance Bureau of MOR. The freight manual was received on May
17, 1996.
126.  The costing study activities under Fifth Railway Project led to the detailed design of a
costing system, and to a work plan for the actual development of such a system. The costing
system developed under the Sixth Railway Project as part of the Tariff Reform Study represents
an early stage of the development of the system designed and recommended under the Fifth
Railway Project. It was designed and used to develop cost-distance scales by commodity for
freight traffic, and passenger costs by seat and train class. This information was applied to an
evaluation of the railway's tariff structure.
127.  Use of Loan Balance - Fifth Railway Project. When the Bank's remaining project
funds of US$43 million became available, MOR requested permission on June 7, 1995 to use
these for additional permanent way maintenance machines totaling US$22.9 million,
telecommunications equipment for the Xuzhou terminal expansion totaling US$10.38 million,
and items under "Industry System" totaling US$6.3 million. A 10 percent price contingency was
kept in reserve.
128.  In April 1997, after an unduly protracted process lasting 22 months, an agreement was
reached on how to use the loan balance. Nearly half of the total loan balance stemmed from the
unilateral decision of MOR to use local funds for the purchase of automatic block system
equipment for the Zhegan line. The Bank funding for this purpose had been an estimated US$20
million. Nornally, Bank policy stipulates that surplus loan funds have to be canceled. In this



- 29 -
instance, the Bank indicated that it might agree to apply some or all of the savings to finance
additional project activities provided that these had high priority and were consistent with the
project's original objectives. Because MOR's request fell short of meeting the Bank's
requirements, FCTIO was asked to:
* focus on the current project entities;
* provide sufficient explanation of each item;
* demonstrate the support to the project objectives including the benefits; and
* give consideration to the time needed for procurement ander ICB and especially the
delivery time needed when selecting items for proposal.
In addition, it was made clear that the Bank would not grant an extension of the loan closing date
of December 31, 1998, for the purpose of completing procurement.
129.  In August 1996, the Bank agreed to the permanent way maintenance machines and
telecommunications equipment proposals. At the same time, the Bank informed MOR that the
proposed items under "Industry System" would not meet any of the project's stipulated
objectives. MOR was informed that proposed items should be closely linked to those specific
operations for which an economic evaluation has been made during appraisal. Eventually, MOR
responded by altering its request, and on April 24, 1997, the Bank provided the no objection.
Three machines for the Puzhen Works (US$2.0 million) would be included in the Fifth Railway
Project. Additional telecommunications equipment (SPC lines) wcrth US$4.3 million would be
folded into the project, while US$3.42 million was kept as a contingency for all outstanding
procurement.
130.  Environmental Protection - Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects. In 1989, when the
Fourth Railway Project was approved by the Bank, there were few formal requirements for
integrating the environment into project design. Neither a formal environmental assessment nor
an environment management plan was prepared. (The Bank's Operational Directive (OD) 4.01
on Environmental Assessment was only formalized in October 1991.) As a result, the SAR was
vague and non-specific about the environmental impacts of the project and various measures to
mitigate them. The SAR nevertheless asserted that "no negative impact on the environment is
expected from the project." It stated that the electrification of the Yueshan- Luoyang line "will
significantly reduce air pollution in the area," and that the modernization of the three
locomotives and rolling stocks works "will bring about significani: improvements in pollution."
However, the report did not further specify the improvements nor how they would be achieved.
131.  On its part, MOR has followed the State and local Environment Protection regulations, its
own environmental requirements and other applicable regulations in the design and construction
of the project. The major project-related achievements and some outstanding issues are presented
below:
132.  Yueshan - Xiangfan Line. In order to protect 1,500 years-old Longmen stone carvings
in a Buddhist temple, the alignment of the Longmen tunnel was shifted. Where the tunnel used to
stand only 270m from the temple, it now rests 800m away. This distance should be sufficient to
protect the temple and its 10,000 odd carvings in the hillside from damage due to vibrations from
the construction of the tunnel and the operation of the trains. As an additional precaution, steel



- 30-
plates were installed under the sleepers to reduce and absorb the vibrations. During the
construction of the tunnel and the line, sectional blasting and smaller explosive charges were
used to minimize the potential for damage to the grottoes from explosion related vibrations.
133.  The environmental impact of construction and operational-related dust, noise, water
pollution, and traffic were minimized and mitigated by a variety of measures. These measures
included: the construction of temporary haul roads to transport construction materials; the use of
water sprayers to suppress dust; construction of over 60 underpasses and overpasses to permit
movement of people, traffic and livestock; reclamation of nearly sixty percent of construction
land along the line through planting of grass, shrubs and trees; construction of enclosed
balconies; planting of trees; modification of a public address system to reduce and protect
residents living near the Luoyang terminal from excess noise; and the construction of 50 m3/h
wastewater treatment plants at Baofeng and Xiangfan to recover oil for recycling and wastewater
for reuse.
134.  Despite the above improvements and changes, emissions from steam locomotives is still
an unresolved problem. Although, China no longer produces steam locomotives, there is no
timetable to phase out the steam locomotives from the Yueshan-Xiangfan line. Also, since the
steam locomotives receive minimal maintenance, the emissions issue will continue to fester. In
the longer term, the lack of regular SOx, NOx and noise monitoring may dilute the positive
achievements in other areas.
135.  Expansion and Modification of Three Locomotive and Rolling Stock Factories. At
the Sifang Locomotive and Rolling Stock Works, the installation of modem machine tools and
equipment had a major impact on reducing production wastes and in providing better operating
conditions to the plant workers through reduction in dust and fumes. The introduction of new
foundry technology and the use of self hardening resins has lowered dust emission and has
increased dust recycling to about 90 percent. However, this still fell short of MOR's own intemal
requirements and State regulations. Dust emissions from the factory boilers comply with the
State regulations.
136.  Two new wastewater treatment plants were also built - a 1,200 m3/d plant at the old
factory for removing oil and a 5,000 m3/d plant (with room to double the capacity) for treating
domestic and production wastes at the new factory. Effluents from both plants comply with the
State regulations. Noise from the diesel engine testing facility too has been reduced to State level
requirements through proper insulation of the test facility. Overall, the investment has had a
positive impact on the work environment through reduction in waste, accidents and improved
working conditions. However, due to lack of money and technology, Sifang Works has not been
able to handle SOx, NOx and other pollutants in emissions from boilers and diesel engines. At
the old factory, Sifang is facing water shortages. At the same time, it is unable to capitalize on
the use of recycled water because the factory's old architectural plans have been lost, making it
very difficult to identify underground connections. At the new factory, only 10 percent of the
water is being recycled due to the low quality of the recycled water. Cleaning of the molds at the
foundry is also presenting a major challenge.
137.  The installation and use of new equipment at the February 7 Locomotive Works has led
to an integrated production operation. The results are impressive: efficient space utilization,
better products, increased production and lower cost. In particular, the introduction of gas cutting



- 31 -
machinery has reduced material wastage from 20 percent to 5 percent, reduced grinding, lowered
energy consumption and has resulted in better product quality. Similarly, the new milling
machines have resulted in a 80 to 90 percent reduction in the use of cutting fluids. The
production of solid waste too has declined; most of it is now either recycled or returned to the
suppliers. Finally, because some of these machines are housed in air conditioned enclosures,
there has been 5-7 dB(A) decrease in noise pollution. Overall, the investment has lowered noise
pollution, reduced wastage and created a cleaner work environment. The new investment has had
marginal impact on air emissions or on water quality. Generally, wastewater is treated and
discharged without recycling.
138.  The introduction of new technology at the Qiqihar Rolling Stock Works has increased the
service life of equipment for corrosion related repairs from about 5 years to between 8-10 years.
Overall, there has been a 5-8 years increase in the service life of the equipment. The introduction
of new technology has had a dramatic impact on reduction in dust, paint aerosol and noise from
blasting machines. Dust emissions dropped from 100 mg/I to 4-1.2 mg/I. Similarly, the use of
semi-enclosed environment for painting of wagons has led to a saving of 1.7 kg of paint per
wagon. The environmental benefits are indirect but tangible.
139.  The double tracking of the Zhegan line under the Fifth Railway Project was basically
carried out on one side of the existing line. The work was carried out according to the EIA report
approved by NEPA in 1993. The environmental effect was mostly confined to construction
related impacts and MOR's own internal supervision and environmental management procedures
were used to minimize and mitigate the construction related environmental impacts.
140.  However, to assist MOR on a broader front with the management and mitigation of
environmental problems throughout the railway system, the project arranged a US$200,000 grant
from UNDP to enable MOR's key environmental and health and safety experts to visit foreign
railway operations to review international practices first hand and to engage noise, waste
management and health and safety experts to visit MOR's operatiorn in China and to advise MOR
in resolving some of the more pressing noise and sanitation problems. The experts also assisted
MOR with scoping a long-term waste management strategy.
141.  As a result of the UNDP grant, in September 1992 and 1993, two teams of six member
delegation from the Environmental Department of MOR, Design Institutes and Foreign Capital
Office, visited USA and Canada for about 15 days each time. The missions visited Canadian
National Railways, Canadian Pacific Railways and Amtrak in USA. The teams visited
government departments, research institutes, and railway headquarters and gathered first hand
information on sanitation, excreta disposal, garbage handling and disposal, coach sterilization,
water supply, food hygiene and handling, etc. during the operation of short and long distance
passenger trains in North America. The missions also gathered :information on railway noise
control standards and current practices to control excess noise, traffic noise barriers,
environmental monitoring, etc.
142.  In June 1992, three Canadian experts visited China for about twenty days. The experts
held meetings and training workshops on environmental issues pertaining to MOR and provided
advice to MOR on railway noise controls (noise barriers, locomotive noise reduction, reduction
in use of whistles, etc.), environmental sanitation, garbage handling and disposal, food hygiene
and handling, passenger train sterilization, use of insecticides and rodent control measures, noise



- 32 -
monitoring, etc. As a result of this new knowledge and exchange in ideas and discussions with
foreign consultants and overseas visits, MOR completed two internal reports on "Control Efforts
on Environmental Sanitation and Railway Environment Noise of North American Railways" and
"Study of China's Railway Environment Sanitation and Train Operation Noise" which
recommended environmental control measures for China Railway.
143.  In December 1996, MOR completed the construction of a 10 t/hr wastewater treatment
plant at Jinzhou to treat oily wastewater and contaminated stormwater. The plant is over
designed but operating successfully.
144.  Enivironmental Protectioni - Areas for Assistantce. During the appraisal of the Fifth
Railway Project, the Bank proposed to assist MOR in the preparation of specific
recommendations for financing under future projects. At MOR's request, United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) financing was sought for the following three critical study areas
for foreign experts:
a)    noise pollution created by dense railway lines, high-speed trains and machines in
the railway workshops and factories;
b)    night soil and garbage collection in passenger trains; and
c)    sterilization of passenger coaches to eliminate/reduce health hazards caused by
infectious diseases carried by passengers on long journeys, rodents, vermnin, etc.
145.  The studies' objectives were to establish cost effective and technically sound strategies
for these areas, and the total costs were estimated at US$200,000. Of this total, US$90,000-
100,000 were allocated to cover the costs of consulting services and US$40,000-50,000 to cover
the cost of study tours by Chinese counterpart teams to foreign railways. In December 1991,
UNDP approved US$140,000 of the total estimated costs, and the remaining US$60,000 was
approved in August 1992.
146.  Three foreign experts were engaged to visit China and study environmental problems in
the Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Shenyang and Zhenzhou administrations in June 1992.
Following their diagnostic work, the consultants prepared a comprehensive report including
several cost-effective recommendations to fight against pollution and health hazards in the
above-stated three areas. In September 1992, a Chinese railway delegation comprising six
environmental experts were sent to Canada and the United States to familiarize themselves with
foreign practices and procedures used in controlling environmental pollution. This delegation
prepared a technical report and submitted their findings to MOR top officials who were very
pleased with the outcome. With the hiring of an environmental expert to assist in the preparation
of the Seventh Railway Project the UNDP funds were fully used.
147.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement - Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects. As older
projects in the transport portfolio, both the Fourth and the Fifth Railway Projects were prepared
in accordance with Chinese law and procedures and approved by the Bank without the
requirement of a formal Resettlement Action Plan. While land acquisition and resettlement-
related estimates were made available to the Bank prior to approval, formal and complete census



- 33 -
survey results were not provided and implementation arrangements and responsibilities were not
clear. Without the baseline information provided by surveys, the effectiveness of resettlement
measures taken during implementation now can only be assessed in a nonsystematic manner.
Moreover, because resettlement was not seen at the time to be an integral part of transport sector
projects, both projects received only irregular resettlement supervision and were not subject to
independent monitoring. Site visits in some areas indicated that resettlement may have resulted
in hardship for some persons. But limited supervision and project authorities suggest that most
affected people have restored their incomes and living standards.
148.  The Fourth Railway Project was appraised in 1987 and declared effective in 1989 with no
systematic attention to land acquisition or resettlement issues evident in the SAR or other Bank
documentation. Land acquisition and resettlement activities generally were completed in both
affected provinces (Henan and Hubei) by 1995. Resettlement field supervision appeared to have
been limited to one multi-project thematic supervision exercise, conducted in late 1994.
Additionally, project officials made a verbal presentation regarding project resettlement status to
a Bank mission in 1997. Because of a lack of baseline data for comparative purposes, no separate
field mission was undertaken for the purposes of this completion report.
The following aggregate data regarding the scale ancd cost of land
acquisition and resettlement have been provided by MC)R:
Land Acquired:                     13,975 mu
Structural Demolition:             70,632/m2
People Relocated:                  3,973
Cost of Housing Compensation:      10.73 million RMB
Cost of Land Compensation:         171.84 million RMB
149.  Project records indicate that design alterations reduced the scope and potential impact of
land acquisition. In general, most of the individuals who have been affected do not appear to
have been significantly harmed by the project. The linear nature of the railway work means that
land acquisition has been spread along a long corridor, making it possible for the Chinese
practice of land redistribution to minimize the impact. Field supervision also found that
households required to relocate now have access to newer housing with more modem amenities.
But many if not most relocating households used their own savings or other resources in addition
to housing compensation to obtain new housing.
150.  The 1994 supervision mission found that compensation for land and other assets was paid
by MOR to county land administration bureaus in a timely manner, but that county and local
governments sometimes withheld portions of the compensation from persons actually affected.
MOR subsequently stated that compensation problems had been rectified, and provided reports
indicating that compensation levels in some cases were higher than initially agreed. The mission
also reported that land acquisition in Hubei Province had left some persons landless or jobless,
resulting in significant hardship. During the 1997 mission, MOR provided official statements
from local officials indicating that the episode of landlessness citecd in 1994 followed from land
acquisition not associated with the Bank project. MOR also indicated that there had been no
significant delay in providing employment; the apparent delay stermmed from the practice of not
providing employment until land was actually taken for project use. MOR stated that all



- 34 -
resettlement activities have been completed and that there are no outstanding grievances or
issues.
151.  The Fifth Railway Project was appraised in 1990 and declared effective in 1992 with very
little attention to land acquisition or resettlement issues evident in the SAR or other Bank
documentation. Resettlement field supervision appears to have been limited to one multi-project
thematic supervision exercise conducted in late 1994 in Jiangxi and Zhejiang provinces, and a
field supervision in 1998 in the same provinces during preparation of this completion report.
The following aggregate data regarding the scale and cost of land
acquisition and resettlement have been provided by MOR:
Land Acquired:                   19,456 mu
Structural Demolition:           342,852/m2
People Relocated (est.):         13,860 (2960 households)
Land and Housing Compensation:   316.58 million RMB
152.  Project records indicate that land acquisition and its corresponding costs and impacts are
greater than anticipated in the SAR. The project required 19,456 mu of land, against an estimate
of 15,827 mu in the SAR. Structural demolition totaled 342,852 square meters, against an
estimate of 259,602 square meters. As a consequence, land and housing compensation costs
totaled 316.58 million RMB, as compared to 223.2 million in the SAR. It is likely that some of
the discrepancy reflects differences in categorical definitions as well as erroneous estimation.
Some of the cost also reflects increases over agreed compensation rates. In general, most of the
individuals who have been affected do not appear to have been significantly hanned by the
project.
153.  In at least one instance, disputes over compensation led to a six-month implementation
delay. MOR subsequently stated that compensation problems had been rectified, and that there
were no outstanding grievances. Compensation rates for land and housing increased over time in
Zhejiang Province, but did not do so in Jiangxi Province (whether rates increased in Hunan
Province remains unknown). The mission also reported that jobs had been provided to those
losing access to land, but that some enterprises were not consulted regarding placement of
employees or were not provided compensation for employee training and placement. During the
1998 mission, MOR stated that delays in payment of compensation to enterprises had been
corrected. Employers visited during the 1998 mission indicated satisfaction with resettlement
arrangements. In site visits, some individuals complained that they subsequently lost
employment they had been provided following loss of their agricultural land. Project officials
indicated that this loss of employment reflects enterprise restructuring or failure, for which the
project cannot be considered responsible. MOR stated that all resettlement activities have been
completed and that there are no outstanding grievances or issues.
154.  Procurement - Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects. During project preparation of the
Fourth Railway Project, the Bank was concerned about the fact that it had taken the authorities
some time to become fully familiar with the Bank's procurement procedures. Therefore, staff
had worked with MOR during the year before Board presentation to establish a special office -



- 35 -
the Foreign Capital and Technical Import Office (FCTIO) to expedite procurement. As a result,
preparation of procurement documents was regarded as well advanced at Board presentation.
155.  At the beginning of the Fourth Railway Project, procurement progress was remarkable
and far better than in all previous projects. The overall good performance exceeded appraisal
estimates with the exceptions addressed below (paras. 156 and 157). However, these exceptions
were due to the Bank's insistence in receiving part of the bidding documents as soon as possible,
and should also be seen in relation to the slow implementation of the earlier projects.
156.  Since all railway projects handled by MOR experienced procurement delays, it had been
agreed that MOR would prepare a detailed timetable for all procurement activities for the whole
Fifth Railway Project. The procurement schedule, however, was extremely over-optimistic and
unsatisfactory. It showed that all tenders would be issued within a short period of one year
(1993), which is an unrealistic goal. A revised schedule, supposedly taking into account the
needs of the project and the usually extended time needed for preparing technical specifications,
was still very ambitious, concentrating most procurement in 1993. After building up a good pace
of procurement activity through early 1994, the rate of entering into new commitments became
sluggish. Except for two crankshaft grinding machines, procurement of the locomotive and the
rolling stock component for the Bank-funded items was good. Preparation of technical
specifications for the automatic block system (ABS, US$20 million) for the Zhegan line had
been delayed. MOR postponed procurement until a similar equipment with more advanced
technology was tested on the Beijing-Kowloon line. According to the Shanghai Administration,
the domestically supplied new ABS functioned well by the end of 1994. The administration then
proposed to MOR the purchase of the new system with domestic instead of Bank funds, and to
use the loan funds for "more important" items. Consequently, FCTIO informed the Bank of the
decision to procure the ABS with domestic funds.
157.  In June 1994, bids were opened for three crankshaft grinding machines to be procured
together under the Fourth (2 machines as part of the "other equipment" sub-component of the
Yueshan-Xiangfan line component) and the Fifth Railway Projects. Evaluation of the bids lasted
for about seven months, and the Bank gave its "no objection" to the recommended award of
contract on June 6, 1995. The price of each machine was about US$1.38 million equivalent. In
August, 1995, MOR requested an extension of the Closing Date by one year, explaining that at
the signing of the contract on July 3, 1995, it became clear that the last payment for the machines
would have to be made in February 1997. The long delivery schedule can be attributed to the
advanced technology required in the technical specifications which in turn required a lengthy
manufacturing schedule. On April 1, 1997, MOF requested an extension on the Closing Date to
June 30, 1998 on the grounds that the supplier had gone bankrupt and, therefore, was unable to
deliver on time. The machines were finally delivered in February 19,98.
158.  Managers of the three factories participating in the Fourth Railway Project realized early
on that their planning assumptions did not correlate well with reality. This was admittedly caused
by a lack of experience with foreign advanced equipment and international procurement. Bid
prices substantially higher than estimated forced MOR to annul the purchase of some items, the
lack of which was reported to have had no or little negative effect on realizing the objectives.
Longer than expected internal approvals, and installation and commissioning added about one
year to the total implementation time of the component.



-36 -
159.  One complaint by a bidder caused considerable trouble during implementation of the
Fourth Railway Project. An order for six full-section ballast cleaners (four of which were
financed under the Fifth Railway Project) was recommended by MOR to be placed with the
second lowest bidder. The Bank did not object because the bid evaluation report gave convincing
reasons for rejecting the cheaper bidder. This bidder launched an official protest, and the Bank
instructed MOR not to sign the contract until the matter was clarified. After intensive review, the
Bank settled this case and confirmed the award to the second lowest bidder.
160.  Although all previous railway projects experienced some procurement problems, the
Fifth Railway Project was the first project where bid evaluation reports had to be rejected by the
Bank due to quality problems in the evaluations, and which saw several major complaints from
bidders. The project had several complex products for which the technical specifications were
not adequately prepared.
161.  To counterbalance this, Bank reviews of draft bidding documents became more
cumbersome, correcting many details which should have been know at this stage. The example
of the YIS mini-computers for Xuzhou and TMIS computers procurement illustrates the
problems encountered. The bid evaluation criteria were too indefinite; it was not clear from the
technical specifications who would be responsible for performing maintenance on the YIS
computers, and for how long. Without good reasons, MOR wanted to have two very different
procurements combined in a single tender. The following excerpt from a Bank fax highlights
typical difficulties with bid evaluations: "We are unable to approve the bid evaluation report
because it did not contain full informnation and was not prepared in a satisfactory manner. The
evaluated prices were different from the corresponding bid prices, but were not explained in a
supplemental sheet listing the reasons why items were added or subtracted, with their costs."
162.  In another case, a tender was issued for the purchase of 20,600 tons of alloy steel rails.
MOR recommended the rejection of the lowest bidder because of its unsatisfactory financial
condition. The government of this bidder's country had already put up the firn for sale, but a
deal had not been concluded. The matter was reviewed at different levels in the Bank following
which the Bank decided in favor of the lowest bidder and suggested that MOR should obtain
additional guarantees from the firn's government satisfactory to the ITC and MOR. The
guarantee would have to cover fully the performance of the contract without any conditions and
restrictions. Upon the ITC's recommendation reversing the original outcome of the bid
evaluation, the Bank expressed its "no objection" to award the contract to the lowest bidder.
163.  Bidders challenged bid evaluations. There were two additional cases:
a)   A bidder for a Production Line for Pre-stressed Concrete Sleepers complained to
the ITC for not being awarded the contract. The Bank requested a justification for
this rejection but recognized in the case a very spiny procurement problem,
involving the word of a bidder (and certain corroborative evidence) against that of
the ITC's. After an exhaustive review, the Bank came to the conclusion that the bid
of the protesting company was incomplete and non-responsive.
b)   On December 6, 1994, a US firm filed an official complaint with both the Bank and
a US Senator. This firm stated that it had been informed verbally by MOR that the
contract for two Crankshaft Grinding Machines (a third grinder was funded under



- 37 -
the Fourth Railway Project) would go to a European firm, at a higher price, because
the end-user preferred machines from that particular country. At that time, the Bank
had not yet received the bid evaluation report. Although twice requested, the report
was not received until March 1995. A retired Bank staff was sent to Beijing to
clarify technical points in this report. The Bank expert confirmed that the US bidder
should not be awarded the contract because of technical deficiencies of the machine
offered. Nevertheless, although the Bank normally did not require complete
financial evaluation when a bidder was rejected on technical grounds, a full analysis
of all bids was requested. In the end, the Bank accepted the tendering company's
original proposal for award, because the complaining bidder also would have lost
on price.
164.  Project Costs - Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects. In terns of US dollars, project
costs of the Fourth Railway Project were 58 percent higher than expected, with an actual cost of
US$945.6 million compared to an appraisal estimate of US$600 million. The main reasons for
this cost increase were: (a) the delay by two years to April 1993 for the tunnel works on the
Yueshan-Xiangfan line; (b) a change of the construction schedule of the Yueshan-Laoyang
section; (c) inadequate estimates of local costs for the Yueshan-Xiangfan line component; and
(d) the impact of steep inflation on the cost of materials and equipment in the early 1990s.
Mainly factors (a) and (b) but also the six months delay in project effectiveness pushed the
implementation period into the high inflation years. In terms of local currency, total costs were
135 percent above appraisal estimates. The difference between dollar and Yuan costs was due to
the devaluation of the Yuan over the life of the project from Yuan 3.7 per dollar to Yuan 8.3 per
dollar.
165.  In terms of US dollars, project costs of the Fifth Railway Project were 61 percent higher
than expected, with an actual cost of US$1,550.3 million compared to an appraisal estimate of
US$1,005.7 million. This cost increase stemmed mainly from the Zhegan line component. The
main reasons were: (a) design changes to improve the original design for telecommunications;
(b) the impact of steep inflation on the cost of materials and equipment in the early 1990s, (c)
inadequate estimates of local costs for the Zhegan line component, and (d) use of the US$43
million loan balance with procurement undertaken in 1997. In terms of local currency, total costs
were 124 percent above appraisal estimates. The difference between dollar and Yuan costs was
due to the devaluation of the Yuan.
166.  Financing of US$3,535,000 of foreign costs for the four planning studies was provided
by the Second Railway Project. In addition, MOR spent US$1.47 million of its own funds mainly
on the installation track materials and tests under the Permanent Way Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Study. The fifth study, the Railway Investment Study was financed by the
Japanese Grant Facility Fund. Expenditures for the Costing Study were borne by the Third
Railway Project.
167.  Financial Performance - Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects. The detailed financial
evaluation for both projects is given in Annex 1. The most important points are:
168. The financial evaluation in the SAR for the Fourth Railway Project focused only on the
income statement covering the 1982 - 1990 period. Of particular importance is the fact that the
Fifth Railway Project was the first railway project in China for which a complete set of financial



- 38 -
statements (income statement, cash flow statement and balance sheet) was obtained. This was a
significant step forward compared to the first four railways projects. However, during the
financial discussions in subsequent railway projects it became apparent that the focus of the
financial statements was not uniform. The balance sheet focused on transport and non-transport
enterprises, the income statement focused on transport enterprises only, and the cash flow
statement was a hybrid of the two statements. Because different principles were applied in the
preparation of the statements, and because the railways are currently in the process of
segregating non-transport enterprises from transport enterprises (five financially independent
firms will be set up covering construction, engine building and components, telecommunications
and support) the remainder of this analysis focuses on the consolidated income statement of the
transport enterprises only.
169.  The 1987-1992 income period. As reflected in the consolidated income statements in
Annex 1, MOR had a positive net income in this period. Income improved from 1987 to 1989
mainly because MOR was exempted from income taxes. In 1990, MOR benefited from an
across-the-board increase in freight tariffs. Since 1991, revenues from base tariffs have been
supplemented by a freight surcharge. The reported operating ratios (operating expenses relative
to operating revenues), deteriorating gradually, were low. If reported costs were not understated
or distorted by subsidies (several input factors didn't reflect market prices), operating ratios
would have been even lower.
170.  The 1993-2002 income period. MOR has been operating at a loss since 1993. In general,
these negative results were attributable to a decline in market share vis-a-vis the other transport
modes, an inadequate operating ratio and a rising level of debt obligations. Acknowledging these
trends, MOR has announced an unprecedented near-term program designed to improve
dramatically bottom line earnings. Specifically, as the forecast income statement in Annex 1 also
shows, losses are projected to decline sharply in 1999 and breakeven status is anticipated by the
year 2000. To achieve these ambitious targets, the measures described in Annex 1 will be
undertaken.
171.  Economic Reevaluation - Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects. From the reevaluation
presented in Annex 2, the net present values (NPV) and economic rates of return (EIRR) of the
various components of the Fourth and Fifth Railway projects reflect economic outcomes that
range from satisfactory to highly satisfactory.
172.  With respect to the Yueshan-Xiangfan double tracking and partial electrification
component of the Fourth Railway Project, the NPV is just under Yuan 23 billion in 1997 prices
and the EIRR is 19.8 percent. This rate of return, though significantly lower than the SAR figure
of 36.9 percent, is satisfactory. The primary reason for the decline in the EIRR relates to the
greater amnount of local direct project outlays (foreign costs were about 17 percent lower than
projected in the SAR). Restated in terms of 1997 values, the SAR anticipated that this
component would require about Yuan 2.3 billion in direct local expenditures. Nonetheless, the
reevaluation indicates that actual local costs amounted to Yuan 5.9 billion -- more than 2.5 times
greater than the SAR-derived figure. Over half of this sum traces to the latter stages of the
project during a period when more than 90 percent of the foreign costs already had been
incurred.



- 39 -
173.  The economic performance of the traditional components of the Fifth Railway Project has
been quite similar to what was expected in the SAR. Thus, both the SAR and the reevaluation
here calculate EIRR's for the Zhegan line component of 35 percent. Similarly, the recomputed
EIRR of the Xuzhou terminal expansion, 29.2 percent, is only slightly higher than the 26 percent
value in the SAR.
174.  The rates of return derived here for the pilot track rehabilitation and freight wagon wheel
components of the Fifth Railway Project (106 percent and 233 percent, respectively) are
substantially higher than those reported in the SAR (27 percent and 26 percent, respectively).
This apparent discrepancy results from the SAR's reluctance to use the value-added approach to
measuring the benefits of these components even though this methodology is adopted elsewhere
in the SAR (and in this ICR as well). Indeed, the SAR, conceding that the value-added approach
provides "a better estimate" of the benefits, indicates that it would yield rates of return for these
components in excess of 100 percent - more in line with those calculated here.9
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
175.  Both, the Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects are likely to be sustained. With respect to
physical sustainability, MOR's record in maintaining infrastructure, locomotives and rolling
stock is good and there is no reason to believe this will change. However, deteriorating finances
cause some concern. MOR has been operating at a loss since 1993 but has recently announced an
unprecedented near-ternn program designed to dramatically improve bottom line earnings (Annex
2).
176.  From an economic perspective, sustainability was assessed in terms of the sensitivity of
the project component's EIRR to changes in benefit and cost assumrptions. All of the results were
satisfactory.
177.  Because of the Strategic Plan Studies prepared under the Fourth Railway Project MOR
possesses now the basis of a modern telecommunications network into which major investments
funded by the Bank under the Sixth and Seventh Railway Projects are currently being carried.
MOR is installing the Operating Information System as a Transport Management Information
System under the ongoing projects. Three of the five models adopted under Transportation
Capacity Computer Modeling are used by CARS to analyze some line sections that have the
potential for speed increase; eleven staff members are working under this contract.
178.  The five Planning Studies prepared under the Fifth Railway Project resulted in: a
program to purchase track maintenance machines for ongoing projects and with other foreign aid
funding; improved design, operation and maintenance of electrification projects; establishment
of a Telecommunications Master Plan, which became the basis for subsequent investments under
later railway project; and a system to enable MOR to conduct economic evaluations necessary to
identify desirable capacity expansion expenditures.
9 See SAR Fifth Railway Project, p 56, note 2.



- 40 -
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
179.  Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of Fourth Railway
Project was, in the end, moderately satisfactory. The activities were eventful as described below
(paras. 180 to 185). The Fifth Railway Project was, however, satisfactorily identified, prepared
and appraised. Both projects were consistent with the Government's objective, which was to
increase railway transport capacity so as to sustain economic development, and to enhance
expertise needed to manage the railway's future development. Project performance indicators,
consistent with the practice in the 1980s, were not developed with sufficient detail and
specificity.
180.  Project Preparation for the Fourth Railway Project. Originally, the project focused on
four major components and technical assistance with a loan amount of US$200 million. During
pre-appraisal in March/April 1987-just one year after negotiations for the Third Railway
Project-the Government withdrew two of the four components totaling US$44 million and
proposed two new components instead, namely the Zhuzhou-Hangzhou line-doubling (US$85
million) and the Beijing-Shanghai line modernization (US$72 million), for a total of US$157
million. At the same time, it also requested an increase of the remaining component from
US$130 million to US$163 million. Without any explanation, the Final Executive Project
Summary (FEPS) indicated that Bank financing would be US$357 million.
181.  By March 1988, the project content had changed again. The two large components
introduced in March/April 1987 were withdrawn because of SPC and MOF concerns about an
uncommitted balance of some US$420 million from three previous loans. The deleted
components were expected to form the core of a Fifth Railway Project in FY 89. The project now
comprised the three final components with a loan amount of US$202.5 million including the
Strategic Plan Study, which was retained even though the Beijing-Shanghai line modernization
component had been postponed. The main reason given by the Bank for retaining the study was
that otherwise the Bank would be supporting only traditional hardware investments, and the
rationale for Bank financing of this project would be very weak.
182.  Following the FEPS, the appraisal mission attempted, but failed to obtain agreement with
MOR to conduct a formal study in factory modernization strategy. Nevertheless, it was the
Bank's expectation that MOR staff would receive technical assistance and training in order to
improve the preparation of future factory modernization projects. To improve upon the dialog
between MOR and the Bank, an executive summary report on factory modernization strategy
was prepared for discussion with MOR during negotiations.
183.  The questionable nature of the Strategic Plan Study's appraisal was underscored by the
invitation-to-negotiations telex of March 16, 1988. It stated: "we will wish to discuss the current
status and detailed arrangements for implementation of Strategic Plan Study as broadly outlined
in Annex Two of the draft Appraisal Report to ensure that this very important component is not
delayed and that it progresses quickly well to meet China Railway's needs." [Underlining
added]. Later, on April 21, 1988, the Bank acknowledged that "MOR reserves the right not to
implement proposals that it considers not appropriate for the railways in China" while indicating
that grant funds would assure financing the study.



- 41 -
184.  That a certain lack of clarity existed about the essence of the Strategic Plan Study came to
light shortly after Negotiations. A Bank memorandum of September 21, 1988, recorded that the
letter of invitation issued to MOR relating to telecommunications was not in accordance with the
understandings as described in the SAR, Loan Agreement and the agreed Minutes of
Negotiations. The main issue of contention was that MOR was confining its request for foreign
assistance to the development of dedicated railway data network inslead of a far more ambitious
telecommunications Strategic Plan for MOR. The dedicated data network might-or might not-
be part of a larger telecommunications plan for MOR. But MOR's insistence on confining the
project to the narrow goal of a dedicated data network represented a substantial deviation from
the objective to develop a plan for telecommunications as a whole.
185.  A major concern raised at the loan package clearance with regard to the Strategic Plan
Study was the fact that MOR had historically been very reluctant to involve the Bank in broader
strategic planning. Ostensibly, this reluctance was explained by its desire not to spend the
proceeds of the Bank's loan on technical assistance, citing the excessive wages and living
expenses earned by expatriate technical experts. This concern, however, could be alleviated
through the possible availability of Japanese grant funds of about US $2 million.
186.  At Negotiations, it was finally agreed that the loan amount ;vould be reduced by US$2.5
million to US$200 million. "The reduction resulted from (a) the reluctance of the Chinese
Government to borrow US$2.5 million at Bank rates for the estimated foreign cost of the
Railway Strategic Plan Study; (b) the availability of US$1.5 million from the Japanese Yen
Grant Facility; and (c) our agreement to relocate US$1.0 million fiom unallocated funds in the
Third Railway Project". By obtaining the grant funds, the issue was resolved. Actually, Bank
staff described this solution as a breakthrough when two Board speakers raised the matter.
187.  The Minutes of the Board Presentation of the Fourth Railway Project, recorded and
emphasized that, "in view of a team of railway experts organized by the World Bank last year,
the railways may be able to increase throughput substantially on key corridors by investments in
technological modernization, which at the same time would significantly enhance the quality of
services offered to the railway's customers. That work has given rise to the Strategic Plan Study
for railway computerization and telecommunication, and it is this aspect -- and the potential it
promises -- which makes this project such an exciting one ....
188.  The above summary of project appraisal allows the following conclusions:
a)    Although the Bank may have had a clear view of its assistance strategy, there was
no apparent concept of what would be the best project approach under the given
circumstances.
b)    The Bank's acceptance of MOR's oscillation with regard to the project content
could be interpreted as an indication that this project followed too closely to the
approval of Third Railway Project.
c)    The compromise to acquire US$1.5 million from the Japanese Yen Grant Facility
and to relocate US$1.0 million from unallocated funds in the Third Railway
Project for the Strategic Plan Study demonstrates clearly MOR's lack of
interest-and the Bank's substantial interest-in keeping the study in the project.



- 42 -
189.  Staff training was strongly emphasized as a key component during the project's design
phase. Although called an "outline" in the SAR text of the Fourth Railway Project, the
corresponding annex conveys the impression of in-depth preparation for staff training. It is,
therefore, quite surprising that apparently little attention was given to training implementation
during supervision. Bank files are silent on this matter.
190.  When  the Fourth  Railway Project became effective, the Bank  expressed  its
management's increasing uneasiness about lending for railways to China. A letter' to the
Minister of Railways explained that, unlike in other countries, railway projects in China had been
prepared in a narrow and restrictive way. All non-study components in the past projects had dealt
with upgrading, expanding and modernizing of individual physical plants of the railways.
Although there was nothing wrong with these "plant-specific" components themselves, the
problem was that the Bank had had to appraise these components not only with limited
information, but also in isolation from the rest of the railways. As a result, the Bank knew too
little about the railway system and the economic priorities of the components appraised relative
to other investments.
191.  To enable the Bank to continue its cooperation with MOR and enhance its contribution in
the sector, the letter suggested that, as a minimum, it would be necessary for:
a)    The Bank to acquire more knowledge on China railways, in order to determine the
most needy areas for Bank assistance, and to design future railway sector-type
operations for China. This would involve conducting a comprehensive dialogue
covering the railway's operations, motive power, rolling stock, infrastructure,
telecommunications, maintenance, expenditure programs, investment planning,
and finances; and
b)    Future railway operations should comprise "system-wide" components, which
entail upgrading, expansion, modernization, and efficiency improvements of
major aspects of the railways on a network-wide basis, instead of plant-specific
components as in the past.
192.  The letter also stated that such operations would require considerable preparation by both
MOR and the Bank and, therefore, were not likely to be feasible for at least two years. However,
it would be essential for the Fifth Railway Project to be a transitional operation, in order to pave
the way for more meaningful cooperation in the future.
193.  This letter appears to have had a fundamental impact on MOR's and the Bank's approach
to the Fifth Railway Project.
194.  Although both projects were sufficiently supervised in terms of short, standard missions,
Bank involvement was not always adequate during implementation. The Bank's supervision
should have focused more heavily on environmental protection and resettlement. This is a fair
10 Draft letter of March 14, 1989, marked Attachment 5. Bank files do not contain a signed copy.



- 43 -
judgment even though at the time of project effectiveness, environmental protection and
resettlement did not play the role it does now. The projects were approved without the
requirement of a fonnal Environmental Assessment and Resettlement Action Plan. It would have
been of great advantage if an environmental management plan had identified the various
environmental impacts of the projects and measures to mitigate thern. And if resettlement action
had been preceded by socio-economic baseline studies against which social impacts could have
been measured, this too would have been very helpful.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
195.  Overall, MOR's administrative performance was generally satisfactory. Civil works were
carried out according to current MOR standards and are of good quality. With the exceptions
addressed below, there were only a few problems during implemerntation of both projects. This
was the case even though the three locomotive and rolling stock factories participating in the
Fourth Railway Project had little institutional experience with Bank projects. MOR and its
regional organizations which benefited from the Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects were very
cooperative and helped prepare information for this ICR. They provided some data to
complement those available in the Bank's project file, which produced a more comprehensive
picture of project implementation.
196.  Planning Studies - Fifth Railway Project. The SAR reported that MOR gave the
studies high priority since they would assist it in looking at future investment requirements in a
rational, system-wide context. Furthermore, the studies were to recommend investment plans in
their respective areas for the 8th Five-year Plan, and at the same time provide the basis for future
Bank Group assistance to MOR. Finally, the studies were to be linked directly to improving
operational performance in their respective functional areas, and, where practical, to identify
meaningful parameters of performance, set targets for these parameters, and measure actual
results against the targets. These were quite ambitious promises. The achievement of the studies'
objectives varied substantially from "fully achieved" to "basically not achieved." With the
exception of the Permanent Way Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study and the RIS, they failed,
however, to provide a link to improving operational performance in their respective functional
areas. In the case of the Locomotive and Rolling Stock Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study,
there was also a failure to provide a basis for possible future lending operations involving the
Bank and other sources.
197.  Procurement. Tender documents for procurement (luring  the  first year of
implementation of the Fourth Railway Project were supposed to be submitted to the Bank prior
to Negotiations. This did not happen. The Minutes of Negotiations recorded that they were to be
provided by the date of the Government's final agreement to the negotiated documents, i.e. two
weeks later. This agreement was given on May 24, 1988, but because of "domestic reviewing
works for the bidding documents" they were not ready by the date planned. On June 6, the Bank
expressed its disappointment and pointed out that "during appraisal in October 1987, MOR
assured our mission that it would be easy to send these documents to the Bank before
Negotiations". Some of them were received on June 20, which facilitated Board approval of the
project. With a telex of October 26, 1988, the Bank admonished MOR that documents for only
two tenders had been received, although bidding documents for all tenders for materials and
equipment to be procured during the first year of implementation were to be sent to the Bank



- 44 -
before Negotiations. On November 11, 1988, MOR replied that adjustments for the purchasing
lists and some necessary domestic procedures prevented them from fulfilling the obligation. This
historical summary suggests that preparation work for appraisal was not as mature and finalized
as it appeared to be in the SAR.
198.  Since all railway projects handled by MOR experienced procurement delays, MOR
prepared a detailed procurement schedule for the Fifth Railway Project. It was over-optimistic
and unsatisfactory. This tendency has been observed in subsequent railway projects, which raises
the question of MOR's willingness to learn from past experience.
199.  Since 1992, the issue of streamlining MOR's procurement process had been addressed by
several Bank missions. Although they were informed that "MOR would continue efforts in
streamlining of procurement process and engage experienced staff," substantial improvements
were not made. On the contrary, the Fifth Railway Project was the first with an increasing
number of quality problems and complaints by bidders.
200.  Progress Reports. Implementation reporting was scant and became irregular beginning
in the early 1 990s. With the exception of procurement tables, MOR did not provide
comprehensive sets of progress reports. The quality of those reports was also unsatisfactory.
Bank missions pointed out that MOR's reports were merely a collection of construction
schedules with incomplete explanatory text. FCTIO staff, however, repeatedly stressed that they
had difficulties in obtaining the basic information in project implementation from MOR's
administrations. On several occasions, FCTIO's management gave the impression that it
considered the preparation of progress reports to be an onerous task, one that had to be carried
out solely for the benefit of the Bank. In response, Bank staff repeatedly explained that the
reports ought to be very useful to MOR's senior and middle management in monitoring project
implementation progress.
201.  Some of these deficiencies were offset by extensive information provided during
supervision missions; this did not apply, however, to the expansion and modernization of three
locomotive and rolling stock factories, a major component of the Fourth Railway Project. For
example, although several times requested, MOR never provided the Bank with a realistic
assessment of plant capacities to facilitate the evaluation of the Bank-funded investments and
SAR objectives.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
202.  The overall outcome of both projects is rated as satisfactory, although this assessment
needs to be qualified with regard to the Fifth Railway Project. Several sub-components of the
Locomotive and Rolling Stock System-wide Component under this project were technically not
achieved. The objectives for the Strategic Plan Study under the Fourth Railway Project were
somewhat narrowly defined although this component was intended to help promote a broader-
based dialogue between the Bank and MOR which made it quite easy for MOR to achieve them.
The outcome of the study may also have been affected by the Bank's desire to retain it in the
project even though the Beijing-Shanghai line modernization component had been postponed .
The objectives for the studies under the Fifth Railway Project were more fundamental which



- 45 -
may have contributed to the minimal outcome of the Locomotive and Rolling Stock Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Study; the objectives were basically not achieved.
203.  The Fourth Railway Project, had three particular objectives, which reflected the main
thrust of the Government's development strategy for railways during the 7th Five-year Plan
(1986-1990). Of these, and it was not necessarily the most important one, was the aim of
increasing the capacity of key routes and terminals. The double-tracking of the 492 km single-
track line and the 113 km electrification of the northern section from Yueshan to Luoyang met
this objective by providing value added to the economy; new goods production (and incremental
passenger movement) were made possible by the additional transport capacity of the railway
route.
204.  The second and third objectives were to enhance the productivity of existing assets by
raising the level of technology used in different activities within MOR, e.g. in train operations,
maintenance, administration, and manufacturing; and to expand rolling stock manufacturing
facilities. These were mainly achieved through an extensive expansion and modernization
program of three locomotive and rolling stock factories. Although envisaged production targets
were not met due to major changes in the work allocation of MCOR's locomotive and rolling
stock, the expected enhancement of the existing assets enabled MOR to raise production and
overhaul capacity of locomotives, coaches and freight wagons. It also permitted MOR to
improve both quality and productivity, while enhancing its capability to develop new products.
205.  The second project objective was also addressed through a Strategic Plan Study, which
was to develop strategic plans in the fields of telecommunications and computerization in order
to improve operational management and transportation capacity. This was consistent with the
Government's goal and the Bank's assistance strategy to develop the railway sub-sector; but it
also raised quite high expectations with regard to a broader-based dialogue between the Bank
and MOR. One tangible outcome of the study is the fact that in telecommunications, MOR has
established the foundation for a data communication network. In adclition, the OIS study defined
a strategic approach to develop a computer based operating informnation system, and since 1991,
MOR has been operating a computerized line transport capacity analysis of its railway system.
206.  The Fourth Railway Project had a further, important general objective'1, which was to
provide a bridge to possible sector lending through the choice of the components, in particular
the Strategic Plan Study. The study, which was to be tested on the Beijing-Shanghai railway
corridor, was to be an innovation that could be replicated elsewhere on other major railway lines
in the country. Recorded implementation history, however, reveals little about whether this
objective was achieved. As the evaluation of the relative benefits of alternative operating
investments and practices on the Beijing-Shanghai railway corridor was not carried out, and
informnation provided by MOR during the ICR completion mission did not convincingly address
the issue, it appears that this secondary objective was not achieved.
207.  During preparations for the Fifth Railway Project, the Bank's project team claimed that a
new era in the Bank's relationship with MOR had commenced with the identification mission in
May 1989. Various approaches and the project scope were discussed, especially the concept of a
l SAR Fourth Railway Project, para. 3.2.



- 46 -
"system-wide component" and the new railway project's link to future lending through the
preparation of studies and action plans. Actually, the four objectives for the Fifth Railway
Project--which were to ensure that MOR became more efficient and continued to be financially
viable through better operations, maintenance practices, investment planning, and tariff policies--
demonstrated a departure from previous conventional projects.
208.  The first objective of the Fifth Railway Project was to introduce recent developments in
railway technology and maintenance and rehabilitation practices. This was fully achieved when
MOR established a long-range track rehabilitation and upgrading program. This program
included the creation of track maintenance and track rehabilitation machine groups, and required
the purchasing of track machines. This investment in a modem maintenance program was
replicated in subsequent railway projects and with other foreign funding. In addition, the
placement of imported heat-treated rails in 500 km of mainline track with the most severe
curvature resulted in savings due to longer life than domestic rails; these heat-treated rails
reduced replacement and maintenance costs substantially.
209.  The second and third objectives were to develop system-wide plans and planning tools
for MOR's major sub-sectors and to develop modem planning and analytical techniques for
establishing investment priorities and tariff structure. The five wide-ranging studies prepared
under the Fifth Railway Project became the basis for preparation of later operations. They also
introduced more efficient techniques in track maintenance, at least pertaining to the evaluation of
repair technology and standardization of rules for one locomotive type. They also detenrmined the
final selection of candidate lines for electrification under the 8th Five-year Plan. Finally, the
project produced what later became MOR's Telecommunications Master Plan. This substantially
improved the operating efficiency of the Chinese railway system by providing MOR with the
capability of conducting economic evaluations necessary to identify desirable capacity expansion
expenditures.
210.  Finally, capacity was added where urgently needed and justified. The Zhegan line
capacity expansion added value to the economy through the additional shipping capacity for new
goods and more passengers. The enhanced capacity of the expanded Xuzhou terminal produced
value added benefits in termns of both coal and non-coal traffic. The system-wide locomotive and
rolling stock component helped to meet a few critical materials, machinery and equipment
requirements for increasing overhaul and production capacity.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
211.  Future operations will have to be consistent with the objectives China has for its transport
sector. A Strategy for the Transport Sector'2 identified two primary objectives: (i) to enhance
China's economic growth and increase its competitiveness in world markets, and (ii) to reduce
income disparities between inland and coastal provinces and between rural and urban areas.
Achieving these will require: stimulating competition; promoting development of the transport
network to alleviate capacity bottlenecks and provide capacity for economic growth; the opening
up of isolated areas; charging for the use of infrastructure so as to cover long-term social costs;
12 China, Forward with One Spirit: A Strategy for the Transport Sector, April 23, 1998,
Report No. 15959-CHA



- 47 -
and implementing institutional reform that recognizes the transport sector as a whole, rather than
as an aggregation of independent modes. Reducing the sector's negative effects on the
environment and improving the sector's poor safety record should be the third of the sector's
objectives.
212.  In recent years, the Bank has worked with the central and provincial governments, as well
as with MOR, to assess the institutional changes and pricing and regulatory measures needed to
stimulate a more market-responsive transport sector, based on concepts of integrated transport
systems. The next stage, which is already underway, is to progress from concepts to specific
policies and actions, and then to their implementation.
213.  One result of the inadequate transport infrastructure is its contribution to perpetuating
large income disparities between rural and urban areas and'between inland and coastal provinces.
Highway and railway links between the inland provinces and principal domestic markets in the
coastal provinces and their deep-water ports used for international trade are so poorly developed
that it can take weeks for a container to move the typical 1,000kkms involved. Future projects
should build on the experience of those recently implemented that include components to address
physical isolation that will improve access to inland provinces.
214.  After seven railway lending projects, success has been achieved in the form of physical
investments, studies and pilot projects that lead the railway towards a more commercial and
businesslike approach to its operations. Policy and institutional refDrm has come more slowly
than the Bank has hoped for, but this is in keeping with China's conservative approach to such
fundamental changes. Future lending may have less emphasis on physical components and
studies, and more on implementation of policies to stimulate competlition, and create an enabling
environment for more user-oriented multi-transport services.
1. LESSONS LEARNED
215.  Both projects, like the earlier ones, were relatively simple with regard to their physical
components. However, procurement problems arose during implementation. The appraised
estimates of costs and implementation timing proved optimistic. These deficiencies are less
understandable since the Bank and MOR had accumulated sufficient experience in implementing
Bank-assisted railway projects in China by the time of their appraisal. The main lessons learned
were as follows:
a)    Bank management's re-assessment of previous lending policies appears to have had
a fundamental impact on MOR's and the Bank's approach in the Fifth Railway
Project. The ICRs for Sixth and Seventh Railway Projects should evaluate whether
the Fifth Railway Project, which was regarded as a transitional operation, really
paved the way for more meaningful cooperation with MOR.
b)    Extensive studies proved to be a challenge to MOR. The Planning Studies under the
Fifth Railway Project were a somewhat ambitious attempt to look at future
investment requirements in a rational, system-wide context. Although the range of
the studies' achievements varied substantially, the ICRs for subsequent projects



- 48 -
should evaluate whether they really enhanced MOR's contribution to the transport
sector in China.
c)    The Fourth Railway Project had three studies and two physical components with 6
different locations. (The Yueshan-Xiangfan line double-tracking and partial
electrification was split into three distinctive sections.) By contrast, the Fifth
Railway Project consisted of four physical components with 9 different locations
and 8 studies (the five Planning Studies and three additional studies). Both projects,
but especially the Fifth Railway Project, required a multitude of professional skills
for appraisal and supervision, which caused expensive project appraisals and
supervisions and may have contributed to the Bank's involvement not having been
always adequate during implementation. Therefore, future projects should consist of
only a few components, which are specifically targeted to assist in achieving the
transport sector's objectives in order to make them more efficient, manageable and
cost-effective.
d)    MOR has historically been very reluctant to involve the Bank in broader strategic
planning, ostensibly because it has not wanted to spend Bank loans on technical
assistance. Some of the studies' objectives and targets in the Fifth Railway Project
were somewhat ambitious; and one of the five Planning Studies basically did not
achieve its objectives. It is, therefore, very important to receive MOR's full-hearted
support and commitment during appraisal of future projects.
e)    Future appraisals should avoid such arbitrary changes as experienced during the
preparation of the Fourth Railway Project. In addition, realistic procurement plans,
adequate estimates of local costs and implementation schedules providing for
inevitable delays are essential for successful project implementation.
f)    If the problem  of MOR's inadequate progress reporting cannot be resolved,
supervision of ongoing projects should focus more on collection of information in a
format conducive to the production of ICRs.



- 49 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial      Partial Negligible     Not applicable
Macro policies                                                               x
Sector policies                         x
Financial objectives                    x
Institutional development               x
Physical objectives                     x
Poverty reduction                                    x
Gender issues                                                                x
Other social objectives                                                      x
Environmental objectives                             x
Public sector management                             x
Private sector development                                                   x
Other - Resettlement                                 x
B. Project Sustainability          Likely               Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. Bank performance         Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                    x
Preparation assistance                            x
Appraisal                                         x
Supervision                                       x
D. Borrower performance   Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                       x
Implementation                                    x
Covenant compliance                               x
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                        Highly
E. Assessment of outcome    Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
x



- 50 -
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                                         Approval       Status
Preceding Operations:
1. First Railway Project  Line capacity expansion; doubling  1984    Completed on
(Ln. 2394)          locomotive production; costing study.         12/31/90 (PCR
6/24/91)
2. Second Railway      Line capacity expansion through upgrade  1985    Completed on
Project (Ln. 2540)    and electrification; expand passenger       06/30/94 (PCR
coach production capacity; strengthen         6/30/95)
applied research; modernize
management techniques; advise on
improvements in university curricula.
3. Third Railway       Capacity expansion of two lines;     1986    Completed on
Project (Ln. 2540,    improvement of technology in a              06/30/95 (ICR
Cr. 1680)           signaling factory; improvement of track       6/26/96)
maintenance; continuation of costing
study.
Following Operations:
1. Inner Mongolia      Construction of single track line;   1989    Completed on
Railway Project     acquisition of operational equipment;         12/31/96 (1CR
(Ln. 3060/Cr. 2014)   training and recruitment of staff.          6/25/97)
2. Fifth Railway       Track rehabilitation and maintenance;  1991   Completed on
Project (Ln. 3406)    acquisition of locomotives and rolling      12/31/98
stock; line capacity expansion; expansion
of Xuzhou terminal; implementation of
costing study.
3. Sixth Railway Project Line capacity expansion; technological    1993    To be
(Ln. 3581)          modernization for track maintenance,          completed on
telecom, MIS and container transport.         06/30/99
Policy reforms to rationalize tariffs,
modernize accounting standards and
improve railway management and
regulation.
4. Seventh Railway     Policy reform and institutional      1995    To be
Project (Ln. 38970)   development to provide TA to                completed on
implement railway restructuring, tariff       12/31/02
reform and labor productivity
enhancement. Investments include: line
electrification; purchase of locomotives;
upgrading telecom system;
commercializing container transport; and
protecting the environment.



- 51 -
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                               Date Planned           Revised              Date Actual
Identification                             --
Pre-appraisal                         March 1987                             June/July 1987
Appraisal                           June/July 1987                           October 1987
Negotiations                         January 1988                          May 9 to 13, 1988
Board approval                      March 15 1988                            June 23, 1988
Signature                        End November 1988                          January 25, 1989
Effectiveness                     September30 1988                          March 27, 1989
Project completion                   Dec. 31, 1995                          March 30, 1998
Loan closing                         June 30, 1996                           June 30, 1998
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96  FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate        6.00   34.00   50.00   44.00   26.00   16.00   16.00    8.00     1
Actual                    1.16   42.59   38.71   28.24   17.14   48.09   19.54    1.76       -  0.68
Actual as%of estimate    19.30  125.30   77.70)  64.20   65.90  300.60  122.10   22.00
Date of refund: February 10, 1999
/



- 52 -
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Completion
Planned                       Actual               Delay
Item/Year                  Start   Completed           Start   Completed           (months)
Yueshan-Xiangfan Line    1987          1995             1987     12/97 /a          24 months
Three Factories            09/88       1991            12/91      12/95            48 months
Strategic Plan Study       08/88       06/91           08/88    12/95 /b           54 months
/a Two machines costing about $2.8 million were delivered in February 1998. and accepted on March 30, 1998.
/b By December 1995, the study was essentially completed. Due to a delivery delay of a computer purchased under the Sixth Railway
Project, consultants services lasted until September 1997.
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
The SAR did not define key indicators for operation.



- 53 -
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
The project contained a Strategic Plan Study as one of the four main components. Details
are provided in the text part of this ICR.
Study Name      Purpose as defined at      Status         Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
Strategic Plan   Develop strategic plans
Study            in the fields of
telecommunications and
computerization in order
to improve operational
management and
transportation capacity.
Telecommunicatio  Review MOR's current   Satisfactorily    Study resulted in a
ns               telecommunications      completed         system master plan for
strategy plans and to                   telecommunications
update them based on                     development, which,
new technological                        since 1995, is being
developments.                            implemented under
the ongoing projects.
Operating        Define and obtain       Satisfactorily    Study defined a
Information      management agreement   completed          strategic approach to
System (OIS)     on a strategic approach to                develop a computer
developing a computer                    based operating
based operating                         information system.
information system for
MOR as a whole.
Transportation   Demonstrate the         Satisfactorily    Computer models
Capacity         usefulness of computer   completed except   helped evaluate the
Compuiter        models to help evaluate   for the evaluation   relative benefits and
Modeling         the relative benefits and   of the relative  costs of alternative
costs of alternative   benefits of       operating investments
operating investments    alternative     and practices.
and practices.         operating
investments and
practices on the
Beijing-Shanghai
railway corridor.



- 54 -
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Planned
Local   Foreign      Total        Local   Foreign      Total
----- (Yuan mil) -----            ----- (US$ mil)-
Yueshan-Xiangfan Line           692.9     737.8    1,430.7        187.3      199.4     386.7
Three Factories
February 7                       83.4      35.0     118.4          22.5        9.5      32.0
Sifang                          204.7      80.9     285.6          55.3      21.9        77.2
Qiqihar                          81.8      62.6     144.4          22.1       16.9      39.0
Strategic Plan Study              1.9       9.3      11.2           0.5       2.5        3.0
Total Base Costs            1,064.7    925.6    1,990.3         287.7     250.2     537.9
Physical Contingencies          106.3      45.8     152.1          28.7       12.4      41.1
Price Contingencies             149.9     148.6     298.5          10.5       10.5      20.0
Total Project Cost         1,320.9   1,120.0   2,440.9         326.9      273.1     600.0
Actual
Local  Foreign       Total        Local Foreign /b     Total
----- (Yuan mil) -----            ----- (US$ mil) -----
Yueshan-Xiangfan Line/a       2,314.4   2,464.4   4,778.8         361.5     384.9      746.4
Three Factories
February 7                      148.4      44.3     192.7          30.7        7.9      38.6
Sifang                         374.7       93.3     468.0          82.1       16.0      98.1
Qiqihar                         174.2     114.7     288.9          38.8      22.0       60.8
Strategic Plan Study              --        9.1       9.1            --        1.6       1.6
TotalBaseCosts             3,011.7   2,725.8   5,737.5         513.1      432.4     945.5
Physical Contingencies                                 --
Price Contingencies                                    --                                 --
Total Project Cost         3,011.7   2,725.8   5,737.5         513.1      432.4     945.5
Notes: /a The same cost distribution as in the SAR has been used to reflect the indirect foreign exchange
costs.



- 55 -
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Responsible Party / Component        Yuan          US$                Yuan          US$
Million      Million            Million       million
IBRD                                    740.0        200.0             1,201.1       197.92
Japanese Grant Facility (PHRD) /a                      1.5                9.1          1.59
Government                            1,474.5        398.5            4,527.3       745.94
Total                                 2440.9         600.0            5,737.5       945.45
Notes: /a By the time of Board presentation, co-financing of Yen 200 million from the Government of
Japan to assist in the financing of the Strategic Plan Study had been granted.
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 8C: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
Planned             Actual
Category                      US$ '000            US$ '000
1. Equipment and materials     186,100             197,803.6
(including transfer of
technology)
2. Consultants' services          2,800                114.4
(including software and
training)
3. Unallocated                   11,100
4. Special Account /a                                    1.6
Cancellation                                      2,080.4
Total                       200,000            200,000.0
/a The amounts indicated under the Special Account category represent the exchange rate fluctuation from
the time of the advances to the Special Accounts to the timne of documentation/recovery of the account.



- 56 -
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Yuan million, 1997 prices)
Total                Total              NPV                EIRR
Costs /a            Benefits /b        (@   12%)              %
Yueshan-Xiangfan Line
Double-Tracking and Partial
Electrification
ICR:                                    41,644              340,004              22,913            19.8
SAR:                                     17,304             219,268              30,363            36.9
/a Sum of undiscounted cost stream.
/b Sum of undiscounted benefit stream.
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Covenant               Original   Revised
Section         Description of Covenant         (lass       Statuis    l)ate       Date                  Comments
Loan      Open and maintain a special account       I          C      N/A        N/A
Agree.t
2.02 (b)
Loan      Borrower to carry out the Strategic       9          C'    N/A         N/A
Agrec.t   Plan Study for Railway ('apacity,
3.03      Operation Information Systeml and
'I'clccommunications
Loan      Borrower to carry out the training       I           C      N/A        N/A
Agrce.t   under Part D in accordancc with a
3.04      program  (in new technology and
management) agrecd with the Bank
Loan      Submit Annual Audit Rcports by Junc       1          C      N/A        N/A
Agree.t   30 each year
4.01
Covenant Class:                                                                       Status:
I=  Accounts/audits                     8 =  Indigenous pcople                   C  =  Complied with
2  =  Financial performance/reveniue     9 =  Monitoring, review, and reporting   CD =  Compliance after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10  =  Project implemcntation not        CP =  Complied with partially
3 =  I-low and utilization of phrject         covered by classes 1-9             NC =  Not complied with
funds                            II =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral         SOON  = Compliance expected in
4 =  Countcrpart funding                       budgetary or other resources                reasonably short time
5 =  Management aspects of the                allocation
project or executing agency      1 2 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 =   Environmental covenants                 regulatory/institutional action
7 =  Involuntary resettlement          13 =  Other



- 57 -
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement Number and Title                 Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
There was no significant lack of compliance
with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INFPUTS
(Weeks)
FY    FY     FY    FY   FY   FY   FY   FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY         FY   TOtal
86    87     88    89   90   91   92    93    94    95    96   97    98         99
Pre-appraisal   44.4 108.9  36.5                                                                       189.8
Lending Dev.            3.2    1.9                                                                       S. I
Appraisal                    85.4                                                                       85.4
Negotiations                  16.4                                                                      16.4
Supervision                          11.8 12.9  12.7 11.3  14.3   8.9  11.7  4.0  12.9   9.9  1.8   112.2
SPNP                                                              (.5                                    0.5
Completion                                                                                      9.6      9.6
Total         44.4  112.1  140.2   11.8 12.9  12.7 l1.3  14.3   9.4  1 1.7  4.0  12.9   9.9 11.4/a 419.0
/a As of May 11, 1999



- 58 -
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating /b
Stage                          No.   Days        Specialized        Imple-    Develop-      Types
Of            Month/          of      in        Staff Skills     mentation    ment           of
Project Cycle        Year        Persons Field     Represented /a       Status   Objectives  Problems /c
Identification    None
Preparation     None
Pre-appraisal    June/July 1987      11      14     ECN, ENG, FNA,
MISC, TC, OC, SC
Appraisal       October 1987         10      13     ECN, ENG, FNA,
MEC, MISC, OC,TC
Supervision 1   January 1989         3       2    FNA, ECN, ENG (C)         2           1           P
Supervision 2    May 1989             1      2       ENG, ENG (C)                      d/
Supervision 3    January 1990        5       4   ENG, ENG (C), ECN,                    d/
TC, MEC, MISC
Supervision 4    June/July 1990      3       5   FNA, ENG, ENG (C)          I           I          TA
Supervision 5    Oct./Nov. 1990      2       1       FNA, ENG (C),          I           I          TA
Supervision 6    Feb./Mar. 1991      6       4   FNA, ENG, MEC, TC,         I           I          TA
MISC
Supervision 7    Oct./Nov. 1991      3       2   FNA, ENG (C), MEC          2           1         P, TA
Supervision 8    March 1992           1      2             TC               --         --           --
Supervision 9    May/June 1992       4       2   FNA, ENG (C), MEC,         2           1          TA
MISC
Supervision 10   November 1992       4       3   FNA, ENG (C), MEC,         2           1          TA
MiSC
Supervision 11   April 1993          3       2      FNA, ENG, MEC           2           1         P, TA
Supervision 12   October 1993         3      7      FNA, ENG, MEC           2           I        P, TA, T
Supervision 13   May 1994             3      2   FNA, ENG (C), MEC          S          S          TA, T
Supervision 14   May/June 1995       3       7         ENG, MEC             S          S          TA, T
Supervision 15   September 1995       1      2            FNA               S          S          TA, T
Supervision 16  July 1996             1      6            ESP               --         --           --
Supervision 17   October 1996         1      6            ENG               S          S         F, TA, T
Supervision 18   April 1997           1      4            ENG               S          S            --
Supervision 19   May 1997             1      4            RES               --         --           --
Supervision 20   October 1997         1      1            ENG               S          S            --
Supervision 21   March 1998           1      1            ENG               S          S            --
Supervision 22   December 1998        1      1            RES               --         --           --
ICR             Jan./Feb. 1999        1      3            ENG               --         --           --
/a C = consultant; ENG = cnginecr; ECN = cconomist; FNA = financial analyst; ESP = environment specialist; MEC
mechanical engineering consultant; MISC = MIS consultant; OC = operations consultant; RES= resettlement
specialist; SC = signaling consultant; TC = tclccom engineer.
/b I = no significant problems; 2 = moderatc problems; 3 = major problems; S = satisfactory.
/c F= financial; M = management; P = procurement; S = studies progress; TA = technical assistance; T = training.
/d No Back-to-Office report in Files.



- 59 -
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substanitial     Partial Negligible     Not applicable
Macro policies                                                              x
Sector policies                                     x
Financial objectives                  x
Institutional development             x
Physical objectives                   x
Poverty reduction                                   x
Gender issues                                                               x
Other social objectives                                                     x
Environmental objectives              x
Public sector management                            x
Private sector development                                                  x
Other - Resettlement                                 x
B. Project Sustainability            Likely           Unlikely             Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance               Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                                    x
Preparation assistance                            x
Appraisal                                         x
Supervision                                       x
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                       x
Implementation                                    x
Covenant compliance                               x
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome    Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
x



- 60 -
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                                         Approval       Status
Preceding Operations:
1. First Railway Project  Line capacity expansion; doubling  1984    Completed on
(Ln. 2394)          locomotive production; costing study.          12/31/90 (PCR
6/24/91)
2. Second Railway      Line capacity expansioni throuIgIl upgrade  1985    Completed on
Project (Ln. 2540)    an1d electrificatioil; expan1d passen1ger   06/30/94 (PCR
coach production capacity; strengtileni       6/30/95)
applied research; modernize
management techiniques; advise on
improvements in university curricula.
3. Third Railway       Capacity expansion of two lines;     1986    Completed on
Project (Ln. 2540,    improvement of technology in a              06/30/95 (ICR
Cr. 1680)           signaling factory; improvement of track       6/26/96)
maintenance; continuation of costing
study.
4. Fourth Railway      Line capacity expansion; expansion and    1988    Completed on
Project (Ln. 2968)  quality improvement for three                 06/30/98 (ICR
locomotive and rolling stock factories;      combined with
strategic plan development for Beijing-      ICR Railways
Shanghai line.                                V)
5. Inner Mongolia      Construction of single track line;   1989    Completed on
Railway Project     acquisition of operational equipment;         12/31/96 (ICR
(Ln. 3060/Cr. 2014)   training and recruitment of staff.          6/25/97)
Following Operations:
1. Sixth Railway Project  Line capacity expansion; technological    1993  To be
(Ln. 3581)          modernizationi for track maintenance,         completed on
telecom, MIS and container transport.         06/30/99
Policy reforms to rationalize tariffs,
modernize accounting standards and
improve railway management and
regulation.
2. Seventh Railway     Policy reform and institutional      1995    To be
Project (Ln. 38970)    development to provide TA to               completed on
implement railway restructuring, tariff       12/13/02
reform and labor productivity
enhancement. Investments include: line
electrification; purchase of locomotives;
upgrading telecom system;
commercializing container transport; and.
protecting the environment.



- 61 -
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                             Date Planned         Revised            Date Actual
Identification                         --                                May 1989
Preappraisal                     September 1989                       September 1989
Appraisal                         January 1990                          January 1990
Pre-negotiation                        --                                June 1990
Negotiations                    April 30 - May 4                     August 5 - 7, 1991
1990
Board approval                         --                            September 24, 1991
Signature                              --                             October 28, 1991
Effectiveness                  before Dec. 31 1990                     January 9, 1992
Project completion                June 30, 1998                         June 1999 /a
Loan closing                   December 31, 1998                     December 31, 1998
/a  Most of the Permanent Way Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study' test due dates were in 1998. A
report evaluating the test results and presenting recormnendations is under preparation and expected to be
completed by June 1999.
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMIATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   Y96    FY97   FY98  FY99
Appraisal estimate           14.8    99.7   117.0    45.6    25.6    17.6    9.7   --
Actual                       --      43.0    90.93  130.6   2,5.6      9.8    1.0    6.6
Actual as % of estimate       0.0   43.1    77.7   286.4    99.9   55.9   10.3   --
Date of final refund: April 26, 1999



- 62 -
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Completion
Planned                     Actual              Delay
Item/Year                 Start   Completed         Start   Completed         (months)
P-way System-wide         1992      1994 /a         1993      10/98         46 months /b
Locomotives and           1992      1994 /a         1993      02/98         50 months /c
Rolling Stock System-
wide
Zhegan Line               1993       1995          05/93      12/97         24 months /d
Xuzhou Terminal           1991       1994           1993      11/98          47 months
Planning Studies          1990       1995           1990      12/97          24 months
/a The SAR did not provide an implementation schedule. Therefore, the list of goods was used, however
with one added to accommodate for testing and acceptance of equipment and machinery.
/b Loan savings financed additional track maintenance equipment. Without this, the component would have
been completed by August 1997.
/c Loan savings financed additional factory equipment. Without this, the component would have been
completed by May 1995.
/d Loan savings financed additional telecommunications equipment to improve safety and quality of
operations. With this, the components have been completed by September 1998.
/e Most of the Permanent Way Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study test due dates were in 1998. A report
evaluating the test results and presenting recommendations is under preparation and expected to be
completed by June 1999.
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
The SAR did not define either performance or efficiency indicators for operation. Bank
management was advised' that the Bank's assessment was more quantitative than
qualitative, and neither MOR nor the Bank was in a position to the extent to which
performnance should improve in any particular area. For this reason the Bank sought and
obtained MOR's agreement to carry out the five planning studies.
1 OM to Vice President dated January 17, 1990.



- 63 -
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study Name        Purpose as defined at       Status            Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
Permanent Way        Comprehensive review    Task (a)           MOR established a long-
Maintenance and      of track rehabilitation    satisfactorily  range track rehabilitation
Rehabilitation Study    and maintenance     Completed, the      and upgrading program and
standards and methods   research program  the concept of track
in order to help MOR   (task b) is expectecl  maintenance and track
develop a technically    to be completed by  rehabilitation machine
and economically      June 1999.          groups, and began
optimal program.                          purchasing track machines,
which it continued under
the following railway
projects and with other
foreign funding.
Locomotive and       Prepare action plans to   Partially        Negligible except for the
Rolling Stock        optimize the           completed           evaluation of repair
Maintenance and      maintenance, reliability,                 technology and
Rehabilitation Study    availability and                        standardization of rules for
utilization of diesel                     one locomotive type.
locomotives and rolling
stock.
System Electrification  Prepare plans for the  Satisfactorily   Determined the final
Study                electrification of railway  completed     selection of candidate lines
lines for 8t" Five-year                   for electrification for the 8t
Plan.                                     Five-year Plan on the basis
of economic priorities and
optimal timing of
investments.
System               Prepare a long-range   Satisfactorily      Produced what later
Telecommunication    plan for modernization    completed        became MOR's
Study                and expanding MOR's                        Telecommunications
telecommunications                        Master Plan.
network.
Railway Investment   Improve the operating    Satisfactorily    Developed and applied a
Study (RIS)          efficiency of the Chinese  completed       decision support system
railway system by                         consisting of an integrated
providing MOR with the                    suite of traffic forecasting,
capability of conducting                  cost, performance, network
economic evaluations                      optimization, benefit/cost,
necessary to identify                     and geographic informnation
desirable capacity                        system models.
expansion expenditures.



- 64 -
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Planned
Local   Foreign       Total         Local   Foreign      Total
- (Yuan mil) -----               ----- (US$ mil) -----
System-wide Components
Permanent Way               168.3     443.6       611.9          32.3      85.0      117.3
Locomotive/rolling stock     18.3     293.0       311.3           3.5      56.1      59.6
Zhegan Line                  1,765.9   1,544.6     3,310.5        338.4      295.9     634.3
Xuzhou Terminal               300.3      302.2      602.5          57.5       57.9     115.4
Base Costs            2,252.8   2,583.4     4,836.2        431.7      494.9     926.6
Physical Contingencies        119.0       59.7      178.7          22.8       11.6      34.4
Baseline Estimate        2,371.8   2,643.1     5,014.9        454.5      506.5     961.0
Price contingencies           214.3      274.8      489.1          19.5       25.2      44.7
Total Project Cost       2,586.1    2,917.9    5,504.0         474.0     531.7   1,005.7
Actual
Local    Foreign      Total         Local   Foreign      Total
(Yuan mil) -----                  ----- (US$ mil) -----
System-wide Components
Permanent Way               348.7     862.4     1,211.1          44.9     109.6      154.5
Locomotive/rolling stock     10.9     505.2       516.1           1.4      61.4      62.8
Zhegan Line /a               4,652.0   4,067.7     8,719.7        642.1      561.5   1,203.6
Xuzhou Terminal               621.9      156.5      778.4         110.2       19.2     129.4
Base Costs            5,633.5   5,591.8    11,225.3        798.6      751.7   1,550.3
Physical Contingencies           --        --          --            --        --         --
Baseline Estimate        5,633.5   5,591.8    11,225.3        798.6      751.7   1,550.3
Price contingencies              --        --          --            --        --         --
Total Project Costs      5,633.5   5,591.8    11,225.3         798.6     751.7   1,550.3
Notes: /a The same cost distribution as in the SAR has been used to reflect to indirect foreign exchange
costs.



- 65 -
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Responsible Party / Component        Yuan          US$             Yuan         US$
Million      Million         Million      million
IBRD                                 1,722.6        330.0         2,531.3        322.4
Government                           3,781.4        675.7         8,694.0       1,227.9
Total                                5,504.0      1,005.7        11,225.3       1,550.3
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 8C: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
Planned             Actual
Category                     U    '000           US$ '000
1. Equipment and materials    329,800            322,249.0
2. Consultants' services          200                119.0
3. Unallocated                      0                  0
4. Special Account /a                                (17.3)
Cancellation                                     7,649.3
Total                      330,000             330,000.0
/a The amounts indicated under the Special Account category represent the exchange rate fluctuation from
the time of the advances to the Special Accounts to the time of documentation/recovery of the account.



- 66 -
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Yuan million, 1997 prices)
Total         Total        NPV          EIRR
Costs /a     Benefits /b   (@ 12%)        %
Zhegan Line
ICR:                       48,150        831,365       97,709      35.0
SAR:                        17,674       149,688       15,427      34.8
Xuzhou Terminal
ICR:                       53,506        419,754       31,879      29.2
SAR:                       26,181        266,247       25,818      31.0
Track Rehabilitation
Materials
ICR:                          831          3,689        1,197     105.7
SAR:                          917          1,088           73      26.8
Wheels for Freight Wagons
ICR:                          898         22,408       12,120     233.0
SAR:                          514          4,764          850      36.0
/a Suni of undiscounted cost stream.
/b Sum of undiscounted benefit stream.



- 67 -
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Covenant             Original  Revised
Section          Description of Covenant           Class     Status      Date      Date                 Comments
Loan      Open and maintain a special account          I         C     N/A        N/A
Agree.t
2.02 (b)
Loan      Submit Annual Audit Reports by June 30       1         C     N/A        N/A
Agrec.t   each year
4.01
Loan      MOR to maintain a ratio of total             2         C     N/A        N/A        Actual performance was better than
Agrec.t   operating expanses to total operating                                              target
revenues not higher than 82% for each
4. 2       year following dccember 30, 1990
Loan      Achicv c sclf-financing ratio of 20% for     2         C     N/A        N/A
Agrec.t   1991 - 93 and of 25 % or more thereafter
4.03
Loan      (1) Achieve locomotive availability of      10         C     N/A        N/A.
Agree t   82%o (ii) carry out resettlement of the
affected people; (iii) implement traffic
Sched. 6   costing system as per agreed plan, and
(iv) furnish to the Bank by March 31,
1992, a report on the initial phase of the
planning studies being carried out under
the Second Railway Project, and use the
findings and recommendations of the
studies.
Covenant Class:                                                                Status:
I =  Accounts/audits                 8 =  Indigenous people               C  =  Complied with
2 =  Financial performance/revenue    9 =Monitoring, review, and reporting   CD =  Compliance after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10    Project implementation not      CP =  Complied with partially
.3 =  Flow and utilization of project      covered by classes 1-9         NC =  Not complied with
funds                         11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral       SOON = Compliance expected in
4    Counterpart funding                   budgetary or other resources             reasonably short time
5=  Managenment aspects of the             allocation
project or executing agency   12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6=  Environmental covenants                regulatory/institutional action
7    Involuntary resettlement       13 =  Other



- 68 -
FIFrH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement Number and Title            Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
There was no significant lack of compliance                         --
with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(Weeks)
FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    Total
88    89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96    97    98    99
Pre-appraisal    3.3   19.3  110.2                                                            132.8
Lending Dev.           0.1                                                                     0.1
Appraisal                   52.4                                                               52.4
Negotiations                14.5  31.7  18.2                                                   64.4
Supervision                              27.9  21.5  15.7  16.7  10.7   8.5  14.6   8.6  124.2
SPN Core-                                              5.7   0.3   0.3   0.3   2.6   0.6   9.8
Procurement
Completion                                                                              5.5    5.5
Total        3.3   19.4  177.1  31.7  46.1  21.5  21.4  17.0  11.0   8.8  17.2  14.7/a  389.2
/a As of May 11, 1999



- 69 -
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Table 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
I'erformance Rating /b
Stage                            No.   Days          Specialized        Imple-      Develop-        Types
Of              Month/          of      In          Staff Skills     rrientation    ment             of
Project Cycle         Year        Persons  Field       Represented /a       Status    Objectives     Problems /c-
Pre-identification   January 1989        4                   ECN, ENG                       no TOR
Identification       May 1989            5        5       ENC, FNA, ENG
Preparation          Sept,/October       7       16    ECN, ENG, FNA, TC,
1989                                     MISC
Appraisal            January 1990        11      20   ECN, ENG, FNA, MEC,
TC, ESP, MISC
Pre-negotiation      June 1990           2       4           ENG, FNA
Discussion           Feb./March 1991     7       9    ECN, ENG, FNA, MEC,
TC, MISC
Supervision I        Oct./Nov. 1991      4       4      ECN, ENG FNA,MEC           I           I
Supervision 2        March 1992           1       2             TC                 -           -
Supervision 3        May/June 1992       4        5    ECN, ENG, FNA, MEC          2           I              P
Supervision 4        November 1992       4        3         FNA, ENG,              2           1              P
ENG (C), MEC
Supervision 5        April 1993          4        6    FNA, ENG, ESP, MEC          2           1              P
Supervision 6        October 1993         3       5       FNA, ENG, MEC            2           1              P
Supervision 7        May 1994            3        6     FNA, ENG (C), MEC          S           S              P
Supervision 8        May/June 1995       3        7      ENG, MEC, TC (C)          S           S              P
Supervision 9        Scptember 1995       1       2            FNA                 S           S              P
Supcrvision 10       June 1996            2       2         ENG,TC (C)             S           S              P
Supervision II       April 1997           1       2            ENG                 S           S              --
Supervision 12       September 1997       1       3             ESP                --         --              --
Supervision 13       October 1997         1       8            ENG                 S           S              --
Supervision 14       March 1998           1      2             FNA                 --         --              --
Supervision 15       December 1998        1       7             RES                -           -              --
ICR                  Jan./Feb. 1999       1      11            ENG                 --         --              --
ICR                  February 1999        1      5             RES
/a C = consultant; ENG = engineer; ECN = economist; FNA = financial analyst; ESP = environment specialist; MEC
mechanical engineering consultant; MISC = MIS consultant; RES= resettlement specialist;
TC = telecom engineer.
/b  I = no significant problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems; S = satisfactory.
/c F= financial; M = management; P = procurement; S = studies progress; TA = technical assistance; T = training.
/d No Back-to-Office report in Files.



70
APPENDIX A: ICR COMPLETION MISSION'S
AIDE-MEMOIRE
CHINA
FOURTH AND FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECTS
(LOANS 2968 and 3406-CHA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
(February 2, 1999)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
A World Bank mission comprising Mr. U. Marggraf visited the Ministry of
Railways as a post completion mission for the Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects to seek
updated information on implementation and achievement of objectives. The mission
discussed the completeness and accuracy of the draft Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the Fourth Railway Project dated January 11, 1999, which had been sent to
FCTIC of MOR prior to the mission's arrival. Data and information collection for the
Fifth Railway Project was based on component papers made available to FCTIC in mid-
October 1998. This aide-memoire records the understandings reached with regard to
FCTIC's contribution to the ICRs.
MOR and its regional organizations which benefited from the project were very
cooperative and helped prepare informnation for this ICR. They provided some data to
complement those available in the Bank's project file, which produced a more
comprehensive picture of project implementation. The mission wishes to express its
sincere thanks to MOR, especially to the staff from FCTIC and the project teams of the
MOR administrations for their excellent cooperation, detailed information provided, and
for courtesies extended.
It is the Bank's intention to combine the ICRs for both projects into one report.
Because this report shall be delivered to the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department by
May 1, 1999, it was agreed with FCTIC that:
- a final draft combined ICR will be sent to MOR and the Ministry of Finance to
obtain their comments shortly after the mission's return to Washington; and
- comments from MOR and the Ministry of Finance and the Borrower's
contribution to the combined ICR would be sent to the Bank within two weeks after
receipt of the final draft combined ICR.



- 71 -
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBIUTION TO THE
ICR
Pr1(ojects ()IObjecti%ves
l)ue to the I.bst devclopmlclnt oi ('hina's national econlomiiy since carrying out the reformil and
opcil policy. railway sectol- hlals bccn reiaineid as one ol the bottlenecks. The objectives for
hlicse Iwo P'roiects are to increase railway's transport capacity, so as to meet the requircilienit.
'I'h llourtil RtailRWy 1'rojcCt incld(eCs thec coniponnts of'doubIc-tracking Yucshani-Xialgfan
ralilway line, ziodcrnliiation ofQi'Qihar., Sil.ang and February Seventh Locomotivcs and
Rolling Stocks Worlks. D)UC tO piotccting the state-key relic called Long mcii Stonlc carvings
in I l'nall Proviiicc, tllc (Icsign and construct ion or Yuclslihar-Xiangl'an railway liie was
Special rcevisionU, which mllade tIhe COnlStrIlCtionl SCleCdUlC (Ielay loi two years.
I' flh Rai lwav Pr-oject co\vers the comltponents olihcgan railway line upgrading, Xuzllou
trlliai al cxlpalsioll, MaluaCteUrillg syseim-wide, and(l Permanent way systeilm-wide. Duie to
revising design oi/heanl r;ailway linc, closilng dIate was extended lor one year.
All lihc targets are a(chlieve(l. According to tile criteria, the State Acceptance committee and
the National Filvironmeintal Protection Agenicy reviewedl anild accepted all the sub-
cOniUponlel ts.
I'lwc comiminciits to thec World Bank:
Tlhe Bank lviission stalls worked vcry har-d durinlg the project cycle and their hiard-workinig
was hiighly apprecilatcd by the Borrower. The periodical supervisionn mission to the fields
were necessary, whichi l'acilitates impieileiltationi schedule greatly.



- 72 -
ANNEX 1: FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF THE FOURTH
AND FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECTS
1.   The financial evaluation in the Staff Appraisal Report for The Fourth Railway Project
focuses on the income statement covering the 1982 to 1990 period (1982 to 1986 is historical
information; 1987 to 1990 are projected results). The evaluation in the Staff Appraisal
Report for the Fifth Railway Project includes for the first time all consolidated financial
statements (income statement, cash flow statement and balance sheet) and focuses on the
1985 to 1995 period (1985 to 1989 is historical information; 1990 to 1995 are projected
results).
2.   The inclusioni of all financial statements in The Fifth Railway Project is an important
step forward. However, during the financial discussions in subsequent railway projects it
became apparent that the focus of the financial statements is not uniform: the balance sheet
focuses on transport and non-transport enterprises, the income statement focuses on transport
enterprises only, and the cash flow statement is a hybrid of the two statements. Because
different principles are applied in the preparation of the statements, and because the railways
are currently in the process of segregating non-transport enterprises from transport
enterprises (five financially independent firns will be set up covering construction, engine
building and components, telecommunications and support) the remainder of this analysis
focuses on the consolidated income statcment of the transport enterprises only.
3.   The evaluation of the actual consolidated income performance from 1987 to date and
projections through 2002 for the fourteen railway administrations managed by the Ministry
of Railways (MOR) is presented in Tables I and 2. It was done in two parts, i.e. from 1987
to 1992, and from 1993 to 2002 because on July 1, 1993 the Ministry of Railways adopted
new accounting guidelines which are more aligned to international accounting standards.
Hence, financial information before and after 1993 is not comparable.
4.   Context. In evaluating MOR's performance following factors need to be taken into
account:
*    Railway revenues accrue from two sources: base tariffs, which are applied
against operating expenses, and a Railway Construction freight surcharge,
introduced in 1991, which is earmarked for capital investments, including
interest payments on loans for such investments;
*    In 1986, the Government and MOR entered into a contract under which the
latter had to finance all its operating and capital expenditures (until 1984, the
Government financed capital expenditures from the national budget, while in
1985, these were financed from a budget loan). In return, MOR was to keep
its net income after it paid taxes.



- 73 -
*     MOR's capacity to set tariffs is limited because changes to base tariffs and
freight surcharges for all the trunk lines and for most of the local lines have to
be approved by the State Planning Commission (SPC) and the State Council.
*     Inflation was two digits until 1995 and from 1993 to 1994 input subsidies for
energy and electricity were phased out.
*    MOR revalued its fixed assets in 1994, which affects the amount of
depreciation in its income statement.
5.   1987-1992 period. As reflected in the consolidated income statements in Table 1 MOR
had a positive net income in this period. Income improved from 1987 to 1989 mainly
because MOR was exempted from income taxes. In 1990, MOR benefited from an increase
in freight tariffs, across-the-board.  Since 1991, revenues fiom  base tariffs have been
supplemented by those from a freight surcharge. The reported operating ratios, deteriorating
gradually (see below). If reported costs were not understated or distorted by subsidies,
because several input factors didn't reflect market prices, they would have even be worse
(see ratios under paragraph 7 when input subsidies had been phased out). The working and
operating ratios for the 1987 to 1992 period were as follows:
MOR WORKING AND OPERATING RATIOS
Percentages/Year:              1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Working Ratio:
Appraisal Forecast-SAR IV      ------------------------ No forecasts-----------------------
Appraisal forecast-SAR V        56       63       70      60       62       64
Actual 1/                       53       60      67       57       62       70
Operating Ratio:
Appraisal Forecast-SAR IV       62       64      66       68      No forecasts
Appraisal forecast-SAR V        70       76       83      71       73       75
Actual 1/                       66       72       79      68       73       81
1/ Excluding freighit surcharge revenues because at Appraisal of the Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects, it was not known that such
surcharge would be introduced in 1991.
6.   1993-2002 period. As reflected in the consolidated income statements in Table 2,
MOR has been operating at a loss since 1993. In general, these negative results are
attributable to a decline in market share vis-a-vis the other transport modes, an inadequate
operating ratio (operating expenses relative to operating revenues), and a rising level of debt
obligations.
a)    Market Share. In 1990, in terms of ton-km, the railways accounted for 40.5
percent of total ton-km transported by all modes; in 1997 the railway share



- 74 -
had fallen to 34.3 percent. In terms of passenger-km, the railways accounted
for half of the traffic in 1989, while their share fell to 35.4 percent in 1997.
Aside from the declining market share, there appears to be some change in the
nature of the non-railway competition for freight and passenger traffic. This
change suggest that the railways may also be losing its comparative advantage
to transport long-distance bulk commodities, and passengers over medium and
long distances.
b)     Operational Results.  These results are obtained by comparing operating
expenses with operating  revenues.  In summary, increases in operating
revenues between 1993 and 1997, Yuan 41 billion, have outpaced increases in
operating expenses, Yuan 33.6 billion, during the same period. However, the
Yuan 7.4 billion difference has not been sufficient to cover the Yuan 8.1
billion increase in interest expenses between [1993 and 1997. This increase in
interest expenses is attributable to high interest rates (double digits) and to
increasing debt obligations.
c)     Long-term debts, which comprise domestic loans from the State Development
Bank and the Capital Construction Bank, and foreign loans from OECF, ADB,
the Bank and others, increased by Yuan 95.8 billion between 1993 and 1997.
Of this increase, Yuan 79.2 billion or about 83 percent of the increase, are
attributable to increases in domestic loans. The increase in debts results in
MOR reporting losses on transport operations.
7.   The deteriorating trend in MOR's net results is also reflected in the forecast and actual
working and operating ratios.
With respect to freight traffic in the 1980s the railways appear to have lost considerable merchandise traffic to
the highways; in the 1990s there appears to be a shift in the transport of bulk commodities from the railways
to the waterways. To illustrate, between 1980 and 1988, the railway share experienced a drop from 47.5
percent to 41.5 percent; during this period the market share by trucks increased from 6.4 percent to 13.5
percent. In the more recent 1990-1996 timeframe, the truck share has increased by only 0.9 percentage
points - from 12.8 percent in 1990 to 13.7 percent in 1996. By contrast, the proportion of freight traffic
handled by China's water carriers (including the ocean portion of domestic movements) has grown by
almost 5 percentage points - from 44.2 percent in 1990 to 49.1 percent in 1996.
Likewise, with respect to passenger traffic, most of the traffic lost by the railways initially was
accommodated by the highway modes (between 1980 and 1988, the 8.1 percentage point decline in the
railway share of passenger-km was matched by a 8.7 percentage point gain in the highway share). More
recently, the loss in the rail passenger market share is attributable to the aviation sector as well as the
highway modes. Thus, since 1990, the road share grew by 7.1 percentage points; the aviation mode was up
by 4.1 percentage points, while the railways' share declined by 10.0 percentage points.



- 75 -
MOR WORKING AND OPERATING RATIOS
Percentages/Year:                1993       1994       1995
Working Ratio:
Appraisal Forecast-SAR IV        ---------Not Applicable--------
Appraisal forecast -SAR V         65         65          65
Actual 1/                         75         86          89
Operating Ratio:
Appraisal Forecast-SAR IV         --------Not Applicable-------
Appraisal forecast -SAR V         76         76          76
Actual 1/                         85         97         101
I/ Excluding freight surcharge revenues because at Appraisal of The Fourth/Fifth Railway P-oject, it was not known that such surcharge
would be introduced in 1991.
8.   Acknowledging these trends, MOR  has announced an unprecedented near-term
program designed to dramatically improve bottom line earnings. Specifically, as the forecast
income statement in Table 2 also shows, losses are projected to decline sharply in 1999 and
breakeven status is anticipated by the year 2000. To achieve these ambitious targets, the
following measures will be undertaken:
a)    Recapturing Passenger Traffic. Having experienced both absolute and relative
declines in inter-city passenger business, the railways are instituting wholesale
improvements in train services and pricing. Under a new operating plan, 286
train-pairs will be discontinued, while other services will be re-configured to
enable the operation of more express and high-speed trains. A greater number
of overnight and air-conditioned trains also will be introduced. In addition, on
April 1, 1998 the State Development Planning Commission approved a MOR
proposal whereby the railways would be allowed to adjust passenger tariffs
within a zone of pricing flexibility for trains operating on lines parallel to
highways. This proposal is currently before the State Council.
b)    Reducing costs by: (i) implementing the policy (starting in 1998) that
operating expenses can only be incurred if operating revenues are generated;
(ii) reducing transport staff by 300,000 from 1998 to 2000; (iii) reducing staff
in the Ministry of Railways from 800 to 400 in 1998; (iv) linking employee
salaries to financial results (instead of physica.l output results) for freight
transport and to number/value of tickets sold for passenger transport; (v)
enhancing the performance efficiency of locomotives and rolling stock; (vi)
introducing competitive bidding for the procurement of fuel, materials, and
some equipment needed by the 14 Railway Administrations and (vii)



- 76 -
implementation of the Asset-Liability Management System from January 1,
1999 onwards.2
2  By implementing the "Asset-Liability Management System" MOR is taking the first step in restructuring
railway transport operations. The 14 Railway Administrations will become railway enterprises. The
purposes of this restructuring are to separate Government functions from enterprise functions, resolve the
issue of the ownership of assets, maintain/increase value of railway assets, and reach the target of revenues
and expenses breaking even by the year 2000.
The salient features of the Asset-Liability Management system are that railway lines, once construction is
completed, and locomotives and passenger coaches allocated by MOR to the Administrations from 1992
onwards, will become the fixed assets of the Administrations on January 1, 1999. MOR will assume the
debt servicing for the lines; debts related to the rolling stock will be serviced by the Administrations. Inter-
administration traffic will be dispatched by MOR; intra-administration traffic will be dispatched by MOR or
the Administrations pending on the available capacity at the borders between Administrations. MOR will
no longer monitor Administrations revenues/expenses on a monthly basis. Instead the management of the
Administrations will have to deposit a sum of money with MOR at the beginning of a fiscal year. At the end
of the fiscal year, the performance of the administrations will be evaluated based on three indicators: rate of
return on assets, rate of return on equity and financial gains/losses. The level of return rates and gains/losses
will determine whether the Administrations get the original deposit returned with a bonus or at the original
amount or whether MOR keeps the original deposit.



- 77 -
Table I
Actual and Forecast Consolidated Income Statements
For the year ended December 31
(in Yuan millions)
Actual      Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual   Actual
1987        1988       19851      1990        1991      1992
(per audit)  (per audit) (per audit'i (per audit) (per audit) (per audit)
VOLUME
Freight (Ton-km bil.)                             946        986       1.037       1,048      1,081     1,14i
Passenger (Pass-km bil.)                          284        326         30.        260        281       313
Total (C.Ton-kmbil.)                 1,230      1,312       1,340      1,308      1,362     1,454
REVENUES
FREIGHT                                                      19,186     19,925     22.007     27,213      31,139   39,229
From rates                                                  19,186     19,925     22,007     27.213      29,143   30,625
From surcharge 1/                                                                                         1,996     8,604
PASSENGIERS                                                   5,563      6,381      7,66 5     11,090     12,180    13,814
OTHER                                                         1,463      1,756       1,935      2,802      3,385    3,428
TO'I'AL OPERATING REVENUES                                    26,212      28,062     31,607     41,105     46,704    56,471
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Payroll                                          2,897      3,444      3,905      4,277       5,566    7,400
Materials                                        1,820      2,598      2,870      3,258       3,772    4,825
Energy                                           2,644      3,075      3,38:i     3,846      4,351     5,393
Electricity                                       389        530         74(1       897       1,023     1,290
Major Repairs 2/                                 3,314      3,414      5,871      6,527       7,277    8,085
Depreciationl 2/                                 3,314      3,414      3,924      4,356      4,864     5,402
Other 31                                         2,91 2     3,797      4,286      4,646       5,656     7,231
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                       17,290     20,272     24,982     27,807     32,509    39,626
Ol'E-RA'T'ING INCOME                                            8,922      7,790      6,625     13,298      14,195    16,845
Non-Operating Income ftron
Subsidiaries & Factories 4/                       992        865         471)       200         49       237
NON-OPERAT'ING EXPENSES
Interest and repayments 5/                        992        754       1,871       1,940     2,115     3,011
INCOME 13EI'ORE ''AXES                                         8,922       7,901      5,233     11,558     12,129    14,071
Business tax on book tariffs and book fares      1,382      1,487      1,675      2,188      2,392      1,597
revenues 6/
Business tax on surcharge revenues                                                             107      1,096
Transfers to Gov't                                              0          0      2,000       2,000    2,000
NET INCOME                                                     7,540       6,414      3,553      7,370      7,630    9,378
of which allocated to:
Capital Construction Fund                        6,121      4,952      2,258      5,870       4,111        0
Special Fund for Health & Welfare                1,419      1,462      1,30D       1,500      1,630     1,870
Railway Construction Fund                           0          0           3          0       1,889    7,508
Working Ratio:
Excluding Surcharge Revenues 8/            53%        60%        67%,'o      57%        62%       70%
Including Surcharge Revenues 8/                                                         59%      62%
Operating Ratio:
Excluding Surcharge Revenues 8/            66%        72%        79%.        68%        73%       81%
Including Surcharge Revenues 8/                                                         70%       72%
PRO-MEMOIRE
Allocation to Railway Construction Fund
Surcharge Revenues before Taxes                                                               1,996    8,604
Minus Surcharge Business Taxes                                                                (107)   (1,096)
Net Transfer                                                                                  1,889    7,508
I/ Introduced on Mtarch I5, 1991 at 0.2 fen per ton-km. On July 1, 1992, the surcharge was Increased to 1.2 fi!n per
ton-km. The Railway Construction Fund replaced the Capital Construction Fund.
21 Depreciation is pre-determined at 4% of historical costs of fixed assets, for 1987-1991 provisions for major repairs
were 6% of historical costs of fixed assets; In 1992 the provision for major repairs was 10% of the historical CDsts of
fixed assets.
3/ Includes funds collected by Railway Administrations to build staff houses.
4/ Net contributions, I.e. after deducting expenses including depreciation.
5 Under the accounting rules prior to July 1, 1993, Irterest and principal repayments were shown in the Incoine
statement.
615.35% on gross operating revenues.
7/ Net of business taxes on freight surcharge revenues.



- 78 -
Table 2
CHINA
FOURTH AND FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECTS
Actual and Forecast Consolidated Income Statements
For the year ended December 31
(in Yuan millions)
Actual     Actual      Actual     Actual      Actual    Forecast   Forecast   Forecast   Forecast   Forecast
1993       1994        1995       1996        1997       1998        1999       2000        2001        2002
(per audit)   (per audit)  (per audit)  (per audit]  (per audit)  MOR sub,  MOR sub   MOR sub   MOR sub.  MOR sub.
VOLUME                                                                                                       10/27198    10/27/98    10/27/98    10/27/98    10127/98
Freight (Ton-kmbril                     1.192        1,226      1,262       1,292      1.305       1,073       1.136      1,203      1.273       1.348
Passenger (Pass-km bil                    348         361         352        319         355        379         409         441        476         514
Total (C Too-km bil I           1.540       1,587      1,614       1,611       1.660      1,J42       1.545      1.644       1,749      1.962
REVENUES
FREIGHT                                            58,402      68.535     70,369      75.422     61,196      64.900      92.100     98,600    105,600    113,100
From rates                                       34.055       34,600     35.607      40.103     46,081      49,500     54.600      59.900     63,600      68.600
From surcharge                                   24.347       33,935     34,762      35,319     35,115      35,400      37.500     39.700     42,000      44.500
PASSENGERS                                         15.882      17,328     20.160      23.716     26.093      29.300      31.600     34,100     36,800      39.700
OTHER                                               6.010       7.745      8.838      12.966      13,994     12,800      13,800     14,900     16.000      17,200
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                             80.294     93.608      99,367    112.004    121.283      127.000    137,500     147,600    156,400    170,000
EXPENSES
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Payroll                                  9,500      11,578     13,956      16.141     19.494      19,490     21.280      23,160     25.280      27,280
Materials                               6,777        7,011      9,553       8,048      9.039       9,143      9.433      10.783     11,616      12.858
Energy                                  8.513       9,764      10,109      10,598     12.132      12,559     13,631      14.481     15,239     16,035
Electncity                              2,285       3.003       3,218       4,038      4.833       5.258      5,880       6.497      7,348      8.423
Major Repairs                           8,915       11.581     11,689      13,067     15.398      16,475     17,429      18,462     19.533     20,396
Depreciation                            5,943       6.580       7.373       9.984     11.316      12,210      13.050     13,860     14.953      16.089
Other 1/                                5.709        7.569      9.159      8,877      10.024      10.825     11,358      12,003     13,051      13,933
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                             47.641     57.086      64.056     70.453      91,226     65.950      92,061      99.266    107,020    115,014
OPERATING INCOME                                     32.653     36,522      35,311     41.551      40,057      41,050     45,439      48,334     51,380     54.986
Nor-Operating Income from
Subsidiaries & Factories 2/               399         (28)      (658)    (1.036)       (453)        -500       -500        -500       (500)      (500)
NON-OPERATING EXPENSES
Interest3/                              3.092       4.627       7,836      10,19     11.252      13.400     14,100      14.900     15,900     15.300
Non-operating expenses 4/               4,445        3.536      4,011       4.090      4.310       4,610      4,623       4,638      4,753       4,848
INCOME BEFORE TAXES                                  25,515     28,331      22.606     25.600      24,042     22,540      26,216      28,296     30,227     34,338
Business taxsonsbook tariffs and booktare    (2,994)  (1.934)  (2.094)    (2,485)     (1,807)     (1,906)    (2,115)     (2.305)    (2.511)     (2,731)
revenues 5/
Business tan onsurchargerevenues 6       (136)     (1,099)     (1,126)    (1,144)     (2,151)     (2.209)    (2,340)     (2,477)    (2.621)    (2.777)
Transfer to Water Resource Fund                                                        (965)     (1.062)     (1,125)     (1,191)    (1.260)     (1,335)
Income la.
Translers to Gov t                      (2.000)         0           0          0           0          0           C           0
NET INCOME                                           20,395     25.298      19,386     21.977      19.099      17,363     20.636      22.323     23,835     27.495
of which allocated to
Retained Pronts                          (734)     (2,911)     (6,414)    (1.379)     (2,613)    (2.428)      (424)           0       356        1,072
RailwayConstruction Fund 71             21.119     29,209      25.800     23,356      21.712      19,791     21,060      22,323     23,479     26,423
Working Rabo
Excluding Surcharge Revenues 6/        75%        66%         89%        60%         83%        82%         81%         81%        81%         81%
Including Surcharge Revenues Iv       52%         55%        58%         55%        59%         59%         58%        59%         59%        59%
Operating Ratio:
ExcludingSurchargeRevenuesth           65%        97%        101%        93%         97%        96%         94%         94%        94%         94%
Including Surcharge Revenues &        59%         62%        65%         64%        68%         69%         68%        68%         69%        69%
PRO-MEMOIRE
Allocaton to Railway Construction Fund
Surcharge Revenues before Taxes         24,347     33,935      34,762     35,319      35,115      35,400     37,500      39,700     42,000      44,500
Minus Surcharge Business Taxes           (136)     (1,099)     (1,126)    (1,144)     (2.151)    (2,209)     (2.340)     (2.477)    (2.621)     (2,777)
Minus Interest                          (3.092)    (4,627)     (7.836)    (10,819)    (11.252)    (13,400)    (14.100)    (14,900)    (15.900)    (15.300)
NetTransler                             21,119     28,209      25,800     23,356      21,712      19,791     21,060      22,323     23,479      26,423
1/ Includes pensions hor rebred employees. welfare benefits (housing, health, educahon, cost of living
adjnstmnents), and general administratve expenses.
21 Epenses, including depreciabon, charged to subsidiaries and factories exceed their revenues.
3/ Prior to 1995, MOR had to pay interest on oans tfom September 21 in year x to September 20 in year x-1.
From 1995 onwards. MOR had to pay interest on loans from September 21 in year x to December 31
in year x-1 (i.e. 5 quarters of interest). In 1996, MOR had to pay interest from Jan 1 to Dec 31 (check with MOR).
4/ lIcludes expenses for schools, police, natural disasters. etc.
5 In 1994, the business tax percentage on book tariffstfares revenues decreased nrom 5.35% to 3.24%.
6 The tax percentage on freight surcharge revenues is 3.24%.
71Net transer to ratway construction fund (equals surcharge revenues befbre tlxes minus surcharge business taxes minus interest)
8t Net of business taxes on surcharge revenues
Source: MOR Staff. October 1998.



- 79 -
ANNEX 2: ECONOMIC REEVALUATION OF THE
FOURTH AND FIFTH RAILWAY PIROJECTS
Introduction
1.    This annex presents economic reevaluations of the major components comprising the
Fourth a_d Fifth China Railway projects.' These include the Yueshan-Xiangfan line of the
Fourth Railway Project and the Zuzhou-Hangzhou line, the Xuzhou terminal, and the track
rel I  i'It-,n and the wheels for freight wagons system-wide components of the Fifth
Railway Project. For the most part, the benefits produced by these components center on the
ability of the railways to accommodate additional traffic as a consequence of capacity
expansion  (either by means of the double-tracking of a line, the enlargement of a
marshalling yard, or the provision of supplemental freight wagons). Accordingly, in addition
to the direct costs of the project, the economic evaluation of these components necessarily
must comprehend the complementary capital investments associated with this incremental
traffic. It is against these direct and indirect cost streams that the value-added benefits of the
additional traffic should be properly measured. For the respectivz components, each of these
subjects is considered in turn.
YUESHAN LINE (FOURTH RAILWAY PItOJECT)
Direct Project Costs
2.    On a financial basis, the total direct outlays of the Yueshan double-tracking and
partial electrification project amounted to Yuan 4.8 billion (see Table A below). Local costs
by year were furnished by MOR, while the annual US dollar amount of foreign costs were
converted into Yuan at the appropriate annual exchange rate. Direct project economic costs
were derived from the financial costs by shadow pricing the labor component of local costs.
Based on the data supplied by MOR, about a fifth of local labor costs were classified as labor
outlays. This amount (Yuan 807 million) was shadow priced at a rate of 1.6 reflecting the
factor employed in Railways VII.2 Nonlabor local costs were not shadow priced. These
figures were then transfomned into constant 1997 Yuan using the annual overall Gross
Domestic Product deflator for local costs and the annual Irmports of Goods and Non
Nonfactor Services deflator for foreign costs, respectively. On this basis, the economic direct
costs of the project in constant 1997 values are equal to Yuan 7.7 billion.
Two of the components - completion of the double-tracking of the Zhuzhou-Hangzhou (Zhegan) line, and
expansion of the Xuzhou terminal - initially had been part of the Fourth Railway Project but subsequently
were withdrawn because of their impact on the overall size of the proposed loan. See, SAR Fifth Railway
Project, para 3.4 and SAR Fourth Railway Project, para 3.1.
2 See SAR, Eighth Railway Project, Report No. 13795-CHA, Working Paper No. 24, p. 2.



- 80-
Table A: ICR Financial and Economic Direct project Costs
(Yuan million)
Local       Foreign         Total
Financial                                3,967.1       811.7        4,778.8
(current)
Economic                                 5,939.6      1,725.7       7,665.3
(constant, 1997)
3.    By restating the economic costs of the SAR in 1997 Yuan, it is possible to compare
the direct project costs of the ICR and the SAR. The results are shown in Table B. The
annual economic costs presented in the SAR were apportioned into local and foreign
categories on the basis of the designations presented therein.3 Employing the same domestic
and import deflators referenced above, these outlays were converted into constant 1997
Yuan. As can be seen in Table B, the ICR direct project cost figure of Yuan 7.7 billion is 74
percent higher than the comparable 1997 Yuan 4.4 billion derived from the SAR.
Table B: Economic Direct Project Costs
(Yuan million, 1997 prices)
ICR         SAR           ICR/SAR
1988       n.a.         1,719.2             n.a.
1997      7,665.3       4,395.9            1.74
Source: SAR, Table 4.1 and Table A.
Complementary Capital Costs
4.    Several types of complementary capital outlays should be included in the overall cost
stream of the project. These include the investment costs associated with providing new
production capacity for the incremental coal and non-coal traffic to be carried on the line as
well as for the additional locomotives and freight wagons needed to handle the new traffic.
New Production Capacity Investment Costs. In the Fourth Railway Project
SAR, the 1988 economic cost of developing new production capacity for both
coal and non-coal commodities was estimated at Yuan 160 per ton.4 This
figure is substantially lower than the Yuan 210 per ton value provided in the
SAR for The Fifth Railway Project.5 In both analyses, the figure used for the
3 SAR Fourth Railway Project, p. 39, para 1.
4 SAR Fourth Railway Project, p. 41, para 2(c).
5 SAR Fifth Railway Project, p. 62, para 6.



- 81 -
new coal investment is the same as for the new noni-coal investment. 6 For the
calculations in the ICR, the higher figure of The Fifth Railway Project
expressed in 1997 prices (Yuan 403 per ton) is employed for the new coal
investment. In addition, to reflect its greater value, the non-coal investment
amount in the ICR has been doubled (Yuan 806 per ton).
*      The additional line capacity for freight traffic made possible by the Yueshan
project is equal to about 50 million tons per year.7 MOR's traffic data for the
line (see Table 1) indicate that about half of the incremental freight traffic will
be comprised of coal. Under these conditions, the ICR analysis assumes that a
similar share of the additional new production capacity will be coal-related.
Accordingly, the complementary costs of new coal investments embrace 25
million tons of capacity at Yuan 403 per ton, while the comparable figure for
25 million tons of non-coal capacity is Yuan 806 per ton. The resulting
amounts have been spread equally over the five-year period, 1988-1992.
*      Additional Railway Capital. MOR provided an annual schedule of
locomotive and rolling stock acquisitions related to the incremental traffic
made possible by the project. For the period 1987-2005, these include 34
electric locomotives, 148 diesel locomotives, 5,335 freight wagons, and 208
passenger coaches. Based on the economic unit prices utilized in the
Restructured Seventh Railway Project,8 the total amount of additional
investment required for railway equipment for each year were derived.
Project Benefits
5.     The benefits from the project stem from the value added to the economy from the
new goods production (and incremental passenger movement) made possible by the
additional transport capacity of the railway route.9 These benefits were separately calculated
for coal and non-coal traffic.
6.     Consistent with the SAR, the international price of coal at Shanghai was the
benchmark. From the Bank's Commodity Price Data Base, the average 1997 price for U.S.
and Australian export coal was $35.75 per metric ton or Yuan 296 per metric ton. As for the
delivered price of domestic coal, the starting point is the cost of production. According to the
SAR, the minemouth economic cost of production as of 1988 was Yuan 10 per ton.
' SAR Fifth Railway Project, p. 62, para 7 and electronic data in the Fourth Railway Project file.
7 SAR Fourth Railway Project, p. 11, paras 3.6 and 3.7.
8 These 1997 unit prices are: electric locomotives (Yuan 11.158 million); diesel locomotives (Yuan 8.778
million), freight wagons (Yuan 0.344 million), and passenger coaches (Yuan 1.232 million). See, China:
Seventh Railway Project (Loan No. 3897-CHA) Document No. R99-2 (January 13, 1999) p. 27, Table 4.4.
9 Modest operating cost savings result from the substitution of electric for diesel traction, but since this only
applies to the 122 km between Yueshan and Luoyang, no such calculation was made for the SAR.



- 82 -
Allowing for Yuan 47 per ton in transport and loading expenses from mine to Shanghai," the
overall costs of domestic coal are equal to Y57 per ton. Expressed as a 1997 value, this total
cost amounts to Yuan 125 per ton. Thus, the value added benefit is Yuan 171 per ton -- the
difference between the border price of Yuan 296 per ton and the Yuan- 125 per ton cost of
domestic coal transported via the project route.
7.    For non-coal traffic, the SAR assumed that the value added per ton was twice that of
coal.'I Consistent with this approach, the calculations in the ICR place the value added of
non-coal traffic at 1997 Yuan 342 per ton (i.e., double the Yuan 171 amount determined for
coal.)
8.    Similarly, the benefits for passenger traffic replicate the methodology employed in
the SAR whereby it is assumed that the economic value of a passenger trip is at least equal to
the economic value of the freight traffic displaced. Essentially, this figure is commensurate
with the per ton amount for non-coal traffic just discussed. Consequently, in the ICR, the
value added accorded each incremental passenger trip amounts to Yuan 342.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
9.    For the economic reevaluation, net benefits are calculated for the 29-year period
1987-2015 to derive estimates of NPV and EIRR (a discount rate of 12 percent was used).
As reported in Table 2, the estimated NPV is Yuan 22.9 billion in 1997 prices and the EIRR
is 19.8 percent.
10.   Adjustments were made in three of the base case assumptions in order to test the
sensitivity of these results. Two of these related to the valuation of benefits, while the third
concerned the calculation of the major complementary cost component (see the
accompanying Table C.
*     Freight Traffic Growth. The base case adopts the projections provided by
MOR. When these volumes are adjusted downward by a third (for both coal
and non-coal tonnage) in each year of the forecast, the NPV fell to Yuan 10.5
billion in 1997 prices and the EIRR declined to 15.9 percent.
*     Coal Border Price. As an input to the value-added calculation, the base case
adopts the 1997 average border price of coal (Yuan 296 per ton). To test the
sensitivity of this assumption, the coal border price was reduced by 15 percent
(in 1998, the annual decline was equal to 12.3 percent). Under these
conditions, the NPV amounts to 1997 Yuan 10.6 billion and the EIRR is
equivalent to 16.0 percent.
This figure includes the following per ton amounts: loading to rail, Yuan 3; rail to river transport, Yuan 15;
river transport, Yuan 24; and transshipment at Shanghai, Y5. See SAR Fourth Railway Project, p. 41, para
3.
" SAR Fourth Railway Project, p. 42, para 5.



- 83 -
Development Costs. The sensitivity of the complementary costs of coal and
non-coal development was tested by increasing these values by 25 percent.
This adjustment yielded a NPV of 1997 Yuan 18.1 billion and EIRR of 17.4
percent.
All of these adjustments result in acceptable NPV and EIRR outcomes.
Table C: Sensitivity Analysis
NPV               EIRR
(1997 Y               0//
million)
Base Case                                             22,913             19.8
Reduce freight traffic volume by 1/3                  10,475             15.9
Reduce coal border price by 15 percent                10,619             16.0
Increase development costs by 25                      18.052             17.4
percent
ZHEGAN LINE (FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT)
Direct Project Costs
11.   Table D presents the financial and economic direct project costs for the Zhegan line
component of the Fifth Railway Project. The sources and methodology supporting these
calculations are identical to those employed for the analysis of the Yueshan line described
earlier. Compared to a current financial cost of Yuan 8.7 billion, the component after
shadow pricing of the labor costs (about 16 percent of overall local expenses) and conversion
to constant 1997 values is equal to Yuan 12_023.1
Table D: ICR Financial and Economic Direct Project Costs
(Yuan million)
Local        Foreign        Total
Financial                                      7,691.0      1,018.6       8,709.6
(current)
Economic                                      10,593.2      1,429.9      12,023.1
(constant, 1997)
12.   MOR estimates that since 1991 outlays of Yuan 664 million have been devoted to
resettlement. Expressed in constant values, this is equivalent 1.o 1997 Yuan 905.2 million.



- 84 -
The SAR estimate for resettlement in the period 1991-1996 was equal to Yuan 223 million
or, in 1997 terms, Yuan 347 million.'2 Thus, viewed on equivalent terms, actual resettlement
expenses were 2.6 times what had been estimated in the SAR.
13.   When translated into constant 1997 Yuan, the direct project costs estimated in the
SAR amount to almost Yuan 8.4 billion. This is approximately 43 percent higher than the
comparable ICR calculated figure (see Table E).
Table E: Economic Direct Project Costs
(Yuan million, 1997 prices)
ICR          SAR        ICR/SAR
1990             n.a.         4,266.1       n.a.
1997            12,023.1      8,384.5      1.434
Source: SAR, Table 4.5 and Table D.
Complementary Costs
14.   As was the case for the Yueshan line discussed earlier, complementary costs
involving both new production capacity as well as incremental railway equipment need to be
included in the analysis. With minor exceptions, the procedure for quantifying these costs
follows that employed in the Yueshan reevaluation.
*     New Production Capacity Investment Costs. Stated in 1997 prices, the cost
per ton for new coal mine investment is Yuan 403, while the comparable
number for non-coal investment is Yuan 806. These are the same values as
were used in the updated Yueshan line assessment above."3
*     The additional line capacity for freight traffic made possible by the Zhegan
project is equal to about 40 million tons per year. 14 MOR's traffic data for the
line (see Table 3) indicate that about a fifth of the incremental freight traffic
will be comprised of coal with the remaining 80 percent associated with other
commodities. Under these conditions, the ICR analysis assumes that similar
shares of the additional new production capacity will be oriented to coal and
non-coal products respectively. Accordingly, the complementary costs of new
coal investments embrace 8 million tons of capacity at Yuan 403 per ton,
while the equivalent figure for 32 million tons of non-coal capacity is Yuan
12 SAR Fifth Railway Project, p. 30.
13 In contrast to the analysis in The Fourth Railway Project, the Fifth Railway Project evaluation assumed that
the unit investment costs for coal and non-coal commodities would be the same. See SAR Fifth Railway
Project, p. 62, para 7.
14 SAR Fifth Railway Project, p. 34, para 4.11.



- 85 -
806 per ton. The resulting amounts have been spread equally over the five-
year period, 1986-1990.
*     Additional Railway Capital. MOR provided an annual schedule of
locomotive and rolling stock acquisitions related to the incremental traffic
made possible by the project. For the period 1991-2005, these include 713
diesel locomotives, 19,500 freight wagons, and 1,545 passenger coaches. The
1997 economic unit prices for these equipment categories used in the Yueshan
reevaluation also were adopted here.
Project Benefits
15.   As with the Yueshan line, the benefits from the Zhegan line project stem from the
value added to the economy from the new goods production (and incremental passenger
movement) made possible by the additional transport capacity of the railway route. In
accordance with the previously outlined methodology, these benefits were separately
calculated for coal and non-coal traffic.
16.   Due to somewhat shorter transport hauls and less in the way of transloading
operations, the delivered cost of domestic coal via the Zhegan line is equal to 1997 Yuan 101
per ton -- Yuan 24 per ton lower than for the Yueshan line. WVith the international border
price at 1997 Yuan 296 per ton (see discussion of the Yueshan line), the value added benefit
is equivalent to Yuan 195 per ton (Yuan 296 less Yuan 101).
17.   For non-coal traffic, the SAR assumed that the value added per ton was the same as
that of coal.15 This is inconsistent with the approach adopted in The Fourth Railway Project
where the value-added of non-coal traffic was deemed to be higher than that of coal.'6
Consistent with the methodology used in The Fourth Railway Project and in the reevaluation
of the Yueshan line above, the value added of additional non-coal traffic for the Zhegan line
is assumed to be 1997 Yuan 390 per ton (i.e., double the Yuan 195 amount determined for
coal.)  Likewise, the benefits for incremental passenger traffic are assumed to be
commensurate with that of non-coal traffic (1997 Yuan 390 per trip).
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
18.   For the economic reevaluation, net benefits are calculated for the 30-year period
1986-2015 to derive estimates of NPV and EIRR (a discount rate of 12 percent was used).
As reported in Table 4, the estimated NPV is Yuan 97.7 billion in 1997 prices and the EIRR
is 35.0 percent.
15 SAR Fifth Railway Project, p. 63, para 11.
16 SAR Fourth Railway Project, p. 42, para 5. This inconsistency is further complicated by the fact that the
1990 international border price for coal in The Fifth Railway Project ($18.36 per ton) is significantly higher
than that of the 1988 price in The Fourth Railway Project ($9.19 per ton). SAR Fourth Railway Project, p.
41, para 3 and SAR Fifth Railway Project, p. 63, para 9.



- 86 -
19.   Adjustments were made in four of the base case assumptions in order to test the
sensitivity of these results. Three of these relate to the valuation of benefits, while the third
concerns the calculation of the major complementary cost conmponent (see the accompanying
Table F).
*     Freight Traffic Growth. The base case adopts the projections provided by
MOR. When these volumes are adjusted downward by a third (for both coal
and non-coal tonnage) in each year of the forecast, the NPV fell to Yuan 65.6
billion in 1997 prices and the EIRR declined to 29.3 percent.
*     Coal Border Price. As an input to the value-added calculation, the base case
adopts the 1997 average border price of coal (Yuan 296 per ton). To test the
sensitivity of this assumption, the coal border price was reduced by 15 percent
(in 1998, the annual decline was equal to 12.3 percent). Under these
conditions, the NPV amounts to 1997 Yuan 69.2 billion and the EIRR is
equivalent to 30.1 percent.
Traffic Mix. Based on MOR data, 80 percent of the freight traffic on the
Zhegan line is comprised of non-coal commodities that bear a higher value-
added than does the coal traffic. This sensitivity test altered the proportions
such that coal and non-coal volume each accounted for 50 percent. With this
adjustment, the NPV declined to 1997 Yuan 96.6 billion and the EIRR
dropped to 34.5 percent.
*     Development Costs. The sensitivity of the complementary costs of coal and
non-coal development was tested by increasing these values by 25 percent.
This adjustment yielded a NPV of 1997 Yuan 92.4 billion and EIRR of 31.2
percent.
On the basis of these adjustments, the NPV and EIRR outcomes remain satisfactory.
Table F: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
NPV            EIRR
(1997 Y            %
million)
Base Case                                                  97,706         35.0
Reduce freight traffic volume by 1/3                       65,587         29.3
Reduce coal border price by 15 percent                     69,223         30.1
Shift freight traffic mix to 50% coal; 50% non-            96,591         34.5
coal
Increase development costs by 25 percent                   92,415         31.2



- 87 -
XUZHOU TERMINAL (FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT)
Direct Project Costs
20.    The financial and economic direct project costs for the Xuzhou terminal expansion
and modemization component of the Fifth Railway Project are displayed in Table G. The
sources and methodology supporting these calculations are identical to those employed for
the analyses of the prior components. Compared to a current financial cost of Yuan 778
million, and after shadow pricing of the labor costs incurred since 1992 and conversion to
constant 1997 values, this component is equal to Yuan 1,361 million.
Table G: ICR Financial and Economic Direct Project Costs
(Yuan million)
Local        Foreign         Total
Financial                                     621.9          156.5         778.4
(current)
Economic                                     1,173.1         188.0        1,361.1
(constant, 1997)
21.    When translated into constant 1997 Yuan, the direct project costs estimated in the
SAR amount to almost Yuan 1,610 million. This is approximately 15 percent lower than the
comparable ICR calculated figure (see Table H).17
Table H: Economic Direct Project Costs
(Yuan million, 1997 prices)
ICR           SAR         ICR/SAR
1990           n.a.         816.0           n.a.
1997        1,361.1       1,610.0         0.845
Source: SAR, Table 4.6(a) and Table G.
17 The expansion of the Xuzhou terminal involved a multistage program that commenced in 1986. About 70
percent of the outlays were expended before 1991 prior to Bank funding. SAR Fifth Railway Project, p. 23,
para 3.16 and Table 3.17, p. 114. In the absence of adequate pre-1991 data, the aggregate values provided
in the SAR for these years could not be updated. In the economic reevaluation, therefore, the direct project
costs for the pre-1991 as reported in the SAR have been adopted with the only adjustment being for
inflation. Under these conditions, comparisons of direct project costs in the SAR with those in the ICR must
be qualified.



- 88 -
Complementary Costs
22.   Complementary costs involving both new production capacity as well as incremental
railway equipment need to be included in the analysis. With thc minor exceptions noted
below, the procedures for quantifying thcsc expenditLres follow  that cmployed in the
reevaluation of the prior componellts.
*      New Production Capacity Investment Costs. Stated in 1997 prices, the cost
per ton for new coal mine investment is Yuan 403, whilc the comparable
number for non-coal investment is Yuan 806. Thlese are the same values as
were used in the updated Yueshani and Zhegain lines assessmelnts above. I8
The additional capacity for freight traffic made possiblc by the Xuzhou
project is equal to about 65 million tons per year.1" MOR's traffic data for the
line (see Table 5) indicate that about two-fifths of the incremental freight
traffic will be comprised of coal with the remaining 60 percent associated with
other commodities. Under these conditions, the ICR analysis assumes that
similar shares of the additional newv production capacity will be oriented to
coal and non-coal products respectively. Accordingly, the complementary
costs of new coal investments embrace 26 million tons of capacity at Yuan
403 per ton, while the equivalent figure for 39 million tons of non-coal
capacity is Yuan 806 per ton. The resulting amounts have been spread equally
over the five-year period, 1992-1996.
*      Additional Railway Capital. The incremental traffic made possible by the
project, will require periodic acquisitions of both new locomotives and
additional rolling stock.20 The 1997 economic unit prices for these equipment
categories are the same as those provided in the assessments of the prior
components.
Project Benefits
23.   The enhanced capacity of the Xuzhou terminal expansion produces value added
benefits in terms of both coal and non-coal traffic. Each of these benefit categories has been
quantified in accordance with the methodology outlined in the discussion of the Zhegan line.
Accordingly, the value-added for coal traffic is 1997 Yuan 195 per ton and for non-coal
commodities 1997 Yuan 390 per ton. (As noted, MOR indicates that approximately 40
percent of the incremental tonnage will be accounted for by coal traffic with 60 percent
18 In contrast to the analysis in The Fourth Railway Project, the Fifth Railway Project evaluation assumed that
the unit investment costs for coal and non-coal commodities would be the same. See SAR Fifth Railway
Project, p. 62, para 7 and p. 67, para 7.
19 SAR Fifth Railway Project, p. 35, para 4.15.
20 In roughly five year increments, these purchases include six diesel locomotives and 7,300 freight wagons.
The wagon purchases are based on 1997 utilization rates of 57.3 tons per wagon, 332 days per wagon per
year, a wagon cycle time of 4.57 days, resulting in 72 wagonloads per year. On this basis, about 7,300
wagons would be required to accommodate 30 million incremental tons.



- 89 -
associated with non-coal movements.)  Consistent with the SAR, for this component,
passenger traffic was not assumed to yield quantified benefits.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
24.   For the economic reevaluation, net benefits are calculated for the 30-year period
1986-2015 to derive estimates of NPV and EIRR (a discount rate of 12 percent was used).
As reported in Table 6, the estimated NPV is Yuan 31.9 billion in 1997 prices and the EIRR
is 29.2 percent.
25.   Adjustments were made in three of the base case assumptions in order to test the
sensitivity of these results. Three of these relate to the valuation of benefits, while the third
concerns the calculation of the major complementary cost cormponent (see accompanying
Table I).
*     Freight Traffic Growth. The base case adopts the projections provided by
MOR. When these volumes are adjusted downward by a third (for both coal
and non-coal tonnage) in each year of the forecast, the NPV fell to Yuan 15.0
billion in 1997 prices and the EIRR declined to 21.2 percent.
Coal Border Price. As an input to the value-added calculation, the base case
adopts the 1997 average border price of coal (Yuan 296 per ton). To test the
sensitivity of this assumption, the coal border price was reduced by 15 percent
(in 1998, the annual decline was equal to 12.3 peircent). Under these
conditions, the NPV amounts to 1997 Yuan 29.4 billion and the EIRR is
equivalent to 28.1 percent.
-     Development Costs. The sensitivity of the complementary costs of coal and
non-coal development was tested by increasing these values by 25 percent.
This adjustment yielded a NPV of 1997 Yuan 28.1 billion and EIRR of 25.6
percent.
From an economic perspective, all of these results are satisfactory.
Table I: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
NPV           EIRR
(1997 Y         %
millions)
Base Case                                          31,879         29.2
Reduce freight traffic volume by 1/3               15,030         21.2
Reduce coal border price by 15 percent             29,396         28.1
Increase development costs by 25 percent           28,054         25.6



- 90 -
SYSTEMWIDE COMPONENTS (FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT)
26.   Several permanent way and rolling stock system-wide components were included in
the economic evaluation of The Fifth Railway Project. Of these, the most significant
concemed Track Rehabilitation Materials (heat-treated, head-hardened rails) and wheels for
freight wagons; each is considered here.
Track Rehabilitation Materials
27.   This component involved the import of heat-treated rails and their placement in 500
km of mainline track with the most severe curvature. Compared to their domestically
manufactured counterparts, these imported rails possess a longer useful life and cost less to
maintain. Hence, as Table 6 summarizes, the benefits from this component are significant.
28.   Based on MOR records, the average cost of the imported rails was equal to just under
Yuan 425,000 per km. Inclusive of other track materials (OTM) (Yuan 47,150 per km) and
labor (Yuan 75,800 per km), the total installation cost for 500 km of rail amounts to slightly
less than Yuan 274,000. Because of the longer life, these rails can remain in service for three
years before replacement assuming that annual maintenance is performed (Yuan 2,104 per
km or about Yuan 1,000 for 500 km). Taken together, these items constitute the costs of the
component.
29.   The benefits are comprised of the savings incurred by not using domestic rails in
these critical curved sections. Even with maintenance, these rails are unable to withstand the
effects of frequent (and often heavy weighted) train service. Consequently, they need to be
replaced annually. As supplied by MOR, the unit costs of the domestic rail is Yuan 481,250
per km and its annual maintenance amounts to Yuan 10,620 per km (OTM and labor costs
are identical to those shown for heat-treated rail).
30.   Over a thirteen-year period, three installations of the heat-treated rails would take
place. Based on this cycle, the NPV of this component is about Yuan 1.2 billion and the
EIRR is 106 percent.
Wheels for Freigit Wagons
31.   This component calls for the import of wheel for railway rolling stock - primarily
freight wagons - in order to compensate for shortfalls in domestic wheel production.2' At a
relatively low cost, MOR would be able to place more new as well as out of service
equipment into service. Again, as Table 7 reveals, the benefits of this additional freight
carrying capacity are substantial.
32.  In conjunction with this component, MOR in 1994 and 1995 imported more than
47,000 wheels which were installed on just over 5,900 freight wagons. Along with the direct
cost of the wheels themselves (Yuan 165 million), the economic assessment also includes the
21 SAR Fifth Railway Project, p. 21, para 3.11 and p. 57, para 14.



- 91 -
complementary outlays associated with the additional wagon and locomotive supply required
to handle the incremental traffic made possible by the component.22
33.    Utilizing the value-added methodology developed for othier components, the benefits
of additional wagon capacity can be calculated.23 Assuming that each wagon would carry
about 3,900 tons per year,24 and adopting the comparatively low value-added of coal (Yuan
195 per ton), the annual benefits produced by the 5,900 incremental wagons approximates
Yuan 4.5 million.
34.    Postulating a five-year period of use, the NPV of this component is 1997 Yuan 12.1
billion and the EIRR is 233 percent. As a sensitivity test, the value added was reduced by 15
percent. This resulted in a NPV of 1997 Yuan 11.6 billion and an EIRR of 217 percent.
Clearly, these returns remain satisfactory.
22 These complementary costs are estimated at about Yuan 733 million based on a restatement (in 1997 prices)
of the values calculated in the SAR. See SAR Fifth Railway Project, p. 57, para 16.
23 For this and other system-wide components, the SAR acknowledges that the value-added methodology
employed here would "provide a better estimate of the benefits" producing rates of return exceeding 100
percent. Nonetheless, claiming that "it is difficult to identify the commod:ities carried" and "to evaluate the
commodities' value added," the SAR does not adopt this approach here. SAR fifth railway Project, p. 56,
note 2. At the same time, however, the SAR, in its assessment of the Zhegan line and the Xuzhou terminal,
does use the value-added procedure even though a variety of coal and non- zoal products are involved.
24 This figure is based on the following system-wide data for 1997: 57.3 tons per wagon; 85 percent utilization
rate or 310.25 days per wagon per year; 4.57 days per wagon cycle; and 67.9 wagonloads per wagon per
year.



-92 -
Table I
Yueshan-Xiangfan Line Freight and Passenger Traffic, 1992-2015
Freight                            Passenger Trips
(tons,                              (millions)
millions)
Without    With                   Without    With
Year          Project   Project  Increment      Project    Project  Increment
1992          29.262    44.508    15.246         4.908     6.668      1.760
1993          29.262    46.229    16.967         4.908     7.479      2.571
1994          29.262    50.492    21.230         4.908     8.539      3.631
1995          29.262    54.344    25.082         4.908     8.501      3.593
1996          29.262    57.705    28.443         4.908     9.218     4.310
1997          29.262    61.065    31.803         4.908     10.000     5.092
1998          29.262    64.754    35.492         4.908     10.857     5.949
1999          29.262    68.688    39.426         4.908     11.779     6.871
2000          29.262    64.344    35.082         4.908     12.760     7.852
2001          29.262    67.951    38.689         4.908     13.520     8.612
2002          29.262    71.885    42.623         4.908     14.318     9.410
2003          29.262    76.065    46.803         4.908     15.159    10.251
2004          29.262    80.492    51.230         4.908     16.037    11.129
2005          29.262    85.246    55.984         4.908     17.002    12.094
2006          29.262    85.246    55.984         4.908     17.002    12.094
2007          29.262    85.246    55.984         4.908     17.002    12.094
2008          29.262    85.246    55.984         4.908     17.002    12.094
2009          29.262    85.246    55.984         4.908     17.002    12.094
2010          29.262    85.246    55.984         4.908     17.002    12.094
2011          29.262    85.246    55.984         4.908     17.002    12.094
2012          29.262    85.246    55.984         4.908     17.002    12.094
2013          29.262    85.246    55.984         4.908     17.002    12.094
2014          29.262    85.246    55.984         4.908     17.002    12.094
2015          29.262    85.246    55.984         4.908     17.002    12.094
Freight: Baofeng-Nanyang segment; passenger: Luoyang-Xiangfan segment.
Source: Ministry of Railways.



Table 2
Yueshan-Xiangfan Double Tracking and Partial Electrification (Railways IV)
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
COSTS                                               BENEFITS
Coal   Non-Coal Additional               Coal      Non-coal    Passenger    Transport     Total          NET
BENEFIT
Year   Direct  Develop-  Develop     Rwy     Total     Value Added Value Added Value Added  CostSavings   Benefits    CASH FLOW
Project   ment     ment    Equip.    Costs
1987       299                           21     320                                                               -           (320)
1988       525    2,014     4,028         9   6,576                                                               -          (6,576)
1989       534    2,014     4,028        19   6,595                                                               -          (6,595)
1990       740    2,014      4,028       32   6,814                                                               -          (6,814)
1991       825    2,014     4,028        45   6,913                                                               -          (6,913)
1992       770    2,014     4,028        29   6,841           1,300      2,600         600                    4,500          (2,341)
1993       700                          114     813           1,447      2,893         877                    5,216           4,403
1994       866                          221   1,087           1,810      3,620        1,238                   6,668           5,581
1995       874                          422   1,297          2,138       4,277        1,225                   7,640           6,344
1996       624                          139     764          2,425       4,850        1,470                   8,745           7,981
1997       907                          367   1,274          2,711       5,423        1,736                   9,871           8,596
1998                                    318     318          3,026       6,052        2,029                  11,106           10,789
1999                                    281     281          3,361       6,723        2,343                  12,427           12,146
2000                                    314     314           2,991       5,982       2,678                  11,650           11,337
2001                                    247     247           3,298      6,597        2,937                  12,832           12,585
2002                                    261     261           3,634       7,268       3,209                  14,110           13,849
2003                                    318     318           3,990       7,980       3,496                  15,466           15,148
2004                                    296     296           4,368       8,735       3,795                  16,898           16,602
2005                                    316     316           4,773      9,546        4,124                  18,443           18,127
2006                                                          4,773       9,546       4,124                  18,443           18,443
2007                                                          4.773      9,546        4,124                  18,443           18,443
2008                                                          4,773      9,546        4,124                  18,443           18,443
2009                                                          4,773      9,546        4,124                  18,443           18,443
2010                                                          4,773       9,546       4,124                  18,443           18,443
2011                                                          4,773      9,546        4,124                  18,443           18,443
2012                                                          4,773      9,546        4,124                  18,443           18,443
2013                                                          4,773       9,546       4,124                  18,443           18,443
2014                                                          4,773      9,546        4,124                   18,443          18,443
2015                                                          4,773      9,546        4,124                   18,443          18,443
Total     7,665   10,070    20,139     3,770  41,644         89,001     178,002      73,000                  340,004         298,360
NPV@12%:         22,913
IRR:          19.84492%



- 94 -
Table 3
Zhuzhou-Hangzhou (Z;hegan) Line Freight and Passenger Traffic, 1991-2015
Coal (tons, millions)    Non-coal (tons, millions)   Passenger Trips (millions)
Without  With             Without   With              Without   With
Year   Project Project Increment  Project  Project  Increment  Project   Project Increment
1991     15.366 21.237    5.871   49.049   80.839   31.790    51.192   55.836    4.644
1992     15.366 22.926    7.560   49.049   86.015   36.966    51.192   56.498    5.306
1993     15.366 24.027    8.661   49.049   89.468   40.419    51.192   63.737   12.545
1994     15.366 24.533    9.167   49.049   92.134   43.085    51.192   67.785   16.593
1995     15.366 25.487   10.121   49.049   99.519   50.470    51.192   65.571    14.379
1996     15.366 27.955    12.589   49.049   102.054   53.005    51.192   62.093    10.901
1997     15.366 27.387   12.021   49.049   101.569   52.520    51.192    65.386   14.194
1998     15.366 29.171    13.805   49.049  107.224   58.175    51.192   71.495   20.303
1999     15.366 29.441    14.075   49.049   108.389   59.340    51.192   72.200   21.008
2000     15.366 29.628   14.262   49.049  115.310   66.261    51.192   72.750   21.558-
2001     15.366 29.846   14.480   49.049  110.302   61.253    51.192   73.550   22.358
2002     15.366 30.065    14.699   49.049  111.065   62.016    51.192   74.200   23.008
2003     15.366 30.284   14.918   49.049  111.836   62.787    51.192   74.850   23.658
2004     15.366 30.533   15.167   49.049  112.597   63.548    51.192   75.500   24.308
2005     15.366 30.871   15.505   49.049  114.359   65.310    51.192   76.700   25.508
2006     15.366 30.871   15.505   49.049  114.359   65.310    51.192   76.700   25.508
2007     15.366 30.871   15.505   49.049  114.359   65.310    51.192   76.700   25.508
2008     15.366 30.871   15.505   49.049  114.359   65.310    51.192   76.700   25.508
2009     15.366 30.871   15.505   49.049  114.359   65.310    51.192   76.700   25.508
2010     15.366 30.871    15.505   49.049  114.359   65.310    51.192   76.700   25.508
2011     15.366 30.871   15.505   49.049  114.359   65.310    51.192   76.700   25.508
2012     15.366 30.871    15.505   49.049   114.359   65.310    51.192   76.700   25.508
2013     15.366 30.871    15.505   49.049   114.359   65.310    51.192   76.700   25.508
2014     15.366 30.871   15.505   49.049  114.359   65.310    51.192   76.700   25.508
2015     15.366 30.871    15.505   49.049   114.359   65.310    51.192   76.700   25.508
Source: Ministry of Railways.



Table 4
Zhuzhou-Hangzhou (Zhegan) Double Tracking (Railways V)
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(1997 Yuan, millions)
COSTS                                                  BENEFITS
Direct Additional    Coal        Non-Coal                     Coal         Non-coal       Passenger      Total   NET BENEFIT
Year   Project Rwy Equip.  Development.  Development.  Total Costs  Value-Added  Value-Added    Value-Added     Benefits  CASH FLOW
1986                           644.448     5155.584      5,800.0                                                        -      (5,800.0)
1987                           644.448     5155.584      5,800.0                                                        -      (5,800.0)
1988                           644.448     5155.584      5,800.0                                                        -      (5,800.0)
1989                           644.448     5155.584      5,800.0                                                        -      (5,800.0)
1990   1,415.8                 644.448     5155.584      7,215.8                                                        -      (7,215.8)
1991    716.8      240.2                                   957.0        1,467.5       11,740.1         1,809.6    15,017.2      14,060.2
1992    941.1      140.1                                  1,081.2       1,735.0       13,880.1        2,067.6    17,682.7       16,601.4
1993   1,778.1     290.3                                 2,068.4        1,912.5       15,299.7        4,888.3    22,100.5      20,032.2
1994   2,153.1     320.3                                 2,473.4        2,036.1       16,288.6        6,465.7    24,790.3       22,316.9
1995   1,755.7     370.4                                 2,126.1        2,361.0       18,888.1        5,603.0    26,852.1      24,725.9
1996   1,186.5     430.4                                  1,616.9       2,556.0       20,447.7        4,247.7    27,251.3      25,634.4
1997   2,058.3     1331.3                                3,389.6        2,514.9       20,119.4        5,530.9    28,165.2      24,775.6
1998     10.2      730.7                                   740.9        2,804.8       22,438.4        7,911.3    33,154.5      32,413.6
1999      7.8      760.8                                   768.6        2,860.7       22,885.7        8,186.0    33,932.5       33,163.9
2000                790.8                                  790.8        3,137.7       25,101.5         8,400.4    36,639.5      35,848.8       Q
2001                310.3                                  310.3        2,951.0       23,608.3         8,712.1    35,271.4      34,961.1
2002                210.2                                  210.2        2,989.3       23,914.4         8,965.4    35,869.1      35,658.9
2003                310.3                                  310.3        3,027.9       24,223.0         9,218.7    36,469.6      36,159.3
2004                700.7                                  700.7        3,067.2       24,537.9         9,471.9    37,077.1      36,376.4
2005                200.2                                  200.2        3,149.1       25,192.5         9,939.5    38,281.1      38,080.9
2006                                                           -        3,149.1       25,192.5         9,939.5    38,281.1      38,281.1
2007                                                           -        3,149.1       25,192.5         9,939.5    38,281.1      38,281.1
2008                                                           -        3,149.1       25,192.5         9,939.5    38,281.1      38,281.1
2009                                                           -        3,149.1       25,192.5        9,939.5     38,281.1      38,281.1
2010                                                           -        3,149.1       25,192.5         9,939.5    38,281.1      38,281.1
2011                                                           -        3,149.1       25,192.5         9,939.5    38,281.1      38,281.1
2012                                                           -        3,149.1       25,192.5         9,939.5    38,281.1      38,281.1
2013                                                           -        3,149.1       25,192.5         9,939.5    38,281.1      38,281.1
2014                                                           -        3,149.1       25,192.5         9,939.5    38,281.1      38,281.1
2015                                                           -        3,149.1       25,192.5         9,939.5    38,281.1      38,281.1
Total  12,023.2    7,137.1      3,222.2     25,777.9     48,160.5       70,061.3      560,490.6      200,813.4   831,365.3     783,204.9
NPV@12%                       $97,706.29
EIRR                              35.0%



- 96 -
Table 5
Xuzhou Terminal Expansion and Modermization (Railways V)
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(1997 Yuan, millions)
COSTS                                  BENEFITS
Direct    Coal Non-Coal  Railway    Total      Coal   Non-coal     Total  NET BENEFITS
Year    Costs  Develop   Develop Equipment   Costs Value Add  Value Add   Benefits   CASH FLOW
1986    227.4                                227.4                                        (227.4)
1987    216.4                                216.4                                        (216.4)
1988    193.0                       52.67    245.7                                        (245.7)
1989    177.4                                177.4                                        (177.4)
1990    167.9                     2,511.20  2,679.1                                      (2,679.1)
1991     61.0                                 61.0                                         (61.0)
1992      9.9  2,094.5   6,283.4           8,387.7                                       (8,387.7)
1993     53.0  2,094.5   6,283.4           8,430.8                                       (8,430.8)
1994     74.3  2,094.5   6,283.4           8,452.1                                       (8,452.1)
1995     95.9  2,094.5   6,283.4  2,563.87  11,037.6   4,560.7   14,274.0  18,834.7       7,797.1
1996     22.1  2,094.5   6,283.4           8,399.9   4,755.6   12,948.0  17,703.6         9,303.7
1997     31.0                                31.0   4,287.8    10,803.0  15,090.8        15,059.9
1998     25.6                                 25.6   3,703.1    8,190.0  11,893.1        11,867.5
1999      6.3                                 6.3   3,313.3    10,920.0  14,233.3        14,227.0
2000                             2,563.87   2,563.9   3,118.4   17,160.0  20,278.4        17,714.5
2001                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0         21,448.0
2002                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0         21,448.0
2003                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0        21,448.0
2004                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0         21,448.0
2005                              2,563.87  2,563.9   3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0        18,884.1
2006                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0        21,448.0
2007                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0        21,448.0
2008                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0        21,448.0
2009                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0        21,448.0
2010                                            -   3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0         21,448.0
2011                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0         21,448.0
2012                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0        21,448.0
2013                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0        21,448.0
2014                                                 3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0         21,448.0
2015                                            -   3,898.0   17,550.0  21,448.0          21,448.0
Total  1,361.11 10,472.28 31,416.84  10,255.47 53,505.70   82,209.1  337,545.0 419,754.12  366,248.4
NPV @12%                    31,878.72
EIRR                           29.2%



Table 6
Track Rehabilitation Materiabls (Railways V)
Economic Rate of Retumn Calculation
(1997 Yuan, thxousnds)
COSTS                                           SAVINGS
Heat-
Treated                               Total  Domestic                                  Total NET BENEFITS
Year      Rail    OTM*   Labor Maintenance      Cost       Rail  OTM*    Labor Maintenance   Savings   CASH FLOW
One       212,285 23,575  37,900             273,760                                                      (273,760)
Two                                1,052       1,052    240,625  23,575   37,900   5310       307,410       306,358
Three                              1,052       1,052    240,625  23,575   37,900   5310       307,410       306,358
Four                               1,052       1,052    240,625  23,575   37,900   5310       307,410       306,358
Five      212,285 23,575  37,900             273,760    240,625  23,575   37,900   5310       307,410                            1
33,650            %D
Six                                1,052       1,052    240,625  23,575   37,900   5310       307,410       306,358              4
Seven                              1,052       1,052    240,625  23,575   37,900   5310       307,410       306,358
Eight                              1,052       1,052    240,625  23,575   37,900   5310       307,410       306,358
Nine      212,285 23,575  37,900             273,760    240,625  23,575   37,900   5310       307,410        33,650
Ten                                1,052       1,052    240,625  23,575   37,900   5310       307,410       306,358
Eleven                             1,052       1,052    240,625  23,575   37,900   5310       307,410       306,358
Twelve                             1,052       1,052    240,625  23,575   37,900   5310       307,410       306,358
Thirteen                                                24U,625J  23,,7I, JI,7V'I  ....-'3'0    3 ,Ala
Totals    636,855 70,725 113,700   9,468     830,748  2,887,500 282,900  454,800     63,720  3,688,920     2,858,172
* OTM= Other track material.                                              NPV@12%       1,197,100.96
EIRR=             105.7%



- 98 -
Table 7
Wheels for Freight Wagons (Railways V)
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(1997 Yuan, millions)
COSTS                       BENEFITS        NET BENEFITS
Year      Direct Costs    Mfg. Costs   Total Costs    Value Added      CASH FLOW
1994          71.13        366.49       437.62                            (437.62)
1995          94.31        366.49       460.80                            (460,80)
1996                                                   4,481.52           4,481.52
1997                                                   4,481.52           4,481.52
1998                                                   4,481.52           4,481.52
1999                                                   4,481.52           4,481.52
2000                                                    4,481.52           4,481.52
165.44       732.98                     22,407.60          21,509.17
NPV@12%=                12,120.48
EIRR=                      233%



IBRD 22097
IC'o-                              I10                                 1 20'                                  130' 
C H I N A                                                            uiNon                                                                     5
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT                                                               )   M
Proposed Project:                        ,o                                                    'N
so0             - -         Project Line                                *                                                      Wuy3in9     '         'T i
*         Project Terminal                                  Moh           I                                5on                           n
Previous Proje         Ni,et.
_---u---u-    Electrification                                                   S 5ongIing                         N        i       l
Railroads                                               - 'Vt   >       it              O,icih,o,'    Sihuo              Hu( /
A        Factories                      M    N    O I
-_-___-   Non-Bank Financed                MO N GO  LI A                        ,orb\n   5oo3kesh,,
Electrified Lines in operation                             -                                        / o             Mdni h
Electrified Lines under construction                                                                   t
Single Trock Railroads                                                                                               T.
Double Track Railroads                        ,on9ck                                                            
--------- > Double Track Railroads                jnio                                                                       ongiio nhe
under construction
-   - -    International Boundaries
<                                         //  a              <2lGc~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~de     ,             n
/DEM. PEOPLtES                           40
j  Hohtot   _g      Zhongjiriock,oi/                /Ooidoon(    REP, OF KOREA
HoX    Jin n        Z<ngiiokd (                                                    /
, . Shen-u _                                                                               vS \  '' REP. OF
<   tYinch...              i              ho-Shen Ii           j_gtoi                        ,_ KOREA
n ng                                                           Yan. T o  Do hou       jiu uo
L.n.                  <nn            Chnz                        o       z         nCO-JA PAN
ongqiu,~goo 
Lonzl,ou~i -,    H       Yueshon lion:                                                                                                    JAPAN
.nn     Pingdings       hMen      g\\gbu
YcngpingguonS                }      ei ~~~~~~Fuyong   <      
>,t~~~~~~~n / <in                   n            Hco            Nnjg,         -Shanghai
Cheng&                                                                              B      a o ho  /   =
Chongqing                 Fin,un                                 ngtn bion
4;  Xioononho~~~i                af            f     N.nchcg;        ,<co           n
C  _g   ELuchuong  Chongsht                n/rgehton
C  4   Schong  Jiuchongfi                  oi >  J            St e
!~~~~~~~~~~~~G iy                                                     yngY L.6 An    yong'      F.
j   t  #,               t           t   /             +              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zhongpin S
jLi-zho.                        _~,hno
>  _s_        N\nnag                 ~~~~~Guon  Shnhe 
S ~ ~ ~> /     Il N HONG KONG                                                                20
L, . < <, M Xming //                                         t-SACAO, PORT.
VIET1 ) NAM                                                                              0   190  290  3,0 400   500 KILOMETERS
MYANMAR    .S               ,        VIET NAM          s    
SC u       ii C:  S                      1r     0      200      300 MILES
.r20           LAO PEOPLE S                                                                                        b- p, - d boo b Te   Wootoffinoty otocni.ofo
t DEM. REP.                               7                                             Rooden oidli Ood.t / ko  =M. hedn~oIofliOMdk dS Eo.,kood it* fN o. i -niOnO fi,onC.
depuo 3  ot hook oNd f o Wnl.roioo Finno Corpoonion, noy jodgnafoooF
THAILAND                                                                                                          f T" w  ,  * Ow                              -t- yl
020o o     of                                                                                                                                             M    191
MAY 1991



