Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3406 CHA
(Fifth Railway Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 28, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3406 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 28, 1991, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
Page  2
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
 
(b)
in Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Railways or any successor thereto;
 
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c)
"Project Sub-units" means the administration and sub- administrations of 
MR, which are carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of three hundred thirty million dollars ($330,000,000), being the sum of 
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of 
the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule 
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain, 
in dollars, a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
Page  3
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows: 
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the  principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 
1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate railway operation management, financial and engineering practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause MR to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause MR to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures of the Project Sub-units in respect of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause MR to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, and MR 
income statement of its 
consolidated accounts, for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, and (B) 
certified copies of MR unaudited financial statements (balance sheets and sources 
and application of funds), and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
MR to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause MR to maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on 
December 31, 1990, a ratio of
total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 82%.
(b)
Before December 31 in each of its fiscal years, MR shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by MR and satisfactory to the Bank, ascertain whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall 
furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any review shows that MR would not meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph (a) for  MR's fiscal years covered by such review, MR shall promptly take 
all necessary measures (including, but not limited to, adjustments of the structure or 
levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
Page  5
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on 
a straight-line basis on the annual gross 
value of MR's fixed assets 
in operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, 
excluding 
interest and other charges on debt.
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations, net of business tax.
 
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause MR, from time to time to take, or cause to be taken, all such measures 
(including, but not limited to, adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs 
as determined by the Borrower) as shall be required to produce each year total 
revenues, after business tax, to cover total expenses, financial obligations and a 
contribution of 20% or more of the total annual capital expenditures for 1991-1993, 
and 25% or more thereafter.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations including MR's subsidiaries and 
factories, and net of business tax.
(ii)
The term "total expenses" means the sum of all expenses relating 
to operations, 
including maintenance, administration, and 
depreciation.
(iii)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt, 
repayment of loans (including sinking fund 
payments, if any), all taxes or payments 
in lieu of taxes, 
allocations to special funds and other cash distributions of 
surplus (including mandatory transfers to the Borrower), and any other cash 
outflows (other than capital expenditures) related to operations.
(iv)
The term "total capital expenditures" means the annual capital 
investment, 
including investment for equipment 
replacement.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause MR to carry on its operations and conduct 
its affairs in accordance with sound railway operation management, financial, and 
engineering practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 5.02. Without limitations to the provisions of Section 9.04 and 9.08 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause MR:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; and
(b)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plant, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound financial and railway 
operation and engineering practices.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date: Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
Page  6
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall have approved the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Address
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Page  7
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated             of %
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Equipment               329,800,000       100% of foreign
      and materials                             expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
(2)   Consultants'                200,000             100%
      services
      and training
                              ___________
            TOTAL             330,000,000
                              ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in (i) introducing into 
its railway subsector recent developments in rail technology, maintenance and 
rehabilitation practices so as to
enhance efficiency and increase capacity; (ii) developing system-wide plans and 
planning tools in the railway subsector; (iii) adopting modern planning techniques for 
establishing investment priorities; and (iv) adding capacity where such additions are 
urgently needed and justified.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
1.
Rehabilitation and maintenance of about 500 kilometers (km) of railway track, 
including 5 km of test section, through the provision of materials and equipment.
2.
Rehabilitation and maintenance of about 200 locomotives and about 6,000 rolling 
stock through the provision of materials and equipment.
Part B:
Zhegan Line
Page  8
Double-tracking of about 594 km of the Zhegan Line connecting Zhuzhou and 
Hangzhou, and expansion of the facilities at the stations to handle longer trains.
Part C:
Xuzhou Terminal
 
Expansion of the Xuzhou terminal through the provision of equipment.
Part D:
Railway Investment Study
 
Carrying out a study on railway investment evaluation and priorities.
Part E:
Railway Traffic Costing System
 
Carrying out a program of action for implementation of the railway traffic 
costing system commenced by the Borrower in 1984.
*                 *                 *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
June 1, 1997                                    6,020,000
December 1, 1997                                6,250,000
June 1, 1998                                    6,490,000
December 1, 1998                                6,745,000
June 1, 1999                                    7,005,000
December 1, 1999                                7,275,000
June 1, 2000                                    7,555,000
December 1, 2000                                7,845,000
June 1, 2001                                    8,150,000
December 1, 2001                                8,465,000
June 1, 2002                                    8,795,000
December 1, 2002                                9,135,000
June 1, 2003                                    9,485,000
December 1, 2003                                9,850,000
June 1, 2004                                   10,235,000
December 1, 2004                               10,630,000
June 1, 2005                                   11,040,000
December 1, 2005                               11,465,000
June 1, 2006                                   11,910,000
December 1, 2006                               12,370,000
June 1, 2007                                   12,850,000
December 1, 2007                               13,345,000
June 1, 2008                                   13,860,000
December 1, 2008                               14,395,000
June 1, 2009                                   14,950,000
December 1, 2009                               15,530,000
June 1, 2010                                   16,130,000
December 1, 2010                               16,755,000
June 1, 2011                                   17,400,000
December 1, 2011                               18,070,000
______________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
Page  9
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years                       0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                       0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                         0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                      0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                       1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000 may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Specialized and proprietary items, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of $10,500,000, may be purchased directly under 
negotiated contracts in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  10
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provision of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$16,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the 
Page  11
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, 
minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall 
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to 
the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
1.
The railway track to be rehabilitated under Part A.1 of the Project shall be 
selected in agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall cause MR to take all necessary steps to ensure that at least 
82% of all imported diesel and electric locomotives are available for operation.
3.
The Borrower shall carry out, or cause MR to carry out resettlement of the 
people affected by the Project in accordance with a program agreed with the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall cause MR to (a) carry out the Railway Investment Study under 
Page  12
Part D of the Project in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Bank, (b) 
not later than December 31, 1991, discuss with the Bank the recommendations of the 
Study, and (c) upon successful testing, use the techniques developed by the Study in 
preparing an economically optimal investment program in the railway subsector.
5.
(a)
For the purposes of Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall cause MR to 
develop and carry out an implementation program agreed with the Bank for 
implementation of the railway traffic costing system study begun under Railway Project 
(Loan No. 2394 CHA) between the Borrower and the Bank dated April 13, 1984, and 
continued under Third Railway Project (Credit No. 1680-CHA, Loan No. 2678-CHA) between 
the Borrower and the International Development Association, and the Bank, 
respectively, dated October 16, 1986.
(b)
Without limitations to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, MR shall, 
based on the results and recommendations of the railway traffic costing study, take 
the necessary steps to formulate
a program acceptable to the Bank for restructuring its tariffs.
6.
The Borrower shall cause MR to: (a) furnish to the Bank by March 31, 1992, for 
the Bank's review and comments, a report on the initial phase of the Planning Studies 
being carried out under Second Railway Project (Loan No. 2540-CHA) between People's 
Republic of China and the Bank, dated August 26, 1985, as amended on April 23, 1991; 
and (b) use the findings and recommendations of the Studies for MR future development, 
and for establishing system-wide priorities for the railway network.
