Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7710
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1191-NEP)
APRIL 14, 1989
Industry and Energy Division
Country Departmfnt I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupees (Rs)
Appraisal Year Average:       US$1.00 - Rs 13.2
Intervening Years Averages   US$1.00 - Rs 18.0
Completion Year Averages      US$1.00 - Rs 21.9
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB/N - Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
CIC   - Credit Information Cell
CIDB - Cottage Industry Development Board
CIHE - Cottage Industry Handicrafts Emporium
(the Emporium)
CGS   - Credit Guarantee Scheme
CSI   - Cottage and Small Industries
CTA   - Chief Technical Advisor
DCVI - Department of Cottage and Village Industries
ESC   - Export Services Center
ISC   - Industrial Services Center
NBL   - Nepal Bank Limited
NIDC - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
MNTC - Nepal Metal Trading Company
NRB   - Nepal Rastra Bank
NWTC - Nepal Wool Trading Company
OED   - Operations Evaluation Department
PCC   - Project Coordination Committee
PCIs - Participating Credit Institutions
PCR   - Project Completion Report
PCU   - Project Coordination Unit
PDC   - Product Development Center
PMU   - Project Management Unit
RBB   - Rastriya Banijya Bank
TPC   - Trade Promotion Center
UNDP - United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FoR oMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S A.
Ok*e d ovw .hw4i"
Ops#atmns EvakiU*Nin
April 14, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Nepal - Cottage and Small
Industries Project (Cr.; 1191-NEP)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Nepal - Cottage and Small Industries Project (Credit
1l9l-NEP)" prepared by the Asia Regional Ofs.Lce. Full evaluation of this
project has not been made by the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
1This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by fetipients only in the performane
Of their offcial duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise bc dischOsed without World lBankt authofization.



FOR OlFFLIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1191-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pags No.
PREFACE ......* ......................                                                    i
BASIC DATA SHEET ............................................... --***   .    *-        t
EVALUATION SUMMARY .s.o.. . .--. .o.. .................. ....... ..... *.... *         vii
I.  INTRODUCTION ................................ ..........                        1
Sectoral Setting .................... 004  ...                            1
3ector Issues and Problems .....           ................... ...        2
Sector Goals ...........                                 ...... .         2
IDA Assistance Strategy and Involvement in the
Industrial Sector ...................  ............... .               3
1.  OBJECTIVES AND IDA EXPECTATIONS .............          .............            4
Project Origins ......................................                    4
Project Objectives .......         .................... ........          4
Project Description ......         ..............................         5
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND IMPACT    ........................                   7
A.  Subprojects ..........................................                     7
General           ............................................          7
B.  Institutional Aspects .......                                .....         9
Nepal Rastra Bank/CSI Fund  .........................                  9
The Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs)              .......     11
Portfolio Management .....         .......................... .12
Credit Guarantee Scheme ............................                  13
C.  Technical and Marketing Services ............. .........                  15
Export Development .......         ..........................         16
Extension and Training .           ............................       18
Raw Material Supply ................................                  19
Monitoring and Coordination .....            ...................      21
IV.  THE ROLE OF IDA              .................. .                              22
V.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED .....................            .....         23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Subsectoral Distribution of Subloans .....      ....................  25
2.  District-wise Distribution of Subloans ...............  .              26
3.  Analysis of Subloans by Size         .................................  27
4.  Growth Trends in Key CSI Exports .....      ........................  28
5.  CSI Fund Financial Performance ......      .........................  29
6.  Organization Chart:  Nepal Rastra Bank/CSI Project Office  ....       30
7.  Organization Chart:  Nepal Rastra Bank ............. . ..........     31
8.  Credit Performance of PCIs ..................................          32
9.  Nepal Bank Ltd. tNBL):  Branch Distribution of Subloans ......        33
10. Rastriya Banijya Bank tRBB): Branch Distribution of
Subloans        ...................................................  34
11. Agricultural Development Bank (ADB/N): Branch
Distribution of Subloans ................ ..     .................  35
12.  Borrower's Comments on the Project Completion Report .........         37
13.  UNDP's Comments on the Project Completion Report ..... **.......       41



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1191-NEP)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews the achievements of
the Cottage and Small Industries Project (IDA Cr. 1191-NEP and UNDP
NEP/80/016) implemented in Nepal from FY82-FY87. The PCR was prepared by
staff of the Industry and Energy Division, Country Department I, Asia
Region, based on information collected during a December 1987 mission and
from proiect files (including a draft PCR provided by the project's Chief
Technical Advisor).
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower and UNDP for comments.
These comments have been taken into account in finalizing the report and
are reproduced as Annexes 12 and 13.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1191-NEP)
BASIC DATA SHEET
LON POSmON
(Amount. In UNS MilIIon)
As ot Jan Ja. 109ao
Osltnal    Disbursed      Cancelled       Roald   Outetandin.
Credit Amount              6.50         6.91          0.0           0.0         7.47
Conponnt.:
Credit Componeit         4.50         4.a0
TA Component             2.00         1.01
UNDP Cotinancing for
Technical Assistance     2.02
CUiJ3LT!VE ESTIMTAED AND ACTUAL DiS3URSEUENTS
FfT2    FYft     FY84    FY0S    FY6    FY67
Appraisal Estimteo (USS U)      0.41    2.19    6.71       6.50    06.0    6.50
Actual (US U)                     -    0.2L    1.49    3.97        5.0?     6.91
Actual as X of Appraisal (3)       -   11.42    26.09   61.08    76.00    90.92
PROCT DATES
Orilinal           Revised,Aotual
Board Approval                                         -               11/24/61
Credit Agreement                                       -               08/09/62
Effecti0ve                                      06/06/62               07/09/62
Terminal Dote for S4bprojct SubmissIon          12/81/84               12/81/6
Loan Closing                                    12/81/46               12/81/06



- iv -
STAFF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FYT7  FY79  FY60  FY31  FY62  FY83  FY84  FY65  PYSO   FY%7   Total
Peappraisl           0.1    1.0  39.4   5.7       -      -      -      -      -      -    46.2
Appraisal             -      -   10.6  49.5    6.0       -      -      -      -      -    65.0
Negotiations          -      -      -    0.1    7.6      -      -      -      -      -      7.7
Supervision          _        _                 14.6  18.4  31.1  26.7  10.0   8.1  102.7
Total                0.1   1.0  CO O c.a  27.3  16.4  31.1  25.7  10.0   8.l  221.9
MISSION DATA
No. of  No. of   Date Of
Month/Year  Weeks   Persons   Reoort
Identification                            01/78         1.0       1      01/78
Preparation                                06/79        1.0       1        na.
Preparation                                11/79        1.0       1        n ..
Preappralsal                               02/80        3.0       2       04/60
Preapprali  l                             08/80        2.0        1        na.
Appraisal                                 06/80        4.0        4       10/80
Supervision I                              09/61       2.0        1       11/61
Supervision II                             04/82       2.0        1      04/62
Supervision III                           01/83         1.2       2        n.e.
Supervision IV                            04/83        5.0       2       04/63
Supervision V                             06/83         1.0       1      05/68
Supervision VI                            06/68         1.0       1      08/84
Supervision VII                           08/83         1.0      2        10/8J
Supervision VIII                          07/84        1.0        1      08/84
Supervision IX                             10/84        1.0       1       10/84
Supervision X                             01/85        4.0        8      01/65
Supervision XI                            05/86        8.4       8       05/85
Supervision XII                           06/86         1.0       1      07/86
Supervision XIII                           11/86        1.0       1       11/6S
Completion                                 11/87       3.0       a       09/66



l                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~- v -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrowr: Kingdom of Nepal
Impl_menting Agencloe:
Credit Component           Nepal Rostra Bank
TA Component               Cottage Indutry Development Board
Cottage Industry Handlcraft. Emporium
Industrial ServIee Centor
Trad Promotion Center
Follow-on ProJect:           Second Cottage and Small Industries Project
(Credit 1696-W)
Amount                     USS10 million equivalent
Board Approval             05/18/86
Credit Agreement Date      09/26/8S
Effect venes               07/31/67
Planning Closing .ste      06/80/94



- vii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1191-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.      Nepal's industrial sector is small and unO?rdeveloped, with limited
prospects for import substitution and export of most modern industrial
products. Output consists primarily of consumer goods, construction
materials and simple assembly items. Private investment is concentrated in
cottage and small industries; outside Kathmandu Vallay, industrial production
occurs almost exclusively in cottage industries, which service the rural
subsistence economy by providing textiles, food, forest-based and simple
metal products. Industrial development is constrained by Nepal's limited
natural resource base, small domestic demand, lack of a skilled workforce,
landlocked position, and inadequate transport systems. Because of the con-
straints, Nepal must adopt a highly selective approach to industrial develop-
ment (para. 1.01).
ii.     CSI development has been a priority of the Government's industrial
development program because it can yield substantial employment and foreign
exchange benefits at relatively low cost. CSIs generate over one-third of
Nepal's industrial CDP, providing full- or part-time employment to about 1.2
million people in about 400,000 enterpriseo. Exports represent a growing
percentage of cottage industry outputs (para. 1.02).
iii.    The project was designed to help achieve the Government's objectives
of increasing incomes and generating employment and foreign exchange through
expanded production and export of CSI products by: (a) building programs and
capacities of key commercial, public and banking institutions to provide
effective services to viable CSIs; (b) implementing innovative, product-
specific extension services in the Bagmati and Gandaki zones, which could be
replicated in other areas; and (c) providing improved, simplified incentives
to encourage efficient production and expanded sales of CSI products. A
major objective was to tap marketing knowhow and organizing skills of private
exporters and other-commercial agents to provide training and commercial
services to cottage industries. About 60X of the project funding was
expected to go to CSI development in Kathmandu Valley with about 40X to rural
production concentrations in rural Bagmati and Gandaki (para. 2.03).
iv.     The first CSI project's performance was generally good.  The project
achieved its lending component objectives satisfactorily with most of its
quantitative targets having been either achieved or surpassed. Some
activities in the complex technical assistance component fell somewhat short
of their objectives. In general, the project helped in upgrading the Govern-
ment's capability to provide technical and financial assistance to CSI
entrepreneurs and operations; introducing project-based term credit to CSIs;
developing NRB into an apex institution geared to administering such lending;
inducing three participating banks to promote, appraise and supervise CSI
subprojects; providing innovative technical assistance inputs to
sub-borrowers; and, all in all, set a solid framework for successive projects
(para. 5.01).



- viii -
v.      Some useful lessons were gained in implementing the first CSI project
which should be reflected in the implementation of the second CSI project and
preparation of any new CSI activity. Effective appraisal procedures, inten-
sive supervision and the enforcement of credit discipline in the repayment of
subloans and the institutionalization of a credit guarantee scheme are impor-
tant elements in project-based lending. An important lesson in the export
development component was that more time than anticipated was needed to
resolve the material supply, product design and marketing problems limiting
export expansion. With the initial success achieved by CIDB In its programs,
it will be important to adopt a more selective approach by providing substan-
tial training to trainers to enable them to help upgrade the skills of exist-
ing artisans. CIDB should ensure that the upgrading of skills leads to
concrete market outlets based on local demand for consumer goods and export
demand for manufactured products, such as wool carpets, garments and silver
jewelry, in which Nepal has already demonstrated it could increase its com-
petitiveness (para. 5.02).



Nz--$
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(Credit 1191-NEP)
I. INTRODUCTION
Sectoral Setting
1.01    Nepal's industrial sector is small and undeveloped, with limited
prospects for import substitution and export of most modern industrial
products. Output consists of consumer goods (footwear, textiles, processed
foods), construction materials and simple assembly items. Within th.e formal
sector, large-scale manufacturing is concentrated mainly in public
enterprises in or near Kathmandu Valley. Private investment is concentrated
in small and cottage industries; outside Kathmandu Valley, industrial produc-
tion occurs almost exclusively in cottage industries, 1/ which service the
rural subsistence economy. Industrial development is constrained by Nepal's
limited natural rescurce base (other than water resources for hydroelec-
tricity), extremely small domestic demand, lack of a skilled technical and
managerial workforce, and its geographical position, which isolates it from
appropriate sources and markets. The long, porous border with India makes it
difficult for Nepal to protect "infant industries" from competition with
goods from India's more developed industrial sector; similarly, India's
relatively developed industrial base limits India as a potential market for
Nepal's industrial exports.  Nepal's landlocked position, the inefficient
overland transport system through India or Bangladesh, and the undeveloped
air cargo system add a substantial transport cost to imports and exports. In
view of the above problems, Nepal must adopt a highly selective approach to
industrial development. Promotion of cottage and small industries (CSIs) is
a key part of this approach as it can yield substantial employment and for-
eign exchange benefits at relatively low cost.
1.02    As a result, CSI development has been a priority of the Government's
industrial development program. In particular, CSI contributions to develop-
ment have been increased rural employment and incomes and expanded
non-traditional exports. Cottage industries generate over one-third of
Nepal's industrial GDP, providing full- or part-time employment to about 1.2
1/ Under the Industrial Enterprise Act, (October 1982) the definition of
cottage industries for purposes of fiscal incentives and technical
services includes those with fixed investment, including land and
buildings, of up to Rs 500,000 in rural areas and Rs 800,000 in urban
areas. Small-scale industries are defined as those with fixed invest-
ment not exceeding Rs 2 million.



-2-
million people in about 400,000 enterprises. Most are household units, with
fixed assets below Rs 1,000 and annual output ranging from Rs 300 to Rs
16,800 per worker. Over 90% of output is in woollen, handloom, food,
forest-based and metal products. Outside Kathmandu Valley, cottage industry
skills and incomes are coricentrated among poor hill families.
1.03    Exports represent a growing percentage of cottage industry output.
Total exports to overseas countries grew by over 200 percent from 1981/82 to
1986/87 (from Rs 462 to Rs 1,528 million, respectively), with carpets, gar-
mencs and handicrafts rising from 24 to 75 percent of total exports to over-
seas countries. Market studies carried out under t.e first CSI project
indicated the potential for doubling exports to the United States and Europe
in some product categories (particularly in wool carpets).
Sector Issues and Problems
1.04    Major obstacles to industrial development are Nepal's small domestic
market, landlocked position, and limited skills and resource base.
Industries catering to local markets face low disposable incomes and serious
competition with Indian consumer goods industries, which benefit from
economies of scale. In most hill areas, purchasing power, already below
subsistence levels, has been declining continuously since '982/83 due to
stagnant or declining agricultural production, increasing population density
and the lack of unexploited arable land. In manufactured exports, Nepal's
landlocked position results in high transport costs, a sizeable burden on
export prices of low value items. Cottage industry production in the hills
is constrained by seasonal demands from agriculture and limited commercial
orientation of the artisans. Traditional techniques limit productivity.
Most craftspeople are not entrepreneurs; their tradition, scale, and
knowledge limit growth beyond the household level and necessitate services by
market agents for distribution of inputs and finished products.
1.05    Institutional constraints also are serious.  Public programs to
assist cottage industries have been weak. Private agents and exporters, who
already play a major role in input supply, quality control and marketing in
the Kathmandu Valley, have not found enough incentives to extend networks
into hill areas, in spite of their difficulties meeting volume orders.
Exporters face bureaucratic delays in licensing and shipping and are exempt
neither from duty nor sales vax on imports needed for cottage industries.
Pre-export financing and wolting capital credit are inadequate.
Sector Goals
1.06    In the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-1985), the Government gave priority
to increasing rural employment and incomes through CSI development. The
Government also recognized the need for special institutional arrangements to
service this sector. The Plan emphasized decontrol of cottage industries and
improved incentives to the private sector. Also, the Government's industrial



-3-
policy favored strengthening the banks and existing public and private agents
rather than establishing new institutions to cover all aspects of cottage
industry development. These strategies have been fully endorsed by IDA.
1.07     The Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985-1990) also calls for increased
support for the development of cottage and small industries to supplement
rural incomes and employment and to expand non-traditional exports.
IDA Assistance Strategy and Involvement in the Industrial Sector
1.08     While the legislative framework of industrial policies has had
limited impact on promoting private large- and medium-scale industrial
investments and exports, it has had a positive impact on cottage and small
industries, which exhibit considerable potential for developing Nepal's
relative comparative advantage in producing low-volume/high-value cottage
industry goods--carpets, among such goods, have become Nepal's second large3t
export. IDA assistance strategy in the sector has been designed to achieve
three objectives: (a) to provide advice in formulating, modifying and
implementing industrial policies for more effective support to prospective
private entrepreneurs; (b) to complement financial resources provided by IDA
under two credits (i.e., Cr.705-NEP and Cr.15;5-NEP, both for medium- and
large-scale private industrial investment); and (c) to continue to provide
financial resources and technical assistance to enhance further the contribu-
tion of cottage and small industries to the country's industrial activity.
The broader goal is to develop the industrial sector so as to provide much
needed alternate sources of employment to Nepal's traditional agricultural
base, while effectively generating foreign exchange through increased exports
and effective import substitution.
1.09    IDA's involvement in industrial development in Nepal falls into two
categories: (a) support to cottage and small industries through the first
CSI project, and (b) financing of medium and large agro-based, light
engineering and service industries, utilizing the Nepal Industrial Develop-
ment Corporation (NIDC) as a financial intermediary. In November 1984, an
Industrial Development Project (Cr. 1535-NEP) was approved, consisting of a
line of credit to assist development of the leather subsector and support
private industrial investment. The International Finance Corporation has
three operations in Nepal: a US$3.1 million expansion of the Soaltee Oberoi
Hotel (FY85); a DM 14.5 million loan to Nepal Orind Magnesite Company to mine
and produce deadburnt magnesite for export 'FY82); and a DM 7.8 million loan
to the Nepal Metal Company to mine and concentrate zinc and lead for export.



-4-
II. OBJECTIVES AND IDA EXPECTATIONS
Project Origins
2.01    When the Government requested assistance from IDA to prepare a cot-
tage and small industry project, IDA provided fuids from the Technical Assis-
tance Credit (Cr. 659-NEP). The project identification report of January
1978 included terms of reference for indepth study and project preparation in
five product groups including: carpets; cotton handloom products; metal
utensils and curios; wood, bamboo and reed products; and certain
agro-itidustries. These were selected by the Government and IDA, based upon
their importance, market prospects and problems which could be addressed
within a project.
2.02    The study, sponsored by the Department of Cottage and Village
Industries (DCVI) and conducted by the Industrial Services Center (ISC) with
outside specialists, consisted of two phases. Phase I was a survey of cot-
tage industries in the six districts of Gandaki Zone and three districts of
Bagmati Zone. The survey identified panchayat (local administrative council)
concentrations of cottage units in each product group, determined charac-
teristics of existing units, and described public and private services. The
Interim Report, summarizing Phase I, was reviewed by DCVI, IDA and a steering
committee with representatives of the involved ministries, departments,
credit institutions and the private sector. Phase II included detailed
analysis of the key product groups and proposals on institutional arrange-
ments, subsector components and costs. Eight subsector and institutional
specialists from Asia were employed for about 35 staffmonths to work with ISC
on Phase II. Phase II also involved export potential studies for Nepalese
woollen, cotton and handicraft products in the US and selected countries in
Europe.
Project Objectives
2.03    Based on the above preparation studies, the project was designed to
help achieve the Government's objectives of increasing incomes and generating
employment and foreign exchange through expanded production and export of CSI
products by: (a) building programs and capabilities of key commercial,
public and banking institutions to provide effective services to viable CSIs;
(b) implementing innovative, product-specific extension services in Bagmati
and Gandaki Zones which could be replicated in other areas; and (c) providing
improved, simplified incentives to encourage efficient production and
expanded sales of CSI products. A major objective was to tap marketing
knowhow aud organizing skills of private exporters and other commercial
agents to provide training and commercial services to cottage industries.
About 60X of the project funding was expected to go to cottage industry



-5-
development in Kathmandu Valley, with about 402 to rural production con-
centrations in rural Candaki and Bagmati. Over 70% of training and commer-
cial services was expected to cater to development of selected woollen and
handloom products; and smaller amounts devoted to metal crafts in Kathmandu
Valley and to forestry-based industries concentrated in rural Gandaki.
Project Description
2.04    The main components of the project were:
(a) Financing subloans to cottage and small industries and related com-
mercial concerns; plus improving credit and operating systems of
Nepal Rastra lank (NRB) and the participating credit institutions
(PCIs);
(b) Expanding and improving CSI export promotion programs in the Trade
Promotion Center (TPC); and establishing an export promotion
office (Products of Nepal) in New York;
(c) Strengthening extension programs and services of the public service
agencies--Cottage Industries Development Board (CIDB), and the Cot-
tage Industry Handicraft Emporium (the Empori:m); and
(d) Establishing a monitoring and evaluation system and preparing for
subsequent plojects.
2.05    Under the lending component, two lecal commerical banks, Nepal Bank
Limited (NBL) and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB), and the Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank of Nepal (ADB/N) were responsible for term lending to CSIs, related
market agents, and input supply companies. These lending activities wese
encouraged and strengthened by: (a) supplying US$4.5 million equivalent to
help fi'l the gap between term lending requirements of CSIs and related
commercial agents in the project area and limited credit resources available
for this sector (limitatinns resulting from tighter credit controls and
resources directed primarily at commercial activities); (b) establishing a
CSI Refinance Unit within NRB to do subproject appraisal review and provide
partial refinance of eligible subloans made by the PCIs; and (c) encouraging
the PCIs to increase lending to viable CSIs and related commercial concerns
through attractive spreads, effective guarantees, and trained CSI officers at
headquarters and in key branches.
2.06     Under the technical and marketing services component, private and
public services to CSIs in key product groups were to be improved by:
(a) supporting TPC in providing assistance to exporters with market contacts,
product development, and strengthening of the supply base. Production
specialists, sales and exposure trips, performance contracts, and two foreign
promotional offices were to be financed; (b) reactivating the CIDB to assume
responsibility for public development services to CSIs, with product specific



-6-
extension services in Kathmrandu Valley, an improved Handicraft Design and
Promotion Centre, and integrated services to selected cottage industry
clusters in areas of Gandaki Zone which were not covered by private commer-
cial agents; (c) strengthening the Emporium's handloom operations by provid-
ing an advisor and seed capital for procurement and distribution of cotton
yarn, handloom accessories, and textiles in the project area; (d) providing
advisory services to the Nepal Rastra Bank's CSI Refinance Unit and training
for CSI staff of NRB and the PCIs; and (e) funding ISC staff and consultancy
for monitoring, evaluation and preparation of subsequent projects.



-7-
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND IMPACT
A. Subprojects
General
3.01    Although the credit disbursed generally more siowly than expected,
the credit component was committed and disbursed relatively quickly. IDA's
first CSI project is considered a landmark in project-based financing in the
country, which partly explains its attraction to potential sub-borrowers and
the relatively rapid commitment of the credit component. The CSI project
introduced active promotion, project appraisal and supervision of term loans
to CSIs, input supply companies and market agents. The credit component's
popularity reflected the existence of a substantial demand for CSI term
financing and the relative attractiveness to sub-borrowers of having to
finance only 20% of their investments.
3.02    Enterprises eligible for subloans under the project were:  manufac-
turing and marksting concerns engaged directly in the production of cottage
industry products; and CSIs with fixed investment, after the subloan, of up
to Rs 800,000 (US$60,600).  Only CSIs with fixed costs per job not exceeding
Rs 12,000 (US$900) after the subloan were eligible for credit. Also eligible
were investment enterprises owned by private individuals, partnerships,
incorporated bodies, or cooperatives.  The maximum subloan size was
Rs 800,000, including fixed investment and permanent working capital financ-
ing. Subloans helped finance foreign and local costs of fixed assets and
permanent working capital in either new or expansion subprojects. The credit
was not allocated among the participating banks. Exporters organizations
engaged by the Trade Promotion Centre as performance contractors in Candaki
Zone were eligible for loans, provided the credit institutions, standards of
viability were met. Refinance to projects of market agents for production
facilities located in Kathmandu Valley were limited to no more than 30% of
the total refinance granted under the project. In most cases, banks provided
no more than 80% of the subproject cost, leaving 20% financed by sponsors for
existing artisans with established markets.
3.03    The SAR estimated that the project would support about 2,600 subloans
and would create roughly 40,000 jobs. The CSI project, in fact, supported
3,369 subloans with total investment costs in excess of US$12 million and
more than 40,000 jobs created. Approximately 40% of lending has been to
export-oriented industries, such as woollen aiid metal products, which helped
to generate needed foreign exchange and consolidate Nepal's presence in
foreign markets in such sectors as carpets and garments. The rest was for
import-substituting activities, including handloom and agro-based
enterprises. Preparation and implementation of the project increased the
Government's awareness and understanding of CSI development problems, which



-8-
further resulted in more effective and integrated assistance to CSIs. An
important contribution of the project was the positive impact it had in
stimulating the mobilization of additional resources for CSI financing, with
the NRB and the three PCIs providing, by mid-July 1987, Rs 81.6 million
(US$3.7 million); comprised of Rs 32.6 million (NBL), Rs 31.5 million (RBB),
and Rs 17.5 (ADBIN).
3.04    Sectoral Distribution.  Annex 1 details subsectoral distribution of
subloans. The distribution by subsector of the 3,369 subprojects financed by
CSI subloans was woollen carpets and garments, 301 (compared to SAR estimates
of about 402); cotton products, 23Z (SAR,22Z); metal products, 7? (SAR, 4Z);
forest-based products, 112 (SAR, 14Z);; agro-based products, 13? (SAR, 8?);
and others, 16? (SAR, 2?). The average subloan per worker was Rs 6,120
(US$282), with woollen products appearing to be the most labor-intensive at
only Rs 4,013 (US$185) per worker while metal and agro-based products were on
the higher end at Rs 9,425 (US$434) and Rs 10,693 (US$493) per worker,
respectively.
3.05    Geographical Distribution.  The wide branch networks of the three
PCIs participating in the project have been effective in achieving a
geographical dispersion in the nine districts covered by the first CSI
project. There were 25 PCI branches in the 3 districts in the Bagmati Zone
and 31 PCI branches in the 6 districts in the rural Gandaki Zone. The dis-
trict-wise distribution of subloans is given in Annex 2. Out of 3,369 sub-
projects financed, 64.5? were in the Bagmati Zone with Kathmandu district
accounting for 36.4Z of the subprojects and 49.2? of the financing (including
3 input supply companies which obtained Rs 9.5 million or 7.8Z of the amount
of financing in Kathmandu district). Some 35.52 of the subprojects were in
the Gandaki Zone which tended to be smaller subloanp, accounting for 25.6Z of
the financing.
3.06    Size of Subloans.  The analysis of subloans by size is given in
Annex 3, and summarized in the table below:
Subloan Size (Rs)           Subprojects          Financing
(Z)                 (Z)
Less than 40.000                53                   14
40,000 - 100,000                30                   29
100,000 - 800,000               17                   57
The relevance of these figures for PCI branches' arrears and the recovery
rates is discussed below.
3.07    Economic Impact.  Excluding the cost of the sponsors' contribution to
project costs, which would normally be at least 20?, the 3,369 subprojects
financed under the Credit generated about 40,000 jobs at a cost per job of
about US$300. Approximately 75? of the subloans were for new enterprises,
contributing to the build-up of the country's entrepreneurial base. As



-9-
expected at the time of appraisal, almost two-thirds of the subprojects are
located in the Kathmandu Valley (Bagmati Zone), helping to relieve the
employment problem in this area. The project also contributed significantly
to the development of small industry in rural Gandaki, which accounted for
36Z of the subprojects and about 8,800 jobs generated. Approximately 452 of
lending was to export-oriented industries, such as wool and metal products;
the remainder was for import-substituting activities, including handloom and
agro-based enterprises. In 1981/82, exports to overseas countries totalled
Rs 604 million, with carpets, garments and handicrafts representing about 24!
of the total. Over the project period tocal exports grew to Rs 1,528 mil-
lion, with these three product categories representing about 752 of the total
(Annex 4).
B. Institutional Aspects
Nepal Rastra Bank/CSI Fund
3.08    NRB, the central bank, recognized that to develop sound CSI lending
operations in the PCIs, specialized trained staff, attractive spreads, effec-
tive guarantees, and adequate refinance were needed. A CSI Refinance Fund,
with its own policies, procedures, staff, and financial resources, was estab-
lished in NRB to channel IDA funds. Staff of the CSI Fund reviewed sub-
project appraisal reports (para. 3.10) and refinanced CSI subloans submitted
by PCIs; monitored appraisal, supervision and collection standards; collected
repayments of refinanced amounts; and reported quarterly to the CSI Coor-
dinating Committee and IDA. Prior to credit effectiveness, NRB made an ini-
tial contribution of Rs 5.0 million to the CSI Fund to cover initial operat-
ing costs as well as the time lag between NRB's refinancing and reimbursement
from IDA. Four additional contributions were made by NRB, bringing its total
contribution as of mid-July 1987 to Rs 35.0 million (US$1.6 million). The
CSI Fund financial performance exceeded all appraisal projections. Disburse-
ments over the project period were expected to be about Rs 54 million, while
actually totalling more than Rs 130 million (Annex 5). Repayments also
surpassed projected levels (an estimated Rs 39 million to an actual Rs 44
million). A cash balance of about Rs 0.6 million was projected while Rs 4
million was achieved. The purpose of the refinancing fund was to facilitate
disbursements, while administrative costs were expected to be covered by
short-term financial returns on transiting funds.
3.09    Organization and Staffing.  Annex 6 shows the organization chart and
staffing of the NRB/CSI Project Office. The CSI Project Office that
administered the Fund was set up within the Department Finance Department of
the Nepal Rastra Bank. (A detailed organization chart of NRB is given in
Annex 7.) It has its offices in leased premises (with two houses) near the
NRB headquarters and is headed by a manager. The project manager is assisted



-10-
by three deputy managers--one handling the Planning and Credit Guarantee
Section and Account Section, with two officers and six support staff; one
handling the Appraisal Section, Refinance Section, and Administrative Sec-
tion, with three officers and twelve support staff; and one handling the
Monitoring Section and NIDC Section, with three officers and three support
staff. Field officers have been set up in Dang, Pokhara and Bharatpur with a
total of five officers and eleven support staff. The total staffing of the
CSI project officers involves 17 officers and 30 support staff, which is
considered to be adequate to cover the fund's activities. All officers have
received intensive training in CSI lending and refinance operations and have
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
3.10    Policies and Procedures.  Prior to credit effectiveness, a statement
of policies and operating procedures satisfactory to IDA was adopted by NRB.
The statement outlined procedures for review of subprojects, monitoring of
PCI activities and methods and conditions of refinance. For subloans of over
Rs 20,000 (US$1,000), subsequently increased to Rs 40,000 (US$2,000) and Rs
100,000 (US$5,000) for the second CSI project, the Fund reviewed appraisals
prepared by the PCIs prior to granting refinance; for smaller subloans,
refinance was granted on the basis of the PCIs' appraisal showing the sub-
project to be eligible, economically viable and having appropriate lending
terms. However, a 20% random sample of these smaller subloans was subjected
to a more detailed post-approval review of technical, financing and marketing
aspects.
3.11    To ensure expeditious review of subloan applications of about Rs
40,000, the fund aimed to complete its procedures within three weeks of
receiving the applications.  In practice, this review averaged between one to
three months, due mainly to difficulties in interviewing the sponsor. In a
few instances, approval of refinancing took up to six months. The main
reason cited was to give time for sponsors to initiate subproject activities.
About 5% of subprojects sanctioned by PCIs were not refinanced. Although
PCIs had sufficient funds to handle these subloans rejected for refinancing,
the subprojects were not entitled to the automatic guarantee under the CSI
Credit Guarantee Scheme. The review procedures were designed to ensure that
about 30% by number and 86% by amount of subloans received preapproval review
by the CSI Fund, with the actual result being *'out 47Z by number and about
86Z by amount. The CSI Fund monitored the PC1s' supervision standards
through field visits to subprojects. PCIs submitted quarterly reports to the
fund for review, aggregation and submission to the CSI Coordinating Committee
and IDA. There was no detailed analysis of arrears and the status of these
subprojects--information which becomes critical as the second CSI project
progresses, and should be done as part of supervision of the second project.
This is particularly important since the project completion review pointed to
deficiencies in collecting and processing subprojects data by the fund.



-11-
3.12    Onlending Terms.  The participating banks initially charged CSI
sub-borrowers a standard annual interest rate of 11%. Although the Govern-
ment only agreed in May 1986 to modify the interest rate structure, IDA's CSI
project rate was increased to 15% in June 1985. The banks initially main-
tained spreads of 4X for subloans above Rs 20,000 and 6% for subloans of up
to Rs 20,000. With the increase in interest rates, the spreads increased to
7% for subloans above Rs 40,000 (increased from Rs 20,000 -- see para. 3.10)
and 8Z for subloans up to Rs 40,000. The CSI Fund received 2% to cover
administrative costs, and 1% as a premium (of guaranteed amour-ts outstanding)
for the credit guarantee scheme.
COMPARISON OF PROJECTED AND ACTUAL LENDING
RATES AND SPREADS
Size of Subloans
<20,000     >20,000    <40 000  >40 000
(SAR Projections)            Actuali
Final Onlending Rate                    11          11           15         15
Minimum Spread to PCIs                   5           4            8          7
Minimum Spread to CSI Fund               2           2            2          2
Credit Guarantee Premium                 1            1           1          1
Minimum Onlending Rate to NRB to HMG   3             4            4          5
The initial rate for the second CSI project subloans is expected to be 15%,
with an inflation rate as of mid-April 1987 estimated at 8.7%.  The CSI Fund
receives 1.75% for subloans above Rs 40,000 and 0.75% for subloans up to Rs
40,000, and 3% as the premium (of guaranteed amounts outstanding) for the
credit guarantee scheme.
The Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs)
3.13    Two domestic commercial banks--Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) and Rastriya
Banijya Bank (RBB)--and the gricultural Development Bank (ADB/N) made sub-
loans to eligible CSIs, market agents and raw material supply companies in
the project area. To be eligible for refinance, each PCI complied with
minimum staffing and training requirements and adopted suitable standards and
procedures for approving subloans. Annex 8 shows the relative credit perfor-
mance of PCIs. ADB/N had a slightly greater number of subprojects sanctioned
and handled more of the smaller loans, especially in rural Gandaki in view of
its greater network of branches. Its recovery rate percentage also was
slightly better than the two commercial banks. NBL and RBB had generally
similar performance results.



-12-
3.14    The CSI project was a pioneering one in project-based term lending in
Nepal, and institution building in relation to CSI lending by the PCIs has
been a major project objective. Through substantial, systematic efforts, the
PCIs have established a satisfactory organizational framework for processing
CSI subloans. Yet, considerable progress remains to be done in improving
appraisal standards, procedures, and supervision and collection, as explained
below. The three PCIs strengthened their CSI lending capabilities by estab-
lishing CSI units at head and zonal offices and assigned trained staff at
branch offices as envisaged in the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3172-NEP of
October 29, 1981). A total of 25 PCI branches in the Bagmati Zone and 31 PCI
branches in the Candaki Zone participated in the project. As of July 15,
1987, about 208 PCI officers and 117 non-officer level staff had been trained
in project appraisal and supervision techniques, for a total of 325 trained
staff. Additional training would be necessary for more staff when the second
CSI project expands into 18 additional districts. Refresher courses or
workshops would also be useful for those previously trained after taking
experience gained in the project into consideration.
3.15    As required by the NRB/CSI Project Office, the PCIs make quarterly
reports which focus on the main aspects of CSI lending operations, such as
subsectoral distribution, breakdowns by districts and branches, size
categories, and collection and arrears of subloans. Yet, as indicated ear-
lier, collecting and processing the data by the NRB/CSI Project Office as
well as within the PCIs is not up to date and there is a significant time
lapse between the actual transaction and the reporting. There is a need to
improve the data flows and it is necessary to focus greater attention on
project monitoring and supervision particularly in improving the rather
discouraging collection performance (para. 3.16). Setting up a
micro-computerized Credit Information Cell (CIC) at the CSI Project Office
would improve monitoring and supervision and also reduce processing time of
refinance approval and disbursements. Corollary to this, up-to-date credit
information, especially of defaulters, should also be available at the Credit
Informaticn Cell. Credit information clearance was required by sub-borrowers
from some 20-25 PCI branches. This was either undertaken by the PCIs through
letters, which take considerable time or, to expedite the process, is
solicited by sub-borrowers themselves. It would be much more effective and a
significant shortening of the process if the CIC could provide the necessary
clearance. In some instances, the circulation to all PCI branches of the
names of defaulters was effective in actually prompting repayment.
Portfolio Management
3.16    As of mid-July 1987, the collections of principal and interest on the
CSI portfolios were at 66% of receivables. Total amount of arrears repre-
sented 19% of the outstanding CSI loans portfolio. All three PCIs were
within the overall recovery rate qualification criteria of 60X--NBL (64Z),
RBB (66Z), and ADB/N (69%). However, 29 of the 56 PCI branches were below
the 70% recovery rate qualification criteria set for branches. Annexes 9 to



-13-
11 show the branch distribution of subloans for each PCI and the recovery
rates of respective branches. For several PCI branches, the collection
performance was below standard mainly due to the larger sub-borrowers (over
Rs 100,000). Repayment by these larger sub-borrowers would bring most of
these branches within the qualification criteria.
3.17    Site visits by the PCR mission to 12 of the larger subprojects which
were in arrears indicated that most of them were operating profitably and
should have been able to service their loans. Except for a potentially
profitable engineering industry subproject still in the stage of developing
its market, which was of high potential, all subprojects were producing at
full capacity and several of them had expanded their capacities and were
plowing back pro£its. One apparent problem is that they had been undercapi-
talized, often from the outset and/or the subloan granted to them was no
longer sufficient to meet current financial requirements. Working capital is
another significant problem for subprojects which need to keep a high inven-
tory of raw materials and those which sell on credit. Managerial and
entrepreneurial deficiencies were apparent in most of them (such as in
accounting and projections of financial/cash needs, production planning and
control, etc.). A further analysis of the largest subprojects in arrears
generally followed a similar pattern. Arrears due to willful default were
estimated to be around 10X-15X. Lack of credit discipline, especially among
the biggest sub-borrowers, is a serious concern.
3.18    In order to bring most of the PCI branches back within the qualifica-
tion criteria and with the implementation of the second CSI project starting
in early 1988, the Government and IDA have agreed on measures to reduce the
level of arrears. Intensive supervision (including pressure on larger
sub-borrowers to settle arrears) would be undertaken by PCIs. Arrears would
be analyzed; problems and remedies would be diagnosed; CSI staff and PCI
branches would be provided incentives, such as awards, which would not neces-
sarily be financial in nature; and profitable subprojects in arrears
refinanced or the subloans restructured. Circulation to all PCI branches of
the names of willful defaulters would be standard procedure and action
against them would be instituted including the enforcement of collaterals.
Credit Guarantee Scheme
3.19    In 1974, the Government, through the NRB, introduced a priority
sector lending guideline which was aimed at increasing the allocation of
commercial bank credit to small enterprises in the agricultural, industrial
and service sectors, in order to support its policy of scimulating production
and employment in these sectors (collectively called the priority sector).
In view of the commercial banks' lack of familiarity with lending to this
sector, and the greater risk involved, it was decided that a credit guarantee
scheme would be needed to support priority sector lending. Thus, a separate
credit guarantee institution was established as an ordinary limited company,
namely the Credit Guarantee Corporation (Private) Limited (CGC), with a paid



-14-
up capital of Rs 3 million, and with the NRB and the two existing commercial
banks as shareholders.
3.20    The CGC was required to guarantee automatically all priority sector
loans below a certain size granted by the two commercial banks. Although the
banks were not able to meet the NRB priority sector guideline, tne CGC's
guarantee obligations grew much faster than its capital fund, which amounted
to only 6.1% of outstanding guarantees at the end of FY1979/80. At the same
time about 52% of the guaranteed loans were reported overdue. The CGC's
inadequate capitalization resulted in the banks taking a nigh level of col-
lateral against their priority sector loans. While this practice would
appear to help protect the CGC against losses, it defeated the main purpose
of a credit guarantee scheme which is to provide greater access to institu-
tional ources of credit for small enterprises which lack sufficient col-
lateral. The banks made their priority sector loans as if there were no
guarantee. Despite the high rate of arrears, very few claims were submitted
to the CCC. One of the main reasons for the lack of claims was the inex-
perience of the banks in appraising and supervising project loans in the
priority sector, and the common reluctance (or inability) to take legalistic
action, which resulted in both the improper use of loan proceeds and the
inability to provide proper documentation in order to submit claims. This
situation began to improve only after the introduction of the Intensive
Banking Program in 1981.
3.21    When the cottage and small industry project became effective in FY82,
it was considered that a credit guarantee scheme was very much needed to
encourage the banks to relax their collateral requirements. In view of the
CGC's inadequate capitalization, another scheme was established specifically
for the CSI refinancing program and managed by the NRB as part of this
program. The NRB/CSI credit guarantee scheme avoided the major problems of
the CGC by obtaining the Government's agreement to meet all its guarantee
obligations without limit, and by using the screening procedures of the
refinancing program to help ensure the quality of the credits guaranteed.
A relatively attractive term of the refinancing program allow the PCIs to
have a 4%-5X spread despite the interest rate ceiling on priority sector
loans at a level below deposit rates. As a result, the NRB/CSI credit
guarantee scheme effectively replaced the CCC in the districts wnere it was
introduced. Furthermore, a third bank with an extensive branch network, the
ADB/N, participated in the CSI refinancing program but would not become a
member of the CGC.
3.22    A study was conducted under the first CSI project, which assessed the
extent of liabilities of CGC and recommended measures to strengthen its
capital position and operating procedures. Subject to agreement among the
Government, NRB and IDA, once CGC has been sufficiently strengthened finan-
cially and technically, the NRB/CSI credit guarantee scheme managed by NRB
could be transferred to the CGC and merged with the priority sector insurance
program.



-15-
3.23    As of December 1987, no claim has been made on the NRB/CSI credit
guarantee scheme although there appeared to be a oasis to do so in the case
of sub-borrowers who have ceased operations and/or could not be located.
Because the PCIs generally lack confidence in the NRB/CSI credit guarantee
scheme, PCIs began to require collateral during the last year of the first
CSI project. While IDA should not encourage further the PCIs' practice of
taking collaterals (as opposed to lending on project merit) exceptions could
be made for larger subloans (say over Rs 100,000) since credit indiscipline
has been evidenced mostly by larger borrowers. The collateral required would
be immovable in nature. Requiring such collateral as partial securities for
larger subloans may compel credit discipline and should be enforced. Fur-
thermore, the existence of the credit guarantee up to 75% of the subloan
should be considered and used to offset any insufficiency of collaterals.
Finally, amount of subloans sanctioned should be dictated by the requirement
of the subproject to make it viable rather than the value of the collateral
provided.
3.24    The NRB/CSI credit guarantee schemne is currently undercapitalized.
The available balance as of December 1987 was Rs 3.7 million, with outstand-
ing guarantees of Rs 92.0 million, which means that the balance is insuffi-
cient as it was agreed it would correspond to 10% of the outstanding guaran-
tees. A primary source of funds for the scheme has been the premium of 12 of
refinanced loans.  The premium was therefore increased to 3% under the second
CSI project in order to enable the scheme to have sufficient resources to
meet expected claims. Further, the Government has agreed to make arrange-
ments for payment into the scheme additional amounts annually so that its
capitalization is maintained at no less than 10% of the outstanding guaran-
tees in any given fiscal year. This is essential in maintaining confidence
in the scheme and is related to the PCIs' extended practice of lending
against collateral. This practice is detrimental to smaller borrowers with
limited personal assets and ability to provide collaterals, especially so
since the repayment experience with smaller sub-borrowers under the first CSI
project has been generally more positive. These smaller subloans should be
sanctioned on the basis of the subproject viability with little or no
emphasis on securities.
C. Technical and Marketing Services
3.25    The technical and marketing services component focused on five sub-
sectors--carpets and other woollen products, handloom fabric and garments,
metal crafts, forestry-based products, and agro-industries. These subsectors
were selected because they accounted for the major portion of CSI production,
had good market prospects, and faced problems which could be addressed within
a project. The kev element in the development strategy for CSI was marketing.
With effective promotion, product development, and improved input supply in
response to specific market opportunities, significant increase in exports



-16-
were expected. Where feasible, the project attempted to use private sector
commercial organizations to expand their roles as organizers of CSI produc-
tion and export. Public sector institutions concentrated on promotion,
extension services, and filling some gaps in the availability of commercial
services to reach remote areas. However, unlike the lending component, which
experienced relatively rapid commitment and fast disbursement, the technical
and marketing services component experienced some unanticipated bottlenecks
created by the newness, diversity and complexity of activities.
Export Developmernt
3.26    Export development in the project was to be directed by the Trade
Promotion Center's Cottage Industry Export Division (CIED), established under
the project to assist exporters with market contacts, product development and
expansion of the supply base. Product specialists, sales and exposure trips
for private exporters and a new overseas promotional and market intelligence
office were financed. The component introduced the concept of performance
contracts, which were intended to induce Kathmandu exporters to source export
production-from rural hill artisan groups. The Export Service Center (ESC)
established under the project provided centralized demonstration, product
development and consulting services directly to private exporter manufac-
turers. ESC took over the responsibilities of CIED when it became clear
early in the project implementation period that CIED was unable to effec-
tively assist exporters.
3.27    A key lesson in the export development component was that more time
than anticipated was needed to resolve the material supply, product design
and marketing problems limiting export expansion--particularly in the
development of new products and in mobilizing export production from rural
areas. The performance contract program, intended to induce exporters to
source products in the rural hills, was unsuccessful for a number of reasons,
including poor management by CIED, limited managerial resources of Kathmandu
e-porters, and difficulties managing rural material supply, quality control
and product collection from Kathmandu (discussed in more detail below). As
the difficulties of implementing performance contracts became evident during
the mid-term review, the program to support rural-based market agents to
provide the link between rural prodt-ers and Kathmandu-based exporters was
substituted. Upon its relative success, the component was strengthened under
the second CSI project (para. 3.32).
3.28    The project helped exporters improve product quality, increase value
added, conduct market testing and develop new contacts. For example, in
carpets, the project introduced carpet washing in Nepal and trained manufac-
turers to improve wool dying and carpet finishing. These have been important
in expanding direct exports to new European markets and increasing value
added; carpet washing alone allows exporters to increase prices by up to US$4
per square meter. For wool knitwear, systematic market testing led to
improvements in designs and production methods, and the ESC assisted



-17-
exporters in incorporating these changes which, in turn, resulted in
!        ~~increased exports by units assisted.
3.29    For other products, market testing and technical assistance in
product development indicated that a number of steps were needed to modify
product designs or production techniques to be able to penetrate new
product/market segments. In the case of metal sculptures, for example,
market feedback indicated significant scope for original, high-quality sculp-
tures based on indigenous but less religious themes.  In the process of
introducing new designs and improved techniques, however, initial resistance
on the part of artisans to adopting new production techniques, and private
exporter reluctance to commission production for uncertain new markets,
slowed progress. Thus, while prospects for expanded exports in several
product groups were good, technical and marketing services effectively tar-
geted to addressing key constraints remained important elements of export
development under CSI activities, hence for IDA's CSI projects.
3.3G    Performance Contracts.  Skills in sales, input supply and organiza-
tion of cottage production have in the past been concentrated among the
growing number of medium-scale exporters. The first CSI project was meant to
assist these agents and induce them to extend commercial services beyond
Kathmandu Valley by engaging the most qualified as performance contractors to
develop selected cottage industry clusters in rural Gandaki and Bagmati.
Contracts specified the exporter organization's phased responsibilities for
.           training, input supply, orde.-s, quality control, and processing facilities
over a two or three year perLod. In the SAR, it was envisaged that about 25
contracts would be financed from a US$310,000 (Rs 4,092,000) project alloca-
.           tion.  In fact, only 5 contracts were awarded for a total of US$26,590 (Rs
350,987), or only 8.6Z of the original allocation.
3.31    A number of elements contributed to the failure of the performance
contract mechanism: (a) the number and complexity of project activities
undertaken by each contractor made the overall task cumbersome, resulting in
risks far greater than rewards (i.e., size of grants from ESC and business
profits); (b) fragmentation of individual contractors' activities over a
large geographical area overtaxing the exporters' supervisory capabilities;
(c) in some cases, willful default; and (d) increas   financial risks, in
part, because exporters were required to finance to    assets needed by the
project in one installment, while project implementation was phased over a
2-3 year period and, in part, because contractors based in Kathmandu Valley
were often required to mortgage personal assets as collateral for project
activities based in rural areas. Also, the concept of home production was
unfeasible because rural homes were too small to hold equipment (handlooms)
and rural labor was not available on a regular enough basis to support a
manufacturing set-up.
3.32    Although the concept of performance contracts has merit, the practi-
cal implications associated with the risks (relative to rewards) proved too
great to ask of individual contractors. As a result the performance contract



-18-
mechanism was dropped during implementation of the first CSI project and
preparation of the second CSI project and marketing agents were instituted as
the preferred alternative (para. 3.40).
3.33    Products of Nepal Office.  The first CSI project envisaged estab-
lishing two export marketing impact offices (one in New York and one in
Frankfurt) to improve the links between exports and major importing
countries. A Products of Nepal 'PON) office was established in New York in
1982 and has provided product-specific market analysis and feedback to
exports (especially in woollen products); planned for Nepalese exporters'
participation in trade fairs; followed up contacts between buyers and
Nepalese manufacturers; and obtained trial orders on a variety of cottage
industry products. It appears that PON's contribution to product-specific
market analysis and feedback to exporters has been important. Under the
second CSI project, the UNDP will further evaluate the effectiveness of PON's
contribution (directly and indirectly) to the growth of CSI exports in the US
market and the effectiveness of having PON's rely on private funding rather
than on Government/IDA resources.
3.34    The second PON office scheduled to open in Frankfurt in 1983 did not.
A feasibility study conducted in 1986 concluded that it would not be cost
effective.
Extension and Training
3.35    The Cottage Industrial Development Board (CIDB) was responsible for
providing technical extension services in Kathmandu Valley, and managing the
product development centers (PDCs) in the Gandaki Zone.
3.36    CIDB achieved its quantitative targets for training rural artisans,
and CIDB staff were successful in reaching more remote areas of rural dis-
tricts. More than 2,000 artisans received skills development training in
textiles, dhaka cloth, woollen carpets, metal and bamboo crafts, and provided
on-the-job training and assistance with raw material supply and product
marketing.
3.37    About 30% of CIDB-assisted art:sans were employed as a result of the
training. Although thl.s percentage is relatively low in comparison to
results of similar training programs in other countries, it is considered an
improvement over previous programs in Nepal with employment rates of as low
as 5%. One reason for the low rate of employment of CIDB-trained artisans
was CIDB's emphasis on training new artisans, while the original objective
had been upgrading the skills of established artisans. Because CIDB staff
often received rudimentary levels of training themselves, their ability to
upgrade the sk ?ls and product quality of existing artisans was reduced.
During the second CSI project implementation, early attention was given to
substantial training of CIDB trainers to reinforce their abilities to help



-19-
upgrade skills of existing artisans and provide market outlets, either domes-
tically or externally. Another weakness of artisan skills programs under the
first CSI project was that training courses, planned at headquarters level,
often did not introduce and improve skills based on local demand for consumer
products. The PCR mission discussed with CIDB's management the need to plan
for skills training based on demand surveys of local markets. Also, CIDB
staff should be rotated among PDCs to provide a greater range of skills in
each area.
3.38    Furthermore, through CIDB's extensive network of offices and PDCs,
training programs jointly developed by CIDB and ESC should be disseminated to
ensure adequate development of competitive products suitable to export
markets. CIDB staff should be increasingly exposed to advanced training
programs for export. Joint visits by CIDB/ESC staff to potential exporters
(among CIDB trainees) should be made to ensure maximum cross-fertilization
and integration of ideas related to export development.
3.39    In addition to skills training, CIDB offered courses on industrial
promotion and provided assistance to potential entrepreneurs in developing
projects for bank financing. However, only about 30Z of CIDB-assisted
entrepreneurs successfully applied for bank financing for their projects.
Field visits brought to light that CSI sub-borrowers could use assistance
beyond applying for a loan, an important element when set against the effi-
.cient delivery of services.  Such areas for assistance are product adapta-
tion; machinery and equipment sourcing; inventory management; accounting and
projections of financial/cash requirements; financial borrowing; raw material
procurement; export contracts; and designing products specifically for the
export market. CIDB support to entrepreneurial dev2lopment and extension
service activities should be strengthened and expanded along these lines
under the second CSI project. Also, more training of, and incentives for,
CIDB staff should be provided.
3.40    As said earlier (para. 3.32), the marketing agent concept was
instituted in the first CSI project as an alternative to the performance
contract mechanism. The market agents were residents of the rural area who
specialized in procuring output from cottage units and selling it in regional
markets. Under the extension component of the first CSI project, two market-
ing agents were financed and provided guidance in preparing and managing
their own small projects, and were qite successful in moving from primarily
their own manufacturing to handling the marketing function for a group of
manufacturers. The impact of this concept, however, remained marginal.
Raw Material Supply
3.41    The project strengthened raw material supply operations by estab-
lishing and financing private raw material import and supply companies for
wool and metal, and assisting the Cottage Industry Handicraft Emporium (the
Emporium) to expand its operations in procurement and distribution of cotton
yarn, handloom accessories and textiles in the project area. The Emporium
concentrated on improving its procurement and distribution of cotton yarn and



-20-
equipment, while adding some acrylic and wool yarns and small metal stocks.
Of total annual cotton year imports currently estimated at 4,000 tons, the
Emporium handles about 400 tons, or a 10% market share. The impact of the
Emporium has been to reduce seasonal fluctuations in yarn prices by increas-
ing the availability of cotton yarn (including in more remote zones such as
Gandaki) and providing price competition to private traders. Yet, costs for
dyed yarn and other equipment in rural areas have sometimes been higher than
in Kathmandu because of scarcity in the supply of some special yarns: inven-
tories kept in rural areas often do not meet local requirements. To
alleviate this problem, under the second CSI project, an advisor is expected
to develop an inventory management program to reduce costs and monitor inven-
tory levels and content. He is also expected to review a proposal to open a
central supply depot and additional branches in the project area.
3.42    The private metal and wool importing companies established under the
project have had a dramatic impact on increasing availability and reducing
prices for these raw materials. The Nepal Wool Trading Company (NWTC) sup-
plied in 1986/87 over 953 metric tons (or 34X) of Australian and New Zealand
wool out of a total 2,790 metric tons of wool consumed for carpets, providing
a regular source of wool to complement increasingly erratic supplies of
Tibetan wool. The sale value totalled Rs 84 million and NWTC served about
1,600 units. NWTC approved three main types of wool procurement (general
supplies for small sales upon demand, advance payments for small to medium
sized orders, and deliveries against cash for large orders). Under the
second CSI project, NWTC obtained additional financing aimed primarily at
increasing capacity to maintain larger stocks of wool for longer periods of
time. Also, to facilitate wool supplies to the smaller CSI units from the
first type of procurement, NWTC agreed to reserve 30% of wool consignments
for 15 days from the date of shipment arrival in Kathmandu.
3.43    Also, under the project, the Nepal Metal Trading Company (NMTC) was
established in 1982 to import metal for private manufacturers of cast metal
export products with the understanding that the Government would reduce the
normal import duty and sales taxes on metal imports to 1%. The duty and
sales taxes, however, have been increasing dramatically over the recent past
and now stand at 15% for scraps, 60Z for zinc, and 25% for sheets and ingots,
which clearly contributes to undermining the efficiency of metal supply to
the domestic market. Despite these difficulties, NMTC has imported about 185
tons of metal in recent years for distribution to artisans and manufacturers.
NNTC is eligible for additional financing under the second CSI project, but
has still to provide satisfactory rationale for further borrowing.



-21-
Monitoring and Coordination
3.44    In the first CSI project, the individual implementing agencies were
responsible for preparing and carrying out annual action plans, within the
broad framework of their objectives and operating guidelines. Responsibility
for project coordination and management was vested with the Project Coordina-
tion Committee (PCC), chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Industry, and
comprising high-level representatives from all implementing agencies and
relevant government departments. The Industrial Services Center (ISC) acted
as secretariat to the PCC, summarizing progress reports oi the various
implementing agencies for review and action by the PCC. During the project
mid-term tripartite evaluation, it was decided that in light of the uneven
coverage and focus of ISC reports and the weakness of the PCC in carrying out
its project management function, full-time monitoring and coordination of
project activities were needed. An autonomous project management unit (PMU)
was established to oversee project implementation for the last year of the
project. It comprised a full-time Chief Technical Advisor (CTA), support
staff, and a Joint Secretary from the Ministry of Industry. The PMU was
successful in easing bottlenecks in project implementation and involving key
government officials from relevant ministries as needed for more effective
implementation.
3.45    Given the scope and complexity of the many ta:ks within the first CSI
project and the recognized difficulties with monitoring and coordination, an
additional problem became evident: that of integrating project activities
and services in Kathmandu; in the rural areas; and between headquarters and
rural areas. The smaller size of CSI teams operating outside Kathmandu (as
the PCR mission observed in Pokhara) seemed to facilitate coordination
providing for a commonality of views and understanding of problems which
should result in greater integration of technical assistance and credit
services--greater than that achieved in Kathmandu.  As the project area
expands into more remote areas under the second CSI project, however, it will
become even more important to better integrate project activities.  To that
end, the second CSI project provides for a stronger project coordination unit
(PCU) within the Ministry of Industry, incorporating a National Project
Director, National Chief Technical Advisor, and other professional and sup-
port staff, complemented by an international project management consulting
team financed by UNDP. The latter would eventually include a project team
leader, credit advisor, export marketing advisor, and industrial extension
advisor, charged with developing institutional capabilities for monitoring
and coordination, backstopping technical activities and overall project
implementation (including the credit component).



-22-
IV. THE ROLE OF IDA
4.01    In the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-1985', the Government gave priority
to cottage industry development and, at its request, a portion of the Techni-
cal Assistance Credit (Cr. 659-NEP) was used for an intensive two-year
project preparation study. The study and work by IDA both during missions in
Nepal for project preparation and in various economic analyses brought a
clear understanding of the development needs and challenges facing the
industrial sector. With this understanding, IDA was able to bring a vision
or breadth of perspective to the formulation of the project's content which
contributed to its relative future and, more importantly, set a solid
framework for future projects. Supervision missions and the mid-term tripar-
tite review provided opportunities to work with the individual implementing
agencies and the cofinancier (UNDP) to adjust project operations, but was not
enough to overcome the problem of integrating the lending and technical
assistance components. Particular attention to that aspect must be paid
during implementation of the second CSI project.
4.02    The shortfalls in IDA's contribution to the overall efficiency and
effectiveness of the project, on the other hand, pertain to two interrelated
aspects: a somewhat ambitious project design based upon an optimistic view
of the borrower's overall implementation capacity and a deterioration during
implementation in the working relationship with UNDP. The project's design
was relatively complex, but IDA recognized at appraisal that this potential
difficulty existed. However, IDA worked to eliminate it by ensuring that
each agency would carry out the responsibility for its specific activities
within the broad framework of objectives, guidelines and procedures set out
in the various project documents, with a fifth agency (the Industrial Serv-
ices Center) monitoring the implementation and reporting to a project coor-
dinating committee chaired by staff from the Ministry of Industry. The
capacities of the individual implementing agencies to carry out their respec-
tive functions and meet specific project expectations proved to be good, all
things considered. On the other hand, integrating the individual components
into a cohesive whole in order to fulfill the project objectives proved too
great for the overall implementation capacity of the Industrial Services
Center.
4.03    Early in the implementation period the UNDP spotted this growing need
for increased coordination and integration and worked to incorporate
mechanisms to achieve them into the project's design.  IDA may have been less
responsive to their concerns than it might have been.  The results were a
decreasingly productive working relationship with UNDP on this particular
project.  The UNDP agreed to participate in the Second Cottage and Small
Industries Project (Cr.  1696-NEP), but only after the technical assistance
component was redesigned to provide the safeguards believed appropriate. It
will be important during the implementation of the second project for IDA to
focus on maintaining a good coordination with UNDP on CSI activities.



-23-
V. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
5.01    The first CSI project's performance was generally good.  The project
achieved its lending component objectives satisfactorily with most of its
quantitative targets having been either achieved or surpassed. Some
activities in the complex technical assistance component fell somewhat short
of their objectives. Improving the refinancing process and increasing col-
lection rates of PCI branches are the major concerns in the lending com-
ponent. The project represented a major source of financing for CSI develop-
ment, supporting the creation and expansion of relatively small and
labor-intensive enterprises in the important cottage and small industry
sector. The project had a positive impact on effective employment creation
and foreign exchange generation and savings (through lending to subprojects
that were either export-oriented or import-substituting), two specific objec-
tives of the credit. In general, the project helped in upgrading the Govern-
ment's capability to provide technical and financial assistance to CSI
entrepreneurs and operations; introducing project-based term credit for CSIs;
developing NRB into an apex institution geared to administering such lending;
inducing three participating banks to promote, appraise and supervise CSI
subprojects; and providing innovative technical assistance inputs to
sub-borrowers.
5.02    Some useful lessons were gained in implementing the first CSI project
which should be reflected in implementing the second CSI project and in
preparing any new CSI project. Effective appraisal procedures, intensive
supervision and the enforcement of credit discipline in the repayment of
subloans, and the institutionalization of a credit guarantee scheme are
important elements in successful project-based lending. To maintain con-
fidence in the guarantee scheme--to encourage banks to lend on project merits
rather than against collateral--the scheme should be adequately capitalized.
5.03    The lack of credit discipline among the larger sub-borrowers has been
pervasive. ADB/N which generally handled smaller subloans had a relatively
better collection performance among the three PCIs. Measures have to be
taken to compel credit discipline among large sub-borrowers, including the
requirement and enforcement (when needed) of partial securities, and cir-
culating a list of defaulters to all PCI branches.
5.04    An important lesson in the export development component was that more
time than anticipated was needed to resolve the material supply, product
design and marketing problems limiting export exp&asion--particularly in the
development of new products and in mobilizing export production from rural
areas. The performance contract program, intended to induce exporters to
source products in the rural hills, was unsuccessful for a number of reasona,
including weak management, limited managerial resources of Kathmandu
exporters, and difficulties managing rural material supply, quality control
and product collection from Kathmandu. In the second CSI project, the
program to support rural-based market agents in providing the link between
rural producers and Kathmandu-based exporters should be strengthened.



-24-
5.05    CID8 achieved many of its training and entrepreneur-assistance tar-
gets, thereby contributing significantly to the project's objectives. With
this positive contribution behind it, CIDB will need to evolve its approach
to training by providing substantial training to trainers to enable them to
upgrade the skills of existing artisans and by ensuring that the upgrading
of skills is based on local sustained demand for consumer products.
5.06    The project strengthened raw material supply operations by estab-
lishing and financing private raw material import and supply companies for
wool and metal, and assisting the Emporium to expand its operations in
procurement and distribution of cotton yarn, handloom accessories and tex-
tiles. The Emporium increased the availability of cotton yarn in Gandaki
Zone, provided dyed yarn to rura areas in collaboration with CIDB, and
provided price competition to private traders, reducing seasonal fluctuations
in yarn prices.



-25-                        ANNEX I
N E P A L-
FIRST COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES (CS! I) PROJECT
CR. 1191-NEP
Subsectoral Distribution of Subloans
(as at mid-July 1987)
(In Rs'OOO)
No. of               No. of         Amount
Subsector         Units         X     Employees    Sanctioned         X
Cotton              769       22.8      5,640         42,166         16.9
Woolen              999       29.7     18,995          76,220       30.6
Metal               226        6.7      2,193         20,669         8.3
Forest-based        389       11.6      3,224         19,332         7.8
Agro-based          443       13.1      3,533         37,780        15.2
Others              543       16.1      7,106         52,855        21.2
Total             3,369      100.0     40,691        249,022       100.0



* .
-26-                        ANNEX 2
N E P A L
FIRST COMAGE AND SMALL INDISTRIES (CS! I) PROJECT
CR. 1191-NEP
District-wise Distribution of Subloans
(as at mid-July 1987)
(In Rs'000)
No. of               No. of         Amount
District          Units         X     Employees    Sanctioned         X
aaomati Zone      2.173       64.5     31.897        185,366        74.4
Kathmandu         1,227       36.4     21,545        122,644        49.2
Lalitpur            507       15.0j     5,778         33,287        13.4
Bhaktapur           439       13.1      4,574         29,435        11.8
Gandaki Zone      1196        35.5      8794          63,656        25.6
Kaski               415       12.3      3,692         35,340        14.2
Syanja              105        3.1      2,529          4,517         1.8
Tanahu              294        8.7        577         13,183         5.3
Lamjung             119        3.6      1,365          2,422         1.0
Gorkha              225        6.7        457          7,064         2.8
Manang               38        1.1        174          1,130         0.5
Total             3,369      130.0     40,691        249,022       100.0



-27-                        ANNEX 3
N E P A L
FIRST COTTAGE ANO SMALL INDUSTRIES (CSI I) PROJECT
CR. 1191-NEP
Analysis of Subloans by Size
(as at mid-January 1987)1
(In RsO000)
No. of              Amount
Size of Subloan (Rs)             Units      X      Sanctioned        X
Up      to   5,000                 216      6.8         878         0.4
5,001 to  10,000                 227     7.1        1,868         0.8
10i001 to  20,000                 650    20.3       10,733         4.8
20,001 to  40,000                 609    19.0       18,176         8.1
40,001 to  50,000                 406    12.7       19,572         8.7
50,001 to 100,000                 559    17.5       44,950        20.1
100,001 to 300,000                 414    12.9       79,334        35.4
300,001 to 500,000                  96     3.0       35,617        15.9
500,001 to 800,000                  22     0.7       12,990         5.8
Total                            3,199   100.0      224,118       100.0
Fj figures as at mid-July 1987 not available



-28-                              ANNEX 4
NEPAL
FIRST COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES (CSI I) PROJECT
(Cr. 1191-NEP)
Growth Trends in Key CSI Exports
FY       Total      X Change   Carpets   2 Change   Garments   X Change  Handicrafts  X Change
tRsilMl.)             (Re Mill.)             (Rs Mill.)             (Rs Mill.)
1980/81      605                   65.6                    13.0                 100.2
1981/82      462       - 24Z       83.9       +28Z         13.8     *    6%      12.2        -88%
1982/83      290       - 36%      137.8       +64Z         10.0     -   28X       9.4        -222
1983/84      484       + 67X      265.4       +932         20.5     +  105X      12.6        +34%
1984/85    1,108       +1292      249.4       - 62        470.9     +2,300%      12.7        + 12
1985/86    1,762       + 59%      376.4       +512        803.7     +   712      17.7        +39%
1986/87    1,528       - 132      558.1       +48X        579.5     -   28X      26.7        +512
aote:  Export Figures for 1986/87 show that carpets increased 85% over the
period beginning 1981/82, while garments increased 98%. Both
products together constitued 752 of total exports, growing from 212
in 1981/82.



-29-                       ANNEX 5
N E P A L
FIRST COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES (CS I) PROJECT
CR. 1191-NEP
CSI Fund Financial Performance
(In Rs'000)
1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87   Total
1. Disbursements:   2,329    21,199   35,674   35,840   38,953  133,995
2. Repayments   :    -         3,909    8,157   12,804   18,760   43,630
3. Subloans
Outstandinq  :           -  2,329   19,619   47,136   70,172   90,365
lat be lnning)
4. Cash Position:  CSI Fund
Income       :     579      1,026    2,307    3,186    3,601   10,699
Expenditure  :     570        992    1,969       900    2,132    6,563
Cash Balance :        9        34      338    2,286    1,469    4,136
Source: NRB/CSI Unit



N E P A L
FIRST COTTAGE ND SMALL IIIUSTRIES (CS! I) PROJECT
CR. 1191-1EP
Orqanizatlon Chart
Nepal Rastra Bank/CS1 Project Office
Project Manager
r -----------------------------             -------------------[--------------------
Deputy Project Manager                       Dputy Project Manager                     Deputy Project Manager
---r --------                                    -------------n  ---_ ____________   r----____
Planning & Credit      Account           Appraisal      Refinance        Admin           Monitoring    |     I C
Guarantee Section |             Section                  Sc on Sect   iScton              Sectonn
Proj Officer-i     Proj Officer-I    Proj Officer-I  Proj Officer-I  Proj Officer-I   ProJ Officers-2 Proj Officer-I
Non-officer -1     Non-officers-5    Non-officer -1 Non-officers-4  Non-officers-7   Non-officers -2 Non-officer -l
__--____________________________________--_------------_-_---__---________---___---._------------,------____.__.__.._______
2. Pokhara |3  Oharatpur
Proj Officer - 1                       Deputy Proj Manager - 1                         Proj Officer - 1
Non-officers - 2                       ProJ Officers      - 2                           Non-officers - 3
Non-officers       - 4



isS                          Z~~~~~~~KIAMAI.COewsln4t
SAoRDOF DIRECTORS                        NEKC RAS    SAK   ;                                                 h
S. INv" .NomIU      MoC -uwt
11*ri "Vaot          "U46                             I 11.
SMRC  OU.                                                    n.C.I"X ft4viol _  _"
1 u"tsws,,Oz ,""*s .~~~~~~~~~~. 6ANII  UMfl SOM
.AONKU o  ..                              .     C
~~~~ Oe6eS-SeSa                                     pFb5yW
a SSCSSTAUW.NWIITSflPPSNAISU. .gl. l
I                                             -       -;     -I 
i     k    1~~~~SSU. 1~4
u r Gu t                                                     _~~~Pf T
nUAc&Rbet.I  zt!  
z BZ 3~~~~
I~ ja  na#45^to 15 OVISIOM.  a.. *^.rI'nwI?M flFtgUYe. I~Vo':l*vB



-32-                          ANNEX 8
N E P A L
FIRST COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES (CSI I) PROJECT
CR. 1191-NEP
Credit Performance of PCIs
(as at mid-July 1987)
(Rs in Million)
NBL     RBB    ADB/N       Total
No. of Units Sanctioned   :           961   1,152   1,256         3,369
Subloans Sanctioned                 89.90   97.84   61.28        249.02
Subloans Dishursed                  79.03   79.25   55.27        213.55
Principal and Interest
Outstandinq                         67.01   67.24   44.50        178.75
Principal and Interest
in Arrears                          14.00   11.40    8.44         33.84
Percentage of Outstanding
Amount in Arrears                   20.90   17.00   19.00         18.90
Percentage of Receivables
Collected (Recovery Rate) :         64.20   65.60   69.10         66.30



-33-                          ANNEX 9
N E P A L
FIRST COTTAGE AND SMALL INDSIUIES tCSI I) PROJECT
CR. 1191-REP
Nepal Bank Ltd (NBL)
Branch Distribution of Subloans
(as at mid-July 1987)
(In Rs'OOO)
No. of      Amount       Percent      Recovery
Branch                     Units     Sanctioned    of Total    Rate (M)
Barmati Zone                657         73.075         29.2        63.9
Head Office                   31/        9,458          3.8        123.9
Chabahil                     98          9,273          3.7         50.5
Kirtipur                    171         19,791          7.9         40.2
NIOC Compound                81          8,904          3.6         57.8
Thankot                      38          3,360          1.3         49.1
Lalitpur                     32          4,084          1.6         72.4
Harisiddhi                   20            666          0.3         73.8
Chapagaon                    61          4,507          1.8         70.2
Bhaktapur                   153        13,032           5.2        67.3
Gandaki Zone                304         16,822          6.8        64.2
Bagar (Pokhara)              54         6,853           2.8         63.3
Nau Danda                    11            155          0.1       112.3
SyanJa                       38          2,065          0.8         55.8
Waling                       14            458          0.2         56.3
Kairenitar                   35          1,267          0.5        61.2
Damauli                     112          5,320          2.1        69.1
Sundar Bazar                 21            257          0.1        46.4
Dura Danda                   12            215          0.1        33.9
Chame                         7            232          0.1        81.5
Total                       961        89,897          36.0        64.2
]/ Subloans to Nepal Wool Trading Co, Nepal Metal Trading Co, and
Cottage and Handicraft Emporium



-34-                          ANNEX 10
N E P A L
FIRST COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES (CSI t) PROJECT
CR. 1191-NEP
Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)
Branch Distribution of Subloans
(as at mid-July 1987)
(In Rs'000)
No. of      Amount        Percent     Recovery
Branch                    Units      Sanctioned    of Total    Rate (X)
Bagmati Zone                 843        76,767         30.6        65.2
Naxal                         81         6,397          2.6        63.6
BalaJu                       131        12,824          5.1        50.8
Bansbari                     101        12,033          4.8         75.6
Baneshwor                    132        16,120          6.4        55.0
Kirtipur                      73         5,786          2.3        51.1
Pharping                      39         1,544          0.6       113.6
Pulchowk                      72         8,585          3.4        81.2
Lubhu                         68         3,500          1.4         75.8
Bhaktapur                     91         6,988          2.8        65.4
Thimi                         55         2.990          1.2         98.1
Gandaki Zone                 309        21,072          8.5        66.9
Pardl                         60         5,791          2.3        55.0
Patan Ind. Estate             70         8,642          3.5         73.1
Abu Khaireni                  56         3,090          1.2         71.3
Besi Sahar                    40           673          0.3        81.5
Gorkha                        83         2,876          1.2        61.1
Total                      1,152        97,839         39.1        65.6



-35-                         ANNEX 11
NEPAL
FIRST COTTAGE AD SMALL INOUSTRIES (CSI 1) PROJECT
CR. 1191-NEP
Agricultural Development Bank (ADS/N)
Branch Distribution of Subloans
(as at mid-July 1987)
(In Rs'000)
No. of      Amount       Percent     Recovery
Branch                    Units     Sanctioned    of Total    Rate (M)
Bagmati Zone                673       35.524         14.4         70.8
Kathmandu                   239        15,708         6.3         76.6
Indrayani                    40        1,446          0.6         73.9
Lagankhel                   149         9,973         4.0         62.8
Lele                        102         1,880         0.8         41.3
Gotikhel                      3            92         0.1         85.0
Bhaktapur                   123        4,454          1.8         84.1
Dadhikot                     17         1,971         0.8         69.6
Gandaki Zone                583       25,762         10.5         66.8
Pokhara                     128       11,440          4.6         72.8
Naudanda                     40           515         0.2         84.7
Gagan Gauda                  52         1,944         0.8         34.7
Syanja                       45         1,567         0.6         53.2
Galyang                       7           407         0.2         40.0
Chapakot                      1            20         0.1         33.3
Bhimad                       21           626         0.3         73.5
Damauli                      33         1,332         0.5         75.5
Sepa Bagaicha                37         1,548         0.6         52.6
Besi Sahar                   26           807         0.3         89.4
Ramghatar                    18           407         0.2         86.0
Teen Piple                    2            63         0.1         66.7
Gorkha                       57         2,246         0.9         64.5
Aru Ghat                     36           772         0.3         62.5
Sirdi Bas                     6           125         0.1         59.2
Palungtar                    43         1,045         0.4         79.5
Manang                       31           898         0.3         75.2
Total                     1,256       61.286         24.9         69.1



63'62 '89 1?13        3 9?? 1 222026    MOTL SHERPA       MX 12
Page 1 of 4
NEPAL RASTRA BANK  37                                           cF "IAAIIA"
tINCORPOIATEO IN NEPAL UNDEf ThI NEPAL                     ,DO.T.;P?W9CE
RASTRA DANK ACT 1906)                             9il &POJLCT OPiICE
Borrower's Comments on the Project Completion Report
Mr. Alexander Nowicki,
Division Chief,
Operations Evaluation Departent,
The World 3anks1818 H Street N1.W.
Wlasiington D.O.20433 U.S.A.
Res First C6I lroject (Cr 1191 ViZ) ProJect
CeopLeti-on RepOrtx.
Dear Mr. Nowicki,
This refers to the draft report on First C8I Pro3ect sent
to us alongwith your letter dated December 16,1988. In this
connection we would like to infors you our comments and suggentiow
1.     We su6gest the abbreviation of "CS1V  be given on the page
6ei6re the table of contents.
2.     Page ii(loan podition table)
Since we have already withdrawn SDR 4.17 xill,vn by
October 20,1986, we feel that we have fully utilised the
original credit of U.Sodollars 4.5 million under the C8I
first phase.
3.     Page 8_3.03,
Breakdown of U.Sj 5.4 million will giv* clearer picture
of contributions of NRB and each of the POIs.
4.     liow Re 117.3 was used,in million or otherwise, is not
clear .



03,02 '99 1?113       I 977 1 222026    HOTL SHERPa
- 38 -                         Page 2 of 4
NEPAL RASTRA BANK                                            T'M RADA'
(INCORPORATED IN NEPAL UNDER THE NEPAL.
RASTFA BANK ACT 1985)
5a..9- 3908
kirior to credit effectiveness NiRB made an initial contribu.
tion-of Rs. 5.0 million to the C31 Fund and not Re 2.0
million. Rs. 2.0 million was contributed to the Credit
Guarantee Fund separately by khlG/N.
6.     We view that cash balance of Res   million does not seem
to be I unanticipated high0 because the earlier projection
made in SAR seems too low to effect the refinance disburse-
ment on a lot by lot basis.
7.    ,1-eg 10 - 3.11.
The statement reading I about 15% of subprojecifsanctioned
by PCIs were not refinanced' can not be verified from our
records*
8.      sZae 17 - 3.31.
We hesitate to agree that incressed financial risk was one
of the elements contributing to the failure of Perforzance
Oontractor mechanism. We thinY that disintegrity of the
Performance Contractors is equally a contributing factor.
For example,on*remaining unit (Il/B Xesher & Sons)
still operating but not repaying. Performance Contractors
have failed maily due to willful default,inspite of the
subsidy and the low equity requirements.
Regards.
1re    OA Cgoer.



ANX 12
Page 3 of 4
- 39 -                  Executive Chairman 2-15210
2-25416
Cabil: GHASHIBI                                             Tripurestwor  2:.1531
Tlx. No.:. 'NP 2480 SILPA"                           Phone              2.23825
Pcst Sax No.: 3775                                          Now Road   2-20357
BassantPUr    2.24290
COTTAG MNuTMIIS & HiNDICWInS ZENORUM LUED
(His Majesty's Govt.'s undertakirg)
Estd. B. S. 2023
CU0TA¶ lUV ;RI'UM Ls;.                Contra# Offtt
Tripo   . Kathmandu, NepA.        ethmndu. ""St.
Ref No. 266&9IoU B                    /                      Dase201 .Fea '89
Slre. Alexander Nowicki
Division Chief
Pulicy - Dased Lending* Indu3try
Public Utilities and Urban Sectors
Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
Washington D.C.
U. S, A,
Re: First Cottage and Sball Industry
ProJlect (Cr. 1191-NEP)
Dear Mr. Nowicki,
Thanks for your letter dt. 16th Dec. 1988 alongwith the
ProJect Completion Report.
In the report, under the heading of Raw Materials Supply
(Sec. 3.41) we noticed the mentioning of an advisor to
develop an inventory management to reduce costs and
monitor inventory levels. He is expected^sub.it a proposal
to open a central supply depot and additional branches in
Second CSI Project.  Our market share is around 10% only,
as sentioned in the report and we have already set up a
supply system for a continuous and regular flow of raw
materials.
...2



ANNEX 12
40 -Page 4 of 4
Executive Chairman 2-15210
Cable: GHASHIBI                                                             2-56416
Tlx. No.: "NP 2480 SILPA"                               PTripureshwor  2-15315
Post 80ox Nao. * 3775                                  Phone 211385
o  New Road    2-20357
Basantpur    2-24290
COATT         IWDUSTAIS   &  INIGIAFT   IIIOIU    JJIIT
(His MajestY's Govt.'s underlakzlU Un.
COTASE INUStd±    2' S. 'ZL23
( A G;ov;. t^tr_;n
_   Nepa            Control Office
Kalthmandu. Nepul.
Ref so.                                                         Dt              .
In future we expect that the role of private sector for
the supply of raw materials will be enNhanced and our
share of the  s*rket is expected to remain at the present
level.
So, we are of the opinion that the proposed advisor, for
the above mentioned purpose, will not be in a position
to contribute in our organiSation.
Thanking you with regards.
cC:                                       Sincerely Yours
CSl Project
Ratbmnandu.
( S.
EXecutive chairmn



UORLDDANK TMSS
- 41 -
ZCZC OERPOO53 RCA7723
OEDD2
REF : TCP SD                                           ANNEX 13
* OEDD2 *
RCA7723
248423 UORLDDANK
OPSUNDP
OPSUNDP
UNDP's Comments on the Project Completion Report
IORLD BANK
UASHINGTON, DC
MISC 10730-T NOUICKI/DIVISION CHIEF OPERATTIONS EVALUATION DEPT.
RE NEP/86/007 FIRST COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT COMPLETION
REPORT (PCR) ATTACHED YOUR LETTER OF 1 DEC 1988 UELL-PREPARED AND
DOES NOT CALL FOR ANY SPECIFIC COMMENTS OUR PART.  FOR YOUR INFO
SHOULD BE NOTED THAT MANY PROBLEMS IDENTIFIED DURING FIRST PHASE
STILL  REMAIN  IN  PRESENT  PHASE.   UORLD  BANK  CONCERNS  UERE
EXPRESSED DURING SUPERVISION MISSION IN NOV/DEC 1988 AND UNDP-
FINANCED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE UILL BE CAREFULLY REASSESSED
DURING  NEXT  TRIPARTITE  REVIEV  ON  2  MARCH.   PCR UILL  BE  MOST
USEFUL DURING DISCUSSIONS. REGARDS, BERNANDER.
COL MISC 10730
PHA
248423 UORLDBANK
OPSUNDP
... - -
1354 02/07
=02071853
=02071409
NNNN
UDRLDBANK TMSS



