Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3172-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
October 29, 1981
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I  their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupee (Rs)
US$ 1.00 = Rs 13.2
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.076
FISCAL YEARS
HMG    -   July 16 - July 15
IDA    -   July 1 - June 30
UNDP   -   January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -     Asian Development Bank
ADBN      -     Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
CIDB      -      Cottage Industry Development Board
CIED      -     Cottage Industry Export Development Division - Trade
Promotion Centre
CGC       -     Credit Guarantee Corporation, Private Limited
CSI       -     Cottage and Small Industries
DCVI      -     Department of Cottage and Village Industries
Emporium  -      Cottage and Handicraft Sales Emporium
HMG       -      His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ISC       -      Industrial Services Centre
NBL       -     Nepal Bank Limited
NIDC      -      Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
NRB       -      Nepal Rastra Bank
RBB       -     Rastriya Banijya Bank
SBI       -     State Bank of India
TPC       -     Trade Promotion Centre
UNDP      -     United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.   INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY ...............                       1
II .   SECTORAL SETTING . . . . . .....*.... *.*....*.*.*.*    2
A.   Economic Setting .......................                  2
B.   Industrial Structure and Performance .........           3
C.   Role of Cottage and Small Industries .........            3
D.   Industrial Policy Framework ................. .           5
E.   Financing of CSis ............................            7
F.   Commercial and Technical Services           ............    9
III.   SCOPE AND STRATEGY IN SELECTED SUBSECTORS ........ .   10
A.   Woolen Carpets and Garments .......... ......   10
B.   Cotton Handloom Products ..................             13
C.   Metal Crafts ............................           .   15
D.   Forest Based Products .................             .   16
E.   Selected Agroindustries ................            .   17
IV.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT ............ .. ................   19
A.   Objectives, Strategy and Institutional
Arrangements ........ ...... *  ......... ......    19
B.   Subloan Component ......................            .   22
1.  CSI Refinance Fund - Rastra Bank .........         22
2.  Eligibility, Terms and Conditions ........   24
3.  Credit Guarantee Scheme ........ .....         .   26
4.  The Participating Banks ....... ......         .   26
C.   Commercial and Technical Service Components             31
1. Export Development - Trade Promotion
Centre  ..31
2.  Extension Services and Development
Centres - CIDB ...... .34
3. Raw Material Arrangements - Companies
and the Emporium.                              36
4. Coordination and Monitoring and
Preparation for Expansion   .       .38
5. UNDP Financing for Training and Technical
Assistance  . .40
D.   Policies Affecting Cottage Industries                   41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Nepal in June/July 1980. The mission comprised N. Barry, C. Bam, S. Kandel
(IBRD/IDA) and J. Starkey (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 1
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
V.   THE PROPOSED CREDIT ...............................   42
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................   45
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ......................                   47
ANNEX 1:  Supporting Tables
Table  1    Indicators of Performance in CSIs
Table  2    Gandaki Zone - Commercial Bank Branches and Cottage Industry
Concentrations
Table  3    Probable Locations of Performance Contracts in Gandaki Zone -
Year 1
Table  4    Projected Project Benefits - Export Earnings, Output,
Employment
Table  5    Optimistic, Pessimistic and Expected Results with and without
the Project
Table  6    Estimated Credit Requirements to be Met under the Project
Table  7    Interest Rate Structure of Credit Institutions
Table  8    Costs and Sources of Finance for Commercial and Technical
Service Components
Table  9    Summary of UNDP Financing for Training and Consultancy
Table 10    CSI Fund Financial Projections
Table 11    Estimated Distribution of Subloans by Size
Table 12    Estimated Disbursement Schedules - IDA and UNTDP
ANNEX 2:    Supporting Documents Available in Project File
ANNEX 3:    Maps of Project Area
Map 1       Nepal, Cottage and Small Industries Project, Project Area
(IBRD No. 15389)
Map 2       Nepal, Cottage and Small Industries Project, Craft Concentrations
in Gandaki Zone (IBRD No. 15390).



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF A COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
1.01      In the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-1985), His Majesty's Government
of Nepal (HMG) is giving priority to cottage industry development, to supple-
ment rural earnings and expand non-traditional exports. At HMG's request, a
portion of an IDA Technical Assistance Credit (659-NEP) was used for an inten-
sive two year project preparation study. The proposed project, an outgrowth
of the study and successive IDA missions to Nepal, would involve an IDA credit
of SDR 5.7 million (US$6.5 million equivalent) with a US$4.5 million subloan
component and US$2.0 million for commercial and technical services in promis-
ing product groups. The project also would incorporate a US$2.0 million UNDP
grant, to be executed by the Bank and implemented by the appropriate agencies
of HMG, for most training, consultancy and marketing inputs of the project.
1.02      The project area would be limited to the Kathmandu Valley 1/ and
Gandaki Zone, with the objectives of strengthening services at the center and
implementing product-specific schemes which could be replicated in other hill
areas where cottage industries are concentrated.  Kathmandu Valley has the
majority of export-oriented cottage units and the headquarters of the major
commercial, banking and public agencies.  Gandaki Zone typifies the rural hill
areas but has relatively large craft clusters and reasonable road links with
Kathmandu.  Commercial and technical services would focus on those major prod-
uct groups with strong market prospects and problems which can be addressed
within a project: carpets, woolen and cotton handloom garments, metal crafts,
forest products and selected agroindustries.
1.03      Where feasible, private commercial organizations would be used for
input supply, marketing and training, since exporters and agents have market-
ing knowhow and have demonstrated the ability to organize cottage industry
producers in Kathmandu Valley. Under the project, the Trade Promotion Centre
(TPC) would provide exporters with assistance in market contacts and product
adaptation, and would engage selected exporters to extend their commercial
networks to craft clusters in the hills. Capabilities of the three banks
dealing with cottage and small industry (CSI) loans would be increased, with
partial refinance and credit guarantees from the central bank, attractive
spreads, and training of appraisal and supervision officers. These banks
would make loans to individual cottage and small enterprises, related market
agents, and input supply companies developed under the project. While com-
mercial agents would be the major organizers, public institutions dealing with
CSIs would have responsibilities in training, filling some gaps in commercial
services, and creating a positive and stable policy environment for industrial
growth. The Cottage Industry Development Board would build its extension
services and provide integrated assistance to more remote cottage industry
clusters; the Emporium would procure and distribute cotton yarn and organize
institutional marketing of handloom products; and the Industrial Services
Centre would do monitoring and evaluation. Coordination of project inputs
would be provided by the Ministry of Industries through a CSI Coordinating
1/   Kathmandu, Lalitpur, and Bhaktapur Districts.



-2 -
Committee chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Industries and supported by
full-time staff.
1.04      To date, IDA's involvement in industrial development in Nepal has
been limited. IDA Credit 705-NEP has provided US$4 million to the Nepal
Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC) for foreign exchange portions of
industrial subloans. Subloans have averaged about US$155,000; commitments
have been slow, reflecting problems in promotion, limited prospects for
medium and large industry, and NIDC's inadequate local currency resources.
Two rural development projects have included small experimental cottage
industry components (Credits 617-NEP and 939-NEP). However, these deal with
out-stations of agencies which require improvements in strategy, organiza-
tion and incentives at the center.  Under the IDA Technical Assistance Cre-
dit (659-NEP), preparation of the proposed cottage industry project has been
financed and some industrial subsector feasibility studies have been under-
taken. The proposed cottage industry project provides IDA with the oppor-
tunity to play a significant role in shaping assistance to one of the more
promising productive sectors in Nepal. Analyses and discussions during pro-
ject preparation already have resulted in improvements in overall strategy,
institutional arrangements and industrial policies affecting CSI development.
Training and consultancy to prepare the implementing agencies for the project
have been undertaken, with UNDP financing. HMIG views the proposed cottage
and small industries (CSI) project as the lead project in its program to
expand CSI production and exports during the Sixth Five Year Plan period. By
building institutional capabilities and replicable programs, the proposed
project should have significant immediate and long-term impact on earnings,
output and exports from cottage and small industries.
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Nepal remains one of the least developed countries, with annual
per capita incomes averaging about US$140. Agriculture, accounting for more
than 60% of GDP and 75% of exports, provides a livelihood to over 90% of the
population. Food production has not kept pace with population growth; over
the period 1967-77, growth of foodgrain output averaged 1.5% p.a., while
population grew at 2.6%. Stagnation in agriculture limited growth in other
sectors, and GDP grew by only 2.4% p.a. in real terms during the Fifth Devel-
opment Plan period (1975-80). The economic situation deteriorated further
in 1979/80: GDP decreased by about 1% and, with major crop losses due to
poor monsoons, crop output probably declined by roughly 4%. Industrial
growth continued to be curbed by supply bottlenecks, delayed preparation
of public sector projects, and limited potential for large industry. This
weak performance led to accelerated inflation and a widening trade deficit,
largely due to reduced rice exports and a surging import bill for oil and
foodgrains. The situation improved somewhat during 1980/81, due to a good
monsoon and consequent increases in agricultural production.
2.02      Agricultural growth will not be sufficient to meet Nepal's needs.
In the hills and mountains, which contain two-thirds of the population but
only one-third of the arable land, population pressures have pushed cultiva-



tion onto marginal land and average yields have declined; food production
meets only two-thirds of minimum subsistence needs. While hydropower and
tourism offer opportunities to increase foreign exchange earnings, these
sectors do not generate the needed employment. In industry, the Sixth
Five Year Plan (1980-1985) gives priority to promotion of CSIs, to generate
earnings for the hill population and strengthen the trade balance by in-
creasing exports of non-traditional goods.
B.   Industrial Structure and Performance
2.03      Role of Industry.  Although small and at an early stage, Nepal's
industrial sector represents the largest non-agricultural income source,
accounting for over 5% of GDP, as officially calculated. 1/ About 70%
of industrial output involves agroprocessing; textiles, apparel and
leather account for about 14%; and forest products represent about 8%.
About half of industrial output is produced in 12 public enterprises;
most public firms face difficulties due to low productivity, inappropriate
pricing policies, and technical and managerial weaknesses. About 20% of
the value added in private industry is produced in 3,500 registered, mainly
small scale firms, employing 35,000; the remaining 80% comes from unregis-
tered, mainly rural CSIs. The skill base in CSIs is large, with over one
million working full or part time in about 400,000 mainly household enter-
prises.
2.04      The low level of industrial development reflects the paucity of
obvious opportunities. Constraints to industrial development include:
limited natural resources; a small domestic market with low purchasing
power 2/; a landlocked position which increases costs of raw material im-
ports and exports; competition from India; and absence of entrepreneurial
and technical skills for modern industry, making import-substitution dif-
ficult and exports of most modern industrial products unlikely. In view
of these problems, Nepal needs to adopt a highly selective approach to
industrial development. Performance of public enterprises needs to be
improved. Promotion of CSIs can yield substantial employment and foreign
exchange benefits at relatively low cost. Prospects for increasing exports
of carpets, metal crafts and wool and cotton handloom garments are good.
Development of CSIs is crucial in view of their predominance, labor inten-
sity, export potential and ability to provide substantial supplementary
*         earnings to the hill population.  To realize this potential, CSIs need
improved access to credit and effective technical and commercial services.
1/   In Nepal, GDP calculations do not include many cottage industry activi-
ties which are conducted at the household level.
2/   Cash incomes of the majority of inhabitants are less than US$50 p.a.;
in hill regions most transactions are on a barter basis.



- 4 -
C.   Role of Cottage and Small Industries
2.05      Under the new Industrial Enterprise Act, the definition of cottage
industries for purposes of fiscal incentives and technical services includes
those with fixed investment, including land and buildings, of up to Rs 500,000
in rural areas and Rs 800,000 in urban areas. 1/ Small scale industries
would be defined as those with fixed investment not exceeding Rs 2 million. 2/
In view of past inflation, these changes seem appropriate. Over 80% of the
3,500 registered industries have fewer than 10 employees; these small firms
mill grain, extract oil, and produce a limited range of consumer goods. Most
cottage industries are household units; fixed assets range from Rs 100 to Rs
15,000 and annual output per worker varies from Rs 100 to Rs 10,000 (Annex 1,
Table 1).
2.06      Subsectoral Distribution.  Major cottage industry subsectors are
woolen and handloom items, agro-based operations and forest products. In ex-
ports, carpets, metal crafts, woolens and cotton garments account for about
95% of sales. Five major subsectors have identified export or local market
potential: woolen carpets and garments; cotton handloom fabrics and finished
products; metal curios and utensils; food processing; and forest-based products.
2.07      Geographical Distribution.  Bagmati and Gandaki Zones account for
roughly 60% of cottage industries in Nepal (Annex 3, Map 1). Kathmandu Valley
holds sizeable concentrations of wool, cotton and metal CSIs. In the six dis-
tricts the Gandaki, almost all units are operated by poor hill families who
provide goods and services for the rural subsistence economy. Agroindustries
are widely dispersed, but in wool, cotton and forestry products, Gandaki holds
over 40 clusters 3/ of 100 to 200 cottage units each (Annex 3, Map 2).
2.08      Constraints.  In most hill areas, purchasing power, already below
subsistence levels, is stagnant; local markets offer limited scope for expan-
sion in most CSI products. Seasonal demands from agriculture mean that rural
workers are available for cottage industry production for about two-thirds of
the year. In exports manufactured by CSIs, Nepal's landlocked position re-
sults in high transport costs which add a sizeable margin to export prices of
the lower value items. Most craftsmen are not entrepreneurs; their tradition,
scale, and knowledge hamper growth beyond the household level and necessitate
services by market agents to provide inputs and sell finished products.
Institutional constraints are serious. Public programs to assist CSIs have
1/   Previously, cottage industries were defined as those with fixed invest-
ment of up to Rs 200,000, including land and buildings; small industries
were considered as those with fixed investment not exceeding Rs 500,000.
2/   Credit under the proposed project would be available for cottage and
"modern" small firms with fixed assets of up to Rs 800,000 after the
subloan is made, as NIDC is established to meet the credit needs of the
larger end of the small industry sector.
3/   Locations of the main craft clusters in Gandaki are depicted in Annex 1,
Tables 2 and 3; and in Annex 3, Map 2.



- 5 -
been weak. Private agents, who play a major role in input supply, quality
control and marketing in the Kathmandu Valley, have not had sufficient incen-
tives to extend commercial networks to craft clusters in the hills. Exporters
have inadequate market information, face delays in licensing and shipment, and
have insufficient credit access. If the more serious of these constraints are
addressed, CSI potential could be tapped, particularly for exports.
2.09      Export Potential.  CSI exports have increased by about 35% p.a. since
1972/73, from a low base, and already constitute about 15% of cottage industry
output and the majority of non-traditional manufactured exports. In 1980/81,
exporters marketed over Rs 140 million in woolen, handicraft and handloom
items; sales to tourists generated another Rs 50 million. Studies of export
potential in Europe and the United States 1/ indicate prospects for handknot-
ted Nepalese carpets, woolen knitwear, cotton handloom garments and metal-
ware. Except in carpets, for which existing markets are relatively strong,
Nepal will need to combine its exotic image with competitive price, quality,
and responsiveness to western fashion trends. Concentrations of traditional
skills at relatively low wages can be utilized as a strong production base.
The 80 to IOU exporters of cottage industry products are among Nepal's chief
assets; it is they who have increased exports, despite the substantial diffi-
culties. While at present, these exporters work mainly with cottage units in
Kathmandu Valley, their market contacts and organizing knowhow can be tapped
in mobilizing production from the hills. In Gandaki about 30 craft clusters
involving about 5,000 producers have reasonable access to the main roads and
can be competitive, if products are adapted and production geared to exports
(Annex 3, Map 2); transport costs to Kathmandu are marginal and can be out-
weighed by lower wages in rural areas. However, exporters would need direct
incentives to help cover the initial costs of extending their networks to
rural CSI clusters. In addition to these direct incentives to promote rural
employment, handicraft exporters need assistance in adapting products to meet
concrete market prospects.
2.10      If systematic marketing, technical and credit services are provided,
expanded production to meet export demand would be expected to generate about
US$30 million in incremental foreign exchange over four years, providing sig-
nificant additional earnings to CSIs, equivalent to roughly 40,000 manyears
of additional employment (paras 6.01-6.03). While the majority of production
for export would continue to come from Kathmandu, rural Gandaki Zone could
generate as much as 30% of this growth.
2.11      Local Potential.  Local market prospects in most product groups are
more limited. Analysis of HMG's statistics on legal industrial imports indi-
cates that less than 10% of the value could be replaced by reasonably compe-
titive products from domestic CSIs. Not only is local purchasing power small,
but in several product lines demand is price inelastic. There is, however,
significant import-substitution potential in handloom products, and in agro-
processing if crop output can be expanded; some scope for expansion also
exists in building materials, implements and footwear. Public sector and
tourist markets are promising, particularly in processed foods and textiles.
1/   These two marketing surveys of Nepalese CSI export potential were
prepared as part of the project preparation study.



- 6 -
D.   Industrial Policy Framework
2.12      In the Sixth Five Year Development Plan (1980-85), HMG recognizes
the need to promote private industrial investment by reducing bureaucratic
controls and providing effective fiscal and export incentives; to achieve
these objectives, HMG has revised its industrial policy. iDMG used consul-
tancy services, financed by UNDP and executed by the Bank under preparatory
assistance for the proposed project, in helping to finalize a revised Indus-
trial Enterprise Act. The new Act, incorporating some recommended improve-
ments, was passed in August 1981 and is with His Majesty for approval and
issuance. While the Act includes improvements in income tax and export in-
centives, the mission's recommendations on more liberal industrial approval
procedures and a streamlined fiscal incentive system have not been fully
incorporated. Development of rules and procedures, needed to ensure effec-
tive implementation of the Act, could incorporate some of these recommenda-
tions. The following section summarizes the mission's recommendations and
modifications planned by HMG on policies with direct effects on CSI develop-
ment (para 4.53).
2.13      Fiscal Incentives.  The Act introduces product lists and size
categories for CSIs, with different licensing requirements and fiscal incen-
tives for various groups. Such scaling is cumbersome and unlikely to have
significant impact on profits or economic benefits of the enterprises. The
mission recommended a simple fiscal system for all CSIs; any differential
incentives should be based on in-depth subsector analyses to ensure that
efficient CSIs are promoted.
2.14      Registration and Licensing.  The Act envisages registration of
CSIs which seek incentives. While this is reasonable, the mission recom-
mended that registration procedures do not inhibit CSIs from receiving
credit and technical services; rules and procedures for the Act should
clarify this aspect. Also, the Act specifies a number of organized small
industry product lines which would require licensing in addition to regis-
tration. While this licensing would not affect most cottage enterprises
it would represent an increase in controls and delays for some, in contrast
to H4GN's stated objectives of reducing controls during the Sixth Five Year
Plan period.
2.15      Joint Ventures.  Under the Act, foreign investment would be al-
lowed only in medium and large industries, with priority to enterprises
employing sophisticated technology. The mission recommended that foreign
partners also be encouraged in export-oriented light industries to help with
organization of production and marketing channels; foreign participation by
both manufacturing concerns and trading companies dealing in CSI products
should be considered. The mission also recommended establishment of a "one
stop office" to assist potential foreign investors in procedural matters.
2.16      Export Incentives and Procedures.  HMG intends to introduce tem-
porary income tax holidays and import duty drawbacks for exporting firms.
Most CSIs, which would pay only nominal duty on imports of equipment and raw
materials, are too small to import directly. The majority purchase from
traders who pay regular import duty, pass on the cascading effect of a sales



tax, and charge high prices during periods of scarcity.  Under the Act HMG
extends import concessions to private limited companies importing inputs
for CSIs, provided that CSI producers and exporters are shareholders (paras
4.40-4.43). This measure is expected to provide effective incentives in
the formation of companies importing key CSI inputs in bulk.
2.17      Exporters often do not obtain the full benefit of exchange rate
incentives due to faulty operation of the Export Valuation Committee, which
is to set standard prices for most export products. Standard prices for
carpets and garments cannot incorporate differences in product quality or
markets. Unit prices set by the Valuation Committee often are undervalued,
discouraging product improvement. The Committee meets irregularly and often
does not adjust prices to reflect cost increases. As such, the Valuation
Committee represents a serious impediment to the development of non-tradi-
tional exports in Nepal. It has been recommended that the Valuation Com-
mittee be abolished. With the recent removal of the dual exchange rate
system, the original rationale for the Export Valuation Committee no longer
applies, and HMG is considering abolishing it.
2.18      Transportation Costs.  A major obstacle to exports is the trans-
port cost arising from Nepal's landlocked position. Transport costs can
outweigh the advantage of lower labor costs in Nepal, pricing low value,
large volume items out of the market. It has been recommended that HMG
develop a transport sector policy and take concrete steps to address the
issue. Short-term improvements in transport arrangements for non-tradi-
tional exports which merit early consideration include: low air freight
rates to Bangladesh, Bangkok, and Colombo by the Royal Nepal Airlines Cor-
poration to enable sea-shipment from ports other than highly congested
Calcutta 1/; negotiating with India to extend to Nepal its rebates on inter-
national freight; organizing air cargo charter flights with international
airlines consolidating export shipments; and improving cargo handling and
warehousing facilities at Tribhuvan Airport. Based on the appraisal mis-
sion's recommendation, UNDP plans to finance a consultant to help organize
the cargo facilities under a transport project.
2.19      Export Financing.  Preshipment export financing, important in ex-
port growth, is difficult to obtain in Nepal. The appraisal mission recom-
mended that HMG consider establishing an export credit guarantee scheme, which
could start in Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). 2/ At a minimum, NRB should reiterate
its earlier guidelines, advising commercial banks on conditions under which
they should extend preshipment finance.
1/   Net incremental foreign exchange earnings through increased exports
would far exceed revenue losses from this measure according to a team
which worked in Nepal during 1981 on a UNCTAD-ESCAP project for "Assis-
tance to Least Developed Landlocked Countries."
2/   Detailed recommendations regarding export financing are provided in a
report by the International Trade Centre in January 1980.



-8-
E. Financing of CSIs
2.20       During the latter part of the 1970s, total demand for credit in-
creased rapidly. In 1977/78, credit by the banking system rose by 36%,
outstripping the increase in deposits. While there was some expansion in
lending to industry and agriculture, most bank lending to the private sec-
tor flowed to trade, particularly for imports. Rapid credit expansion
generated demand pressures which contributed to the deteriorating balance
of payments and the accelerating inflation rate. In 1978/79, growth of
domestic credit decreased to 21%; lending to the private sector fell,
largely due to tighter credit controls from the NRB. Total industrial
credit, which nearly doubled in 1977/78, increased by less than 5% in
1978/79, with banks' reduced resources lent mainly for commerce.
2.21       The banking system encompasses two government-owned commercial
banks (Nepal Bank Ltd. and Rastrya Banijya Bank), the Agricultural Devel-
opment Bank (ADBN), the Nepal Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC),
and the Provident Fund Corporation. Since 1970, the commercial banks and
ADBN have expanded their share in the total assets of the financial sector.
Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB), the central bank, has instructed the commercial
banks to lend 7% of total deposits to small agricultural, industrial and
services enterprises; however, these targets have not been accompanied
by training in project evaluation, margins to make small loan operations
profitable, or adequate credit guarantee provisions. As a result, lending
under the "priority sector scheme" has averaged only about 5% of total de-
posits and most CSI loans still are made on the basis of clients' collateral
rather than evaluation of project viability. ADBN, which focusses on agri-
cultural lending, also finances small agro-based and cottage industries,
based on project evaluation. Industrial credit to larger industries is
provided by NIDC. During the Sixth Five Year Plan period, HMG intends to
strengthen the banks' programs and capabilities in meeting credit needs of
CSIs and related commercial concerns. Training of over 20 key staff of NRB
and the banks has been provided in India and the Philippines and local
training of about 100 CSI officers has been arranged with State Bank of
India during November and December 1981.
2.22       The 300,000 cottage and small scale units in Gandaki and the
Kathmandu Valley have a potentially large demand for credit; however, market
links, raw material supply arrangements, and production methods would have
to be improved before large amounts could be absorbed fruitfully by cottage
industries. Also, the banks need to upgrade their CSI staff and credit
operations. The project would require about Rs 67 million (US$5.1 million)
in institutional term credit over a three year commitment period, for cot-
tage units, related commercial agents, organized small industries and raw
material supply companies (Annex 1, Table 6). This would represent an an-
nual increase of about 20% in CSI lending by the two commercial banks and
ADBN, which is reasonable if training and incentives in CSI lending are
improved.
2.23       Interest Rates and Inflation.  Until recently, commercial banks
made short term loans at 13-18% p.a; NIDC provided long term finance for



- 9 -
larger industries at 11-14% 1/; ADBN lent to CSIs at 8-12%; and commercial
banks offered medium term credit to CSIs at 10% under the priority sector
scheme (Annex 1, Table 7).  The tNepal Rastra Bank recently decided to ra-
tionalize interest rates and eliminate the gap between regular commercial
lending rates and rates for CSIs, with all rates to reflect inflationary
trends and enable the banks and ADBN to increase the spreads between deposits
and lending rates.  Medium term inflation projections, previously estimated
to be 10-13%, have now dropped; the anticipated annual rate for 1981/82 is
about 8%, reflected the good mansoon and resulting improvements in agricul-
tural production.  Medium and long term loans to cottage industry, including
those under the proposed project, would be made at rates which are positive
in relation to medium term inflation projections and consistent with term
rates for all industry in Nepal.  The initial rate for CSI loans would be
11%; this rate for CSI would be reviewed at least annually and adjusted to
maintain positive real interest rates and consistency with commercial bank
rates for term loans to large industry (para 4.11).
F. Commercial and Technical Services
2.24      HMG recognizes that public technical and commercial services for
CSIs have been inadequate.  The final draft Sixth Five Year Plan contains
measures to modify and improve public and private services to CSIs; these
build on and are consistent with the institutional arrangements under the
proposed project. The Department of Cottage and Village Industries (DCVI),
the government agency which has been responsible for CSI development, has
provided some formal training and technical extension through regional and
district offices. tiowever, the majority of DCVI officers have no technical
background; tight controls over departmental salaries and financial manage-
ment preclude performance incentives and flexible operations; and DCVI has
concentrated on administrative tasks such as registration and licensing
rather than promoting development of CSIs. A Cottage Industry Development
Board exists, which has wide powers for commercial and developmental func-
tions, but CIDB never has been made truly operative; during the Sixth Five
Year Plan period (1980-85), HMG intends to shift extension services and
development functions from DCVI to the CIDB, beginning with the project
area.
2.25      Public agencies' commercial services for cottage industries are
particularly weak. National Trading Ltd. has imported metal and wool yarn,
but supplies have been sporadic, prices have been high to cover costs of
losing items, and NTL never has been a significant factor in imports of
these two comrmodities, which are vital for export-oriented cottage indus-
tries. The Cottage Industries and Handicraft Sales Eraporium imports about
15% of the total cotton yarn supply; about 10 large and 100 small cotton
yarn importers account for the majority of yarn operations. The Emporium's
1/   Commercial banks' interest rates vary depending upon the type of enter-
prise and the collateral provided by clients. NIDC's interest rates
vary by location and type of industry.



- 10 -
efforts at cottage industry retail sales have not been successful, but the
Emporium has served as a stabilizing factor in cotton yarn imports and has
a comparative advantage in marketing to the public sector; the Emporium's
services are to be strengthened in cotton-related areas.
2.26      The Trade Promotion Centre (TPC) is perceived as the government
agency most concerned with the problems of private exporters. However, TPC
has had limited resources and technical staff, and market information and
sales promotion activities have been ad hoc and sporadic. HMG intends to
have TPC play a more active and systematic role in promoting non-traditional
exports, particularly in cottage industry products. TPC recently has estab-
lished a Cottage Industry Export Development Division to provide exporters
with assistance in product adaptation in response to specific market re-
quirements, and to mobilize exporters to extend their commercial networks
to rural cottage industry clusters. Exporters provide the majority of mar-
keting, input supply and technical services to cottage industries in Nepal.
Private commercial agents have built-in performance incentives; higher
salaries enable them to attract, retain and motivate qualified staff to do
raw material supply, quality control and purchasing. HMG's strategy, as
reflected in the Sixth Five Year Plan and the proposed project, would focus
on encouraging the private commercial sector to expand their services to
CSIs.
III. SCOPE AND STRATEGY IN SELECTED SUBSECTORS
3.01      Project preparation involved detailed analyses of problems, poten-
tial and assistance needs in five major CSI subsectors: carpets and other
woolen products; handloom fabric and garments; metal crafts; forestry-based
products; and selected agroindustries. RMG and IDA chose these subsectors
due to their importance, market prospects and problems which could be ad-
dressed within a project. The project preparation study, sponsored by DCVI
and performed by ISC staff with 30 manmonths of outside specialists, con-
sisted of two phases. Phase I involved a survey of cottage industries in
Gandaki and Bagmati Zones. 1/ Through the survey, clusters of cottage in-
dustries were identified, CSI operations analyzed, and public and private
services observed. In Phase II, product specialists did detailed analyses
of the key product groups and made proposals on institutional arrangements,
subsector components and costs. Also, export potential studies for Nepalese
woolen, cotton and handicraft products were performed in the United States
and selected European countries. 2/ IDA missions were active in this project
preparation and performed additional analyses, particularly on needed re-
forms in institutional services and policies affecting CSIs. The prospects,
problems and proposed strategies for developing the major cottage industry
subsectors are outlined below.
1/  Aggregated statistics from this survey are presented in Annex 1, Table
1.
2/   Detailed reports on the survey, subsector analyses, export potential
studies and final recommendations are available in the project file.



- 11 -
A. Wool Carpets and Garments
3.02      Characteristics.  In Nepal, about 97,000 spinners and weavers in
46,500 units make woolen carpets, garments, and rugs; fixed investment in
the industry is about Rs 135 million; annual output totals roughly Rs 240
million. Kathmandu Valley and Gandaki Zone account for about 20% of woolen
product output and employment. About 70% of the Rs 75 million in carpets
and wool garments exported in 1980/81 were made in Kathinandu, with the re-
mainder coming from Gandaki Zone and other rural areas. Net foreign ex-
change earnings constitute about 60% of export value. Most of the 13,200
workers in 6,900 household units in the project area make traditional
blankets, rugs and jackets for rural markets; due to limited and stagnant
local demand, these weavers work an average of 50-60 days, earning about
Rs 360 annually from their work in wool. In contrast, annual earnings of
carpet weavers in Kathmandu average Rs 5,000.
3.03      Potential.  There is strong immediate potential for expanding
production and exports of Tibetan hand knotted carpets, 1/ due to good
Nepalese designs and established contacts with importers. The carpets
produced in Nepal are not direct substitutes for Persian-style carpets;
however, Iran's exodus has resulted in buyers seeking new sources for a
variety of ethnic carpets. While Nepal's carpet exports have been growing
at 30-55% annually for the last five years and now constitute the second
largest manufactured export, Nepal still represents less than 0.5% of the
world carpet trade. Market surveys indicate that a 35% annual increase
in Nepalese carpet exports can be maintained if the production base is ex-
panded, wool imports secured, and market contacts broadened; without these
inputs, growth would be likely to slow to about 20%. These inputs would be
likely to generate incremental foreign exchange earnings of about Rs 160
million (US$12.1 million) over four years, with incremental local value
added of about US$7 million equivalent (Annex 1, Tables 4 and 5). Since
about 90% of the existing carpet loom capacity is utilized, additional looms
would be required to meet the production increase of about 35,000 meters
annually. With each meter requiring about 23 days of spinning, weaving and
finishing, a 35% annual expansion represents about 12,000 additional man
years by the end of 1984 assuming a 200 day working year. About 40% of the
workers required are unskilled, for carding, spinning, and finishing.
3.04      The high value added of carpets makes it possible for rural units
to be competitive; transport of wool to and finished carpets from weaving
concentrations in Gandaki adds only Rs 21 to the costs of a Rs 1,200 carpet,
more than outweighed by lower labor costs in the hills. 2/ In Gandaki,
1/   While carpet production began with Tibetan refugees, the success has
resulted in spreading of production to Nepalese units. Now, Nepalese
workers account for over 70% of production of carpets.
2/   Daily earnings average Rs 13 in Kathmandu Valley; with wages represent-
ing about 54% of production costs, rural wages would need to be 3,/ lower
to make products competitive.



- 12 -
about 1,500 of the weaving families are located in 12 rural clusters; these
families have skills in spinning and weaving from making blankets on tradi-
tional looms. With introduction of carpet looms and adaptation of skills
from rugs to Tibetan carpets, several of these concentrations could be
mobilized for export markets. With initial training and organization of in-
put supply, orders and quality control, Gandaki could contribute about 20-
30% to Nepal's growth in carpet exports over the next three years, providing
additional earnings of up to Rs 2,300 (US$175) annually to rural weaver
families who now live below subsistence levels.
3.05      The other product lines with strong export prospects, particular-
ly in US markets, are woolen jackets and hand knits. The current trend in
western markets is for products designed specifically to suit US and European
fashions rather than for ethnic outerwear. To meet competition, Nepalese
exporters would need close relationships with buyers and designers to respond
quickly to fashion trends. While prices are competitive and buyers appreci-
ate the quality of wool from Nepal, improvements in sizing and finish are
needed.
3.06      The attraction of expanding jacket and knitwear production in the
hills is that existing equipment and methods would be used; piece rate wages
are attractive, yielding about Rs 10 per day for knitters, Rs 12 for weavers,
and Rs 25 for tailors. If the necessary improvements in design and marketing
are made, traditional household production methods could yield a competitive
product. Given the small present export base, project inputs could generate
a 30% annual increase in exports of this product, lifting exports from about
Rs 5 million in 1978/79 to about Rs 15 million by 1984, creating about 5,000
additional man years of employment, with annual incremental earnings averag-
ing Rs 860 (US$65) per worker. 1/ In the absence of specific project inputs,
export earnings probably would not grow by more than 10% annually, since the
rough quality of the products available has limited appeal in export markets
(Annex 1, Tables 4 and 5). While knitting and weaving operations could be
performed in traditional craft concentrations in the hills, tailoring and
ready-made garment operations are mainly in Kathmandu; skills and economies
of scale in garment production would make it advantageous to weave woolen
yardage for jackets in the hills but do sewing operations in Kathmandu.
3.07      Needs and Strategy.  Major constraints in expanding carpet exports
are wool supply and production capacity. Insufficient imports of Bhanglung
wool have caused price increases, 2/ and inadequacy of supplies have limited
output, foreign exchange earnings and ability to meet orders. At present,
National Training Ltd. imports only about 60 tons of Bhanglung wool from China
under a barter agreement; prices are high and operations inefficient. The
1/   Assuming a 100 day work year which is reasonable, given seasonality of
demand for woolen garments.
2/   Wool prices doubled from Rs 22 to Rs 42 per kilogram from 1978 to 1979;
with about 6 kg of wool required per meter of carpet, this increased
production costs by about Rs 120 per meter, reducing profitability from
about 40% to about 30%.



- 13 -
remaining 340 tons are imported, mainly from Tibet, often unofficially, by
private traders. Although Tibet produces large quantities of Bhanglung wool,
China is expanding its own carpet exports, aided by its Most Favored Nation
status. Other sources also may have to be tapped; New Zealand appears prom-
ising, since it produces a variety similar to Bhanglung wool at comparable
prices. No public sector organization is judged sufficiently competent to
arrange bulk wool imports; a private company, structured to assure fair prices
to the producers, is being formed to help ensure stable availability of wool
for the carpet and garment industry. About Rs 2.5 million in financing would
be required to launch this company, enabling it to purchase in bulk and hold
the required stocks of wools and dyes (paras 4.41-4.43).
3.08      Another problem is the high cost of air freighting carpets; due
to unreliability and delays in sea shipment from Calcutta, Nepalese exporters
air freight carpets, adding 20% to the CIF cost of a carpet shipped to Europe
and 40% to the US versus 5% and 10% for sea shipment.  With air freight,
goods are received in one to two weeks vs. one to three months by sea. Advan-
tages of air could be reduced by cutting manufacturing and handling time and
by air freighting to Colombo, Chittagong or Bangkok and sending goods by sea
from there (para 2.18).
3.09      Modifications in design and sizing, coupled with improved market
links, are prerequisites for sizeable market penetration in woven or knitted
woolen garments. Production costs would be reduced in both carpets and gar-
ments by introducing some simple equipment at a few key points in the pro-
cess (e.g., carding and milling) and by improving speed and quality through
short upgrading courses and in-house extension services. Credit requirements
of the project for units making carpets and other woolen products are esti-
mated to be Rs 11.0 million from 1981 to 1983. Most CSI subborrowers are
expected to be household units employing an average of two family members;
however, about 20%o of the loans to wool units are expected to be to units
employing about 10 workers (Annex 1, Table 6). Exporters who supply raw
materials, organize decentralized producers and market products would need
about Rs 7.0 million in term credit. The raw material supply company im-
porting wool yarn would need about Rs 3-4 million in credit over the com-
mitment period (para 4.42).
B. Cotton Handloom Products
3.10      Characteristics.  The project area contains about 20,500 handloom
units employing 25,500; about 85% of the looms are in clusters in Kathmandu
Valley with the remaining 15% in Gandaki. Fixed investment per job averages
Rs 690 and annual output per worker, Rs 2,900. The product range is extremely
limited; most units produce simple shirting, saree material and bedcoverings.
Prices of Nepalese handloom products are less than Indian imports by 5-10%
in simple shirting and bedcover material but more for sarees and towelling;
productivity on flyshuttle looms is comparable, averaging one meter per hour
for simple weaves.
3.11      About 44% of the looms are traditional waist looms, 55% are fly-
shuttle hlandlooms, and 1% are pedal looms. Waist looms, used mainly in rural



- 14 -
Gandaki, are only 20% as efficient as fly shuttle looms, and the narrow loom
width limits product possibilities. Pedal looms, which do shedding, picking
and beating automatically, are still more efficient with one-shift capabi-
lities of 15 meters vs. 6 to 8 meters on fly shuttle looms. However, the
higher costs of pedal looms are warranted only for simple weaves which do not
require frequent stoppages for design formation. Scarcity of power, market
uncertainty, and the desirability of focussing on products with higher value
added make the Rs 1,000 flyshuttle loom a viable alternative to the Rs 4,500
pedal loom.
3.12      In rural Gandaki, weavers in household units work only about 30
days a year, due to inadequate yarn supply, local marketing difficulties,
inferiority of waistloom technology, and requirements from agriculture during
one-third of the year. In Kathmandu Valley most weavers work about 180 days
and in concentrations such as Kirtipur are employed for up to 270 days a year;
however, daily earnings often are low with weavers engaged in less profitable
lines for the low end of the local market. Kathmandu Valley has a stronger
handloom tradition, easier access to yarn and markets, and produces better
quality; however, productivity on the flyshuttle loom is similar in Gandaki
and Bagmati Zones. With improved equipment and methods, rural Gandaki could
be competitive, since transport costs to bring yarn in and take cloth out of
rural clusters would add only about 0.3% to 4.0% to the cost of a meter,
which would be outweighed by lower rural wages.
3.13      Local Market Potential.  Nepal produced only 15% of the cloth which
it purchased in 1979/80 1/, the remainder having been imported. Some imports
were in synthetics; however, a sizeable portion was simple Indian handloom
sarees, shirting, bed sheets, furnishing fabrics and towels. With labor
representing about 40% of production costs at current Nepali wage rates, it
is worthwhile for Nepal to buy yarn and gain the value added and employment.
If Nepal could increase import substitution of cotton cloth by 10% per year,
an additional 3,300 people would be employed annually. 2/ The most promising
products are shirting, dhakka cloth, and furnishing fabric. Daily earnings
average Rs 10 in these lines. In Gandaki, where weavers need to upgrade looms
and methods to achieve competitive price and quality, institutional demand can
be tapped. Government departments, hospitals, schools and private hotels
import at least Rs 20 million annually in bed sheets, uniforms and furnishing
fabrics; hill weavers can gain efficiency and steady earnings by producing
standard products, gradually moving into more competitive consumer markets.
3.14      Export Potential.  India exported US$77 million in handloom cloth
in 1979; Nepal exported about US$150,000. In the same year, India exported
US$450 million in garments, over 50% being of handloom cloth; Nepal's garment
exports in 1979 totalled US$666,000. With the quotas affecting Indian and
other exporters in US and European markets, there is scope for Nepalese
1/   The project area supplies about 7% of this effective demand.
2/   Assuming six meters per day per worker with a 200 day working year,
which is reasonable given seasonal labor requirements from agriculture;
if the working year were 150 days, the number employed would be 4,000.



- 15 -
exports, particularly if foreign collaboration can be arranged. 1/ The most
likely areas for export expansion are shirts, casual wear, furnishing fabric,
and table linens. In the short term, only a small portion of Gandaki's looms
could be geared for export, making bolts of cloth with finishing done in
Kathmandu; however, the thousands of skilled weavers in Kirtipur, Luvu and
Bhaktapur of Kathmandu Valley could be organized for export-oriented handloom
cloth production if marginal improvements in looms, methods, and designs are
made and if production from these concentrations is organized.
3.15      Needs and Strategy.  Handloom units, not in a position to import
yarn in bulk, need to rely on traders. Fragmented purchasing precludes volume
discounts and systematic yarn supply arrangements; during periods of scarciLy,
prices increase by 20-30% and the yarn available often is not of the varieties
in demand. The nature of producers and traders in cotton handloom products
and the limited profitability of the industry at present make it unlikely that
the private sector will solve the cotton yarn supply problem. Services by
the Emporium need to be improved significantly with better purchasing, inven-
tory control and personnel management; bulk procurement from Indian and
Chinese mills would reduce yarn prices by 5-10%.
3.16      In addition to yarn supply constraints, the narrow range of Nepali
handloom products limits their competitiveness with Indian varieties in local
and export markets. Assistance is needed in product adaptation and design
development, in response to concrete market opportunities (para 4.27 and
4.37). Credit to upgrade equipment and finance working capital requirements
is needed; about Rs 5.8 million in credit for the CSI handloom units and about
Rs 6.0 million in term credit for the organizers would be needed from CY1981-
83 (Annex 1, Table 6). The Emporium would need about Rs 5.0 million in
credit over the three year commitment period for import and distribution of
cotton yarn and handloom accessories and for wholesale operations to meet
public sector cotton handloom needs (para 4.44).
C. Metal Crafts
3.17      Characteristics.  The main center of metal crafts is Patan City
in the Kathmandu Valley, which accounts for about 90% of total production
(Annex 3, Map 1). Metal curios and utensils represent a small but highly
profitable product group. About 340 units employ 1,000 workers who produce
about Rs 77 million worth of artistic and utility items; metal craft exports
reached Rs 37 million in 1978/79, constituting about 35% of cottage industry
exports; annual wages average about Rs 3,600. The existing products include
artistic statues and ritual objects, filigree art works and domestic metal
utensils. Production technology is traditional: lost wax casting is used in
manufacturing metal statues and bronze utensils, and simple beating and
soldering is employed for copper and brass utensils and studded filigree
artwork.
1/   It is unlikely that Nepal would face garment import quotas until annual
exports exceed US$30 million, as was the case in Sri Lanka. Furthermore,
garments of handloom cloth are in a category which is less sensitive
to protectionism in Western markets.



- 16 -
3.18      Potential.  While export growth has been rapid during the past
five years, maintenance of this pace will require product diversification,
increased metal supplies, and selective improvements in technology to compete
with India and other metal craft exporters.  Some market scope exists for
religious brass and bronze work, particularly to Europe and Asia, both as art
objects and lower priced curios. Growth prospects are good in filigree work
and for hammered copper and brass culinary ware, with some design modifica-
tion. If production is expanded, raw materials are secured, and design
modifications responding to market requirements are made, exports of metal
crafts could provide incremental foreign exchange earnings of Rs 145 million
(US$11 million) over the 1981-84 period, relative to export earnings without
project inputs (Annex 1, Table 4). Since most metal craft units are in
Lalitpur, credit, technical and raw material services could be provided with
relative ease and efficiency.
3.19      Needs and Strategy.  The sporadic supply and high price of metal
and other inputs are major constraints; the need for volume imports of metal
is increasing with local scrap becoming scarce. At present, craftsmen de-
pend upon private traders who often charge three times their import prices,
particularly in periods of scarcity. These importers pay import duties and
sales taxes; craftsmen, who are exempt from both, usually are too small to
import directly. Members of the Nepal Handicrafts Association are estab-
lishing a private limited company to import required raw materials in bulk
for supply to manufacturers at reasonable prices (para 4.41-4.43). Under the
Industrial Enterprises Act, HMG has made provisions to exempt such companies
from import duties and sales taxes (para 2.16). With bulk purchasing and
reasonable profits to such a company, metal prices to CSIs could be reduced
by up to 200%. Metal craft producers also have difficulty obtaining credit.
Finished metal handicrafts are not accepted by the banks as collateral since
value on these items is difficult to assess; no pre-export financing is
available to execute orders against letters of credit. About Rs 5 million
in term credit would be required in the project area for fixed investment
and permanent working capital in the 1982-1984 commitment period, for metal
craft units, related agents and the input company. Training and consultancy
on selective improvements in traditional methods, tools and designs would be
provided (para 4.36), and exporters would be assisted in product modification,
quality control, and increased export contacts (para 4.28).
D. Forest Based Products
3.20      Characteristics.  About 125,000 people make forest-based products
in the project area; most work during slack periods of the agricultural
cycle. Raw materials used are indigenous bamboo, reeds, grass and timber.
Main items are utility containers and floor matting. Most furniture making
and wood carving skills are found in Kathmandu Valley. Production of bamboo
products and reedware is concentrated in Gandaki Zone (Map 2); fixed invest-
ments in these lines average Rs 100, generally in very simple tools. Annual
output value of forest based products in the project area is an estimated Rs
20 million.



- 17 -
3.21      Potential.  Raw material available would be sufficient to support
even a threefold expansion in production. Sizeable producer concentrations
exist which would facilitate cost effective services and marketing.  In
Gandaki, 7,500 units in 9 clusters are within 20 miles of district headquar-
ters with road connections to Kathmandu; Kathmandu Valley holds about 3,000
units in 13 clusters. The existence of large producer concentrations, the
ample supply of local raw materials, and the extremely low fixed investments
make bamboo, reed and straw products an attractive area for expansion. How-
ever, local markets are saturated. If improvements are made in sizing and
workmanship, tourist markets for traditional products could be tapped. There
is some scope for exports of basketry and knocked-down furniture. In both
U.S. and European markets, there is always demand for a small quantity of
"typical" baskets to provide variety.  However, to realize sizeable growth,
Nepal would need to be competitive with the Philippines and China, the main
new entrant; attractive air freight rates and more efficient sea shipping
arrangements would be necessary for volume exports of baskets. Packable
designs are needed. Thus, bamboo and reed items, while appealing from an
employment viewpoint, are likely to grow slowly relative to the other major
product groups. Sizeable immediate export potential exists for expanded wood
carving in Kathmandu Valley.
3.22      Needs and Strategy.  Production is constrained by:  lack of commer-
cial orientation and resistance to change among craftsmen who now produce
bamboo and reed goods mainly for household needs during free time; use of
traditional tools and methods which often limit productivity and quality
output; lack of effective credit or marketing services; and the need to make
improvements in workmanship, seasoning, sizing and design of existing prod-
ucts. Services of public institutions would be improved and private agents
motivated to address these needs (paras 4.32 and 4.37). Credit requirements
in the project area, mainly for working capital, have been estimated at Rs
2 million over the three year period (Annex 1, Table 6). With improvements
in methods and tools and adequate credit during 1981-1983 commitment period,
production value from forest-based products could increase by roughly Rs 3
million over what it would have been without the project; additional employ-
ment by the end of 1984 would be about 144,000 mandays.
E. Selected Agroindustries
3.23      Characteristics.  The project area contains about 103,000 agro-
based units employing 140,000, processing about Rs 181 million 1/ worth of
goods, with fixed investment of about Rs 18 million. The food subsector
includes a wide range of activities. Rice beating, paddy pounding, ghee and
khuwa making, and beekeeping are rural household activities pursued on a
seasonal, part time basis to supply household needs and provide marginal
income supplements; these activities are dispersed throughout rural Gandaki.
1/   This includes about Rs 118 million in service units milling rice, wheat
and oil. The production figures in Annex 1, Table 1 do not include
these service units.



- 18 -
Commercial units, concentrated in Kathmandu Valley and towns of Gandaki,
include milling, bakeries, and units making noodles and sweets. Milling
operations often are of the integrated type, encompassing rice milling, flour
making and oil expelling. If the unit is located properly, it gets business
throughout the year, after harvesting of paddy, maize, wheat and mustard
seed.
3.24      Potential.  Intensive agricultural development efforts, planned
for Gandaki Zone, are expected to result in increased output of agricultural
commodities, which would create requirements for milling operations and other
agro-processing facilities. Also, there are lines in which the unit itself
"makes" the raw materials; beekeeping, such an activity, is simple, requires
limited capital investment in improved hives and honey extractors, and demands
little time; parts of Syangya, Gorkha, and Lamjung Districts of Gandaki have
vegetation suitable for beekeeping. Potential for adding value to existing
agricultural commodities also exists in the project area; fruits, herbs and
ginger available in Gandaki could be dried; some of the estimated 50% of
household's surplus milk can be processed into cheese; and processing costs
of milling operations can be reduced through improved water wheels and up-
graded metal grinders. Honey, marmalade, dried fruits, and dairy products
have strong demand from trekkers and hotels, with prospects for import sub-
stitution. Some relatively organized small units have been established,
mainly in Kathmandu Valley, to provide jams, juices, and butter and other
processed foods for the tourist markets; with improved quality control and
some modernization, some of these units could produce competitive products.
Prospects for effective institutional assistance to household agro-enterprises
are more limited since many "units" pursue these activities mainly to meet
household requirements; local rural purchasing power is limited; and the
dispersal of these units hinders commercial organization.
3.25      Needs and Strategy.  Since most agroindustries process locally
available inputs for regional markets, commercial service needs would be
limited, particularly for standard operations such as grain and oil mill-
ing. For honey, dairy, fruit and herb products catering to tourist or
export markets, services to improve quality control and commercial con-
tacts would be required. ADBN has done detailed preparation for agroin-
dustrial projects, particularly beekeeping; ADBN provides some commercial
and technical services in addition to credit. The CIDB would have a small
unit to provide technical services to agroindustries. While at the out-
set, the primary market for processed foods would be local and tourist
markets, the Trade Promotion Centre plans to include honey, cheese, dried
ginger and herbs in its promotion of forestry-based products. Credit
requirements in the project area for food processing and other agroindus-
trial CSIs are estimated to be Rs 10-12 million 1/ over the three year
1/   The Asian Development Bank (ADB) and IFAD are financing two agricultural
projects, with small agroindustrial components, through ADBN. However,
overlap between the proposed IDA Credit and theqe projects is minimal:
ADBN plans only about 30 milling operations, us    kyd'opov-er. in the
project area and the cottage industry component o. the IFai project would
not be executed until CY83, to provide time to learn from experience
under the IDA-financed CSI project.



- 19 -
commitment period. ADBN projects about Rs 3 million for beekeeping opera-
tions including hives, extractors, packing facilities and working capital.
Average subproject costs for agroindustrial CSIs, including fixed investments
and permanent working capital, are estimated to be Rs 30,000 for grain and
oil milling, Rs 65,000 for beaten rice, Rs 52,000 for bakeries, Rs 85,000
for noodle making, Rs 25,000 for confectionary operations, and Rs 20,000 to
Rs 130,000 for solar drying of ginger, fruits and vegetables, depending upon
the scale of the enterprise. 1/ In addition to credit, for those more or-
ganized CSIs, the project would provide finance for viable household agro-
enterprises; ADBN anticipates lending to beekeeping cooperatives for which
each household enterprise would require Rs 500-Rs 3,000 depending upon
the number of hives.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Objectives, Strategy and Institutional Arrangements
4.01      Objectives.  The proposed project is designed to help achieve HMG's
objectives of increasing earnings and generating foreign exchange through
expanded CSI activity by:  (a) building programs and capabilities of key
commercial, public and banking institutions to provide effective services to
viable CSIs; (b) implementing innovative, product-specific schemes in Bagmati
and Gandaki Zones which could be replicated in other areas; and (c) providing
improved, simplified incentives to encourage efficient production and expanded
sales of CSI products. A major objective would be to tap marketing knowhow
and organizing skills of private exporters and other commercial agents in
providing training and commerical services to cottage industries.
4.02      Scope.  The first project would focus on Kathmandu Valley and the
Gandaki Zone, which account for over half of the cottage industry output in
Nepal (Map 1). The geographical scope could be broadened in subsequent pro-
jects, once services are strengthened and schemes tested. Since Kathmandu
Valley holds the headquarters of banking, public service and private commer-
cial agencies, efforts to upgrade institutions would be facilitated. Gandaki
Zone typifies the rural hill areas but has relatively large craft clusters and
road links with Kathmandu. Commercial and technical service components would
focus on product groups which have: strong growth potential once methods and
services are upgraded; artisan concentrations to enable efficient services;
and high present or potential value added. Carpets, woolen and cotton hand-
loom garments, metal crafts, forest products and selected agroindustries would
be the major groups.
1/   The average size of agroindustries under the proposed project is expected
to be higher than for existing operations, due to inflation
and the emphasis on commercial operations.



- 20 -
4.03      Institutional Arrangements.  The proposed project would:  build
capabilities of the banks for CSI credit; mobilize private organizations
for most commercial functions; and help public sector organizations to
focus on promotion, extension, and filling some gaps in private commercial
services. Strengthening of institutional programs and staff training would
be major elements. The two commercial banks and ADBN would be responsible
for term credit to CSIs, market agents involved directly in cottage indus-
try production, input supply companies for metal and wool, and the Emporium.
The Cottage Industry Export Development Division of TPC would assist ex-
porters in improving products, output and exports; TPC would engage selected
exporters as "performance contractors" to extend their service networks to
selected rural cottage industry clusters with reasonable access to roads.
The CIDB would provide extension and design facilities in Kathmandu Valley
and commercial services in more remote areas of Gandaki Zone. The Emporium
would concentrate on bulk imports of cotton yarn and handloom equipment,
and on institutional marketing. The Industrial Services Centre would be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation, and for preparation of subsequent
projects, building on the experience gained in the Kathmandu Valley and
Gandaki Zone. The Ministry of Industry would provide project coordination.
These institutional arrangements are consistent with those outlined for all
of Nepal under the Sixth Five Year Plan; by providing sizeable training and
consultancy inputs under this first project, private, public and banking
capabilities would be built, enabling more rapid development of the CSI sec-
tor in the future.
4.04      Components.  A cottage and small industries project of about
US$12.0 million equivalent is recommended with IDA contributing about US$6.5
million and UNDP about US$2.0 million. Under the subloan component, the two
local commercial banks (Nepal Bank Ltd. and Rastriya Banijya Bank) and the
Agricultural Development Bank would be responsible for term lending to CSIs,
related market agents, and input supply companies. These lending activities
would be encouraged and strengthened by:
(a) supplying US$4.5 million equivalent to help fill the gap
between term lending requirements of CSIs and related com-
mercial agents in the project area and credit resources
available for this sector;
(b) establishing a CSI Refinance Unit within Nepal Rastra Bank
to do rapid subproject review and provide partial refinance
of eligible subloans made by the participating banks; and
(c) encouraging the banks to increase lending to viable CSIs
and related commercial concerns by providing the banks
with attractive spreads, effective guarantees, and trained
CSI officers at headquarters and by key branches.
Under the commercial and technical service components, private and public
services to CSIs in key product groups would be improved by:



- 21 -
(a)  supporting the Cottage Industry Export and Product Devel-
opment (CIED) Division within TPC to assist exporters
with market contacts, product development, and strength-
ening of the supply base. Product specialists, sales and
exposure trips, performance contracts, and two foreign
promotional offices would be financed;
(b)  reactivating the CI Board to assume responsibility for
public development services to CSIs, with product specific
extension services in Kathmandu Valley, an improved Handi-
craft Design and Promotion Centre, and integrated services
to selected cottage industry clusters in areas of Gandaki
Zone which are not covered by private commercial agents;
(c)  strengthening the Emporium's handloom operations by pro-
viding an advisor and seed capital for procurement and
distribution of cotton yarn, handloom accessories, and
textiles in the project area;
(d)  providing advisory services to the Rastra Bank's CSI Re-
finance Unit and training for CSI staff of NRB and the
participating banks; and
(e)  funding ISC staff and consultancy for monitoring, and
evaluation and preparation of subsequent projects.
4.05      Financing Plan.  Total costs for the CSI project would be about
US$12.0 million equivalent of which IDA would finance US$6.5 million or
54%, and UNDP 17%. For the subloan component, the IDA US$4.5 million would
cover 100% of the portion refinanced by the Nepal Rastra Bank, equivalent
to 80% of the subloan amounts made by the participating credit institutions,
and averaging 64% of subproject costs. Under the commercial and technical
service elements, IDA would provide US$2.0 million to cover the costs of the
IMPACT centres, performance contract payments, 50% of incremental staffing
costs and related expenditures, equipment for subsector development centres,
vehicles, and seed capital for the Emporium (Annex 1, Table 8). The com-
mercial and technical service component also would include about US$2.0
million in UWIDP grant funds for training and consultancy (Annex 1, Table
9); HMG would contribute Rs 6.6 million (US$500,000) to cover half of in-
cremental staff and related expenditures, as well as land and buildings for
these components; Rastra Bank would contribute Rs 5 million (US$379,000) to
the CSI Refinance Fund, mainly to cover the lag between refinance by NRB and
its withdrawals from IDA. H1MG would provide 20% of the CSI subloan amounts
made by ADBN which are not eligible for IDA disbursements, since ADBN does
not have sufficient deposits (para 4.22); these requirements are estimated
to be Rs 6.6 million (US$500,000) over the disbursement period. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that HMG and Rastra Bank would make the
necessary annual allocations to execute the project. The following table
summarizes project costs and sources of finance:



- 22 -
Project Financing Plan
(in US$ million)
HMG/NRB/
IDA  UNDP  Agencies  Banks  CSIs  Total
Subloan Component
(a) Term Credit for
CSIs and Agents             4.50   -      0.50    0.63   1.40   7.03
(b) NRB - Administrative
and Revolving Fund           -     -      0.42     -      -      0.42
Subtotal, Subloan
Component                   4.50   -      0.92    0.63   1.40   7.45
Commercial and Technical Services
(a) TPC - Export Development      1.00  0.99   0.14      -      0.02   2.19
(b) CIDB                          0.74  0.55   0.28      -       -     1.57
(c) Emporium                      0.09  0.09   0.02      -       -     0.20
(d) ISC                           0.05  0.03   0.04      -       -     0.12
(e) Training and Consultancy
for NRB and Banks            -    0.24   0.02      -      -      0.26
(f) Unallocated and other         0.08  0.12   0.01      -       -     0.21
Subtotal, Services            2.00  2.02   0.51      -     0.02   4.55
TOTAL                         6.50  2.02   1.43    0.63   1.42  12.00
B.  Subloan Component
1.   CSI Refinance Fund - Rastra Bank
4.06      The Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) 1/ recognizes that target setting for
CSI lending has not been effective, and that to develop sound CSI lending
operations in the banks, specialized staff, attractive spreads, effective
guarantees, and adequate refinance are needed. The proposed project would
help meet these requirements. A CSI Refinance Fund, with its own policies,
procedures, staff, and financial resources, is being established in NRB, to
channel IDA funds. Staff of the Fund would: review appraisal reports and
refinance CSI subloans submitted by participating banks; monitor appraisal,
supervision and collection standards; collect repayments of refinanced amounts;
and report regularly to the CSI Coordinating Committee and IDA.
4.07      Organization and Staffing.  The CSI Refinance Unit to administer
the Fund would be within the Banking and Credit Division of the Nepal Rastra
Bank. The CSI Fund would be headed by a manager, assisted by an outside
advisor financed under the project. Other professional staff would total
1/   Nepal Rastra Bank, the Central Bank, was established and operates pur-
suant to the Nepal Rastra Bank Act of 1955.



- 23 -
five at the outset 1/: two for analysis and review; one to administer
the credit guarantee scheme; one for monitoring and reporting; and one
for accounting and disbursements. Four of these officers already have
received intensive training in CSI lending and refinance operations, in
India and the Philippines, financed under the UNDP-financed, Bank-executed
preparatory project; training of the remaining officers has been arranged
for November-December 1981 (para 4.51). 2/ The manager and professional
staff appointed to the Fund would have qualifications, training, and ex-
perience acceptable to IDA. The manager would need to be experienced
in industrial appraisal, management, and development of procedures for
project review and supervision. For the other officers, experience in
industrial refinance and bank supervision would be satisfactory. Prior
to credit effectiveness, management and staff for the CSI Fund, acceptable
to IDA, would be in place.
4.08      Policies and Procedures.  A draft statement of policies and
operating procedures, which would provide a satisfactory basis for the
CSI Fund's operations, has been prepared and discussed during appraisal;
the Board of Directors has agreed with the substance of the Statement (An-
nex 2). Prior to credit effectiveness, Rastra Bank would need to adopt
such a statement and accounting procedures satisfactory to IDA; any sub-
sequent modifications would require IDA agreement. The statement would
outline procedures for: review of subprojects; monitoring of bank acti-
vities; and methods and conditions of refinance. For subloans of over Rs
20,000 (US$1,500), the Fund would review appraisals prepared by the banks
prior to granting refinance; for smaller subloans, refinance would be
granted on the basis of the participating bank's appraisal showing the
subproject to be eligible, financially viable and having appropriate lend-
ing terms. However, a 20% random sample of these smaller subloans would
be subject to a more detailed post-approval review of technical, financial
and marketing aspects. To ensure expeditious review of subloan applications
of above Rs 20,000, the Fund would need to complete its procedures within
three weeks of receiving the application. The review procedures are designed
to ensure that about 30% by number and 86% by amount of subloans receive
preapproval review by the CSI Fund (Annex 1, Table 11). Appraisal standards
would be checked through this process; the CSI Fund would monitor the banks'
supervision standards through review of follow-up reports and field visits
to a sample of subprojects. Banks would submit quarterly reports to the Fund
for review, aggregation and submission to IDA and the CSI Coordinating Com-
mittee (para 4.48).
1/   If the volume of work justifies an increase in this number, expansion
of staff would take place during project implementation.
2/   In addition, two staff members of NRB's training institute have com-
pleted training with the State Bank of India, to enable NRB to pro-
vide continuous local training on CSI appraisal and supervision for
officers of the banks.



- 24 -
2.   Eligibility, Terms and Conditions
4.09      Eligibility for Refinance.  Three banks are expected to participate
in the CSI project: the two commercial banks, Nepal Bank Ltd. and Rastriya
Banijya Bank, and the Agricultural Development Bank. Other financial insti-
tutions also would be eligible if HMG, IDA and NRB agree that they have sound
overall credit operations and have complied with the conditions of participa-
tion in the project. To be eligible for refinance, each participating bank
would need to have complied with minimum staffing and training requirements
and have adopted standards and procedures acceptable to IDA (para 4.16).
Enterprises eligible for subloans under the project would be: manufacturing
and marketing concerns engaged directly in the production of cottage industry
products; and CSIs with fixed investment, after the subloan, of up to Rs
800,000 (US$60,600). Only CSIs with fixed costs per job not exceeding Rs
12,000 (US$900) after the subloan would be eligible for credit. Eligible
investment enterprises could be owned by private individuals, partnerships,
incorporated bodies, or cooperatives. The maximum subloan size would be Rs
800,000, 1/ including fixed investment and permanent working capital financ-
ing. Subloans would be to help finance foreign and local costs of fixed
assets and permanent working capital 2/ in either new or expansion subpro-
jects. The credit would not be allocated among the participating banks.
Exporter organizations engaged by the Trade Promotion Centre as "performance
contractors" in Gandaki Zone would be eligible, provided the credit institu-
tion's standards of viability are met. 3/ Refinance to projects of market
agents for production facilities located in Kathmandu Valley would be limited
to no more than 30% of the total refinance granted under the project.
4.10      In most cases, banks would provide no more than 80% of the subpro-
ject cost, leaving 20% to be financed by sponsors. Exceptions could be made
for existing artisans with established markets requiring subproject amounts
of under Rs 5,000 (US$380); for these, the banks could recommend waiving the
20% minimum and provide up to 100% of the total subproject amount. 4/ In all
cases, the CSI Fund would refinance a maximum of 80% of the bank's subloan
amount. Each bank would assume full repayment risks on refinance; amounts
due would be repayable to the Fund on a fixed schedule, corresponding to the
1/   Except in the case of the raw material supply companies and the Emporium
(paras 4.42 and 4.45).
2/   This would not include fluctuating or seasonal working capital, which
would be financed through separate loans by the commercial banks.
3/   "Performance contractors" (para 4.33) would be eligible for a second
loan; normally, these second loans would be made only after the per-
formance contractor had demonstrated regular repayment for one year
after the grace period had expired.
4/   For exporters serving as performance contractors, TPC would pay up to 20%
of subproject costs and the borrower would contribute at least 10% as
equity; commercial banks would provide the remainder provided that the
subloan portion does not exceed 80% of total subproject costs.



- 25 -
subloan amortization. IDA would reimburse the CSI Fund of NRB for 100%
of refinanced amounts for eligible subloans, on the basis of monthly or
quarterly requests.
4.11      Terms and Conditions.  The initial lending rate by the participat-
ing banks to eligible subborrowers would be 11%, consistent with minimum
commercial rates for term loans to industry in Nepal. The onlending rates
and spreads would be reviewed at least annually with adjustments made as
necessary to ensure that: (a) CSI term lending rates remain consistent with
rates for term loans to all industry; (b) these rates are positive in relation
to medium terms inflation projections; and (c) spreads are adequate to cover
the banks' administrative costs and to induce them to expand CSI lending. The
CSI lending rate established for the project would be applied to all CSI loans
made by the participating credit institutions, except in a few areas defined
as remote, for which the Industrial Enterprises Act specifies that rates of
2% less than the prevailing rate would be applied. The list of remote areas
would need to be satisfactory to IDA, to ensure that only mountainous areas
not served by substantial cottage industry development programs are included
as  remote areas.   Maturities on subloans refinanced under the project would
be from 18 months to 7 years, including grace periods ranging from 3 months to
2 years; banks would determine appropriate maturities and grace periods for
each subloan based on the subproject's debt service ability. To help ensure
credit access by smaller enterprises, the refinance rate would be adjusted
to provide banks with a spread of 6% for subloans of up to Rs 20,000 and 4%
for subloans of over Rs 20,000. Larger spreads for smaller subloans would
compensate the banks for the higher administrative costs as a percentage of
subloan size.
4.12      CSI Fund Resources.  The CSI Fund's resources would comprise the
US$4.5 million IDA credit component plus an initial contribution by NRB of
at least Rs 5 million (US$379,000). A small portion of the Rs 5 million
would be used to meet the Fund's initial operating costs; the majority would
provide a revolving fund to cover the time lag between the Fund's refinance
of the banks' subloans and its withdrawals from IDA. Rastra Bank would
provide Rs 5 million prior to credit effectiveness and, thereafter, make
available additional funds as needed to operate the CSI Fund. The Fund's
spread would be set at 2% p.a., which is appropriate in view of the antici-
pated costs and the initial contribution. It is expected that after three
years of operation, the Fund would begin accumulating operating cash sur-
pluses; initially, the low level of average outstandings would result in
operating cash losses, partially offset by income from NDB's investment
contribution (Annex 1, Table 10).
4.13      Institutional and Training Needs.  Prior to credit effectiveness,
the CSI Refinance Fund would need to have been established in a manner
acceptable to IDA, including: suitably qualified management and staff
(para 4.07); an approved statement of policies, operating procedures, and
accounting practices (para 4.08); and Rs 5 million provided by NRB as
initial capitalization of the CSI Refinance Fund. Outside training in CSI
lending operations, financed under the UNDP preproject facility, has been
completed for the review officers and bank liaison officer of the CSI Fund.
A suitable outside advisor, with experience in CSI lending and refinance



- 26 -
operations, would be recruited to assist the manager of the Fund. This
post, financed by UNDP under the project, would be for 24 man-months
(US$170,000).
3.   Credit Guarantee Scheme
4.14      To encourage the banks to relax their collateral requirements for
subloans refinanced by the Fund, NRB would establish a CSI credit guarantee
scheme. The NRB guarantee scheme, to be available to the participating
banks only for CSI subloans refinanced by NRB under the project, would be
administered by the staff of the CSI Fund. Coverage would be provided for
up to 75% of the subloan amount and a premium of 1% p.a. on the guaranteed
amount outstanding would be charged; this 1% premium would be added to NRB's
2% spread. During the initial three years, participation in the scheme
would be mandatory for all subloans refinanced under the project and would
be automatic once refinance is granted from NRB. The scheme would have
reasonably liberal claim procedures; the banks would be able to claim once
their auditors certify a debt as bad or irrecoverable. HMG would pay into
the scheme an initial amount of Rs 2 million and would pay in further
amounts on an annual basis to maintain the capitalization of the scheme at
no less than 10% of the guarantees outstanding. Suggested operating proce-
dures were outlined during appraisal and discussed during negotiations, with
agreement in substance reached (Annex 2). Prior to credit effectiveness,
the credit guarantee scheme would have to be established with policies and
procedures satisfactory to IDA, and the initial capital contribution paid.
4.15      At present, commercial bank loans to the priority sector are
covered by the Credit Guarantee Corporation Private Limited (CGC), in which
the Rastra Bank holds 50% of the shares and the two banks, 25% each. How-
ever, this company, which relies entirely on share capital and an inadequate
guarantee premium for resources, is seriously undercapitalized. Further-
more, the banks bear 50% of the guarantee schemes' credit risk on their own
loans. To ensure that subloans under the proposed project have adequate
guarantee coverage, a separate scheme would be established in NRB; once
the CGC is suitably strengthened and is in a position to undertake further
guarantee operations, the scheme could be transferred, if mutually agreed
by HMG, Rastra Bank, and IDA. During negotiations, agreement was reached
on minimum capitalization, equity structure, premium level and procedural
improvements which would need to take place prior to transferring to the CGC
the guarantee function for CSI subloans refinanced under the proposed project;
these conditions were outlined in a side letter.
4.   The Participating Banks
4.16      NRB would issue a set of operating instructions to each of the
three banks; these instructions would outline procedures and respective obli-
gations of the CSI Fund and the banks under the project. 1/ NRB's instructions
I/   These instructions would take the place of participation agreements
between the refinance institution and the banks. Management of Nepal
Rastra Bank is opposed to participation agreements since NRB's position
vis a vis the banks makes instructions binding. While not ideal, these
instructions would be adequate, provided that the contents were accept-
able to the banks and IDA.



- 27 -
would stipulate each bank's duty to: (a) assign and train an agreed mini-
mum number of qualified CSI staff for head office units and key branches;
(b) prepare appraisals of a satisfactory standard for each subloan; (c)
supervise subprojects to ensure proper utilization of funds and monitor
progress; (d) adhere to the terms of lending and repayment of refinance;
and (e) submit quarterly reports on activities, subproject portfolio and
arrears in a format prescribed by the CSI Fund, with all satisfactory to
IDA. The operating procedures also would emphasize means to address two
major lending problems faced by banks in Nepal: diversion of funds from
the stated purpose and difficulties in enforcing repayments by instalment.
Measures to control abuses, some of which are already in practice in Nepal,
include: direct payments to suppliers; disbursements in kind; a system
of coupons redeemable against approved raw material supplies; and partial
disbursements, closely controlled by frequent supervision visits. The
refinance terms would require repayments by instalment and banks would be
expected to exert all possible pressure on subborrowers to honor this
arrangement. The principal features of the operating instructions were
discussed with the management of the Rastra Bank and the banks during
appraisal (Annex 2); agreement was reached on the substance of the in-
structions during negotiations. Prior to credit effectiveness, NRB would
have issued instructions, satisfactory to IDA to at least two of the par-
ticipating banks, with these banks having complied with the agreed minimum
staffing and training requirements; the banks would need to confirm that
necessary actions had been taken and policies confirmed to implement NRB's
instructions.
4.17      The Commercial Banks.  The larger and more established of the
two commercial banks is Nepal Bank Ltd. (NBL), which is 51% owned by HMG
and 49% held by private Nepali citizens. It accounts for approximately 65%
of deposits and 61% of loans and advances of the commercial banking system;
Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB), which is wholly owned by HMG, consitutes the
balance. Both banks have extensive branch networks; NBL has a total of five
regional offices and 133 branches, while RBB has four regional offices and
98 branches. The majority of commercial bank loans are short term, 1/
usually without rollovers. Collateral is the basis for most lending deci-
sions. Project appraisal capabilities are limited due to the shortage of
suitably trained staff. Both banks are instructed to lend at least 7% of
their deposit liabilities to "priority sector clients. However, the total
advances to this sector constitute less than 6% of deposits. 2/ The proposed
project would assist the banks in developing project-based lending by ensur-
ing that trained CSI officers were assigned to headquarters and key branches
in the project area and by helping to establish sound appraisal, disburse-
ment, supervision and collection practices for CSI lending operations. Also,
since most CSI subloans would be made to units in identified concentrations
of activity in Gandaki Zone and Kathmandu Valley, logistical problems and
administrative costs of appraisal and supervision would be reduced.
1/   Usually from 3 months to 2 years; maturities rarely exceed 3 years.
2/   Including indirect financing by the purchase of bonds and loans to the
Agricultural Development Bank. Excluding this, advances to the sector
were 4.8% of deposits.



- 28 -
4.18      Nepal Bank Limited.  NBL has 24 offices in Gandaki and 22 in the
Kathmandu Valley. Total lending to the priority sector has totalled Rs 24.9
million, of which Rs 11.1 million (45%) was made to 596 clients in the cot-
tage industry and service 1/ subsector; 62% of this was to 339 clients in
the central development region, encompassing the proposed project area. The
outstanding balance of CSI loans as of June 15, 1979 was Rs 9.5 million or
0.7% of total outstandings. In addition, NBL had advanced Rs 30 million to
ADBN and held Rs 20 million of its debentures, bringing NBL's total direct
and indirect loans to the priority sector to 5.2% of all loans and invest-
ments and 3.9% of deposit liabilities, well short of the mandatory 7%. No
proper arrears data are available, but total amounts in arrears as a per-
centage of the portfolio are thought to be as much as 20% for CSI loans.
The bulk of priority sector loans are processed by the branches and approved
by regional offices. Disbursements are usually in instalments against proof
of purchase, to avoid diversion of funds; Nepal Bank attempts to supervise
borrowers during disbursement and throughout the period of the loan. How-
ever, proper supervision has been made difficult by lack of trained staff 2/
and logistical problems in rural areas.
4.19      To participate in the proposed project, NBL would establish a head
office CSI unit, reporting through the credit manager to the general manager
and staffed by a CSI unit chief and at least four officers. The head office
unit would appraise larger projects, supervise branch performance and review
subloan proposals. At the zonal level, each office would have two CSI offi-
cers. Twenty key branches have been identified in the project area; each
branch would have at least one trained officer assigned full time for CSI
work. Four CSI officers for the headquarters unit have received training
in India, financed under the UNDP preparatory project; local training prior
to project implementation, to be provided for about 30 CSI officers and
their immediate supervisors, has been arranged for November-December 1981
(para 4.25); trained officers would be assigned to CSI work for at least two
years. 3/ Approval of loans of up to Rs 10,000 would be made by the branch
manager; zonal managers would approve loans of up to Rs 20,000; and larger
loans would be approved at head office.  It is anticipated that roughly 950
subloans would be approved by NBL under the proposed project; this would
represent an average of one approval per month by each CSI officer over the
three year commitment period.
1/   Loans to services mainly involving transport, trade and repair enter-
prises, represent a small proportion of the total.
2/   Nepal Bank has 22 officers who have received formal training in small
agricultural and industry lending in India. However, several of these
officers are not directly involved in priority sector lending opera-
tions.
3/   Seven officers of NBL, to be assigned to CSI units at headquarters and
zonal offices, have undergone training with the State Bank of India
(SBI) during December-January 1980, with financing under the UNDP
project preparation facility. Local courses on CSI appraisal and
supervision will be conducted in November-December 1981, with parti-
cipation of SBI training staff (para 4.51).



- 29 -
4.20      Rastriya Banijya Bank.  Twenty-eight of RBB'S 98 branch offices
are in the proposed project area; 23 are in Bagmati and only 5 are in
Gandaki Zone. Priority sector lending by RBB over the 1974-79 period
totalled Rs 47.7 million, including Rs 24.1 million in 2,098 loans for
cottage industry; 816 of them have been in the central development region
covering the proposed project area. Outstandings at June 15, 1979 totalled
Rs 18.6 million for 1,700 cottage industry loans. In addition, RBB has
loaned Rs 10 million to ADBN, bringing the total direct and indirect lending
to the priority sector to 5.2% of loans and advances and 4.4% of deposit
liabilities, below the mandatory 7%. Arrears data are not available, but
are thought to be somewhat higher than Nepal Bank's figures. RBB has a
special section with five officers in its head office Loan and Investment
Department, reviewing applications for priority sector loans in excess of
Rs 20,000 (US$1,520). The department head has authority to approve loans
up to Rs 50,000; the deputy general manager, up to Rs 75,000; and the gen-
eral manager up to Rs 200,000.  Disbursements of loan proceeds rarely are
done on an instalment basis and RBB does not undertake regular supervision
of its clients unless the loans are overdue at full maturity.
4.21      RBB would establish a separate CSI unit under the direct supervi-
sion of the general manager and staffed by a unit manager and four officers.
At the zonal level, each office would have a unit manager responsible to the
zonal manager, and two officers. In 20 key branches, officers would be
appointed full time for CSI operations for a minimum of two years. Prior to
participation in the project, the CSI officers and their immediate supervisors
would undergo training (para 4.25). 1/ The present delegation of authority
would be amended to allow zonal managers to approve loans of up to Rs 20,000
and the general manager up to the maximum under the project. With this dele-
gation, it is anticipated that branch offices would process some 400 loans
and the head office about 100. The head office unit would coordinate GSI
operations and supervise CSI lending operations of zonal and branch offices.
4.22      Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal.  ADBN, the main institution
for agricultural credit, has 173 offices including 107 small depots, 61 branches
and sub-branches, four regional offices, and the head office in Kathmandu.
The proposed project area holds 35 offices, 13 in Gandaki and 22 in Bagmati.
Resources are provided by share capital and borrowings, including four lines
of credit from the Asian Development Bank (ADB). 2/ Domestic borrowings in-
clude refinance from the NRB, and direct borrowings from and debentures held
by the commercial banks. ADBN does not have the advantages of sizeable
deposit mobilization and, due to shortages of refinance funds at NRB, ADBN
is experiencing difficultues in raising sufficient local resources. Also,
lending to risky agricultural areas, high administrative costs and a decline
1/ RBB and ADBN each have sent seven officers for training in CSI appraisal
and supervision with SBI; local training for CSI branch officers, financed
by UNDP, will take place in February-March.
2/ ADB's fourth credit to ADBN includes some financing of agroindustries
using mini-hydroplants. About Tk 2.6 million (US$200,000) of this is
expected to be lent in Gandaki Zone, which has been taken into account in
the credit projections for the proposed IDA project (Annex 1, Table 6).



- 30 -
in spreads resulted small net losses by ADBN in FY79 and FY80. Neverthe-
less, ADBN's lending and operating standards and procedures are more ad-
vanced that those of the commercial banks. Loans are made largely on the
basis of project appraisals. In addition, ADBN has a policy of regular
and close supervision of projects, to the extent that field staff availa-
bility makes this possible. Disbursements are made by instalment after
inspections, and ADBN has pioneered the use of disbursements by coupon or
in kind to curtail diversion of funds. Given these skills and procedures,
and ADBN's capabilities in technical services to agroindustries, ADBN's
participation in the proposed project would be beneficial.
4.23      At June 15, 1979, ADBN's outstandings totalled Rs 410.6 million,
of which 17% was long term, 53% medium and 30% short term. Branch managers
have authority to approve loans up to Rs 10,000; regional offices have ap-
proval authority for up to Rs 200,000; the general manager has full autho-
rity for CSI loan approvals. To participate in the proposed project, ADBN
would create a separate CSI unit at head office with a manager and four
officers. Twenty key branches, expected to account for the bulk of CSI
lending, have been identified and at least 20 full-time CSI officers would
be assigned to them for a period of no less than three years. No change in
the present delegation of authority is proposed. Branches are expected to
appraise about 600 projects over the three year commitment period. The head
office is expected to review and appraise a further 200 projects.
4.24      To meet its domestic currency requirements for the 20% of sub-
loan amounts not covered by refinance, ADBN would require an estimated Rs
6 million over the project period with at least Rs 2 million transferred
by HMG prior to ADBN's participation in the project. In addition, funds
would be required to help ADBN finance the cost of any arrears as the pro-
ject does not provide for rescheduling of refinance obligations to the
Rastra Bank. During negotiations agreement was reached that HMG would make
the necessary funds available to ADBN, or suitable terms.
4.25      Training and Institutional Needs.  Six weeks of training in India
and the Philippines for 21 officers of NRB and the participating credit
institutions, financed under the UNDP preparatory facility, have been com-
pleted. Local training courses of three to four weeks for about 110 CSI
officers from the participating banks has been arranged with the State Bank
of India for November-December 1981. The completion of training for the
agreed level of CSI personnel would be a condition of each bank's participa-
tion under the Credit. In addition, shorter 1 to 2 week appreciation courses
for about 20 managers and supervisory personnel of the banks would be pro-
vided in December 1981 to ensure that branch managers are aware of the ob-
jectives and procedures of the project. The project also would provide for
local courses and about 12 foreign training slots for NRB and the partici-
pating banks each year (US$70,000). A major institutional benefit of the
subloan component would be to help the commercial banks introduce project
appraisal as the basis of credit decisions, which should have a direct in-
fluence on overall credit policies. Also, since the project would include
commercial as well as credit services for identified concentrations of arti-
sans under the project, the banks' coverage of CSIs can be expanded, while
reducing risks and administrative costs. Also, procedures for disbursement,
supervision and amortization by instalment would influence the banks' oper-
ations in other areas.



- 31 -
C. Commercial and Technical Service Components
1.   Export Development - Trade Promotion Centre
4.26      Development of cottage industry exports has to respond to specific
market opportunities.  Recognizing this need, HMG approved and provided
initial budgetary funding for the establishment of a Cottage Industry Export
Development (CIED) Division in the Trade Promotion Centre. This Division
would provide exporters with assistance in making market contacts, adapting
products, and developing the export-oriented supply base. Product groups
for immediate attention would be carpets, woolen jackets and knitwear, cotton
handloom garments and household articles, metal crafts, and wood and fiber
items.
4.27      Functions.  The CIED Division would assist exporters in expanding
production and sales in cottage industry lines by:
(a) providing exporters with practical consultancy in product
adaptation, technical improvements in production, and
organization of the decentralized production base;
(b) improving links between exporters and major importing coun-
tries by establishing IMPACT offices 1/ in New York and
Frankfurt;
(c) organizing and financing trade missions to importing coun-
tries and trips to neighboring countries which are leading
exporters of similar products; and
(d) engaging exporters as performance contractors to establish
service networks for selected clusters of artisans in rural
areas, concentrating in Gandaki Zone.
4.28      Organization and Staffing.  In Kathmandu, CIED would consist of:
a general manager; product managers for carpets, woolen and cotton garments,
metal crafts, and forestry products; and officers responsible for information,
monitoring, and accounts. One assistant would be provided in each section.
Four district officers would be assigned to Tanahu, Syangja, Kaski, and Gorkha
in Gandaki Zone to monitor the performance contracts (para 4.32). Attractive
salaries would be provided to product managers and district officers to at-
tract highly motivated staff who can learn quickly. TPC has transferred four
TPC officers to CIED-Kathmandu. The other nine officers, recruited from other
institutions involved in industry, would be hired or deputed for a minimum of
two years. TPC plans to hire these officers and send them for outside train-
ing during November 1981. Costs for establishment, staffing, vehicles and
overhead costs for CIED-Kathmandu during the three year implementation period
are estimated to be Rs 4.5 million (US$340,000).
4.29      Foreign Offices.  The extension of CIED-Kathmandu would be small
IMPACT offices of the TPC in New York and Frankfurt. These offices are of
critical importance in assuring that production activities in the project



- 32 -
respond to market realities. The major functions of these offices would
be to:
(a) establish and update information on products, prices, and
supply capabilities of Nepalese exporters and producers in
the priority cottage lines, using this information to pro-
mote CSI products among potential importers;
(b) provide TPC and Nepalese exporters with current information
on market possibilities and fashion trends, attending the
permanent and temporary trade fairs, tapping knowledge of
importers and getting information on competitors' products
and prices;
(c) prepare and follow up on Nepalese participation in trade
fairs and individual exporter's sales trips;
(d) organize consultancy on design, using information avail-
able on raw materials, existing designs, and production
capabilities;
(e) provide feedback from importers on designs, sizing, and
prices without necessitating their taking trips to Nepal;
and
(f) perform necessary trouble shooting, followup and liaison
on cottage export orders from Nepal, linked by telex to
TPC, helping build Nepal's reputation for reliability.
4.30      Each TPC IMPACT office would have one Nepalese staff member and
two from the importing country. Since skills required to design systems
and establish operations for the centres are different from the sales
capabilities for ongoing management, a firm would be hired to establish the
New York IMPACT Centre, at a cost of about US$50,000. The New York IMPACT
office would be established by July 31, 1982; operations of the Frankfurt
office would be launched by July 31, 1983, with systems adapted from the
New York office. UNDP would cover full costs of staff, travel, rent and
overhead expenditures. Estimated staff costs for the New York office would
be US$150,000 for the project period, plus US$40,000 for short term consul-
tancy. Rent, furniture, telex, and overhead expenditures would be roughly
US$86,000 for the three year period. For Frankfurt, staff costs for two
years of initial operations are estimated to be US$120,000 equivalent;
consultancy, US$40,000; and establishment and operating expenditures,
US$49,000.  A detailed action program and cost estimates for launching and
operating these offices have been prepared (Annex 2).
4.31      Consultancy.  Product specialist consultants would be attached to
each of the four product units of the CIED Division of TPC, Kathmandu, and
one general consultant would be hired to assist the CIED Director in overall
operations. These five consultants would be hired for one year each at a
total cost of US$420,000; TPC would have an option to extend the contracts.
The product specialists, with their Nepalese counterparts, would provide con-
crete assistance to exporters on improving designs, quality, and production



- 33 -
methods, and in organizing the decentralized supply base in Gandaki Zone and
Kathmandu Valley. Consultants would have strong knowledge and successful
experience in introducing production and quality improvements in the rele-
vant product lines. In addition, short term consultants in more specialized
design technology and export promotion operations would be financed
(US$190,000). Measures to promote exports, product adaptation and develop-
ment of supply capabilities probably would include financing of a firm
specialized in intensive preparation for and organization of single country
trade fairs, working closely with the New York IMPACT office. The project
would incorporate about US$150,000 to sponsor this integrated approach with
consultants assessing the most promising cottage lines and exporters, working
with them on product adaptation, and then arranging single country fairs.
This approach, which has proved effective in Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, would
be introduced in about month 9, once initial work has been done through
product specialists in Kathmandu and the IMPACT Centre in New York.
4.32      Performance Contracts.  Skills in sales, input supply and organ-
ization of cottage production are concentrated among the growing number of
medium scale exporters. The project would assist these agents and induce
them to extend commercial services beyond Kathmandu Valley by engaging the
most qualified as "performance contractors to develop selected cottage
industry clusters in rural Gandaki and Bagmati. Contracts would specify the
exporter organization's phased responsibilities for training, input supply,
orders, quality control, and processing facilities over a two to three year
period. Contracts would provide grant payments to cover specified initial
costs in establishing rural operations. Prospective performance contractors
would need to prepare their proposed programs for selected rural craft
clusters; these proposals would be evaluated by TPC. 1/ Pilot phases would
be built into most contracts. Performance contract payments could be
utilized for: staff to provide training to upgrade artisan skills and
introduce modified product lines; raw material expenditures during the
pilot production phase when skills are being developed to meet export
standards; and a portion of costs of establishing quality control agents
and depots in Gandaki Zone. Performance contract payments would constitute
no more than 20% of total subproject costs, or Rs 200,000 (US$15,200) 2/
whichever is lower. The remainder would be financed from sponsor's equity
and bank term credit; minimum equity contributions would be 10% of total
project costs. The performance contractors would require term credit from
the banks to cover the majority of their financing needs for processing and
storage facilities, centralized production in certain processes, and per-
manent working capital. Subloans for performance contracts and related CSIs
would be eligible for NRB refinancing under the proposed project (para
4.10); in most cases, the contractors would seek credit for the permanent
1/   About 15 exporters have visited Gandaki Zone and are preparing their
proposals. TPC has arranged trips to Gandaki to visit the rural
concentrations of woolen cotton and fiber producers; about 30 ex-
porters have expressed active interest in participating.
2/   These maximum amounts exclude sales and exposure trips to be financed
by TPC under the project.



- 34 -
working capital needs of the artisans in their networks while individual
CSIs would borrow directly from the banks for their equipment needs (Annex
1, Table 6). Since each performance contract would cover rural CSI con-
centrations, credit and commercial services would be facilitated.
4.33      Most contracts would be established in Syangja, Tanahu, Kaski and
Gorkha of Gandaki, since these districts hold sizeable craft concentrations
within reasonable access of trunk roads (Annex 1, Table 3 and Annex 3, Map
2). Up to five contracts would be available for rural areas of Kathmandu
Valley. About 25 contracts would be financed from the US$310,000 project
allocation, with each contract covering 1 to 3 panchayat clusters of 100
to 150 units each. 1/ Payments by TPC would be made on a quarterly basis
against completion of agreed tasks, checked by field-level TPC staff. Flex-
ibility would be maintained; contracts could be revised, upon mutual agree-
ment by the contractor, TPC, and IDA as experience is gained. A statement
of policies and procedures for the CIED Division, including norms for
operating the contracts, prepared during appraisal, has been ratified by
the Board of Directors of TPC (Annex 2).
4.34      Sales and Exposure Trips.  About US$225,000 would be provided for
25 to 35 sales trips for performance contractors and about 30 to 40 trips
for exporters and manufacturers to expose them to marketing and production
methods neighbouring countries with successful experience exporting similar
items. The CIED Division of TPC would be responsible for organizing these
trips.
4.35      Funding and Procedures.  The Trade Promotion Centre would estab-
lish a Cottage Industries Export and Product Development Fund to finance the
above activities. The Fund would be managed by the CIED Division under the
general direction of TPC's Executive Chairman and Board of Directors. Prior
to January 1, 1982, the Fund would need to be established with an agreed
statement of policies and operating procedures, an action program for the
second six months of FY 81/82, and adequate staff and long-term consultants
in place in the CIED Division. The New York IMPACT office would be estab-
lished by July 31, 1981 and operations of the Frankfurt office would be
launched by July 31, 1982. Annual action programs, prepared by CIED-
Kathmandu, would be sent to IDA by each May 31 for the second and third
fiscal years. IDA would need to approve selection, action programs and
contractual terms performance contracts. IDA and UNDP would disburse
against regular statements of actual expenditures, with documentation
provided on consultancy payments and expenditures for trips; 1MG would cover
half of the costs of staff and operating expenditures and provide TPC with
budgetary allocations to cover the project expenses, including the IDA and
UNDP financed amounts.
1/   Most contracts are expected to be in carpets, woolen fabrics, and
cotton handloom products (Annex 1, Table 3); however, a few contracts
in reed and bamboo products are expected in Gandaki, metal craft net-
works in rural Kathmandu Valley would be eligible and export-oriented
agroindustrial CSIs such as beekeeping could be covered by performance
contracts in years 2 and 3 of the project.



- 35 -
2.   Extension Services and Development Centres - CIDB
4.36      Strategy.  The Cottage Industry Development Board would be reac-
tivated, taking over responsibility for development activities from DCVI in
Kathmandu and in Gandaki Zone. 1/ The CIDB would be responsible for: (a)
technical extension services in Kathmandu Valley; (b) extension and manage-
ment of subsector development centres in areas of Gandaki zone which are too
remote to interest private performance contractors; and (c) operations of an
improved Handicraft Design and Promotion Centre. During appraisal, drafts
of the following key statements were prepared: policies and procedures for
the CIDB; an organizational chart and staffing requirements; and a year I
action program (Annex 2). These were discussed during negotiations with
agreement in substance reached. Adoption of a statement of policies and
operating procedures, financial rules, reorganization along subsector lines,
and hiring and training of minimum staff would need to be completed by
January 1, 1982. The CIDB would provide annual action programs to IDA, for
concurrence, by May 31 of each year.
4.37      Operations and Functions.  The CIDB would take over the training,
production, and industrial service sections of DCVI headquarters, organizing
into subsector divisions: cotton textile, woolen, metal, forestry-based
products, agroindustries and others. These divisions would design and
oversee subsector-specific extension programs and development centres, train
CIDB staff and leading village craftspeople as trainers, and provide direct
extension services and short-term training in Kathmandu Valley. In addition
to subsector divisions, the CIDB would have a monitoring, reporting, and
coordination division for regional projects and an accounting and adminis-
tration division. Local staff costs and related expenditures for headquar-
ters would cost Rs 2.8 million (US$210,000) over three years; about 50% of
this cost would be incremental since a portion of staff would be shifted
from DCVI. Specialist consultants would be connected with the four major
subsector cells for six months to help train the CI Board trainers and
launch extension services and development centre programs (US$190,000).
Costs for short-term training and consultancy for CI Board staff and ar-
tisans would total about US$290,000. A parallel but smaller subsector
organization in an office in Gandaki would be organized to provide backup
services to the cotton handloom, wool and forest products development
centres in Gandaki. The CIDB would launch and manage about six wool, six
handloom, and four forestry products development centres in Gandaki over
the three year commitment period to service household artisans in selected
clusters, mainly of Lamjung, Upper Kaski, Gorkha, and possibly Manang. 2/
Services of these subsector development centres would be similar to those
of private performance contractors, but the centres would cover more remote
1/   The Sixth Five Year Plan envisages that the CI Board would be charged
with responsibility for executing cottage industry components of this
lead project as well as small CSI components of integrated rural
development projects which receive outside financial assistance.
2/   These are areas too remote to be of immediate interest to private
performance contractors.



- 36 -
areas, have longer training periods, and concentrate on local markets.
Services would include upgrading skills, purchasing raw materials, offering
pre- and post-processing facilities, procuring finished products and supply-
ing them to the Emporium and private traders. Costs of equipment and work-
ing capital for these centres would total about Rs 4.8 million (US$360,000);
about 1,300 units would be serviced. The Handicraft Design and Promotion
Centre in Kathmandu would be revamped with qualified management and result-
oriented staff to provide prototype designs and samples to exporters and
CI Board centres, and to develop appropriate technologies for use in CI
Board centres and extension programs. Costs for these improvements would
total about Rs 2.5 million (US$190,000). A breakdown of costs for the CI
Board elements is provided in Annex 1, Table 8.
4.38      Organization.  To reactivate the CI Board, the original legisla-
tion would not need to be changed. The composition of the Board of Direc-
tors has been modified to include representatives of the Ministries of
Industries and Finance, TPC, ISC, the Rastra Bank and at least two private
sector representatives engaged in manufacturing and marketing of cottage
industry products. The Director General of DCVI would be the chief execu-
tive during the transitional period, assisted by a Chief Coordinator of
CIDB; subsequent selection of a full time executive is planned.
4.39      Staffing.  Only the most qualified and motivated of DCVI's staff
would be transferred to the CIDB. Except in cases of extremely qualified
technical persons, DCVI staff of over 45 years of age would not be trans-
ferred to the CIDB, since the work would be heavily field-oriented. Total
staffing costs for the project would be about Rs 5.4 million (US$410,000),
including Kathmandu, Gandaki, Design Centre and subsector development centre
staff.  Staff would be hired to the Board, deputed from othiei organizations
for at least two years, or hired on a fixed contract basis. The financial
rules for the Board would need to grant the Cottage Industry Board autonomy
in personnel hiring and payment of performance incentives, within agreed
limits. The Cottage Industry Board would provide sufficient salaries and
incentives to attract and retain qualified, motivated staff for cottage
industry work particularly in rural areas. 1/ These aspects are covered in
the draft statement of policies and operating procedures, upon which agree-
ment in substance was reached during negotiations; such a statement would
need to be ratified by the CIDB by January 1, 1982.
3.   Raw Material Arrangements - Companies and Emporium
4.40      Sporadic availability and resultant price volatility of wool,
cotton yarn and metal represent significant problems in the priority cottage
subsectors identified under this project. Services by the National Trading
Ltd. (NTL) and the Emporium have not been satisfactory (paras 3.07, 3.19).
Import duty and sales tax rebates are granted only to cottage manufacturers,
1/  The statutes of the CIDB enable it to pay performance bonuses; these
would be paid based upon staff within the subsector cells, the Design
Centre, and subsector development centres exceeding established perform-
ance targets.



- 37 -
4.41      Private exporters and manufacturers intend to establish two pri-
vate limited companies to import wool and metal in bulk, to assure stable
prices, availability and adequacy of types of raw materials. Under the
Industrial Enterprises Act, the same reduced import duties and sales tax
rebates which apply to CI producers would be applied to such companies
importing on behalf of member producers and exporters (para 2.16). In the
case of wool, it also would be useful if the company could be authorized by
HMG to negotiate with China, although bulk purchasing from New Zealand and
Australia also is viable (para 3.07). Membership would consist mainly of
exporters and manufacturers in wool or metal products respectively; minority
shares of not more than 10% could be held by the Emporium. Importers, who
could not hold more than 20% collectively, could provide procurement knowhow
and contacts; the Emporium could help monitor procurement and sales to see
that raw materials were sold at reasonable prices. The Handicraft Associa-
tion would assure legitimacy of members in the metal company; a similar
association is being organized for woolen products. Each company would have
a board of directors consisting of a general manager, and representatives of
exporters and manufacturers holding shares, and, if requested, the Emporium.
4.42      The companies would start on a limited scale.  If initial opera-
tions are successful, the scope would be expanded. Estimated financing
requirements of the two companies, including term credit portions eligible
for IDA financing, are as follows: for the metal importing company, raw
material stocks for six months (Rs 2 million) 1/ and office, storage and
staffing expenses for one year (Rs 500,000) 2/; and for the wool importing
company, raw material stocks for six months (Rs 2.5 million), and overheads
by Rs 400,000. Additional funds could be made available, once successful
operations are demonstrated.
4.43      At least twenty percent of financing requirements would come from
equity of the shareholders. The remaining 80% would be provided by the
commercial banks. Top executives of Nepal Bank Ltd. have indicated that
NBL would be willing to be the banker for these companies. Maximum total
lending limits would be enforced during year 1 of operation to ensure the
companies are established on a strong footing before attempting to supply
the majority of input requirements of the industry. Medium term credit
requirements would be covered under the project, with partial refinance of
bank loans by the CSI Unit of Rastra Bank (para 4.10). Short term credit
needs would be supplied through normal loans, probably from NBL. As a
condition of disbursement, the respective company would have to be legally
established, with articles of association, membership composition, paid in
capital, a financing plan and a year I action program satisfactory to IDA.
Regular reports on operations would be submitted to IDA, on a quarterly
basis.
1/   Calculated on the basis of 30% of annual metal requirements for metal
working industry in Kathmandu Valley.
2/   Under the assumption that overheads for subsequent years will be
financed out of company profits.



- 38 -
4.44      Cotton Yarn, Equipment and Cloth--Emporium.  Under the project,
the Emporium would concentrate on improving its procurement and distribution
of cotton yarn and critical equipment needed by cottage industries in the
project area. The Emporium also would provide an outlet for CSI handloom
products from the CI Board development centres by taking public institu-
tional orders and subcontracting these to CI Board centres. During the
three year implementation period, the Emporium would make available its
services in bulk procurement and distribution of cotton yarn and handloom
accessories to: about six performance contractors for clusters in Gandaki
and about three in rural Kathmandu Valley; and about six handloom develop-
ment centers of the Board in Gandaki. Each of these agents would be ex-
pected to service 50 to 150 looms, with each loom requiring the Emporium
to hold an equivalent of Rs 2,500 of yarn, representing three months in
input requirements. By year 3, it is expected that the Emporium would need
about Rs 5.0 million to meet these needs of the project. The Emporium would
stock yarn and equipment and collect textiles for the project in Kathmandu
and Pokhara; performance contractors and the CI Board would be responsible
for other transport and storage.
4.45      During year 1, about Rs 2.2 million (US$167,000), or three months
worth for about 400 to 500 units, would be needed. Under the project, the
Emporium would be eligible for medium term bank credit to meet these needs,
under the same terms and refinancing arrangements as for other eligible
subprojects. The project could cover the 20% equity requirement of the
Emporium which would be made as a seed capital grant to help enable Nepalese
handloom producers to upgrade quality and improve price. 1/ The 20% equity
is expected to equal about Rs 1.2 million by year 3, assuming a gradual
buildup of stocks to Rs 5 million.  HMG would make these seed capital funds
available; the equivalent in cotton yarn or handloom accessories procured by
the Emporium would be eligible for IDA disbursements. This assistance to
the Emporium on commercial operations for the handloom sector is considered
necessary because of fragmentation of private commercial agents and the need
to upgrade quality before major expansion scope can be tapped. If HMG and
IDA agree that the Emporium has performed well in these cotton-related acti-
vities and that diversification would be useful, during the initial period
loans for expansion in other lines could be made eligible for project, the
Emporium.
4.46      The cotton yarn operations under the project would represent a
sizeable expansion in the Emporium's importing and sales activities. 2/ The
1/   The Rs 1.2 million equity is roughly equivalent to paying the interest
rate charges if the Emporium were to borrow for their total financing
requirements. This seed capital is judged necessary to provide a
development period for improving price and quality of handloom products;
during this period normal interest charges on yarn and accessory pur-
chases would not be passed on to handloom weavers.
2/   From 1976/77 to 1978/79, the Emporium's annual turnover in yarn ranged
from Rs 1.5 million to Rs 6.2 million; assuming three months worth were
stocked, average stocks ranged from Rs 300,000 to Rs 1.5 million.
Assuming that sales to project agents would be incremental, the Emporium
would be expected to double its yarn stocks by the end of year 1 of the
project.



- 39 -
project would provide a procurement advisor for six months, with the option
by the Emporium to extend the contract for six additional months if re-
quired. The advisor would assist the Emporium in improving its procurement
procedures, with particular attention to bulk procurement, more systematic
information gathering on producers' requirements, and inventory management
methods. In addition to this advisor's assistance, the International Trade
Centre intends to provide the Emporium with regular information on price
trends and alternative sources of cotton yarn.
4.47      The Emporium would maintain its procurement procedures, obtaining
at least three quotations from different suppliers for each order of cotton
yarn. The Emporium would maintain separate accounts for this yarn fund,
including amounts utilized by each project agent.  Prior to disbursements
for this component, the Emporium would: ratify a statement of policies and
procedures for this fund; establish separate accounts; and have hired the
advisor. The Emporium would provide IDA, by May 31 of each year, annual
action programs for the subsequent fiscal year.
4.   Coordination, Monitoring and Preparation for Expansion
4.48      Coordination.  The implementing agencies would be responsible
for carrying out their specific activities and responsibilities within the
broad framework of objectives, guidelines and procedures which would be
agreed between HMG and IDA in the credit, subsidiary loan, and project
agreements, and in the implementation plans. In view of the complementary
nature of the activities of the various agencies, mechanisms would be
established to help ensure adequate coordination at headquarters and dis-
trict levels. At the district level, the TPC and CIDB would be operating
in different areas of Gandaki; therefore, meetings between the banks and
one technical assistance agency would be needed. Local government offi-
cials would be consulted as required. At headquarters, a CSI Coordinating
Committee would be established to review progress of the project, facili-
tate coordination among the implementing agencies, and ensure that remedial
measures are taken if necessary. The Coordinating Committee would be
chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Industry; key members would include
representatives of the National Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Commerce and Supplies, Rastra Bank, Cottage Industry Board,
Trade Promotion Centre, Emporium, the Industrial Services Centre and rep-
resentative private sector delegates from cottage industries and exporter
organizations. 1/ Monthly meetings would be held during the initial year
of operations, after which the coordinating committee would meet at least
quarterly. The Joint Secretary of the Ministry of Industry would be a key
contact point and decision maker, to help resolve problems without having
to elevate them to the CSI Coordinating Committee; one senior officer would
be assigned full-time to provide day-to-day coordination. ISC, as the
technical arm of the Committee, would do informal liaison.
4.49      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Each implementing agency would install
its own monitoring and reporting system, summarizing findings in the quarterly
1/  A Steering Committee for the CI Development Study, with similar com-
position, has been meeting regularly for the last year.



- 40 -
reports. The Industrial Services Centre would collect and collate these
reports as well as do independent monitoring of inputs, impact, and integra-
tion of the various components. The ISC monitoring staff, working closely
with the agencies to maintain a good understanding or operations of each
component, would submit the quarterly report to the members of the CSI commit-
tee.  In addition to this regular monitoring and reporting, a formal review
would be conducted by HMG and IDA after eighteen months of credit effective-
ness; this would enable formal modifications to be made, if necessary, and
would facilitate preparation of other projects. Four man-months of consul-
tancy services, completed in February 1981, were provided to assist ISC in
developing the overall monitoring and evaluation system for the project,
and to work with each implementing agency on its own reporting system (para
4.51). The CSI project would cover four man-months of consultancy on moni-
toring over the project implementation period (US$30,000).
4.50      Preparation for Next Projects.  It is envisaged that HMG, IDA and
other donors would be prepared to make sizeable financing available to CSIs
once the implementing agencies are strengthened and the most successful
types of assistance are determined through experience under the first pro-
ject. ISC would do surveys of 20 to 30 districts which are either repre-
sentative or which have particularly strong potential for CSI development;
most districts would be from hilly areas where cottage industries are con-
centrated. On the basis of district surveys, discussions with the imple-
menting agencies and consultants, and evaluation of the first project, ISC
will make proposals for strategies and components for area and product
schemes. The project would finance six full time ISC staff to work on moni-
toring and project preparation tasks; in addition, funds would be allocated
for survey staff and expenditures (US$90,000 equivalent). Outside consul-
tancy to ISC in project preparation is not envisaged; ISC is experienced in
preparation of cottage industry projects and can tap knowhow of specialists
assigned to the implementing agencies.
5.   UNDP Financing for Training and Technical Assistance
4.51      UNDP project preparation financing of about US$224,000 has been
provided. The Bank is the executing agency; NRB and the Ministry of In-
dustry are the implementing agencies. Most elements of this preparatory
assistance are expected to be completed by January 1981. Main components
have included:
(a)  foreign and local training in CSI lending for staff, the
banking institutions: NRB, NBL, RBB and ADBN;
(b)  outside training and exposure trips for management and spe-
cialists of the Cottage Industry Board, Trade Promotion
Centre, Emporium, and private exporters; and
(c)  consultancy services to help finalize the Industrial Enter-
prise Act including foreign investment aspects (para 4.53);
develop the monitoring and evaluation system for the project
(para 4.49); and help prepare TPC and exporters to implement
activities to be financed from the Cottage Industry Export
and Product Development Fund. 1/
1/   Consultances in monitoring and evaluation and on the Industrial Enter-
prises Act have been completed. Orientation and training in Nepal are
scheduled to begin in January 1982.



- 41 -
4.52      In addition to this project preparation facility, about US$2.0
million in UNDP grant funds would be provided for technical assistance,
training and marketing inputs under the proposed project. These components
are of critical importance in building capabilities of private and public
institutions. The elements and costs are outlined in Annex 1, Table 8 re-
flect understandings reached with representatives of the relevant ministries,
Planning Commission, Nepal Rastra Bank, other implementing agencies 1/, and
the UNDP. These training, consultancy, and marketing inputs would be part
of the proposed Cottage and Small Industries Project; NRB, the Ministry of
Industry and the Ministry of Commerce and Supplies would be the implementing
agencies; and the Bank would be the executing agency. As the executing
agency, the Bank would make the final selection and contractual arrangements
for consultants financed by UNDP under the project. About US$110,000 million
would be needed in CY 1981, US$1.06 million in 1982, and about US$680,000 in
1983 (Annex 1, Table 12). During negotiations, HMG presented a copy of
HMG's request that UNDP make this funding available for the proposed Cottage
Industry Project. Prior to credit effectiveness, the UNDP Project document
would need to have been signed.
D. Policies Affecting Cottage Industries
4.53      The new Industrial Enterprises Act, passed by the Panchayat in
August 1981 and awaiting Royal assent and issuance, contains several measures
which improve incentives for CSIs and related commercial agents. However,
further improvements in industrial policies and procedures, outlined in
paras 2.12-2.18, would increase profitability and incentives in CSI devel-
opment. The new Industrial Policy and the Industrial Enterprises Act were
discussed during negotiations.  The IDA delegation expressed the need for
further improvements, through rules and other measures, in the following
areas: (a) simplified fiscal incentives for CSIs; (b) provisions for foreign
collaboration; (c) extension of import concessions to input supply companies
which are composed of private exporters and CSIs in the relevant product
group; (d) streamlining of export procedures; and (e) planned steps for
improving transport arrangements and export financing (paras 2.12-2.19).
If necessary, a portion of the contingency fund of the segments of the
project financed by UNDP or IDA could be utilized for short-term advisors
to address key policy and procedural needs of the sector. The project
contains provisions for a continued dialogue between HMG and IDA on policies
affecting CSIs.
1/   Consultancy to be financed by UNDP under the proposed CSI project is
outlined in the relevant sections of this report: paras 4.07, 4.30,
4.31, 4.37, 4.46, 4.47, 4.49 and 4.52.



- 42 -
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
5.01      Lending Arrangements.  The proposed IDA credit of SDR 5.7 million
(US$6.5 million equivalent), consisting of a US$4.5 million equivalent
subloan component and a US$2.0 million technical and commercial service
component, would be made available to HMG on standard IDA terms and condi-
tions. In addition, a US$2.0 million UNDP grant for training, consultancy
and marketing inputs would be executed by the Bank, implemented by the
Ministry of Industry and NRB. The credit is expected to be committed in
about three years and disbursed in about 3.5 years from the date of credit
effectiveness. Annex 1, Table 9 provides a breakdown of the portion to be
financed by UNDP. For the subloan component, HMG would onlend the proceeds
to NRB for the account of CSI Fund to cover disbursements to refinance
eligible SCI subloans made by the three participating banks. The proceeds
would be onlent tq NRB in rupees with HMG bearing the foreign exchange risk
on repayments to IDA. Repayment by NRB to HMG would be on a fixed amorti-
zation schedule. During negotiations, it was agreed that the CSI Fund of
NRB would repay HMG after fourteen years, to enable funds to be revolved
at least twice. During the fourteen years, the funds would be relent by
the CSI Fund to the participating banks for refinance of CSI loans. These
arrangements are specified in the draft Project Agreement, and will be
incorporated a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between HMG and NRB. The commer-
cial and technical service component, including the portion financed by
UNDP and executed by IDA, would cover specific items of training, consul-
tancy, equipment and staffing expenses for the participating agencies. The
CSI Fund would be responsible for the portion of the technical service
component allocated to NRB and the participating banks. The other service
elements would be under the respective implementing agencies; each would
have separate action plans, withdrawal, and reporting requirements. HMGN
would need to provide full budget allocations for the technical and mar-
keting service components regardless of whether the project element is
to be financed by HMGN, IDA or UNDP. The proceeds of the technical and
commercial components would not be recovered directly; these components
are of critical importance in building institutional capabilities as well
as addressing key marketing, input supply and technical upgrading needs.
5.02      Onlending Terms.  The participating banks would charge CSI sub-
borrowers a standard annual interest rate of not less than 11% with rates
reviewed at least annually and revised to assure positive, commercial
interest rates and consistency with rates for term loans to industry in
Nepal. The banks would maintain spreads of at least 4% for subloans
above Rs 20,000 and 6% for subloans of up to Rs 20,000. The CSI Fund
would receive a minimum spread of 2% to cover administrative costs, and
1% as a premium for the credit guarantee scheme. The CSI Fund of NRB
would pay HMG an interest charge of 4-6% p.a. on the refinance amounts
outstanding in its account. Agreement on minimum interest rates, spreads
and review and adjustment procedures was reached during negotiations (para
4.11).



- 43 -
PROPOSED ANNUAL LENDING RATES AND SPREADS
Size of Banks' Subloan
Up to Rs 20,000 Above Rs 20,000
(%)                (%)
(a) Initial final onlending rate             11                 11
(b) Minimum spread to participating bank    5                    4
(c) Minimum spread to CSI Fund, NRB           2                  2
(d) Credit guarantee premium, NRB 1/          1                  1
(e) Minimum onlending rates to NRB by HMG   2                    4
No commitment fee would be charged on the subloan component due to the mul-
tiple institutions involved and the snmall scale nature of the subborrowers.
5.03      Initial Contribution to the CSI Fund.  Prior to credit effective-
ness, NRB would pay into the CSI Fund the initial contribution of at least
Rs 5.0 million. This contribution would be used to cover initial operating
costs as well as the time lag between NRB's refinancing and reimbursement
from IDA (para 4.12). NRB would make additional contributions to the CSI
Fund as needed. Surpluses generated by the Fund and any benefit derived
from a longer repayment term to HMG than that granted to the banks would be
ploughed back into the Fund and used to increase the amount available for
refinancing eligible CSI prospects.
5.04      Subloan Size and IDA Review.  The maximum subloan size would be
Rs 800,000 (US$60,600), except for the raw material supply companies and the
Emporium. Refinance by the CSI Fund would cover 80% of the subloan amounts.
The average size of subloans is expected to be about Rs 31,700 (US$240)
resulting in a total of about 2,000 subprojects; including organized SSIs,
market agents, and raw material supply companies, the project would involve
about 2,200 subloans averaging Rs 311,000 (S$23,560). In view of the large
number and small sizes of subloans, simplified review and approval procedures
would be used to keep administrative costs and processing times within reason-
able bounds. In refinancing subloans of below Rs 20,000, the CSI Fund would
do a rapid check on the eligibility of the subproject, its financial viability
and the adequacy of proposed subloan terms. Periodically, the CSI Fund would
undertake a detailed post-approval review of a 20% sample of appraisal reports
submitted to check that appropriate appraisal standards are being maintained. 2/
For subloans of over Rs 20,000, a detailed review by the CSI Fund would be
required prior to NRB's approval of refinance and reimbursement applications
to IDA. To ensure expeditious review of these subloans, the Fund would com-
plete its procedures within three weeks of receiving completed applications
from the banks. In claiming reimbursement from IDA, the Fund would certify
1/   Credit guarantee premiums would be 1% on amount guaranteed which is
outstanding, not on the full subloan amount.
2/   In the initial period, the CSI Fund staff would pay closer attention to
these smaller projects at the time of approval to provide the participat-
ing banks with immediate feedback on appraisal standards. Once these
standards have been firmly established, full implementation of post
approval sampling can take place.



- 44 -
that subprojects meet eligibility criteria, are financially viable, and that
subloan terms are appropriate. IDA's prior review and approval would be
required for refinance applications for all performance contracts, market
agents, raw material supply companies and CSIs requiring subloans in excess
of Rs 330,000 (US$25,000). This procedure is expected to result in detailed
pre-approval review by the CSI Fund of some 370 subprojects, 20% by number
and 84% by amount.  IDA would review, prior to authorization, about 90 sub-
projects, 5% by number and 60% by amount of all subprojects (Annex 1, Table
11).  IDA supervision missions would review appraisal standards on smaller
subprojects.
5.05      Procurement.  Participating banks would be responsible for ensur-
ing that items procured for subprojects are suitable, reasonably priced and
that sponsors have canvassed the main sources of supply; the CSI Fund would
monitor these procurement procedures.  Contracts for goods or services
procured outside Nepal costing the equivalent of US$5,000 or more per item,
or US$20,000 or more per contract, would be on the basis of international
shopping with at least three quotations. Since it would be difficult and
costly to seek quotations for smaller contracts, these provisions would not
apply, but participating banks would maintain appropriate records of the
method of procurement for post-review by the CSI Fund staff and IDA super-
vision missions. Procurement of goods and services under the technical and
commercial service component would be made according to procedures of the
CIDB, TPC and other implementing agencies (Annex 2). Procurement of vehi-
cles and equipment would be fully dbcumented.
5.06      Disbursement.  Estimated schedules of disbursements for the IDA-
and UNDP-financed portions of the project are presented in Annex 1. Table 12.
All subloan disbursements for eligible foreign or local expenditures would
qualify for 80% refinancing by the CSI Fund. IDA would reimburse 100% of the
refinance granted by the CSI Fund, resulting in IDA funds covering about
64% of total subproject costs. 1/ The average foreign exchange content of
subprojects is estimated to be about 30%. Given the large number of subproj-
ects involve6 and :he small subloan sizes, normal DFC procedure of disbursing
against expenditures on individual subproject accounts would be inappropriate.
Accordingly, for refinance of subloans of Rs 330,000 (US$25,000) or less, the
CSI Fund would claim reimbursement from IDA on the basis of periodic certified
statements of expenditure. For these subprojects, documentation would not be
submitted to IDA for review but suitable documentation, 2/ evidencing expendi-
ture would be provided by the bank and retained by the CSI Fund. The state-
1/   The ratio would be somewhat higher depending on the number of subproj-
ects where the sponso-'s contribution is waived in whole or in part
(para 4.iO). As this is likely to be confined largely to smaller loans
the aggregate of subp-oject costs covered by IDA financing is likely to
be only marginally nigher than o4%.
2/   Excluding expenditure on permanent working capital.



- 45 -
ments of expenditure and the supporting documentation 1/ would be audited
annually and an audit certificate would be presented to IDA. For refinancing
of subloans of over Rs 330,000, full documentation of expenditures would be
submitted to IDA. For elements of the technical and commercial service
component implemented in Nepal, IDA would disburse against 100% of foreign
expenditures for equipment, vehicles and raw materials, imported directly
and for locally manufactured equipment and raw materials purchased ex-fac-
tory; 80% of expenditures for other equipment procured locally; 50% of
staffing and related expenditures according to agreed action programs; and
100% for performance contract fees. For those elements of the technical and
commercial service component, withdrawal applications would be submitted
directly to IDA by the implementing agency, accompanied by certificates of
expenditures on staffing, and documentation of other expenditures; the
documents for which would be retained by each agency and made available to
IDA supervision missions for inspection. In the case of the IMPACT centres
in New York and Frankfurt, IDA would disburse 100% of equipment, consulting,
staffing costs, and other operating expenditures; HMG would establish con-
tractual arrangements for establishment and operation of the IMPACT centres.
5.07      Repayment Schedules.  The maturity for subloans refinanced by
the CSI Fund would be 18 months to 7 years, including an appropriate grace
period. Repayments of refinance by the participating banks would be on
the basis of a composite schedule reflecting the consolidated amortization
schedules of individual subloans, fixed at the time refinance is granted and
not subject to rescheduling. As the commitment period would be about three
years, repayments by the banks would stretch over about 10 years. A fixed
amortization schedule of 14 years for repayment of the US$4.5 million sub-
loan component from the CSI Fund would be arranged to enable revolving of
the funds and to increase the effective amount available for CSI refinance.
Agreement on these terms was reached during negotiations.
5.08      Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  The CSI Fund would submit
quarterly reports to IDA and to the CSI Coordinating Committee, through ISC;
the main report would aggregate the individual quarterly reports of parti-
cipating banks, covering activities, portfolio data, collection and arrears
performance, and supervision results. In addition, the CSI Fund would
submit a quarterly statement of its own refinance activity and details of
disbursements. In addition, the CSI Fund would prepare annual reports on
performance of the participating banks; these reports would present an
analysis of the bankst quarterly reports including a projection of commit-
ments, refinance, and withdrawals from IDA. The CSI Fund also would present
its assessment of the standards of the banks and propose improvements. The
report also would include the audited annual report of the Fund, prepared in
a form acceptable to IDA, and the audited annual reports of the banks. The
annual reports should be submitted within six months from the end of the
fiscal year. An independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, would audit all
project accounts. The auditor also would be responsible for providing
audits covering certificates of expenditure (para 5.05). Each bank would
maintain separate accounts for subloans and documentation on disbursements
1/   Documentation would include:  names and locations of subborrowers; the
total of each subloan; disbursements during the period for each sub-
loan; and the branch of the lending institution handling the loan.



- 46 -
and procurement procedures. Each technical service agency would be ex-
pected to prepare annual implementation programs and quarterly progress
reports, which would be submitted to the CSI Coordinating Committee and to
IDA. Separate accounts would be maintained by the implementing agencies for
the technical and commercial service elements; these project accounts would
be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01      Benefits.  The proposed project is geared to provide the effective
credit, commercial, and technical services needed to tap growth potential
in CSI products, particularly for exports. The project is expected to
generate significant direct benefits in earnings and exports in the three
districts of Kathmandu Valley and the six Districts of Gandaki Zone. Also,
major general benefits are expected in the strengthening of private, banking
and public institutions, development of replicable product specific schemes,
and improvement of industrial policies and procedures.
6.02      Under the subloan component, about 2,600 loans would be made by
the three participating banks; the majority of these would be for cottage
units, with about 50 to performance contractors and other market agents,
100 to organized small industries, and 3 to 5 subloans to the input supply
companies and the Emporium. The average subloan size for cottage units
would be Rs 15,000 (US$1,200); average fixed costs per job would be about
Rs 3,200 (US$240), or Rs 1,900 (US$145) if agroindustrial units are excluded.
About 15,000 workers in CSIs would be recipients of credit, directly and
through performance contractors.
6.03      Since the project would cater mainly to cottage industries, com-
mercial and technical services are at least as important as credit. The
effective operations of the Cottage industry Export Development Division of
the TPC and the IMPACT centres in New York and Frankfurt will be of partic-
ular importance in providing needed market contacts, product adaptation
inputs, and direct incentives to exporters in expanding their rural base.
With the project inputs, it should be possible to maintain the 35% annual
growth rate in exports of CI products; without the project, market, raw
material and credit constraints are likely to slow export growth to roughly
20%. The project, thus, could generate incremental gross foreign exchange
earnings of roughly $27 million (US$15 million net) from 1981-1984; most of
this growth is expected in carpets (44%) metal products (37%), and cotton
and woolen garments (15%). This export growth would be equivalent to roughly
10 million additional mandays of employment over the four year period. In
addition to increasing mandays worked, a portion of the increased value added
of products could be passed on to artisans in the form of increased daily
rates; however, these potential benefits have not been included in the cal-
culation. Most of the employment created would be in the form of additional
days worked by existing artisans rather than new jobs created; this 10 mil-
lion mandays is equivalent to 50,000 manyears of incremental employment
over the 1982-1985 period.  Performance contract networks could provide
regular employment to about 10,000 rural crafts people by 1985. About
30% of the export earnings and employment is expected to come from Gandaki;
without the project, the share of rural areas in export production would be
likely to remain minimal (Annex 1, Tables 4 and 5).



- 47 -
6.04      While expanded production to meet local demand is constrained
by local purchasing power, the project is expected to generate roughly US$8
million in additional output value for local sales, mainly in handloom
products (67%) and agroprocessing (20%). The equivalent of about 14,000
manyears of employment would be generated as a result (Annex 1, Table 4).
6.05      The project would not cause the creation of any new public in-
stitutions; rather, public services to CSIs by existing agencies would be
strengthened substantially and private organizations would be used where
possible. The organization, staffing and training of the CSI units of
Rastra Bank and the three credit institutions should provide a core of
capable staff in CSI project-based lending operations. The tiering of
spreads and provision of an effective guarantee scheme are geared to en-
courage the banks to make term loans to small borrowers on the basis of
project evaluation rather than collateral.
6.06      Risks.  Several project elements represent new or expanded acti-
vities for the implementing agencies. Therefore, the project preparation
period has been long and intensive; training and consultancy before and
during implementation have been incorporated in most components; and project
elements have been pruned to what are judged to be within the capabilities
of the respective implementing agencies. Still, it can be expected that
some agencies would be more effective than others; risks that one agency's
poor performance would adversely affect overall success have been reduced
by designing the project as a set of relatively discrete components and by
incorporating a formal joint review after eighteen months of project imple-
mentation; at that time, revisions could be made, shifting finance to more
successful elements and making modifications to improve performance.
6.07      The project's success is most sensitive on the marketing function;
if orders are not acquired and executed effectively, expanded production
will merely strap exporters and producers with debt. For this reason, the
project involves an integrated set of marketing components including three
export-import offices, product specialists, and sales trips. There are
risks of abuse or failure on the private performance contracts; however,
amounts involved are small relative to potential benefits and risks would
be reduced by disbursing in instalments against completion of tasks and by
providing the exporters with needed back-up services in product adaptation
and sales promotion. Sizeable risks are implied in any project which
attempts to make a substantial impact on exports and rural earnings in
Nepal. The project incorporates a detailed monitoring and evaluation system
as well as formal and informal coordination mechanisms. The project would
require frequent supervision by IBRD/IDA staff.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Prior to negotiations, HMG provided IDA with a copy of HMG's
letter to UNDP confirming the intention to seek UNDP funds for training,
consultancy and market inputs of the proposed project with IDA as the
executing agency (para 4.52).
7.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached between IDA and HMG on:



- 48 -
(a) HMG's estimated annual budgetary allocations for commercial
and technical service components and for ADBN (para 4.05,
Annex 1, Table 8);
(b) onlending terms, conditions, margins, eligibility criteria,
refinance arrangements, guarantee provisions and responsi-
bilities of the banks under the subloan component, including
those outlined in a Project Agreement with NRB (paras 4.08-
4.16);
(c) establishment of a Cottage Industry Export Development Fund
and Division in the Trade Promotion Centre, with a statement
of policies and procedures, staffing and long-term consul-
tants in place, and a year 1 action plan, all satisfactory
to IDA, by January 1, 1982 and establishment of IMPACT centres,
under TPC, with operations beginning in New York by July 31,
1981 and in Frankfurt by July 31, 1982, unless otherwise
agreed by IDA (paras 4.26-4.35);
(d) for each private limited company, legal establishment with
statutes, share composition, initial equity contributions,
maximum loan amounts for Year 1, and auditing provisions
satisfactory to IDA prior to disbursements (para 4.40-4.43);
(e)  reactivation of the CIDB, with responsibilities, financial rules,
approved policies and procedures, a year 1 action program, and
recruitment and training of minimum staff, agreeable to IDA, by
January 1, 1982 (para 4.36);
(f) implementation plan for the project and requirement that
major commercial and technical service agencies submit
annual action programs to IDA for concurrence by the May 31
prior to fiscal years two and three (paras 4.35, 4.36, 4.43,
and 4.47);
(g) for performance contracts, prior authorization by IDA of
each contractor, the action program, and terms and condi-
tions (paras 4.32-4.33);
(h) institutional responsibilities and mechanisms for coordination,
monitoring, reporting and review, including a formal joint
review by HMG and IDA, eighteen months after credit effective-
ness (paras 4.48-4.49);
(i) costs and administrative arrangements for elements of the
project to be financed by UNDP, executed by the Bank (para
4.52; Annex 1, Tables 7 and 8); and
(j) measures planned by HMG to improve policies and procedures
affecting CSIs and provisions for regular dialogue between HMG
and IDA on these aspects (para 4.53).



- 49 -
7.03      The following conditions would need to be met prior to credit
effectiveness:
(a) establishment of the CSI Refinance Unit in NRB in a manner
acceptable to IDA, including an approved statement of policies
and operating procedures, accounting practices, management and
staff, and initial capitalization provided by NRB (para 4.13);
(b) introduction by Nepal Rastra Bank of a credit guarantee
scheme for SCI subloans under the project, with procedures
and capitalization satisfactory to IDA (para 4.14);
(c) issuance of instructions by NRB, satisfactory to IDA, to
at least two participating banks, with these credit insti-
tutions having complied with minimum CSI staffing and
training requirements (paras 4.16, 4.19, 4.21, 4.24);
(d)  signing of the UNDP Project Agreement by HMG, IDA and UNDP
(para 4.52); and
(e) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
between HI4GN and Nepal Rastra Bank (para 5.01).
7.04      Conditions of disbursement for elements of the project implemented
by the Emporium, would be adoption of policies and operating procedures,
development of a Year 1 action program for cotton, equipment, and textile
operations in the project area, and appointment of an advisor, all satisfac-
tory to IDA (para 4.47).



NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
INDICATORS OF PERFORMANCE OF CSIs IN THE PROJECT' AREA -
No. of           Fixed (A)             Total (A)  2            Value of (A)
Subsector                    No. of Units           Workers           Investment  -         Production-            Raw Materials            Fixed Inv./Worker (B)         Prod./Worker (B)        Value added/Prod.
Kathmandu Valley
Carpets                                416                2,560                 790              20,724                    9,279                          309 /3                  8,095                      0.55
Other Woolen Goods                     230                1,154              3,941                8,661                    2,751                        3,415 /T                  7,505                      0.68
Handlooms                           17,906               21,776             15,912               62,800                   45,028                          731 /5                  2,884                      0.28
Metal Goods                            337                  998              1,395               10,220                    7,037                        1,398                    10,240                      0.31
Forest Based Goods                  24,484               27,578              4,526               13,641                    4,706                          164                       495                      0.66
Agroindustries                      23,493               30,234              8,476              106,403                     (-)                           280                     3,519
AVERAGE/TOTAL                       66,866               84,300             35,040              222,449                   68,801 /8                       416                     2,639                      0.41 /8
Gandaki Zone
Carpets                                135                  698                538                2,292                       719                         771 /3                  3,284                      0.69
Other Woolen Goods                   6,162                9,835                571                6,428                    2,833                           65 /4                    728                      0.56
Handlooms                            2,542                3,684              1,516               10,220                    7,946                          412 /5                  2,774                      0.22
Metal Goods                              7                    9                 10                    23                       12                       1,111 /6                  2,556                      o.48
Forest Based Goods                 116,824               96,991              2,269                8,048                    2,885                           23                        83                      0.64
Agroindustries                      78,925               91,459             10,090               74,731                      ()                           110                       817                       (-)
AVERAGE/TOTAL                      204,595              201,676             14,994              101,742                   14,395 /8                        74                       504                       0.47 /8
Total
Carpets                                551                3,258              1,328               23,016                    9,998                          408                     7,064                       0.57
Other Woolen Goods                   6,392                9,989              4,512               15,089                    5,584                          452                     1,511                      0.63
Handlsoms                          20,448                25,460             17,428               73,020                   52,974                          685                     2,868                      0.27
Metal Good.                            344                1,007              1,405               10,243 /7                 7,049                        1,395                    10,172                       0.31
Forest Based Goods                141,308               124,569 /9           6,795               21,689                    7,591                           54                       174                       0.65
Agroindustries                    102,418               121,693             18,566              181,134 /10                 (_)                           153                     1,488
AVERAGE/TOTAL                     271,461               285,976             50,034              324,191                   83,196 /8                       175                     1,134                       0.42 /8
1/   Data for 1979. based upon Rs. prices and exchange rates operating during that year.
2/   Production refers to ex-factory value of output and is lower than sales value given in Annex 1 Table 4.
3/   Investment per worker in Gandaki Zone is higher than in Kathmandu due to a few large scale units in Tanahu  district.
4/  The wide variations in fixed investment and output per worker since workers in Gandaki Zone work only part-time.
5/   Gandaki Zone has a few large units and fixed investment in these are higher than in large units in Rathmandu Valley.
6/   The small number of units in Gandaki Zone makes comparisons unreliable.
7/   Output figure given is an underestimate due to limited coverage of metal goods units.
8/   Total/everage excludes agrobased units, which normally operate as service enterprises.
9/   Employment figures for some units are not available and hence the figure given is an understatement.
10/  Includes Rs 117,917 which is the value of through-put in service-based industries i.e. rice, flour and oil milling.
(A) (Rs. 000)
(B)  Rs.
(-) Not available



GANDAKI ZONE
Commercial Bank Branches and Cottage Industry Concentrations
District and                              Panchayat                                                  No.-of   Distance
Headquarters    Bank Branches       Location of Cluster                   Subsector                  Units      (km.)
Kaski           Pokhara    (RBB)   Armal Chhaharepani    Wool, Garments, Handlooms, Fiber             650        11.2
(Pokhara)      Pardi        (RBB)   Pokhara                 Wool, Garpets, Handlooms, Metals          100         -
Bagar       (NBL)   Ghachowk                Fiber                                     180        12.0
Ghandruk               Fiber                                     200        22.0
Pokhara    (NBL)   Dansing                  Handlooms, Wool, Garments                 270        57.6
Syangja         Waling      (NBL)   Syangja                 Handlooms                                  50         -
(Syangja)                           Bahakot                 Wool Garments plus Carpets                110         6.4
Dansing                Wool Garments plus Carpets                 85         -
Kewareghajyang         Fiber                                     200        23.0
Panchmool              Fiber                                     250          6.4        1
Syangja    (NBL)   Sri Krishna Gandaki   Handlooms                                    200        35.2        W
Gorkha          Gorkha      (RBB)   Manakamana              Handlooms                                 200        19.2
(Gorkha)                            Arughat                 Handlooms                                 100        28.8
Simjung                Wool Garments                             100        38.4
Barpak                 Wool Garments                             300        50.2
Manang                              Ghyan                   Wool Garments                             100        25.6
(Chame)                             Thoche                  Wool Garments                              75        19.2
Tanahu          Khaireni   (NBL)   Chhimkeswari             Handlooms, Fiber                          350         4.8
(Damauli)      Dumre        (NBL)   Damouli                 Wool Garments                              30         -
Kahunsibapur           Wool Garments                              40         -
Manpang                 Fiber                                    190         13.0
Damouli    (NBL)   Dhiringsundhara          Handlooms                                 200        23.6
Lamjung         Besisahar  (RBB)   Gaonsahar                Handlooms                                  50         3.2
(Besisahar)    Besisahar  (RBB)   Dhodeni                   Wool Garments                             250        22.4
Durandanda (RBB)   Pasgaon                  Wool Garments, Handlooms                  190        35.2
.                                                       >311~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -



Probable Locations of Performance Contracts in Gandaki Zone - Year 1
.itaceDistance        .      No. of
Major Panchayat    of Center       Cluster      Artisan
(km.)        (km.)       Clusters
Private Performance Contracts
Woolen Goods                      Kaski      Pokhara        - Pokhara                0              0            80
- Armale
Chhaharepani                       11.2         100
Syangja    Syangja        - Bahakot                0             6.4         110
Bazaar         - Dansingh                            16.0          85
Tanahu     Damouli        - Damouli                0             -             30
- Kahunsibapur                        10.0          40
Gorkha     Barpak         - Barpak                30             -            300
- Simjung               _              5.0         100
Handloom Products                 Syangja    Syangja        - Syangja Bazaar         0              0            50         b
Bazaar         - Panchmool                           10.0          20
Srikrishna    - Srikrishna            12              -           200
Gandaki          Gandaki
- Waling                               4.0          17
Tanahu     Chimkeswari   - Chimkeswari             4             -            150
Ambu             Ambu
- Manakamana                           6.0         200
(Gorkha)
Kaski      Pokhara        - Pokhara                0             0             60
- Anmale                              11.2         100
Chhaharepani
Gorkha     Arughat        - Arughat               30             -            100
Gorakhkali            -             20.0          20
Forestry Products                 Syangja    Keware         - Keware                10             -            750
Bhanjyang        Bhanjyang
- Waling                              12.0         280
Banchmool      - Panchmool              3             -           400
Tanahu     Chimkeswari   - Chimkeswari             4             -            700
Ambu             Ambu
- Bandipur                             8.0         300



NEPAL
PROPOSED COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
%OJp.W IPB9JEQ.C LENjF ITS
(Rs mill ion, constant prices)
Estimated            Average
Cumulaivef Benefit            lncreneotal          Compound
Categories of Benefits                         1980 1/                1981                        1982                        1983                        1984                   (1981-1984)             Benefits of          Crowth Rate
by Suhuectar                                                 Without       With          Without       With          Without       Withh         Without       With          Without       With           the Prroect       Without   With
(a) Corpets
Enpoets- (FOB) asd Tourist Sales              58             69.6       78.3            83.5        105.7          100.2        142.7          120.3        192.6          373.6        519.3             145.7          20.0     35.0
Sales to Local Markets                         2              2.1        2.2             2.2          2.3            2.3          2.5            2.4          2.7            9.0          9.7               0.7           5.0      8.0
Total Output Value                           60              71.7        80.5           85.7        108.0          102.5        145.2          122.7        195.3          382.6        529.0             146.4          19.6     34.3
Employmsnt (Man days, 000)                1,990          2,378.1      2,669.9        2,842.4      3,582.0        3,399.6    4,815.8          4,069.6      6,477.5       12,689.7    17,545.2           4,855.5
Earnings (Wages)                              24             28.5         29.4           34.1        39.4           40,8         53.0           48.8         71.3          152.2        193.1              40.9
(b) Other Woolen Coods
Eupor-t  (FOB)                                 5              5.5          6.5            6.1         8.5            6.7         11.0            7.3         14.3            25.6        40.3              14.7          10.0     30.0
Sales to Local Markets                        18             18.4         18.7          18.7         19.5           19.1         20.2           19.5         21.1           75.7         79.5               3.8           2.0      4.0
Total Output Value                            23             23.9         25.2          24.8         28.0           25.8         31.2           26.8         65.4          101.3        149.8              48.5           4.0     29.9
Emplaynent (Man days, 000)                1,280          1,330.1      1,402.4        1,380.2      1,558.3        1,435.8      1,736.3        1,491.5      3,639.7        5,637.6      8,336.7          2,699.1
iaraluigu (Wages)                             10             10.6         14.0           11.0        15.6           11.5         17.4           11.9         36.4           45.0         83.4              38.4
(c) Handloan Garments/Produets
Exports (FOB)                                 10             12.0         14.0           14.4        19.6           17.3         27.4           20.7         38.4            64.4        99.4              35.0          20.0     40.0
Saleu to Local Markets                        70             71.4        77.0           72.8         84.7           74.3         93.2           75.8        102.5          294.3        357.4              63.1           2.0     10.0
Total Output Value                           80              83.4        91.0           87.2        104.3           91.6        120.6           96.5        140.9          358.7        456.8              98.1           4.8     15.2
Employment (Man days, 000)                1,950          2,032.9      2,218.1        2,125.5      2,542.3        2,232.8      2,939.6        2,352.2      3,434.4        8,743.4    11,134.4           2,391.0
Farniogs (Wages)                              12             14.2         17.7           14.9        20.3           15.6         23.5           16.5         27.5           61.2         89.0              27.8
(d) Metal Crafts
Exports (FOB)                                40              46.0         54.0           52.9        72.9           60.8         98.4           70.0        132.9          229.7        358.2             128.5          15.0      35.0
Sales to Local Markets                       88               8.2          8.4            8.3         8.8            8.5          9.3            8.7          9.7            33.7        36.2               2.5           2.0       5.0
Total Output Value                           48              54.2        62.4           61.2         81.7           69,3        107.7           78.7        142.6          263.4        394.4             131.0          13.2      31.3
Enployment (Mac days, 000)                  270             304.9       351.0          344.3        459.6          389.8        605.8          442.7        802.1        1,481.7      2,218.5             736.8
Earnings (Wages)                               4              4.6          5.3            5.2         6.9            5.8          9.1            6.6         12.0            22,2        33.3              11.1
(a) Forest Based Products
Exports (FOB) and Tourist Sales                1              1.2          1.3            1.3          1.7            1.5         2.2             1.7         2.9             5.7         8.1               2,4          15.0      30.0
Sales to Lacal Markets                        12             12.2         12.4           12.5        12.7           12.7         13.1           13.0         13.5           50.4         51.7               1.3           2.0       3.0
Total Output Value                            13             13.4         13.7           13.8        14.4           14.2         15.3           14.7         16.4            56.1        59.8               3.7           3.1       6.0
Employment (Man days, 000)                1,700          1,133.9      1,159.2        1,167.7      1,218.5        1,201.5      1,294.6        1,243.8      1,387.7        4,746.9      5,060.0             313.1
Earnings (Wages)                               6.6            6.8          7.0            7.0         7.3            7.2          7.8             7.5         8.3            28.5        30.4               1.9
(f) Food Processing
Eaports (FOB)                                  6              6.3          6.5            6.6         7,0            6.9          7.6             7.3         8.2           27,1         29.3               2.2           5.0       8.0
Sales to Local Markets                        60             61.8         63.6           63.7        67.4           66.6         71.5           67.5         75.7           258.6       278.2              19.6           3.0       6.0
Total Output Value                            66             68.1         70.1           70.3        74.4           72.5         79.1           74.8         83.9          285.7        307.5              21.8
Enploy-ent (Man days, 000)                5,340          5,510.0      5,671.7        5,687.9      6,019.6        5,865.9     6,399.9         6,052.0      6,788.3       23,115.8   24,879.5             1,763.7
Earnings (Wages)                              40             44.1        45.4           45.5         48.2           46.9         51.2           48.4         54.3          184.9        199.1              14.2
TOTAL, tKEY SLBECTORS
Exports (FOB)                                120.0          140.6        160.6          164.8       215.4          193.4        289.3          227.3        389.3          726.1      1,054.6             328.5          17.3      34.2
Production for L.ocal Markets                250.0          174.1        182.3         178.2        195.4          182.5        209.8          186.9        225.2           721.7       812.7              91.0           2.3       7.3
Total Output Value                          290.0           314.7       342.9          343.0        410.8          375.9        499.1          414.2        644.5        1,447.8      1,897.3             449.5           9.3      22.1
Employment                                12,530.0      12,689.9    13,472.3        13,548.0   15,380.3         14,525.4   17,792.0         15,651.8    22,529.7        56,415.1   59,174.3           12,759.2            7.0      17.2
Earnings (Wages)                              96.6          108.8        118.8         117.7        137.7          127.8        162.0          139.7        209.8          494,0        628.3             134.3           9.7      21.4
I/  Sourc  of mast actual figures is entrapolation from the ISC Interin Report, July 1979, which summari-ed findings of the detailed  survey in the project area.
2/  Export figures are based on Trade Promotion Ceotre statistics, with the assumption that about 806 of preseot cottage ind-stry product euports are made in the pro-ject area,



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
OPTIMISTIC, PESSIMISTIC AND EXPECTED RESULTS
Growth Rates of Sales and Employment with and Without the Project
Assumption
about
Conditions
Without the
Wit    Project
Annual Compound  it                     Optimistic                                                  Expected
Growth Rate       thojet                OpiitcPsiitCompound
over 1981-84    Project                                                                             Growth Rates
(Z)                                           t Without the  With the    Without the  With the
Project      Project       Project       Project                    (M)            Project      Project
Export Sales                          22.3       45.2            12.0        45.2                   Export Sales         17.3        34.2
Local Sales                            3.7       11.7             1.0        11.7                   Local Sales           2.3         7.3
Total Sales        Optimistic         12.6       28.8             6.0        28.8                   Total Sales           9.3        20.7
Employment                             9.5       22.8             4.3        22.8                   Employment            7.0       15.0
Export Sales                          22.3       28.8            12.0        28.8
Local Sales                            3.7        5.8             1.0         5.8
Pessimistic
Total Sales                           12.6       17.0             6.0        17.0
Employment                             9.5      12.2              4.3        12.2
Cumulative Increeiental Benefits of the Project (1981-84)
Assumption
about Conditions
Incremental Benefits            Without                                           Expected Incremental
of the Project                   the                                              Benefits of the Pro-
(1981-1984)           With      roject      Optimistic    Pessimistic            ject (1981-1984)
the                                                         (Rs million)
(Rs million)           Project                                                      (amlin
Export Sales                                      511.2          683.2             Export Sales              328.5
Local Sales               Optimistic              155.9          204.6             Local Sales                 91.0
Total Sales                                       666.1          887.8             Total Sales               419.5
Employment                                |   20,406.9        27,242.5             Employment             11,089.6
(man days,'000)                                                                    (man days,'000)
Export Sales                                      125.5          297.5
Local Sales               Pessimistic              39.1           87.8
Total Sales                                       164.6          385.3
Employment                                     3,776.1        10,611.7                                                                 a
(man days,'000)
Source: HMG Government statistics and World Bank staff estimates



NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMAl. INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Estimate    etnts to be met under Project 1/
(Three-year Commitment Period)
(A)            (B)            (C)           (D)            (E)         (F)           (C)              (H)
Credit
Average                                                                                                               for
Average       Permanent                     Average       Average    Average    Individual    Units under                            Units
Fixed         Working                       Fixed       Working        Fl            Units       Contracts,       Credit for       under
Investment       Capital       Average      Investment    Capital    and WC            Needing      Agents, or        Individual       PC or       Total
Credit/        Credit/        Labor         Credit/       Credit/    Credit/         Both F1      Development          Units        DC 3/    Credit by
Worker         Worker        Unit 2/         Unit          Unit        Unit          and WC         Center 3/          (FxG)         (DxH)    Subsector
(Rs)           (Es)       (Persons)         (Rs)          (Rs)        (Rs)           (No.)           (No.)         (Rs 000)    (Es ODD)  (Ts 000)
I  COTTAGE INDUSTRIES
(a)  Woolen Carpets                          1,700          4,400          5              8,500        22,000       30,500        100               700            3,050         5,950       9,000
(b)  Other Woolen Goods                      1,400          2,800          3              4,200         8,400       12,600         50               300              630         1,260        1,890
(c)  Cotton Handloom                         2,800         2,800           3              8,400         8,400       16,800         80               500            1,344         4,200       5,544
(d)  Metal Crafts                            3,900         2,800           4             15,600        11,200      26,800          50                 60           1,340           936       2,276
(e)  Forest Products                           900            660          3              2,700         1,980        4,680          70              300               328         8I         1,138
(f)  Agro-industry 4/                       16,000          2,200          3             48,000         6,600       54,600        160                 50           8,736         2,400      11,136
Subtotal, Cottage Industries                                                                                                       510             1,910           15,428       15,556       30,984
II  ORGANIZED SMALL INDUSTRIES                   8,800         16,500           6            52,800         99,000     151,800         100                             15,180                    15,180
III  PERFORMANCE CONTRACTORS AND MARKET           N.A.           N.A.         N.A.           140,000        300,000    440,000           50                                                       22,000
A~GENTS
IV  RAW MATERIAL SUPPLY COMPANIES                                                               300          3,300       3,600           3                                                       10,800
(INCLUDING EMPORIUM)
TOTAL ESTIMATED CREDIT REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                                                               78,964
(US$6 million)
1/ This would include the 80% of the loan eligible for refinance by NRB (US$4.5 miilion) and the 20% loan share by the banks.
2/ Most cottage industries receiving finance are expected to be household units employing an average of two family members; however, credit would also be provided to small or anized
units which are found in carpets, cotton handlooms and metal crafts and which probably would emerge with stable commercial arrangements under the performance contract or CI  Board
systems.  Thus, the average employment per unit increases; for example, if two out of every 10 subloans to carpet units are to small factory operations employing 15-20 workers,
with the remaining eight for household units, the average number of workers per unit would be five.
3/ It is assumed that most units within performance contracts or development networks require only fixed investment loans, since raw materials would be supplied by most performance
contractors.  Only the estimated number of units  requiring  credit are noted here, since not all units under performance contracts or development centers will require equipment loans.
4/ This includes organized small industries as well as household units.                                                                                                                                            r
50| 



ANNEX 1
- 56-                                 TabIQ 7
NEPAL
Interest Rate Structure
of Credit Institutions
Effective as of July, 1980
(in percent p.a.)
Deposit Rates
Savings deposits                                     9.0
Fixed deposits:
3 months                                      4.0
6 months                                     10.0
1 year                                       12.0
2 years and above                            13.0
Lending Rates
Cottage and small scale industry and
farmers (fixed and working capital)              10.0
Agricultural Loans -/ (fixed and working
capital)                                      4.0 - 14.0
Medium and large scale industry 2-/ (fixed
capital)                                     11.0 - 16.0
Medium and large scale industry (working
capital) 3/                                     14.0
Export bills                                        12.0
HMG Development Bonds                               15.0
Other loans                                         16.0 minimum
Overdue loans                                        2.0 points more than
specific rate.
1/ ADBN lends to cooperatives at 4.0 - 7.0 concessionary rates for specified
products.
2/ Luxury goods producing industries have to borrow at 16.0.
3/ Mostly short term loans.
Source: Nepal Rastra Bank, at the time of project appraisal.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
NEPAL
COTTAGE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Sources of Finance for Commercial and Technical Service Components
(Three-year Cormeitment Period)
(uss 000)
Total        IDA       IDA               hMG/
Component                                      Cost      Foreign   Local   UNDP    Agency
1. TRADE PROMOTION CENTER
(a)  CIED Division - Kathmandu                                          l,615          220      285       985    145
(i)  Establishoent costs                                           40           20       -         -       20
(ii)  Local staff and expenditures 1/                              250           -       125        -      125
(iii)  Long-tern consultants (60 manmonths) 2/                      420            -       -        420      -
(iv)  Short-term consultants (24 manmonths)                        190           -        -        190      -
(v)  Sales and exposure trips for exporters 3/                    225           -        -        225      -
(yi)  Performance contract payments                                310          150      160        -       - 6/
(vii)  Integrated product development and fair                      150           -        -        150      -
(viii)  Vehicles                                                      50            50       -        -       -
(b)  Impact Centers - New York and Frankfurt                              535          535       -         -       -
ii)  Consultancy to launch centers 2/                              50           50       -         -       -
(ii)  Staff from importing country and Nepal 4/                    270          270       -         -       -
(iii)  Rent, materials, other operating expenses                    135           135      -         -       -
(iv)  Short-tern consultants (18 manmonths) 1/                      80            80      -         -       -
SUBTOTAL, TRADE PROMOTION CENTER                                        2,170          755      285       985    145
2.  COTTAGE INDUSTRY BOARD
(a)  Headquarters and Gandaki Offices - Training and Extension            790          100      105       480    105
(i)  Local staff, related expenditures                            210           -       105        -      105
(ii)  Consultancy - subsector specialists (24 manmonths)           170           -        -        170      -
(iii)  Outside training of staff and artisans; short-term           310            -       -        310      -
consultants (24 manmonths)
(iv)  Vehicles for Cottage Industry Board                          100          100       -         -       -
(b)  Handicraft Design and Promotion Center                               195           50       50        70      25
(i)  Incremental staff, operating expenditures                     50           -        25        -       25
(ii)  Short-term  consultancy (9 nanmonths)                         70           -        -         70      -
(iii)  Equipment, land, buildings                                    75           50       25        -       -
(c)  Handloom Development Centers (6)                                     240           40      140        -       60
(i)  Fixed investment (lad, buildings, equipment)                  70           40       30        -       -
(ii)  Staff                                                         6n           -        30        -       30
(iii)  Working capital                                              110           -        80        -       30
(d)  Wool Products Development Centers (6)                                255           45      150        -       60
Ci)  Fixed investment (land, buildings, equipment)                110           45       35        -       30
(ii)  Staff                                                         60           -        30        -       30
(iii)  Working capital                                               85           -        85        -       -
(e)  Fibre Products Development Centers (6)                                85           15       40        -       30
(i)  Land, building, equipment                                     40           15       10        -       15
(ii)  Staff                                                         30           -        15        -       15
(iii)  Working capital                                               15           -        15        -       -
SUBTOTAL, COTTAGE INDUSTRY BOARD                                        1,565          250      485       550    280
3.  EMPORIUM
(a)  Incremental staff                                                     20           -        -         -       20
(b)  Advisor (6 manmonths)                                                 40           -        -         40      -
(c)  Training and short-term  consultancy                                  55           -        -         55      -
(d)  Seed capital fund - yarn                                              85           85       -         -      -
SUBTOTAL, EMPORIUM                                                        200           85       -         95      20
4.  INDUSTRIAL SERVICES CENTER
(a)  Local staff, monitoring and preparation                               50           25       -         -       25
(b)  Survey staff and expenditures                                         40           20       -         -       20
(c)  Outside consultancy for monitoring (4 manmooths)                      30           -        -         30     -
SUBTOTAL, INDUSTRIAL SERVICES CENTER                                      120           45       -         30      45
5.  NEPAL RASTRA BANK AND PARTICIPATING BANKS
(a)  Advisor to CSI refinance unit (24 manmooths)                         170           -        -        170      -
(b)  Outside and local training of CSI staff of NRB and banks              85           -        -         70      15
SUBTOTAL, BANKS                                                           255           -        -        240      15
*                                       TOTAL, ALLOCATED COSTS                                                       4,310        1,135      770    1,900      505
OTHER                                                                         235            75       60       100     10
TOTAL, COMMERCIAL AND TECHNICAL SERVICES                                    4,525 -       1,210      830    2,000     515
1/ IDA would pay 50% of salaries and related expenditures for incremental staff for the CIED of TPC - Kathmandu,
the CI Board staff in the project area, and ISC.
2/ Long-term consultants at US$7,000 per month , short-term consultants at US$8,000 in Nepal, US$4,500 in
importing country. These amounts include fees, travel, expenses and insurance, but do not include any taxes
payable in Nepal.
3/ The project would cover up to 90% of the coat of sales trips for performance contractors and up to 90% of
exposure trips in neighboring countries for qualified exporters and manufacturers of cottace industry products.
4/ Assumes that New York staff starts in month 5 of project and that Frankfurt staff begins in month 15.
5/ Differences between these estimates and those provided in the Summary table in para. 4.05 are due to rounding.
6/  Emportetr   -uld so.trihut.- D  tited 020,000 in fiDa.Cg the *-1-. -d .sp u.e.  trips.



- 58 -                                    ANNEX 1
Table 9
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Summary of UNDP Financing under the Project -
Estimated
Costs
(US$ 000)
Trade Promotion Center
(a) Cottage Industry Export Development Division, TPC
(i) One general advisor to the CIED manager for 12 months. Four
product specialists for 12 months each in carpets, woolen and
cotton garments, metal crafts and forestry products, to work
with exporters and assist performance contractors;                        420
(ii)  Short-term consultants for 24 manmonths for advice on design,
packaging and systems;                                                    170
(iii)  Integrated product adaptation and organization of single country
fair, 24-month involvement;                                               150
(iv) Sales trips to importing countries for performance contractors,
and exposure trips to neighboring countries for CI exporters and
manufacturers.                                                            225
Subtotal, CIED, TPC                                                                    965
II  Cottage Industry Development Board
(a) Four specialists in wool, metal, cotton and forestry products for 6
months each (with CT Board option to extend) to assist in training the
trainers, launching extension programs, and planning 4 product
development centers in Gandaki;                                                  170
(b) Training and exposure trips for CI Board staff and leading artisans;
and short-term consultants;                                                      310
(c)  Short-term design consultancy to Handicraft Design and Promotion Center.           70
Subtotal, CI Board                                                                     550
III Cottage Industries and Handicraft Emporium
(a)  Advisor on procurement, institutional marketing (6 manmonths);                     45
(b)  Training for Emporium staff and short-term consultancy.                           50
Subtotal, Emporium                                                                      95
IV  Nepal Rastra Bank and Participating Credit Institutions
(a)  Advisor to CSI Refinance Unit (24 manmonths);                                    170
(b)  Outside and local training to CSI staff of NRB and banks.                          80
Subtotal, Banks                                                                        250
V Industrial Services Center
(a)  Three manmonths of consultancy.                                                    30
Total, Direct Costs                                                                       1,890
Administrative Costs and Miscellaneous                                                      110
ESTIMATED TOTAL COSTS, UNDP                                                               2,000
1/ Differences between costs in financing plan (para. 4.06) and in this Annex are due to
rounding.



ANNEX 1
- 59 -                                Table 10
NEPAL COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
CSI FUND FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A. ASSUMPTIONS
1.  Utilization
- by commitment:  1st year 25%  =  Rs 13.5 million
2nd year 35%  =  Rs 18.9
3rd year 40%  -  Rs 21.6   "
54.Om
- disbursements: 80% in year of commitment and 20% in following year
- average maturity:  five years including 6m of grace
2. CSI Fund administrative expenses (Rs)
Pre-operating (6 months)                110,000
First year                              220,000
Second year                             242,000
Third year                              266,000
Fourth year                             293,000
Fifth year                              322,000
(at a 10% escalation)
Capital costs for car, equipment, etc.             Rs 300,000
B. CALCULATIONS (Rs million)
1. Disbursements             Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
1st year  13.5        10.8          2.7
2nd year  18.9          -         15.1         3.8
3rd year  21.6          -           -         17.3         4.3
54.0        10.8       17.8         21.1         4.3
2. Repayments
1st year  10.8         2.0         2.2         2.2         2.2         2.0
2nd year  17.8          -          3.6         3.6         3.6         3.6
3rd year  21.1          -           -          4.2         4.2         4.2
4th year   4.3           -          -           _            .9          .9
2.0        5.8        10.0        10.9        10.7
3.  Outstandings              nil         8.8        20.8        31.9        25.3
- disbursements          10.8        17.8        21.1         4.3          -
- repayments             (2.0)       (5.8)      (10.0)      (10.9)      (10.7)
8.8        20.8        31.9       25.3        14.6
Average O/S               4.4        14.8        26.4        28.6        20.0
Income to CSI @ 2%:        .08         .30         .53         .57         .40
4. Cash Position: CSI Fund
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5
Income                              .09         .30         .53         .57         .40
Expenses                            .22         .24         .27         .29         .32
CASH FLOW/PROFIT                (.13)       (.06)         .26         .28        .08
Cumulative                    (.13)       (.07)        .19         .47         .55
5.  Revolving Fund Requirement
Initial Contribution to CSI Fund5.00           1.76         .07        (.50)
Less: Capital costs                (.30)       -            -          -
Pre-operating costs         (.11)        -           -           -
Net                 4.59        1.76          .07       (.50)
Lag on 3m disbursements           (2.70)      (1.75)       (.83)      4.21
1.89         .01        (.76)       3.71
Add/less loss/profit               (.13)        .06         .26         .28
Investment                      1.76          .07       (.50)       3.99



NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Estimated Distribution of Subloans by Size
Rs 0 - Rs 20,000   Rs 20,001 - Rs 300,000   Rs 300,001 - Rs 800,000                  Total
Subsector           Number   Amount         Number   Amount              Number   Amount            Number   Amount
Carpets                       750      6,200          47      1,400                 3       1,050             800     9,000
Woolen Garments               330      1,400          20         500                -         -               350      1,900
Cotton Handlooms              545      3,550          30      1,000                 5       1,250             580     5,600
Metal Crafts                   90        810          17         990                3       1,000             110      2,300
Forest Products               360        650          10         250                -         -               370      1,100
Agro-Industry                  30        400         175       7,500                5       3,000             210    11,100
Subtotal, CI                2,150    13,010          299     11,590                16       6,300          2,465    31,000
Organized SSI                 -        -              70      5,900                30       9,280             100    15,180
Performance Contractors,
Market Agents               -        -              15      3,000                35      19,000              50    22,000
Input Supply Companies,
Emporium                    -        -              -        -                    3      10,800               3    10,800
TOTAL                       2,150    13,010          384     18,100                84      42,800           2,618    78,980
PERCENTAGE                   80%        16%          16%      24%                  4%        60%            100%       100%
1/  With the exception of the raw material supply companies, Rs 800,000 would the the maximum subloan size.                    m x
p ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



ANNEX 1
- 61 -                        Table 12
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements for the Proposed IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                   Disbursements in US$'000
By Quarter         Cumulative
FY82
To March 31, 1982                                100                100
June 30, 1982                                310                410
FY83
To September 30, 1982                           350                760
December 31, 1982                            400               1160
March 31, 1983                               480               1640
June 30, 1983                                550               2190
FY84
To September 30, 1983                           690               2880
December 31, 1983                            780               3660
March 31, 1984                               950               4610
June 30, 1984                               1100               5710
FY85
To September 30, 1984                           620               6330
December 31, 1984                            170               6500
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements for UNDP Financing
CY81
December 31, 1981                            110                110
CY82
To March 31, 1981                               150                260
June 30, 1981                                350                610
September 31, 1982                           350                960
December 31, 1982                            210               1170
CY83
To March 31, 1982                               230                1400
June 30, 1982                                150               1550
September 31, 1983                           150               1700
December 31, 1983                            150               1850
CY84
To March 31, 1983                               100                1950
June 30, 1983                                 50               2000



ANNEX 2
- 62 -                     Page  1
NEPAL
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Supporting Documents Available in Project Files
I.   Project Preparation Documents
(a) Inception Report, Cottage Industry Project Preparation
Study, ISC.
(b) Interim Report, Preparation Study.
(c) ISC's Final Report and separate volumes on woolen, handloom
metal, forestry-based and agro-industrial products.
(d) Export Potential for Selected Nepalese Products in US
Markets, by Consultants in Development for ISC.
(e) Export Potential Study for Nepalese Handicraft and
Textile Products in Germany, France, Great Britain
and Scandinavia, by FRIDA for ISC.
(f) Project Document for UNDP Pre-project grant for training
and consultancy to prepare CSI implementing agencies.
II.   Subloan Component
(a) Draft Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures for
CSI Refinance Fund of Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB).
(b) Draft Operating Instructions from NRB to Participating
Credit Institutions.
(c) Draft Procedures for CSI Credit Guarantee Scheme under
NRB.
(d) Draft Quarterly Reporting Forms for Subloan Component.
III.   Trade Promotion Centre
(a) Consultant's Recommendations regarding Year 1 Action
Program for CIED and Impact Centres in New York and
Frankfurt.



ANNEX 2
-63 -                      Page  2
IV.   Cottage Industry Development Board
(a) Legislation establishing the CI Board.
(b) Draft Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures.
(c) Draft Year 1 Action Program.
(d)  Organization Chart and Year 1 Staffing Requirements.
V.   Industrial Policy
(a) Terms of Reference for consultant to help revise
Industrial Enterprise Act.
(b) Consultant's report from August 1980 assignment.
(c) Industrial Enterprises Act, 1981.
VI. UNDP Project
(a) Project document for UNDP-financed, IDA-executed US$2.5
million project for training, consultancy, and marketing
inputs of CSI Project.
.



a
A
t
a



N                                      82                                                         4                                                          688
t/_ ( \t ~~ llumia  ~-                                                                    COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
. DarchUla S  t 7 )    +  <   /   \~~~A                                                                                                   PROJ ECT AR EA
JJAattadiX b . yJ Balura ) {\ r/ * / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
.    V  .      </ S~~~~,Zv         (       flb,,k.t                            *( V_                                                                _    ZONAL BOUNDARIES
(@D-ndeldh.urd,$  Doh, \                uia9)t    
/~~X<. _><ta   t    V /\Chham  >   \<   o~~~   Dolpa /   <s_./  +\   )              /\/                          _    _ ~INTFRNATIONAL BOUNDARiLS
h    _       ~~~Kallal                                        R. b\     Rku.  ,                            ann           t 
* \ / \t ~~~~Surkhet                         r,()$\Mgls/So\s}
/ t \ <~~~~~ alnA' p T  I "A                            B          aln  u G KAs N \D LAmUl 'K<
-28                                   ui                                                                                                                 Puhn ...Atum J     .............       28
'\      i    !     -                 __|_ , z   -- Rlatl--   - ;4//</Saihw ....TfeU1 
N D ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aqh'                                                             ~                               .          .FL -,  =        -W 188      ......, bt,  .......<     
f,                  .f ilt.  ddelsof threpon p (lo/1nT mpiv o t/rep.l t 71 tI , t d                                                                                            / Su sq   
tD~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                                                                          -N sl:iar s n131gntr   lxtlralSAtlso ntamor    s. i(OLr7C7to             -/  l',   
rn dGCepittliCt vl auch boureda/les . /~~~~~~~~~~ N                                                                 z       J .,  V-        /_ 
re~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K, I2 bast                                                                                                             86-88h,
_   _   __   _   ____ __L ! __ _ _ _ __ ___ _ ___ A



I
t
IL



R W TR     D                 BSO        _       _         % o                                                                                                                                IB R D   1 5 3 9 C R
FOREST BASED PRODUCTS SUBSECTOR                                                                                                              NEPAL
,, 4                                                                            COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
CHINA                                                 CRAFT CONCENTRATIONS IN GANDAKI ZONE
MACSAPS                                                                                    FORELT  -S  RODII UCTE
~~~                                 CR       El~~~~~~~~8. THEPRDUCTS
OF/B OIL AG/RB  ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                             --0    PROD-U1CTS
2-0      /          TASKI                                                                                          *        5>0TH\S1 HADOM  OD/GRET
\     ~            ~ ~ ~~~ /   /MkL'         \S                       <N                                     TAILORING                               J     CO     aJ   ,O  SoRr
Ll I, -   @ U1   \ '?                 / ~~~~~~' GFRA         /WlOOLEN GOOnS                                                                             (IDOMERS>
F                                                    / rl  . ,, I   Bu  l /             A        CORLETN GSo s
SOBO                                                ROSO'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BO Al
50CANC    A            4>0                         5   BA           dR0'                  /   /    5 3050     -             -       T             D5TF0                        ICT5UAR>F L-  C D.....  IPS 
X J   f  T    A     N    A     H        2    V       BA~~~~8AGMA TI                                   I TERNAT'.-I"Z                                                  NA O)DRIS''-'''. ''
HANDLOOM GOODS/GARMENTS SUBSECTOR                                                                        WOOLEN GOODS SUBSECTOR
g-                  A              CHINA                                                                                                        CHINA
OF/A B/L0M 4NANG                                                                          DIM/I/AG/RI                        MANANGT
DHAdUSAGIR/                           |                                              .HA/iUZAGIRI,   - 
L                                                                                        '  JG      CE                                 yI-  j
/Sva 5 > 0 $r 1 .$i                       -i; , I                                CR.3
2                  RUOL             /             _                                                                           _ N  C.ASP                 A                                        01 T/_-N   GMAT
BAGMArl                                                     BANAHURIOGM 7
ZIJ44BINVI                  N1UMB/N/
OCTOBER 1981



