FILE COPY                              Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3145-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
November 5, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since September 19, 1981
US$1.00       =     NRs 13.2
NRs 100       =     US$7.58
FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADBN     -   Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
CC       -   Cottage and Small Industry Coordinating Committee
CIDB     -   Cottage Industries Development Board
CSI      -   Cottage and Small Industries
CIED     -   Cottage Industries Export Development Division, TPC
CIEPD    -   Cottage Industries Export and Product Development
Fund, TPC
DCA      -   Development Credit Agreement
DCVI     -   Department of Cottage and Village Industries
ISC      -   Industrial Services Center
M        -   Million
MOI      -   Ministry of Industry
NTL      -   National Trading Limited
NRB      -   Nepal Rastra Bank
PA       -   Project Agreement
TPC      -   Trade Promotion Centre
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Programme



NEPAL                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiaries:        Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) - Cottage and Small Industries
(CSI) Fund; Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN),
Nepal Bank Limited, and Rastriya Banijya Bank; and cottage
and small industries receiving credit through the above
credit institutions.
Amount:               Special Drawing Rights 5.7 million
(US$6.5 M equivalent as of date of negotiations).
Terms:                Standard
Relending             The Government would relend about US$4. 5 M equivalent to
Terms:              the NRB for the account of the CSI Refinance Fund on the
following terms:  (i) two percent and four percent in-
terest per annum for subloans refinanced by the NRB-CSI
Refinance Fund of up to NRs 20,000 and over NRs 20,000,
respectively; (ii) repayment on the basis of a fixed
amortization schedule over 14 years, including a three
years grace period; and (iii) Government to bear the
foreign exchange risk.  The CSI Refinance Fund would
provide refinance to credit institutions for CSI subloans
on the following terms:  (i) refinancing up to 80 percent
of subloan amount; (ii) interest per annum of five percent
and seven percent for loans up to NRs 20,000 and over NRs
20,000, respectively; and (iii) term would be parallel to
the term of the individual subloans. The credit institu-
tions would provide term credit to CSI borrowers on the
following terms:  (i) 11 percent interest per annum;
(ii) term ranging from 18 months to seven years, including
a maximum of one year grace period; and (iii) minimum of
20 percent equity contribution for subprojects over NRs
5,000 and ten percent for Performance Contractors.  These
initial rates and terms are subject to at least annual
review and revision to ensure that the final on-lending
rate is positive in real terms and consistent with the
interest rates applicable to term loans for industry.
Project               The project aims to generate employment, raise incomes
Description:        and increase foreign exchange earnings through expanded
production and exports of cottage and small industry
products. The project would upgrade private and public
sector technical, marketing, and credit services and
redirect Government incentives affecting the cottage
and small industry sector. As a first phase program,
the project would focus on the Kathmandu Valley and the
Gandaki Zone, testing, developing and improving the
various institutions and services. By clarifying the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



- ii -
responsibilities of the various agencies, including an
expanded role for the private sector, and providing sig-
nificant technical assistance and training, the project
would reduce the risks associated with undertaking such
multi-component ventures. Each component includes a strong
monitoring and evaluation system, which should facilitate
response and corrective action in the face of unforeseen
difficulties.
Estimated Cost
of Project:                                              US$ Million Equivalent
Component                    Local   Foreign   Total
I. Credit
Term Credit for CSI & Agents   4.92         2.11     7.03
NRB - Revolving Fund              0.42        -      0.42
Subtotal                       5.34     2.11      7.45
II.  Commercial and Technical
Services
Trade Promotion Centre            0.44      0.78      1.22
Cottage Industries Develop-
ment Board                    0.77      0.25      1.02
Emporium                          0.02      0.09      0.11
Industrial Services Center        0.04     0.05      0.09
Subtotal                      1. 27     1.17      2.44
III.  Technical Assistance &
Training                       0.19      1.71      1.90
Base Cost                   6.80      4.99    11.79
IV.  Contingencies                     0.05      0.16      0.21
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  6.85      5.15    12.00
Financing Plan:                                             US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                    3.17    3.33       6.50
Government/NRB                         1.43       -       1.43
UNDP                                   0.20    1.82       2.02
Credit Institutions/Beneficiaries    2.05         -       2.05
6.85    5.15    12.00
Estimated                                                  US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:    IDA FY                               1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual                             0.41   1.78   3.52   0.79
Cumulative                         0.41   2.19   5.71   6.50
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3172-NEP, dated October 29, 1981



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 5.7
million (US$6.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Cottage and Small Industries Project. Of the proceeds of the credit, about
US$4.5 million would be onlent to the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) for the account
of the Cottage and Small Industries (CSI) Refinance Fund. The United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) is expected to provide a grant of US$2.0 million
equivalent for technical assistance and training (para 53).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report, "Nepal - Policies and Prospects
for Accelerated Growth" (Report No. 3577-NEP) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on October 15, 1981. The principal findings of the report and
recent developments are described below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        By almost any standard, Nepal is one of the least developed coun-
tries in the world. Per capita income is estimated at $140 (1980) and health
and education standards are well below the average for South Asia: life
expectancy at birth is about 44 years, infant mortality is 150 per thousand,
and adult liberacy is only about 20 percent. The population, estimated to be
14.3 million (1980), is growing at a rate in excess of two percent per year.
About 95 percent of the population live in rural areas.
4.        Population density with respect to arable land has reached alarming
levels and is threatening to overwhelm the resource base of the economy.
Cultivation has been extended beyond economically feasible and ecologically
safe limits in the Hills, and together with denudation of forests to meet
housing and fuel needs, soil erosion has become a critical problem. Firewood
and water have become more difficult to obtain as the forests are reduced and
springs and streams dry up. This degradation of the agricultural base has
made even the present low level of living standards difficult to maintain,
and instances of food shortages and malnutrition have become commonplace.
5.         Agriculture accounts for nearly 60 percent of Nepal's GDP and 75
percent of merchandise exports, and provides the main source of livelihood
to over 90 percent of the population. Crop production accounts for about 60
percent of agricultural output, livestock for 30 percent, and forestry for
ten percent. Rice is the predominant food crop (planted on about half the
total cropped area), followed by maize, potatoes, wheat and millet; cash
crops (oilseeds, jute, sugar and tobacco) are grown on about ten percent of
the cropped area. About 25 percent of total rural incomes arise from non-
agricultural activities. Cottage industries are one of the more important
of these, engaging over one million people on a part time basis, and providing
basic consumer goods in the many small isolated markets where such goods would
otherwise not be available.



-2-
6.       Apart from agricultural land, Nepal's only other important exploit-
able resources are hydropower and tourism. The exploitation of the vast
hydropower resources, however, beyond that required to satisfy the country's
own power demand, will depend crucially on Nepal's ability to enter into
complex financial, exploitation and export agreements with neighboring coun-
tries. The tourism sector, based on Nepal's magnificent landscape and rich
cultural heritage, has been dynamic though it still accounts for only about
one percent of GDP.
7.       When Nepal started its modernization efforts in the early 1950s,
there was virtually no economic or administrative infrastructure, and initial
development efforts were necessarily concentrated on establishing a foundation
for future development. Investments in the transport sector absorbed a large
part of development spending. The Fifth Development Plan (197 5/76-1979/80)
marked a shift in development objectives; acceleration of economic growth,
employment creation and raising living standards of the population became
major plan objectives. Development expenditures rose fairly rapidly during
this period and there were substantial shifts in the composition of spending
away from transport to agriculture, power and social services. GDP growth,
however, barely kept up with that of population, and while it was inevitable
that per capita income growth would remain slow in the early stages of devel-
opment, the continued economic stagnation since the mid 1970s is disturbing.
8.        Part of the reason for the stagnation lies in factors beyond Nepal's
control. The difficult topography and poor resource base are obviously im-
portant in retarding growth. Nepal's landlocked position, long open border
with India and the dependence of its overseas trade on transit through India
create additional disadvantages. While Nepal benefits from the proximity
of a vast potential market for Nepalese goods, the ability to pursue inde-
pendent economic policy measures is circumscribed. Furthermore, industrial
development faces the competition of a far larger and more efficient indus-
trial sector in India.
9.        At the same time, factors within Nepal's control have also contri-
buted to the stagnation. Problems with project implementation have been
encountered by Government and donors in most sectors of the economy and
have constrained the growth of the development effort; public sector capi-
tal formation grew at an average of only 5.5 percent per annum in real terms
during the 1970s. In addition, the expected returns on those investments
which did take place, often did not materialize because necessary comple-
mentary investments or current spending were lacking, and because of mana-
gerial deficiencies. A good example is the agriculture sector, where out-
put stagnated despite considerable investments in irrigation, a virtual
doubling of of the irrigated area and a 40 percent increase in fertilizer
use between 1974/75 and 1979/80. In the past, insufficient attention was
paid to bringing water down to the farm level and this was compounded by
inadequate support services such as extension and research, by the lack of
timely supplies of improved seed, fertilizer and other inputs such as credit,
and by the lack of farm-to-market roads. Recent major irrigation projects
financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are now addressing some of
these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated approaches.



- 3 -
10.       Although Government revenue efforts have improved considerably
over time, revenues have by now only reached the equivalent of about nine per-
cent of GDP, which is low by international standards. With limited domestic
resources, current expenditures have been squeezed in an effort to generate
savings for investment spending, with the result that the efficiency of total
spending was lowered. Furthermore, while about one quarter of total budge-
tary expenditures (regular and development) was being financed by the rest of
the world in 1974/75, this proportion rose to close to 40 percent by 1979/80.
11.      The disappointing economic performance has been accompanied by a
widening trade deficit. Import payments have grown while the trend in export
earnings has been sluggish due to declining rice exports. The deterioration
on the trade account has been partly covered by increased tourism receipts
and remittances, which together with foreign assistance in the form of grants
and concessionary financing have generally ensured that the overall balance
remained in surplus.  But even so, foreign exchange reserves have declined
from being equivalent to about one year of imports in 1974 to six months in
1980.
12.      The poor monsoon in 1979 resulted in foodgrain production falling
by 13 percent in 1979/80 and GDP declining by one percent. With the virtual
elimination of rice exports at a time when Nepal's oil bill was rising the
overall balance of payments surplus declined sharply in that year and Nepal
drew SDR 10.5 million (US$13.8 million equivalent) from the IMF under the
Compensatory Financing Facility in September 1980. Better weather in 1980
resulted in agricultural production recovering in 1980/81. Together with
the favorable impact this had on other sectors of the economy, GDP is esti-
mated to have grown by six-seven percent in 1980/81. But the trends remain
disappointing; average GDP growth for 1979/80 and 1980/81 combined is likely
to be only 2.6 percent, that is, very little increase in per capita terms.
13.       On September 19, 1981 Nepal unified its exchange rate with the US
dollar at NRs 13.2 = US$1; the exchange rate with the Indian rupee was un-
changed at NRs 145 = IRs 100. This is the latest in a series of steps to
reform Nepal's exchange rate system, which began when a complex system of
multiple exchange rates and trade restrictions for overseas trade was re-
placed with a dual exchange system on March 31, 1978. A basic rate of NRs
12 = US$1 applied for invisible and capital transactions as well as for
imports of petroleum products, fertilizer, and cement. A second rate ap-
plying to all other merchandise trade was set at NRs 16 = US$1, which was
subsequently changed to NRs 14 = US$1 on February 21, 1980. The September
1981 measures devalued the basic rate by nine percent but resulted in a six
percent appreciation for most overseas merchandise trade. The latter could
adversely affect the balance of overseas trade.
14.       During the past two to three years economic policy making has
been delayed by political developments. Following disturbances in 1979,
a referendum was held in May 1980, which reaffirmed the existing partyless
system, with suitable reforms. The constitution was amended in December
1980 to provide, among other things, for direct election of members of
parliament; general elections were held in May 1981, though they were boy-
cotted by many opposition groups. The previous Prime Minister and Finance
Minister have retained their portfolios in the post election government.



-4-
15.       These political activities slowed down preparation of the Sixth
Plan (1980/81-1984/85) and the Plan was only published in January 1981.
The Plan reflects Nepal's determination to search for ways to overcome
stagnation and as a set of objectives, it was endorsed in draft form by
members of the Nepal Aid Group at its January 1980 meeting. The strategy
to shift investment into more productive sectors, which was initiated dur-
ing the Fifth Plan, is continued and emphasis is given to alleviating some
of the factors that limited past growth. The Plan's principal objectives
are to increase production at a faster rate, to increase productive employ-
ment, and to meet basic minimum needs in food, fuel (firewood), drinking
water, health services, primary education and rural transportation. The
strategy: (i) accords high priority to developing agriculture, small-scale
industries and Nepal's abundant water resources; (ii) stresses soil con-
servation and population control; and (iii) emphasizes full utilization of
existing infrastructure and alleviation of absorptive capacity constraints.
The development strategy also calls for full involvement of the private
sector in agriculture, manufacturing, trade, tourism, construction and
transport operations.
16.       Achieving the Plan's objectives will require quick-yielding sec-
tor programs to generate growth in the short to medium-term as well as human
resource development programs to lay the foundation for sustained growth in
the longer term. Program targets must also be made consistent with overall
financial and implementation capacity, but at the same time vigorous measures
are needed to remove administrative and domestic financial constraints. The
Government has been considering the actions required to overcome the adminis-
trative constraints. A full list would include a slowing down in the growth
of government employment and the proliferation of public sector agencies;
an overhaul of the present incentive system, including substantial salary
increases for senior officials; a reduction in the high rate of turnover
in top appointments; and a more professional approach in the management of
public enterprises.
17.       There also is considerable scope for easing the financial con-
straints and the Government plans to improve revenue administration, oper-
ate public enterprises more efficiently and to raise public utility charges
over a period of years. Selective increases in indirect taxes would also
provide substantial additional revenues, while phasing out fertilizer sub-
sidies and streamlining rice subsidies could yield substantial savings.
18.       Nepal has received substantial external assistance in the past.
Aid commitments averaged US$160 million per year during the Fifth Plan,
and, according to current indications, could average about US$300 million
per year during 1981/82-1983/84. Foreign assistance is expected to account
for about 53 percent of total development spending during the Sixth Plan
period. However, even this level of foreign assistance would not provide
the Government with sufficient resources to meet increasing consumption
demands. Additional aid, either through financing a higher proportion of
total project costs or in the form of commodity assistance, could provide
budgetary support to meet pressing recurrent expenditure requirements, par-
ticularly in the social sectors. The Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1976 to



assist in the overall coordination of financial and technical assistance
efforts; and the Group now accounts for some 70 percent of all aid dis-
bursements. The Group has met three times at plenary meetings under the
chairmanship of the Bank to discuss overall external assistance needs;
local Aid Group meetings in Kathmandu are also held to discuss and coor-
dinate sectoral development strategies. The next plenary meeting is to
be held in Paris in December 1981.
19.        Foreign aid disbursements grew by 29 percent annually during the
Fifth Plan period; only about 40 percent of disbursements were from foreign
borrowing, the remainder being grants. As of December 31, 1980, official
foreign debt outstanding was US$177 million, of which US$144 million was
due to multilateral agencies. These loans were obtained on a highly con-
cessional basis and the grant element of total aid remains in excess of 90
percent. As a result, debt service payments were only US$4.0 million during
1980, equivalent to less than two percent of exports of goods and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
20.        Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit
of US$1.7 M equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 25
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to
Nepal to US$296.6 M equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide
variety of sectors. Six of these sectors account for 87 percent of IDA
credits by amount: irrigation/agriculture (US$110.2 M for nine projects);
water supply and sewerage (US$46.8 M for three projects), power (US$40.8 M
for one project); telecommunications (US$21.7 M for three projects); high-
ways (US$19.2 M for two projects); and rural development (US$19.0 M for two
projects). The proposed credit would be the first in FY82, bringing the
total amount of IDA assistance to Nepal to US$303.1 M equivalent, net of
cancellations. No Bank loans have been made to Nepal. IFC made its first
investment in Nepal (US$3.1 M) in a hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations as of Septem-
ber 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing IDA projects. It shows
certain delays in the implementation of these projects, particularly during
the initial periods. These delays have been largely due to Nepal's limited
technical and managerial capabilities. In order to assist Nepal in. coping
with this constraint, considerable technical assistance is being given by
Bank Group staff, including our Resident Mission in Kathmandu. As a result,
improvement in the rate of disbursements is being realized; during FY81,
US$27.7 M equivalent were disbursed compared to US$65.1 M equivalent dis-
bursed during the entire previous ten years. Project completion reports
have been prepared for three projects - First Telecommunications (Credit
No. 166, US$1.7 M equivalent), First Highways (Credit No. 223, US$2.2 M
equivalent), and Tourism (Credit No. 241, US$3.2 M equivalent). All three
projects faced unexpected engineering and design difficulties, delays in
implementation of two-four years, and institutional improvements were less
than anticipated; however, all three generated acceptable rates of return.



-6-
21.       Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level
compared to the country's need for external assistance. The international
community has shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development
and, to date, shortage of funds has not been a bottleneck. The main con-
straint on the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited ab-
sorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and imple-
mentation. The Bank is assisting the Government in project preparation
through the Technical Assistance Credit (Credit No. 659-NEP, US$3.0 M
equivalent) and by acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical
assistance projects financed by UNDP. The Bank Group has also addressed
the problem of absorptive capacity through its role in organizing the Aid
Group for Nepal (para 18).
22.       The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly con-
necting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in irrigation, cash crops, area development, tech-
nical education and power is under way.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
23.       Prior to 1950, there was practically no formal industry in Nepal.
The first industries to be established were agro-based--rice husking, oil
seed extraction, jute and tea processing and lumber mills. By the late
1960s, a very limited range of import substitution industries arose, pre-
dominantly in the public sector, producing consumer goods such as beverages,
cigarettes, and textiles as well as simple agricultural tools and building
materials. These initiatives did little to change the basic structure of
the Nepalese economy.
24.       The industrial sector in Nepal contributes only about five percent
to GDP as officially measured and a substantial portion of total industrial
output involves agro-processing. Twelve public sector enterprises produce
about one half of total industrial output. The private sector is composed
of some 3,500 registered firms (mainly small scale) and the informal or
cottage industry subsector. Cottage industries are defined by the new In-
dustrial Enterprises Act as those firms with fixed investment, including
land and buildings, of less than NRs 500,000 (US$38,000) in rural areas and
up to NRs 800,000 (US$61,000) in urban areas. Small scale industries are
defined as those with fixed investment, including land and buildings, not
exceeding NRs 2 million (US$152,000). Nearly one million people are employed
in cottage industries, mostly on a part-time basis and mainly in rural areas.
Most cottage industry output is in woolen, handloom, food, forest, and metal
products. Outside the Kathmandu Valley, cottage industries produce mainly
for home consumption. Exports of cottage and small industries (CSI) products
have been increasing steadily, reaching NRs 140 M (US$11 M) in 1980/81, ac-
counting for about 15 percent of total cottage industry production and a
major portion of manufactured exports.



- 7 -
25.       The minor role that the industrial sector has played in Nepal
reflects the serious constraints that exist. The two most formidable
problems are the small size of the Nepalese market and the country's land-
locked position. Despite having a population of about 14 M, the effective
market for manufactured products is extremely small. The cash income of
the majority of people is less than US$50 equivalent per capita per annum,
and in the Hill regions, most transactions are by barter. The market for
consumer goods is therefore largely confined to the small percentage of the
population living in towns, or in the more accessible parts of the Hills
and Terai. Moreover, not only is domestic demand small, but Nepalese goods
must also compete for this demand with Indian goods which, through econo-
mies of scale, are generally cheaper and of better quality. The long open
border makes protection of domestic production difficult. Nepal's land-
locked position has further exacerbated these problems, since transshipment
increases the cost of raw material imports and of exports, as well as caus-
ing frequent delays in delivery which seriously impede efficient production
and marketing.
26.       These constraints to industrial development have not been offset
by the low wages earned by Nepal's labor force, since these wages reflect
skills for modern industry that are probably close to the lowest of all
developing countries. Nor has Nepal been able to rely on easily exploita-
ble natural resources that might have been a stimulant to growth. However,
in the long run, Nepal must make all possible attempts to diversify and
develop its industrial sector. Obviously, efforts in this sector must be
on a selective basis, in view of the multiplicity and complexity of the
constraints. Substantial benefits could be gained at relatively low cost by
improving the performance of public sector enterprises and promoting cottage
and small industries (CSI). Expanded CSI production could amelioriate the
growing trade deficit through foreign exchange earning or saving endeavors,
while increasing employment in the Hills.
CSI Prospects
27.       Prospects for selected CSI products are promising.  Sizeable con-
centrations of artisans working in woolen rugs and garments, basketry and
cotton textiles exist in the Hills and the Kathmandu Valley. Studies by
the National Planning. Commission indicate that such rural dwellers are not
directly engaged in agriculture for about two-thirds of the year, and,
therefore, would be available to increase their number of days worked in
other activities. Artisans currently spend about 15-60 days on CSI en-
deavors. Recent studies have shown that in several product lines, the
lower wage costs in the Hills than in the Kathmandu Valley would more than
compensate for the additional transport costs of linking these Hill clusters
to raw material supplies and export markets.
28.       Exports have grown by about 35 percent per annum since 1972/73,
albeit from a low base. In addition, sales to tourists in Nepal have also
grown. Studies of export potential in Europe and the US indicate that, with
appropriate design and sizing, there would be significant demand for several
uniquely Nepalese products, including carpets, woolen garments, and metal
products. Expansion of woolen carpet production and exports would require



-8-
better wool supply and increased production capacity; unlike most Nepalese
woolen goods, design improvements are not crucial for carpets to expand
exports. However, for other woven and knitted woolen goods, modifications
in design and sizing, along with improved marketing are prerequisites for
sizeable foreign market penetration.   Nepalese handlooms, facing strong
competition in export and local markets, also would need product adaptation
and design work, along with improved supply of cotton yarn and upgraded
equipment. The major constraint for metal crafts is access to raw materials,
but they would also benefit from access to improved tools, designs, and
production techniques. Production of forest-based products is hampered by
the lack of commercial orientation of the craftsmen who now produce goods
for household needs during free time; tools, designs, workmanship and market
links need to be improved. Agro-industries, geared to regional needs and
local tourist markets, are limited now by lack of production capacity, ef-
fective quality control, and commercial networks.
29.       Local market prospects are more limited.  A study of industrial
imports indicated that less than ten percent by value could be replaced by
reasonably competitive products produced by the domestic CSI sector. Not
only is local purchasing power small, but in several product lines, including
fiber and forest-based products, local demand is relatively price inelastic
and saturated. There is, however, significant import substitution potential
in textiles and agro-processing as well as more limited potential for build-
ing materials, agro-implements and footwear. Some possibilities also exist
for subcontracting relations with the larger public sector enterprises, and
serving Government agencies, hospitals, and the hotel industry.
Institutions
30.       The Department of Cottage and Village Industries (DCVI), under
the Ministry of Industry (MOI), has a small program of extension services
and training for the CSI sector. DCVI has a large staff, but few technical
officers, and has concentrated mainly on administrative tasks, such as reg-
istration of industries and import licensing. A Cottage Industries Devel-
opment Board (CIDB) was created with wide powers for commercial and devel-
opmental purposes, but it has not yet been used systematically to handle
development programs. DCVI has offered some training and field level ex-
tension programs, but these have been sporadic and the impact has not been
monitored. The Trade Promotion Centre (TPC), under the Ministry of Commerce
and Supplies, was created to provide assistance to private exporters; how-
ever, TPC has limited resources and technical staff, and market information
and sales promotion activities have been on an ad hoc basis.
31.       Sporadic availability, price volatility, and uneven quality of
raw materials, such as wool, cotton yarn, and metals, constitute major
problems for the CS! sector. Most CSI manufacturers are too small and
inexperienced to import directly, and to take advantage of the import duty
and sales tax rebates which are granted to CSI raw materials. Although not
subject to the taxes, the public agencies have not established themselves
as significant suppliers to the CSI sector--National Trading Limited (NTL)
provides only about ten percent of present wool supply. The Cottage Industry
and Handicraft Emporium, a subsidiary of DCVI, supplies some raw materials



-9-
for the CSI sector (mainly cotton yarns) and purchases the finished products
for resale either in the Hills or in Kathmandu. The Emporium provides only
about 15 percent of cotton yarn demand, and continues to have difficulty with
the marketing of the finished goods; the financial viability of its operations
remains uncertain. Most raw materials are supplied to the CSI sector by
private traders, who are now subject to full duties, which they pass on to
their customers.
32.       ADBN is the principal institution providing agricultural credit,
with a broad network of branches throughout the country. About one half
of ADBN loans are made directly to individuals, and about one third through
the cooperatives; the balance is accounted for by village committees and
their corporate bodies. Total outstandings as of July 1980 amounted to
about NRs 460 M (US$35 M), of which about one third is categorized as agro-
industry, marketing and warehousing. Cottage industry lending is included
in this category, but no separate figures are available. The Asian Devel-
opment Bank has provided credit and technical assistance to ADBN and has
recently concluded negotiations for a Fourth Line of Credit and a Small
Farmer Development Program. The two commercial banks, Nepal Bank Limited
and Rastriya Banijya Bank also provide credit for the CSI sector. The out-
standing balances for priority sector lending have been small, less than
US$2M for Nepal Bank Limited and less than US$3 X for Rastriya Banijya Bank.
Cottage industries account for about one half of priority sector lending.
With their onlending to ADBN, total direct and indirect lending by these two
banks for priority sectors account for about five percent of their total loans
and advances outstanding. The average loan size is US$1,000-1,500. Arrears
amount to about 20-30 percent of the CSI portfolio, appreciably less than that
for agriculture, which exceed 50 percent in some branches. Both banks have
branches in Gandaki and Bagmati Zones, but due to lack of suitably trained
staff and logistical difficulties, supervision of loans is poor.
Industrial Policy
33.       As part of the preparation for the proposed CSI project, the Asso-
ciation has worked with Government authorities to identify sector issues and
has recommended measures to liberalize approval and licensing procedures,
streamline fiscal incentives, and introduce effective export incentives.
Consultants have been -ngaged under various United Nations agency programs
to assist with the r.-ision of the Industrial Enterprises Act and Foreign
Investment Act and accompanying rules and regulations, foreign investment
strategy, and long range indu. :-ial planning. The Government completed a
revised draft of the Industrial Znterprises Act, with the assistance of a
consultant funded by UNDP under the Pre-Project Preparation facility (para
53), which now awaits final approval. It incorporates a number of recom-
mendations made by the Association and the consultant, and would improve the
policy environment for CSI development. Special programs are being tailored
for the CSI sector. The definitions of cottage industries and of small
industries were revised to eliminate some of the subcategories (such as
mini, small, remote) for the provision of incentives. Foreign investment
criteria in CSI firms are being clarified. Fiscal incentives, such as tax
holidays and import duty drawbacks, are to be extended in certain circum-
stances to CSI exporters, who may or may not be the actual producers. While



- 10 -
no further revisions to the Industrial Enterprises Act are deemed neces-
sary for satisfactory implementation of the proposed CSI project, further
improvements to CSI and general industrial policy can be made; in particular,
efforts should be made to further simplify the systems. We intend to work
with the Government to achieve such improvements, as part of the proposed
project and in the course of our economic and sector work program. The
Government is now considering streamlining the procedures for exports, and
establishing facilities for pre-shipment export finance.
34.        The interest rate structure is being revised to increase the final
on-lending rate to CSI from the previous levels of eight-ten percent to a
uniform rate of 11 percent, the same rate as that now available to larger
industry for fixed investment loans. The Industrial Enterprises Act also
provides for the Government to make available CSI loans to remote areas at a
rate two percent less than that prevailing elsewhere; it is the Government's
intention that such areas be limited to the mountainous regions of the country
and be kept to a minimum. The Association has suggested that the Government
also take into account whether the areas are serviced by a substantial program
of assistance to CSI.
Bank Group Support to Industry
35.        The Bank Group is at present assisting in industrial development
in Nepal through several channels. With IDA Credit No. 705-NEP of May 27,
1977 (US$4.0 M), the Bank Group has made available financing for the foreign
exchange portions of medium and large scale industrial subprojects, through
the Nepal Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC). To date only six sub-
loans over US$80,000 each and eight smaller subprojects have been financed.
Commitments, now totalling US$2.2 million equivalent, have been slow, re-
flecting NIDC's problems in promotion, inadequate local currency resources,
and the limited prospects for medium and large scale industry. Cottage in-
dustry components are included as part of the two Rural Devolopment Projects
(Credit No. 617-NEP of April 30, 1976 for US$8.0 M and Credit No. 939-NEP of
August 9, 1979 for US$11.0 M). Progress of the program under the First Rural
Development Project has been slow and uneven, while that under the Second
Rural Development Project has yet to be initiated. As these components are
small and deal only with the outstations of the CSI service agencies, they
are not able to address the institutional constraints, nor to offer effective
assistance to improve strategy, organization and incentives. Under the Tech-
nical Assistance Credit (para 21), the Bank Group is financing feasibility
studies for several industrial subprojects, namely silica lime bricks, leather
goods and electrical goods. Preparation for the proposed CSI project was
also partially financed under this Technical Assistance Credit.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.        The proposed project was prepared by a committee representing key
implementing agencies, with assistance from consultants and IDA missions.
The DCVI sponsored, and the Industrial Services Corporation (ISC) conducted,



- 11 -
a detailed preparation study on the most promising CSI subsectors as well as
institutional arrangements. The project was appraised in June 1980. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington, D.C. in September, 1981. The Nepalese delega-
tion was led by Mr. S. P. Shrestha, Secretary, Ministry of Industry. A re-
port entitled "Nepal - Staff Appraisal Report - Cottage and Small Industries
Project" (Report No. 3172-NEP, dated October 29, 1981) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A Supplementary Data Sheet is attached
as Annex III.
Objective
37.       The project aims to generate employment, raise incomes and increase
foreign exchange earnings through expanded production and export of CSI prod-
ucts. The project would upgrade private and public sector technical, commer-
cial, and credit services and redirect Government incentives affecting the CSI
sector. This first project would focus on the Kathmandu Valley 1/ and the
Gandaki Zone (see Map IBRD 15389R), which accounts for about 60 percent of total
CSI production, testing and improving the various institutions and services.
Description
38.       The main components of the project would be:
(a) Financing of subloans to cottage and small industries and re-
lated commercial concerns;
(b) Expansion and improvement of CSI export promotion programs in
the Trade Promotion Center (TPC);
(c) Strengthening of extension programs and services of the public
service agencies--Cottage Industries Development Board (CIDB),
the Handicraft Design and Promotion Center programs, and the
Cottage Industry and Handicraft Emporium; and
(d) Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system, and
preparation for subsequent projects.
Credit and Credit Institutions
39.       The proposed project seeks to improve the financial system in
Nepal to expand credit facilities for economically and financially viable
CSIs, related market agents and input supply agencies, on the basis of pro-
ject evaluation rather than collateral. The credit component (about US$7.5
million equivalent) of the project would be carried out under the direction
of the NRB in accordance with a Project Agreement (PA) to be entered into
with the Association (Sections 3.01(a) and (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) and Section 2.01 of the draft PA). The NRB would
establish a CSI Refinance Fund with accounting procedures and statement of
policies and operating procedures, satisfactory to the Association, to
I/   Containing the administrative districts of Kathmandu, Lalitpur, and
Bhaktapur.



- 12 -
provide refinance facilities for up to 80 percent of subloans made by partici-
pating banks to eligible enterprises; the NRB would provide the CSI Fund's
initial capital of NRs 5 M (US$379,000) (Section 2.02(a) of the draft PA).
The NRB would provide additional capitalization to the Fund as may be required
to meet its operational needs (Section 2.02(b) of the draft PA). To supplement
the initial capitalization, the Government would relend to the NRB, under a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association, the proceeds of
the funds withdrawn from the credit account for refinance provided by NRB to
the participating banks, estimated at up to US$4.5 million equivalent; the
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk (Section 3.01(c) of the draft
DCA). Funds would be provided to the CSI Refinance Fund at two percent per
annum for refinanced subloans not exceeding NRs 20,000 (US$1,500) and four
percent per annum for those over NRs 20,000, repayable over 14 years, includ-
ing a three years grace period (Schedule to the draft PA). The NRB would
establish a CSI Refinance Unit, with functions and staffing satisfactory to
the Association, to manage the CSI Refinance Fund (Section 2.02(c) of the
draft PA). It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that: (i) the
Government had entered into a subsidiary loan agreement with the NRB, satis-
factory to the Association, for the use of the funds available under the
credit and (ii) the NRB had completed arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, for the establishment, financing, staffing and operation of the
CSI Refinance Fund and CSI Refinance Unit (Sections 6.01(a) and (b) of the
draft DCA).
40.       Three banks (ADBN, Nepal Bank Limited and Rastriya Banijya Bank)
would participate in the proposed project through their access to the CSI
Refinance Fund to refinance CSI subloans. The NRB would issue instructions
to the participating banks, outlining their operating procedures and respon-
sibilities; it would be a condition of its participation in the project that
each participating bank had established a CSI unit, with agreed CSI operating
procedures, and that the stipulated number of CSI personnel at headquarters
and key branches had completed pre-project training programs (Section 2.09(a)
of the draft PA). As the resources available to ADBN are in essence limited
at present to share capital and borrowings, ADBN does not have the advantages
of sizeable deposit mobilization to finance additional loans from its own
resources. As such, ADBN is not in a position to finance from its own re-
sources the portion of the subloan not refinanced by CSI Refinance Fund.
Therefore, the Government would make available to ADBN all amounts required
by ADBN to cover the portion of the subloans not refinanced through the CSI
Refinance Fund, including an initial amount of NRs 2 M for ADBN's first year
of operation under the project, plus funds to finance the cost of any arrears
arising out of ADBN's operation under the project (Section 3.02(c) of the
draft DCA). It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that the NRB had
issued instructions to at least two participating banks which had met the
conditions for participation (Section 6.01(d) of the draft DCA).
41.       The CSI Refinance Fund would refinance up to 80 percent of subloans
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.04(a) of
the PA). The maximum subloan to CSI and market agents would be NRs 800,000
(US$60,600 equivalent) for CSI with total fixed investment of up to NRs 800,000
and fixed cost per job of up to NRs 12,000 (US$900) after the subloan. The
structure of the refinancing rates would be established to provide a slightly



- 13 -
higher margin to the credit institutions for lending to the smaller CSI, and
thereby enable them to cover the relatively higher administrative costs of
such lending. Refinance from the CSI Refinance Fund would be denominated in
Rupees and available at five percent and seven percent per annum for loans
up to NRs 20,000 and those exceeding NRs 20,000, respectively. The partici-
pating banks would make subloans to the subprojects at 11 percent per annum
for periods ranging from 18 months to seven years, including a maximum grace
period of one year. This would provide a spread to the participating banks
of six percent for the smaller loans and four percent for the larger loans.
No more than 30 percent of the total amount of refinance under the project
would be for production facilities located in the Kathmandu Valley (Section
2.05 of the draft PA).
42.       To encourage banks to relax their usual collateral requirements,
the NRB would establish a CSI Credit Guarantee Scheme, satisfactory to the
Association, for subloans refinanced by the CSI Refinance Fund (Section
2.03(a) of the draft PA). Coverage would be provided up to 75 percent of
subloan amount and participation would be mandatory and automatic bnce the
subloan is refinanced by the CSI Refinance Fund. A one percent premium
would be charged against the outstanding balance of each subloan, which
would be paid from the NRB's spread. Procedures would be established to
enable banks to claim once their auditors certify a debt,as bad or not re-
coverable, rather than wait for the expiration of the maturity of the loan.
The Government would pay or make arrangements for an initial contribution
to the CSI Credit Guarantee Scheme of NRs 2 M, and provide additional amounts
on an annual basis so that the capitalization of the scheme is maintained at
no less than ten percent of the outstanding guarantees (Section 3.02(a) of
the draft DCA). It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that the CSI
Credit Guarantee Scheme had been established and the initial contribution paid
(Section 6.01(c) of the draft DCA). The CSI Credit Guarantee Scheme would be
transferred to the Credit Guarantee Corporation after the Government has made
appropriate arrangements to ensure that it is adequately capitalized and
adopts operating policies and procedures to enable it to provide effective
guarantees for term credit for CSI (Section 3.02(d) of draft DCA and Section
2.03(b) of the draft PA). The conditions to be met before such a transfer
is made were outlined in a draft supplemental letter.
43.       Initial short-term training for credit institution staff has begun,
financed under the UNDP Pre-Project Preparation facility for which the World
Bank acts as executing agency (para 53). Overseas training, lasting eight-ten
weeks, has been provided for twentyone officers, including five senior and
management level staff for the CSI units in each of the three participating
banks and for the CSI Refinance Unit staff. Local training, consisting of
three to four week intensive courses on CSI project appraisal and supervision
are being held in Kathmandu by trainers from the State Bank of India for about
60 staff from the headquarters and branches of the participating banks. A
short one to two week general CSI appreciation course will also be held for
about 20 managers and supervisors from the participating banks. Similar
training activities are to be undertaken during project implementation and
would be financed under the proposed project. The proposed project would
also provide 24 manmonths of technical assistance for the manager of the CSI
Refinance Fund to assist in establishing and conducting lending and refinance
operations.



- 14 -
Commercial and Technical Services
44.       The commercial and technical services would be focused on five
subsectors--carpets and other woolen products; handloom fabric and garments;
metal crafts; forestry-based products; and agro-industries. These subsectors
were selected because they account for the major portion of CSI production,
have good market prospects, and face problems which can be addressed within
a project. The key element in the development strategy for CSI is marketing.
With effective promotion, product development, and improved input supply in
response to specific market opportunities, exports can be increased signifi-
cantly. Where feasible, the project would utilize private sector commercial
organizations to expand their roles as organizers of CSI production and
export. Those who are already organizing and exporting CSI products are in
a strong position to assist with arranging input supply, marketing and train-
ing. Public sector institutions would concentrate on promotion, extension
services, and filling some gaps in the availability of commercial services
to reach remote areas. With the new Industrial Enterprises Act, the Gov-
ernment is attempting to provide a stable and positive environment for CSI
production and export. The Borrower and the Association would exchange views
from time to time on industrial policies, as they affect the CSI sector
(Section 3.08 of the draft DCA).
45.       The Trade Promotion Centre (TPC) under the Ministry of Commerce
and Supplies has established a Cottage Industries Export Development Divi-
sion (CIED) and a Cottage Industries Export and Product Development Fund
(CIEPD), with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association (Section
3.04(a)(ii) of the.draft DCA) to assist exporters in making market contacts,
adapting products and developing an export-orientated supply base. Staffing
for the CIED, satisfactory to the Association, would be in place by January 1,
1982 (Section 3.04(a)(i) of the draft DCA). TPC would furnish an action
program for the six month period beginning January 15, 1982, satisfactory to
the Association, by January 1, 1982 and thereafter, annual work programs for
the CIED would be prepared and furnished to the Association by May 31 of each
year (Section 3.04(a)(iii) of the draft DCA). The CIED would organize and
finance trade and familiarization trips, and arrange consultancy services to
assist with product adaptation, technological improvement, and organization.
Product specialist consultants would be engaged to support the activities of
the four major subsector units of the CIED, and one general consultant hired
to assist the CIED Director in overall operations (para 53).
46.       As an extension of the CIED, TPC would establish commercial offices
in New York and Frankfurt, called IMPACT offices, to provide the necessary
communication between exporters of CSI products and relevant markets and
importers. These offices are considered to be of critical importance in
assuring that production activities respond to market realities. The major
functions of these offices would be to: (i) provide information to potential
importers on products, prices, and supply capabilities of Nepalese exporters
and producers in the priority CSI lines; (ii) provide TPC and Nepalese ex-
porters with current information on potential buyers and fashion trends;
(iii) perform necessary trouble shooting, follow up and liaison on CSI ex-
port orders from Nepal; (iv) prepare and follow up on Nepalese participation
in trade fairs and sales trips; and (v) provide feedback from importers on



- 15 -
designs, sizing, and prices. Each TPC IMPACT office would have one Nepalese
staff member and two from the importing country. Consultants would be hired
to help establish the New York IMPACT Center. The New York IMPACT office
would be established by July 31, 1982; operations of the Frankfurt office
would be launched by July 31, 1983, with systems adapted from the New York
office (Section 3.04(b) of the draft DCA).
47.       The CIED would also utilize private sector agents to extend com-
mercial services beyond the Kathmandu Valley, to take advantage of exporters'
skills in sales, input supply and organization. Through performance con-
tracts, CIED would engage exporter organizations to develop selected cottage
industry clusters in the most promising areas in rural Gandaki and Bagmati
Zones, as special subprojects. About 25 performance contracts would be
undertaken, each covering about one-three panchayats with clusters of 100-150
cottage industry units. The maximum size of each performance contract would
be NRs 200,000 (US$15,200), and each contract would be submitted in draft to
the Association for review and approval (Section 3.04(c) of the draft DCA).
The contract proposal, developed according to the specific needs of the prod-
uct and area, would specify arrangements for training, input supply, orders,
quality control, and processing facilities over a two to three year period.
Once approved, the CIED would enter into a performance contract to pay the
performance contractor for the cost of such development work, including
training expenditures, such as staff and materials, and a portion of the
initial costs of establishing quality control systems and depots. Perfor-
mance contractors would be expected to contribute at least ten percent of the
subproject cost from their own resources. Term financing for the remainder
of the actual operating costs of the subproject (equipment, buildings, mate-
rials, and permanent working capital) would be arranged by the performance
contractor with the participating banks, on the standard CSI terms under the
project.
48.       The existing Cottage Industries Development Board (CIDB) would be
reactivated by January 1, 1982, in a form and with a work program for the
remainder of fiscal year 1982, satisfactory to the Association, to assume
the developmental activities of the DCVI in the project area (Section 3.05(a)
of the draft DCA). The CIDB would be responsible for: (i) extension ser-
vices in Kathmandu Valley; (ii) extension services and management of subsec-
tor development centers in areas of Gandaki too remote to interest private
performance contractors; and (iii) operations of the Handicraft Design and
Promotion Center. Annual work programs would be prepared and furnished to
the Association by May 31 of each year (Section 3.05(b) of the draft DCA).
49.       The CIDB would be reorganized along subsector rather than func-
tional divisions--cotton textiles, woolen goods, metal products, forest-
based products, and other products. The best technical staff of DCVI would
be shifted to the CIDB subsector divisions, with DCVI concentrating on ad-
ministrative functions. Specialist consultant services would be provided
for the four major subsector divisions for six months each to assist with
development of subsector-specific extension and training programs and train-
ing of CIDB staff and local artisans (para 53). About six wool, six handloom,
and four forest-based product development centers would be established in
Gandaki Zone, with staff trained and backed up by the CIDB Damauli office.



- 16 -
Services from the development centers would include training of artisans
and provision of raw materials, processing facilities and marketing services.
These development centers would be established in potentially promising areas,
which are either too remote or require too much development to initially
interest the performance contractors or private sector market agents.
50.       The Handicraft Design and Promotion Center would also be shifted to
the CIDB, and its programs would be reoriented to provide more commercially
relevant assistance to private exporters and the CIDB development centers.
Activities would include development of prototype designs and samples, and
development of appropriate technological adaptations in CSI manufacturing
processes. About nine manmonths of technical assistance would be provided
for the development and implementation of these product-specific extension
programs and design activities (para 53).
Raw Material Supply
51.       The proposed project seeks to improve the supply of wool and metal
raw materials to CSI's by establishing two private input supply companies.
The companies would be established as private limited companies, with member-
ship consisting of CSI exporters and manufacturers of wool and metal products
respectively; minority shares would be held by the Emporium to monitor pro-
curement and ensure that raw materials are sold at reasonable prices directly
to artisans, performance contractors, CIDB development centers, and share-
holders. These companies would be allowed the same import duty and sales tax
rebates as individual CSI importers. With this concession and by buying in
bulk, it is expected that the companies could deliver raw materials consider-
ably below current prices. At least 20 percent of the total financing for the
operations of each company would come from equity participation of the share-
holders; the remaining 80 percent would be provided in short and medium term
loans from the participating banks on commercial terms. The medium term loans
for these companies would be eligible for refinance from the CSI Refinance
Fund, subject to their being established with articles of agreement, owner-
ship, capital, financing and first year action program, all satisfactory to
the Association (Section.2.06(d) of the draft PA). Subloans to be refinanced
under the project would be limited to NRs 2.5 million per company in its
first year of operation (Section 2.04(a) of the draft PA).
52.       Additional assistance would also be required for the cotton hand-
loom industries expected to participate in the project. To service the
cotton yarn and accessory demands of about nine performance contractors and
about six CIDB development centers which are expected to work with cotton
handloom clusters, the Emporium would expand its operations. Under the
project, the Emporium would be eligible for medium term financing with the
participating banks to finance the purchase of cotton yarn in bulk and carry
an adequate stock of yarns and handloom accessories and to finance its stocks
of handloom products purchased from the handloom development centers for re-
sale to public sector enterprises. The Government would provide seed capital
to the Emporium, which would be sufficient to cover the 20 percent equity
contribution to subprojects as required by the commercial banks under normal
lending operations. This is expected to amount to about NRs 1.2 M by year
three of the project, when stocks are expected to be built up to about



-17 -
NRs 5 M. About six months of technical assistance would be provided to the
Emporium to assist in procurement procedures and institutional sales pro-
grams (para 53). Disbursements from the credit account for the refinancing
of subloans granted to the Emporium or for any equipment purchased for the
Emporium would be subject to the Emporium having: (i) established a cotton
yarn, equipment, and textile fund with policies, procedures, and staffing
satisfactory to the Association to undertake the project activities; (ii)
furnished an annual action programs by May 31 of each year, beginning May 31,
1982; and (iii) appointed a suitably qualified and experienced procurement
advisor under the technical assistance program (Schedule 1, para 4(ii) and
Section 3.06 of the draft DCA).
Technical Assistance and Training
53.       To facilitate the startup of project activities, technical
assistance and training have been arranged under a small UNDP financed Pre-
Project Preparation facility (US$224,000) with the World Bank as executing
agency. Foreign and local training in CSI lending practices is being pro-
vided for NRB and participating bank staff; outside training and exposure
trips have been arranged for management and specialist staff from the CIDB,
TPC, Emporium and private exporters; consultancy services have been provided
to assist in redrafting of the Industrial Enterprises Act, develop a moni-
toring and evaluation system for the project, and prepare TPC to undertake
CIED and IMPACT office activities. To further strengthen the implementation
capacity of the various project agencies, UNDP is expected to provide an
additional grant of US$2.0 M equivalent for technical assistance and training
under the project, with the World Bank as executing agency. As summarized
below, about 163 manmonths of technical assistance would be provided:
(a) Advisor to the manager of the CSI Refinance Fund - 24 months;
(b) One advisor and four product-specific specialist consultants
for the TPC CIED - 48 months;
(c) Short term design and sales promotion consultants for the
TPC CIED - 48 months;
(d) Four product-specific specialists for short-term consultancy
in launching CIDB extension and development center programs -
24 months;
(e)  Short-term design consultancy for Handicraft Design and
Promotion Center - nine months;
(f) Procurement advisor for Emporium - six months; and
(g) Monitoring and evaluation assistance for ISC - four months.
In-service training would also be provided for staff from the participating
banks. Sales, exposure and promotion trips would be provided through the
CIEPD Fund for performance contractors and other CSI manufacturers and
exporters. Short-term training and exposure trips would also be provided



- 18 -
through CIDB for its staff and leading artisans. It would be a condition
of credit effectiveness that the UNDP grant documents for these activities
had been duly signed (Section 6.01(e) of the draft DCA).
Implementation
54.       The proposed project would be implemented over a four year period.
The implementing agencies would carry out their specific activities and
responsibilities autonomously within the broad framework of objectives,
guidelines and procedures agreed between the Government and the Association.
The Government would make appropriate arrangements for appropriation and
allocation of funds to the project implementing agencies (Section 3.02(b) of
the draft DCA). In view of the complementary nature of the various project
components (e.g., extension work, access to raw materials and the proposed
bank lending), coordination of the various elements is essential. At head-
quarters, a CSI Coordinating Committee (CC), chaired by the Secretary, Min-
istry of Industry, would be established by January 1, 1982 to review progress
of the project, facilitate coordination among the implementing agencies, and
provide follow-up remedial measures (Section 3.07(a) of the draft DCA). Key
members of CC would include representatives of the National Planning Agency,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Commerce and Supplies, NRB, CIDB, TPC, ISC,
Emporium, and at least one representative of the private sector. A senior
officer of the Ministry of Industry would be the key contact point for the
various implementing agencies. At the district level, coordination would be
achieved by meetings between either TPC or CIDB, depending on the area of
operation, and representatives of the participating banks, private sector,
and local government officials as and when needed.
Monitoring and Evaluation
55.       The ISC would serve as a technical arm to the CC, to prepare in-
dependent monitoring of inputs, impact, and integration of the various com-
ponents. Each implementing agency would establish its own monitoring and
reporting systems and furnish financial and operational reports to the ISC,
who would then compile and furnish consolidated quarterly reports to the CC
(Section 3.07(b) of the draft DCA). These reports would then be forwarded
by the CC to the Association. Technical assistance has been provided under
the UNDP Pre-Project Preparation facility to the commercial and technical
service agencies to develop their monitoring and evaluation systems (para
53). About four manmonths of additional assistance would be provided to
ISC during project implementation, to assist with monitoring, surveys, and
active evaluation of ongoing programs. The participating banks would estab-
lish operating procedures for the CSI subloans, including improved supervi-
sion and collection procedures, and would report quarterly to the CSI Refi-
nance Fund. The CSI Refinance Fund would monitor and review the activities
of the participating banks as part of their refinance procedures. The CSI
Fund staff would also monitor appraisal, supervision, and collection stan-
dards of the participating banks and report regularly to the ISC on overall
performance (Section 2.11 of the draft PA).  All subloans over NRs 20,000
(or about 40 percent of all applications) would be carefully reviewed by CSI
Refinance Fund staff prior to approval. Although refinance for subloans
not exceeding NRs 20,000 would be granted according to minimum pro-forma
standards, a random sample of 20 percent of these subloans would be subject



- 19 -
to a more detailed post-approval review of technical, financial, and market-
ing aspects to ensure that these pro-forma standards continue to be relevant.
In addition to the routine monitoring and reporting, a formal review of the
project would be undertaken by the Government and the Association within 18
months of credit effectiveness (Section 3.12 of the draft DCA). The Govern-
ment and the NRB would prepare and furnish to the Association a project com-
pletion report not later than six months after the closing date (Section
3.11(c) of the draft DCA and 4.01(c) of the draft PA).
Cost and Financing
56.       The total project cost is estimated at US$12.0 M equivalent, in-
cluding contingencies and a negligible amount of taxes and duties. The cost
estimates are updated to September 1981 prices. The foreign exchange cost
is estimated at US$5.1 M equivalent or about 43 percent of total project cost.
The proposed IDA Credit of US$6.5 million equivalent would cover all foreign
exchange costs (excluding those financed under the UNDP program) and about
US$3.2 M equivalent of local costs, amounting to about 54 percent of total
project costs. UNDP is expected to provide US$2.0 M equivalent for technical
assistance and training programs. The credit institutions and beneficiaries
would contribute US$2.0 M equivalent as their contribution to the individual
subprojects. The Government and NRB would contribute the balance of about
US$1.4 M equivalent or about 12 percent of total project cost. The cost of
individual consultant's services is based on UNDP scales of about US$8,000
per month, including benefits, overheads, and travel.
57.       The Government would make appropriate arrangements for the allo-
cation of funds to cover the costs of implementing the various components
(para 54). US$4.5 M equivalent of the IDA Credit would be onlent by the
Government to the NRB via a subsidiary loan agreement and subject to the
Project Agreement between NRB and the Association (para 39). The interest
rates and spreads to the NRB and participating banks would be reviewed at
least annually by the Government, the Association and the NRB, and adjusted
to ensure that the minimum rate to final borrowers remains positive in real
terms in relation to medium term inflation projections, and at a level con-
sistent with the interest rates applicable to all term loans made to indus-
tries in the country, with spreads to the participating credit institutions
maintained at levels as set forth in the Project Agreement and subsidiary
loan agreement (Section 3.09(b) of the draft DCA). The NRB shall make the
agreed onlending rate for CSI under the project applicable to all CSI final
loans made by the participating credit institutions, except for loans for
CSI in remote areas as defined by the Borrower, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation (para 34 above and Section 2.04(b) of the draft PA). Inflation,
previously estimated at 10-12 percent appears to have abated with the good
monsoon and resulting improved agricultural production in early 1981. The
current medium term outlook calls for inflation to slow to about eight per-
cent by 1981/82. The interest rate to the final borrower of 11 percent
should therefore remain positive in real terms.
Procurement
58.       The NRB would ensure that the participating banks establish pro-
cedures to ensure that for the subprojects to be refinanced under the CSI



- 20 -
Refinance Fund: (i) the goods procured locally are purchased at reasonable
and competitive prices; and (ii) selection of goods procured outside Nepal
and estimated to cost more than the equivalent of US$5,000 per item or
US$20,000 per contract are made on the basis of at least three price quota-
tions (Section 2.07(a) of the draft PA). The CSI Fund staff would review
these procedures as part of their regular supervision of subloans. Pro-
curement for equipment, materials and consultants' services for the techni-
cal services components would be in accordance with Government procedures,
satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.03 of the draft DCA).
Approvals and Disbursements
59.       Disbursements from the IDA Credit would be for:  (i) 100 percent
of the portion of the subloan amounts refinanced by the CSI Refinance Fund;
(ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures
(ex factory), or 80 percent of other local expenditures for equipment and
materials for the commercial and technical services components; (iii) 50
percent of staff and operating costs of the commercial and technical services
components; (iv) 100 percent of the performance contract; and (v) 100 percent
of the foreign exchange costs of the equipment, consultants' services, staff
salaries and other operating costs, including rent and other non-personnel
related overheads, for the TPC offices abroad. Disbursements would be made
by statements of expenditure under (i) for refinancing of subloans not ex-
ceeding NRs 330,000 (US$25,000 equivalent) and under (iii). Requests for
disbursement against all other items would be fully documented. Prior to
submitting the relevant disbursement requests for withdrawals in respect of
the refinancing component for subloans in excess of NRs 330,000, NRB would
furnish to the Association for its review and approval the participating
bank's appraisal of such subproject; the deadline for these submissions would
be December 31, 1984 (Sections 2.06(b) and (e) of the draft PA). The records
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested on
the basis of statements of expenditure would be retained until one year after
the closing date of the credit (Section 4.01(b) of the draft DCA and 3.01 (b)
of the draft PA).
Audit
60.       The Government would cause participating agencies to establish
and maintain separate accounts for the project in accordance with sound
accounting practices and would ensure that these accounts would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association and fur-
nished to the Association not later than nine months after the end of each
fiscal year (Section 4.01(a) and (c) of the draft DCA). The NRB would
maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and record progress of
the credit component and of each subloan refinanced under the CSI Refinance
Fund; the NRB would cause these records and accounts to be audited annually
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association and furnished to the
Association not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(Section 3.01(a) and (c) of the draft PA).



- 21 -
Benefi s, Justification and Risks
61.       A major benefit of the project would be the strengthening of the
private and public sector institutions dealing with the CSI sector and the
development of replicable schemes for future CSI development. Significant
direct benefits are anticipated in increased CSI production, employment and
exports. With the project, exports are expected to maintain the 35 percent
annual growth rate experienced in the recent past, compared to a slowdown
to about 17 percent annual growth without the project. This would generate
about US$27.0 M of incremental exports over the 1981-84 period, for about
US$15.0 M incremental net foreign exchange earnings. Production for the
local markets, mainly in handlooms and agro-industries, would generate about
US$8.0 M of incremental output. The expanded export programs are expected
to provide about 10 M incremental days of employment over the three and
one half year period, whereas that for local markets is expected to provide
about 3 M incremental days of employment. The majority of the employment
created would be in the form of additional days worked by existing artisans,
rather than new full-time jobs. The performance contractors networks are
expected to provide regular employment to about 10,000 rural crafts units
by 1984. About one third of the employment and exports is expected to come
from rural Gandaki Zone, where CSIs probably would stagnate or decline with-
out the commercial and financial services to be provided under the project.
62.       About 2,600 loans would be made by the participating banks for a
total of NRs 79 M (US$6.0 M equivalent).  This represents a 20 percent in-
crease in lending volume for CSIs. The majority of these loans would go to
CSI units currently not serviced by the credit institutions. The average
subloan for cottage industries is expected to be about NRs 12,600 (US$950),
with average fixed cost per job about NRs 3,200 (US$240).  About 15,000 CSI
units would receive credit either directly or through the performance con-
tractors.
63.       As an operation designed to test innovative product-specific
schemes and institutional arrangements, risks exist that targeted results
would not be achieved for all components. While no new institutions would
be created, programs would be refocused and require significant strengthen-
ing. The project preparation period has been long and intensive; training
and technical assistance have been provided during preparation and will be
provided during implementation to assist each agency to fulfill its role.
The project incorporates detailed monitoring and evaluation systems for all
components. A formal joint review would be conducted after 18 months and
successful schemes may be expanded and others modified. The project design
relies heavily on the private sector, and in particular the performance
contractors, to manage the various facets of CSI production and export. The
performance contractors would be chosen from among the growing number of
medium-scale exporters who are likely to have established relations with
the credit institutions. The total direct project cost involved in the per-
formance contracts is small (less than two percent of total project cost, not
including the subloans which are taken at the performance contractors' own
risk), and, when compared to the possible benefits, is well worth the risk.
64.       One of the most critical factors for the project's success is the
marketing function. If orders are not acquired and executed effectively,
investments in training, redesign and expanded production will yield few



- 22 -
benefits. For this reason, the project provides special attention to market
links, through the IMPACT offices, product-specific assistance in design,
production, and marketing, and sales trips and fairs. Furthermore, over 60
percent of the expanded exports are expected to come from woolen carpets and
metal crafts, subsectors with fairly well-established market links and which
require little product design and adaptation to meet export market demands.
There is a risk that the credit institutions may not respond to the CSI needs,
but the project provides attractive spreads for CSI lending, guarantee cov-
erage, and training for credit institution staff, and deals with performance
contractors who tend to be the credit institutions' established borrowers.
Another risk is that individual craftsmen would not choose to expand their
production, but this is thought to be small as income levels are very low and
prospects for alternative employment are very limited.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
the NRB, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V! Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
66.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of credit effectiveness would be that: (i) the
Government had entered into a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, with the NRB for the use of the funds available under the Credit
(para 39); (ii) the NRB had established, satisfactory to the Association, the
CSI Refinance Fund and Unit (para 39); (iii) NRB had issued instructions to
at least two of the participating banks, which have met the conditions for
participation in the CSI Refinance Fund operations (para 40); (iv) a CSI Cre-
dit Guarantee Scheme, satisfactory to the Association, had been established
(para 42); and (v) the UNDP grant documents in support of the technical
assistance and training components had been duly signed (para 53).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 5, 1981



- 23 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A9RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                    -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            140.8                                 HOST RECENr          LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      40.2               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                   50.0        70.0    160.01k              232.3               1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       4.7         15.6      13.8              499.4                1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 9327.1       11415.8   14300.0/k
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 3.1           3.9       4.9                17.3                 40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       21.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         44.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       66.2         81.1      99.2               153.6                373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    243.5        286.8     339.5              360.3                2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          39.1        42.0      42.5               37.4                  39.8
15-64 YRS.                         57.4         55.0      54.5               59.2                  56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.5          3.0       3.0                3.5                   3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2         2.0       2.2/f              2.1                   2.3
URBAN                               4.2         4.3       4.6                3.4                   3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.9        44.8      42.1                27.7                 29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      29.0        23.2      19.9                10.2                  7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0         3.0       3.0                 2.5                  1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        37.4     146.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          0.7/c     4.3/c             20.4                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         106.0        101.0      83.0              107.1                 123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0         96.0      91.0               98.6                 112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0        51.0      48.0               56.9                  62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.0          9.0       9.0               14.2                  19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      34.6        29.1      24.8               14.6                   4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.9         40.6      44.0                57.7                 64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       152.0/d      ..                89.1                 50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *          2.0       9.0               30.1                  45.9
URBAN                             47.7         53.0      81.0               65.8                  68.0
RURAL                               ..           ..       5.0               20.1                  34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *'         1.0       1.0               17.6                  53.4
URBAN                                          14.0      14.0               71.0                  71.0
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                4.8                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         72867.9    51655.1/e 35253.2/e             3657.7                4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..     70905.57e 53538.2             6411.8                2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           8188.8       6951.5   6294.1              1132.8                 588.5
URBAN                            283.2        329.8     354.8              322.3                 579.6
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             5600.5                1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
NOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          5.5
URBAN                              5.4           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                              2.0           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                              30.2          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..



-24 -                                         ANMEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT           LW IMCAM              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 10.0         26.0      69.0                85.9                  99.8
MALE                  19.0        43.0      104.0                94.4                 100.6
FEMALE                 1.0         8.0       31.0                64.5                  98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  6.0         10.0      14.0                38.0/ao               53.5
MALE                  11.0        16.0       22.0                34.6ca-               58.4
FEMALE                 2.0         3.0        5.0                18.0/aa               48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   0.2           6.0       7.0                 3.8                  21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0         22.0      33.0                32.8                  34.2
SECONDARY                          32.0         21.0      25.0                19.9                  31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         9.0/g       14.3      19.2                52.8                  86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.2          0.4        ..                 1.7                  12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          4.8      15.0                35.3                 174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUS(ND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                 3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.8          2.4       7.4                14.6                 In6.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                3.4                   4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4813.2       5566.2    6678.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.5         39.2      38.5                29.3                  37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              94.6         93.9      93.2                69.8                  50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.0          2.1       2.0                14.1                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.6         48.8      47.8                39.7                  40.2
MALE                                 61.5         58.8      57.7                51.5                  49.8
FEMALE                               41.8         38.6      37.6                23.3                  31.1
ECONOMlC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9       1.0                 1.1                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
hIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..      35.3
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..      59.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..       4.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..       8.0
PUVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      95.0               134.1                 248.6
RURAL                                ..           ..      45.0               111.6                 193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  ..                 249.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      41.0                  ..                 234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0                41.7                  21.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      61.0                51.7                  32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Governxent progra only;  /d 1971-73:  /e Personnel in government services only;  /f Estimated annual
grovth rote for 1970-79; /x 1962; /b 1979/80.



-25 -                                                            ANNX I
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDtCATOSS
Notes   Although the data are dra   from  sources geer Sly judged the mos  uth-ri-aive  and reliable, it should also be outed tht they   y ro  ha li-te-
raioalyto       -ra "ehc- of the Ilatofsadarie    eiiiNa  u  vo-cets usedby 01ff eretaoutesittlttg heda-Tedtercne-
the1l...s,. usfult  d-rtab -eder  of nagnitudo, ~idiac   trend, aod chlracictas  cotat, mjo  dfat tersoc.e-.
sod tnoecifon, patioruct  caocrimednrairingvereec  vuosidiparrtoaogbc.   Tbaeeoregsarc Nty"hful  ncvmsvini                              taclu R_
rreirottatoratatimaaaorgthtoouttryaodrcfarmors  frours.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iltd   il-t,             -   idi.I
lT- -c AFT-1  -f1     e   e   ec    aiataa   urn    akrpie,p- tl                                     daI .~ l cr   r   o   tldd    Ou-et -bos-ai.hrro,-oidhat
onlne  b  cme  ooarin  rch   a  Pndtoo  ala-(9--79y bais i__O,                            and mod. ica.str   u   emrnl sPblfd byadphyicie  (bt b
iSSO, and 1070 data.                                                            cedical aemascena. nurse. mid97fe..ccc hPeiciufs  iv-oacPienlv
INF Rl CNITA (US$) Pt    p TA ,T  -pAnajo-     cko   f  omrileeg   pdia    uyssabntopnl   nld   il triccitpalgnolhsias
tripaty) in halo race of coal eqoisiror per oa pits  1960, 1971, sod1979,       cartrs.ipc      ilod   opel  era--I  itpffded    Phly unertpcs. b       y
daaa.                                                                   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~datisaoas   pr Ocdcotli`Netd - 91Total  number    f eestoen  o   itht
Toitalynriun  ta-la   (thuso de)h- Ia  fJuy1;D iSI,190,an 1579                                 ODIlSII'dS.  .;l                                                             _i1
dais,                                                               hoarser tier of PousaholdH.2 by   T- Ste bo  - re   h doseold - toa.  -tan  nod- rural
among on            idrim - 1960. ..9.0 ad.) A      ,,1   90   90 1979                        HOUSaeING     hl  tnmatsiclpnyse
Pouain  tva,71      uoctrploicpojc-ntrebsdon-9                                                     e  opesono per_.1 true "i allurah and ruhelopcuied Io",rI'da
total  cpulatcr b  ag   o   o   n  terrrbiy   a   rtlr   rors                              urh hns  respectivel . trlireoLudanrfrsnrmnttos
Projectio   _aasaefcmra  t   srsretc   fttaiolsise                                             ocoldyra
leg lfe epeotacy a   hAc ceulgri   onr  aprc  isnoa                                    ceet       Elntrciv               'leren  of drldgel -Y tol  urbanb, en-drats  i-
fertIlitysopordingto  npoorlevel end poet faily plttn   performance...  l  t    j   1                                          1   t..   .d-
bah  uoac  I  that ameigb    r  our of thee cic  combnatios  pf drneliy                   TtioTlDf
sod  coal. lty         f.td   for . prjrino  papch .Aduteinrisrtor
itariomary coraatloc-Ioenietlnery  popolationthoro it Ic grorh 55rPm            Primao school - totl. male end fcela-Grosrtotol,sale and femal
ahhnhee Itrulc  h  dothsr.osio hesg                        -1srructunIRooa-             enole tofallgee-vrpnc                dr lenclas pecnagso e-e
asnmatd o  th  bain  f te pojetedcheacarieo  ofThe popltio                            acenepplsarbb   or ahvtb   f  u                        toiae
f-inth -y f-nlDfl  endebr1-o h.e o elith-        fetiico-       etralae-Dcorereoto-trs.clcndemleC Mptdebo;scnar
cent lee.-adudtiogreqiresit last  oot  sard0t-pproedlpycsay iodrurior
tona  ace; ltD   197               ... d  1979 lt data.                                        Iincuetcncl   nutra,o   ie   rgeaYbc    prt   cead
ony               'hi. 9D  n  17  drco  _oril-tracher rgni  - trimary. -an  ssodey-   Toalsvdet_ rrrlsdh
Porue .t. ire   1111 ratre(rmIn).. - . CP,dr  (5-4 Seem),  mrkie-g   (5                           primarY and-secondarylevels divid=d y numbers ofilteachers LA - I
-rn    -dn -yo   thDad199Oar bedul                                                                       b litrac   rae deccnt   -f,iss     pautc  shsto    den    ie
Povoltho.nuhtn    cron     oa      ramlgoa   ae   fatlrd                                            e   percentage o  nofal adul  pouainae-1Yer  end  nst-
l-ction    for. .195-tI, 19  i-70  anhd 9(-79.d. .                                             Pesrerir  -(rep. thusn  rf...tnoa-    Psas -ge  pasorple ar
Crud  erh tt   vttosnl-anallv    itsprcosn  o   i-mrcr    arn   less- than eight persons;h: seldsab-                                                         noe   are   n
PoPo1ln-Dn ..io  110  19.. sod1959data                                                              tili17rpfegiolP..
irud  Ist  btfe k.        uend.       Anuld_ ni   erth-era fki-yitld-  tpa,rmfetrhnlod  orlnhrl-Al tps  f  esdar   orrsi
popuertm; ltt.195, nod 1970di,hndcss  ogrrlpbi  pertthousnf                                                                                  fpplnr;scue   n
r-iiy rcs   sal   ieya   vrgs  nigi   gI   91   n   99                                          ma9at c1t70Atl s sbtlsbsdliceIiag
Party Pnnnoe-Aoeoorn 19o78         ncusds   Anil  ube   facetosT tcinr   nc   hosn                                             --dultn y i-   acevesfat      bodcstn
wrent" of ' ohl-beri    g (PI-lu  yars  rhold    (0cc  y.t) bin -cork  eicgg.  to5              "Nsmecsrs  Cic.to .      Star ths      Id dorlann)-.T Ibon  the  vaag  ai-
64  marrie-d ara   nar   t   ou.rlno    f'sl   eme    neetrmypr,Ofodaprota
..d 1171 d.,.. ~ ~    ~         ~       ~        ~       ubiaio    eotdpimrl  t   eoriggeea  rc.Iti   oniee
FPOO OhIDTIID                                                                                        o  e     daiy   fi   per   tlwrfu    itae
irsased   f suentS 9hich se  edible  and coti  nuiiats  (e..toffe  and                             Pr tg   ftt1dj                             ,
tea ar  esnlded).   ggcm0ns poountl  7 ofsc   nneyI 7e   n                       mO   O
naioalanres  enu'rP'     isaih         19bt1-i5 -t 19 t0, and 1979 d   pt.p.TCNSUMPLAbOrN               oc   cosns      orecal   cieproe                        id
Pe   nio  nrrofrSrer(epn   frnlemns     Cnse  fo                                            redfre  adim1opdbtesid.g6acmve,aaers    r.
energy fquvas   of56     net food suyIeevisl   ncunr   e   apt                                  ovrn    ouaar   fala_.t7itir   nvriu   onn                                  t
macC       eebitae ySD  ae   rpyiological needs . fo  fuea  aur-,.                                f(shng a  pretage ofd total-labo  foc;190   9t a 97                       s
cit 6en   helhcnleigsvroctlameaon,bd   egt,ae                                          Ddso   nrei     Labogfrct i  earng.c...rc.ir, hsefetuci
arden  dmnlhnir  f  oplaio, ad  llrig  0  opon  fr  ane  n             ad   leneniy,raeran  gs  s  aroatgenft_silaorfooc  lnD
PFeec'  t   nrloo   rttn(nm   s day). -  otInpretoprosis                                       Faicain tone..(reacent) --trial,Pmale, antfmlePsnre It  opd
an97p0.ffndprda.Ntropyv  fo   t  eie  a   bv. e1ctvt9afseac7ptd   sitl,ml,de   eal  aa  frea
plspotean  nf - a-iT-9 1         b  fre   shud-ghatnrn  prt in.  Tb see   udn-.rfleting. se-me  atobliac  af rho r-plad o,adDngtsns
crdsas lnwcthacbose   fSlgnmaofnnalpoimlradllgrmsof                          ewsst,nacesea  fcensIorsIsdofPs
Child psnl1l)_      otliytoe(entouad -                A_cusl dIa.ha pr  toue    it               Prstage ofi Pri hst   o i -e(ohin  nhrd  id      lcte   b   lha
agellI. g   J.u 1- years  no chlre.n.      hs.g  grou; fy mat dvelpitt coon                        I p..rcet      ILbs    D ercnt preemp       S  ecen  ed  oretO-prcI
9EALTt                                                                POStaTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Toa lty umPPltZ
Life  ensoanryn toch (eers  - Aerag  nobe  of- seo   iermitg                           h   olwn    s ae  ate vary                 -    t aproimr  maae  at' poet tl e
at- b 1irh; 1960, 197  and , 1979 ' drtr      h                                                   and shoul  be int-rtetedfrTt consderelefntin
ofae deRhomnd o  bIrths.                                                                    Absolute pevarn   ic hm loyal is that incm-edhl Sh..              icha mima
pI   nnae   f  hi.dpctn    ouaioa    nnrcncnpbi pfcarma  income- -1t.b                                               ofte  onry    rnlvl  sdrive  frmthai ura
foonsir  r cedpmt lcate  ownmar  ake  200          - star   f P.e  - os   a   eln    itedaaaaEthg  rceto                                  igi   rsaes
resnal   com   nudiml  hadh  hasmf  o                    breo   h  brsod                      sod- totld d- J    h.rsa  ofpooltto   obradrrl   h   r   sm
limter  f people      ~ (noel  uciol, nnd rual  seve,yi-cea  isnsle
ofth g respetiv  pp-n-nnirue       I. tarea dmpsa  mo      =nld
her inanslblasdLABOoFOsC
Pouato           F    I hsvnn    ouanr   its9b uhr  fpsiuigppi
casneit qualifie  from- s-1diob-F.scbnc__atoo-varm,_lev__.
Frltion tar l- Nusn    asn    opltofiie  byf ndrbCr of pndtioiildg
malsrfeml-radsn-nsec   ysonca  nuse,sd-sisantorca



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - NEPAL
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1980:  US$140 a/
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1980                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH, 1960-1979
(%, constant prices)
US$ Mln. 
GDP at Market Prices                   1,989       100.0                               3.1
Gross Domestic Investment                268        13.5
Gross Domestic Saving                    148         7.4
Current Account Balance (exc.
official grants)                       -72        -3.6
Exports of Goods, NFS                   241         12.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                   361         18.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/80
Value Added
Value Added               Labor Force b/            Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %             Mln.       %                 US$
Agriculture                           1,065         57              6.9       93                155
Industry                                251         14              0.1        2              1,696
Services                                543        29               0.4        5              1,468
Total/Average                    1,859       100               7.4      100               251
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. Mln.
% of GDP
1976/77       1977/78       1978/79        1979/80       1979/80
Current Receipts                       1,302.2        1,559.3       1,791.6        1,852.9          7.8
Current Expenditures                      784.1         815.0         982.1        1,078.9          4.5
Current Surplus                           518.1         744.3         809.5          774.0          3.2
Capital Expenditure                    1,486.4        1,792.9          61.5       2,346.6           9.6
External Assistance (Net)                 538.1         830.7         989.4        2,293.2          5.5
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980          1981
(mid-April) c/
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                             2,524      3,223      3,772      4,512      5,285         6 097
Bank Credit to Government                          480         750        966      1,129      1,258         1,254
Bank Credit to Public Enterprise                    567        511        869      1,080      1,131         1,190
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       716        864      1,072      1,332      1,917         2,382
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                  14.5       18.7       19.3       21.1       22.1           ...
General Price Index (1974/75 = 100)                99.3      102.0      113.3      117.3      128.7         146.4 (March)
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                -0.7        2.7       11.2        3.5        9.8          12.4 d/
Bank Credit to Government                         67.8        66.3       28.9       16.9       11.4          -6.2 e/
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                 -0.4       -9.9        70.1       24.3        4.7           3.0 e/
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     -8.6        20.7       24.1       24.3       43.9          28.8 e/
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
a/ World Development Report 1981.
b/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
c/ Estimate.
d/ March 1981 vs. March 1980.
e/ April 1981 vs. April 1980.
not available



-27 
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1979/80 a/
USS Mln.      %
1977/78     1978/79     1979/80
(Millions US$)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                         88.8        108.5         95.1              Agricultural products                    67.2        7'.7
Imports, c.i.f. b/                       209.7         244.7       294.3              Manufactures                              27.9        29.3
Trade Balance                       120.9       -135.2       -199.2                  Total                                 95.1      100.0
Services, net                              47.6         65.6         91.6
of which:  Tourism                      30.2          41.8        54.0              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
US$ Mln.
Transfers, net                             25.1         30.1         36.1
of which:  Private Remit.               18.3          25.5        29.6              Public Debt, inc. guaranteed                176.7
Indian Excise Fund          25.1          3.0          3.1              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Account Balance             -48.2        -39.7        -71.7              Total Outstanding & Disbursed               176.7
(exc. grants)
Official Grants                            23.9         42.9         63.2
Official Capital, net                      22.7         36.0        48.1
Private Capital, net                     -10.4           9.7       -37.4              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1979/80 c/
Change in Reserves                   12.0        -48.9         -2.2              Public Debt, inc. guaranteed                1.5
(- Increase)
Gross Reserves (mid-July)                 140.6        179.8        187.0
Net Reserves                              131.6        151.0        153.2              IBRD/IDA LENDING, (June 1981)(Millions US$)
IBRD        IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports of which:  Petroleum            18.6          16.7        30.2              Outstanding S Disbursed                               92.8
Exports of which:  Petroleum             --            --          --               Undisbursed                                ----      203.8
Outstanding, tncl. undisbursed                       296.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From October 1975                From March 20, 1978
Through October 1975            through March 20, 1978            through September 19, 1981             Since Se:tember 19, 1981
USS1.00 = NRs 10.56             US$1.00 = NRs 12.5                US$1.00 = NRs 12.00                   US$1.00 - NRs 13.20
NR 1.00 = USS 0.095             NR 1.00 = US$  0.08               NR 1.00 = US$  0.083                  NR 1.00 - US$  0.076
a! Customs basis.
b/ Payments basis.
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Gbods and Non-Factor Services.
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
September 1981



ANNEX II
-28-                          Page  1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981) /a
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
No.  Year        Borrower           Purpose                 IDA    Undisbursed
Three credits fully disbursed
373   1973    Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation                   7.1        0.3
397   1973    Kingdom of Nepal  Telecommunications II        5.5        1.3
470   1974    Kingdom of Nepal  Water Supply and
Sewerage                11.8        2.2
505   1974    Kingdom of Nepal  Settlement                   6.0        4.1
600   1977    Kingdom of Nepal  Kulekhani
Hydroelectric           40.8        5.2
617   1976    Kingdom of Nepal  Rural Development            8.0        4.1
654   1976    Kingdom of Nepal  Groundwater                  9.0        1.8
659   1976    Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Assistance         3.0        0.7
704   1977    Kingdom of Nepal  Second Water Supply
and Sewerage             8.0        5.1
705   1977    Kingdom of Nepal  Industrial Development
Corporation              4.0        3.2
730   1977    Kingdom of Nepal  Second Highway              17.0        8.0
772   1978    Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Education          5.7        5.2
799   1978    Kingdom of Nepal  Telecommunications III   14.5          14.4
812   1978    Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation                  30.0       24.2
856   1978    Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation                  14.0       12.5
939   1979    Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural
Development             11.0       10.9
1008  1980    Kingdom of Nepal  Forestry                    17.0       16.8
1055  1980    Kingdom.of Nepal  Mahakali Irrigation         16.0       15.8
1059  1980    Kingdom of Nepal  Third Water Supply          27.0       27.0
1062  1980    Kingdom of Nepal  Grain Storage                6.2        6.2
1093  1981    Kingdom of Nepal  Babai Engineering            3.5        3.2
1100  1981    Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension   17.5          17.5
1101  1981    Kingdom of Nepal  Hill Food                    8.0        8.0
Total Outstanding /b                     296.6
Total Undisbursed                                   197.7
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
W   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of September 30, 1981)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year     Obligor        Type of Business              Loan   Equity   Total
1975   Soaltee Hotel       Hotel                      2.70    0.43       3.13
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC             2.27    0.43      2.70
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit No. 373 - Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Credit of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973;
Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is nearly completed and final disbursements for com-
pleted works are expected shortly. Crop yields achieved in irrigated areas
are promising. Water charges are now being levied in a limited area, and
farmers' acceptance is satisfactory. A project completion report is being
prepared.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.0 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973;
Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior
management, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays
in procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good
progress is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants,
provided by the United Kingdom, and a new General Manager. The project is
now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
mid 1982, two years behind schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport to
present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 Million
Credit of May 8,1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After a long mobilization period the project is now progressing
favorably with all major works nearing completion. The Closing Date was
delayed to allow time for completion of the ongoing contracts after this
monsoon period.
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14,
1974; Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date:
July 15, 1982
Project implementation is far behind schedule. By the Closing
Date, it is expected that only about one third of the originally planned land
will be cleared and less than half of the originally planned number of
families will be settled. Due to continuing doubts about land use, timber
clearing, and timber export policies, the Project will be closed on schedule,
with an estimated US$3 M undisbursed.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: Deecember 31, 1982
Construction progress in the main civil works has been satisfactory
and on target. Reservoir impounding commenced June 9, 1981. Generator No. 1
is scheduled to be commissioned in November, 1981. The revised estimate of
project costs, excluding taxes and duties, is now US$109 million which is
some 60% higher than the estimate of US$68 million at the time of appraisal.
The increases in costs are due to a number of factors, and the risk factors
inherent in a major project which is remotely located. Cofinanciers are
providing additional funds to cover the foreign exchange cost overrun. An
IDA supplemental credit of US$14.8 million and an EEC Special Action Credit
of US$3.0 million equivalent were approved by the Executive Directors on May
10, 1979.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Until recently progress had been satisfactory, with almost all-
planned project actions being implemented ahead of schedule. However, the
uncertainties regarding the referendum and election aggravated some of the
usual difficulties in the administration. Disbursements had been lagging
due to delay of project authority in submitting disbursement applications.
Interministerial cooperation is good, and at the district level, sound and



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
practical development plans have been produced which are fully suppported and
understood by project farmers. Shortage of middle-level staff in the project
area for construction supervision and agricultural extension may hinder
project implementation. However, arrangements have been made for more effi-
cient deployment of existing staff and for special training of farmers as
part-time agricultural assistants. Under the associated Bank-executed UNDP
technical assistance project, the assistant to the Project Coordinator and
the Irrigation Advisor have completed their assignments. Follow-up assis-
tance is being arranged under the Second Rural Development Project.
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 16,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Drilling of tubewells is in progress. Over fifty of the planned
63 production wells have been constructed. Progress of all civil works is
very slow due to the weakness of local contractors. Project implementation
is over two years behind schedule. Construction of the 11 KV transmission
lines is proceeding more expeditiously and consequently, pumps and motors
should be installed soon in the completed tubewells.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Studies for the agricultural extension and research project, a
silica-lime brick factory, an airborne magnetometer survey, an agricultural
manpower survey, cottage industries and the grain storage project have been
completed, while studies are in progress for river control for the
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project, the upgrading of mechanical workshops for
irrigation projects, electrical accessories and leather goods, and cash crop
development.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of Mlay 27, 1977; Effective Date: February 28,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
There have been serious delays in procurement but bidding of major
contracts is now practically completed and the overall progress is expected
to be more satisfactory in the future. Due to delays in bid evaluation and
receipt of bids which are not fully responsive to the tender document, con-
tracts for the supply of pipes and construction of reservoirs have been
retendered.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 705 - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 17, 1978; Revised Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The UNDO-financed policy advisor completed his assignment and the
accounting and information systems advisor took up his post in February 1980.
To date, subprojects for about US$2.2 M have been approved by IDA. Progress
in implementation of the credit has deteriorated due to shortages of com-
plementary local currency resources. Accordingly disbursement have continued
to lag.
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project remains about two years behind schedule,
recent major improvements in the Borrower's management give rise to the
expectation that project performance will improve and that substantial com-
pletion may possibly be achieved by the Closing Date of December 31, 1982.
Good progress is being made in the construction of the Tulsipur feeder road
and significant improvement has been achieved in the organization of work on
the Thankot-Naubise Road.
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US45.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Good progress towards implementation has been made. Contracts have
been signed for all civil works packages, including external works; however,
equipment tendering is behind schedule. Construction is underway for all
buildings. Contracts for about 75% of the equipment have been awarded. A
second batch of fellowship students have completed their programs and tech-
nicians are starting their program shortly. A team of educational experts,
financed by ODA, have begun work in the field and a program of cooperation
with Paisley College of Technology, Scotland, is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 799 - Third Telecommunications Project US$14.5 million Credit
of August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
ODA is financing the telex equipment and the satellite earth sta-
tion. Project consultants have been appointed. Procurement actions have
been initiated, but expected to be about two years behind schedule.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 812 - Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
US$30.0 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In July 1980, a landslide in the catchment area caused a major
flood in the Kosi river, causing a considerable erosion and endangering the
Chatra Main Canal. Emergency flood protection works were carried out. As a
result of this event it was agreed that river training works are not viable.
The sediment control studies are expected to be completed by mid-1981.
Rehabilitation work on the Chatra Main Canal and procurement of construction
equipment are ongoing. Local consultants are completing designs for the
first 12,000 ha of the irrigation system and international tenders will be
invited to submit bids for construction.
Credit No. 856 - Narayani Zone Irrigation Department - Stage II Project
US$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding steadily, although slower than
anticipated. The major constraint is the weakness of local contractors.
Construction is now on-going in five of the six irrigation blocks. Procure-
ment of construction and O&M equipment is underway. The project is at least
two years behind schedule.
Credit No. 939 - Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills
US$11.0 million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
January 15, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The Project Coordinator has been appointed, but project activities
are approximately two years behind schedule. The administrative arrangements
for coordination have not been completed since the transfer of responsibility
to the Ministry of Local Development.
Credit No. 1008 - Community Forestry Development and Training Project
US$17.0 million of May 22, 1980; Effective Date:
September 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The Community Forestry Development and Training Project has been
established. Satisfactory work is progressing for construction of nurseries
and plantings in the first year work program. Training of forest assistants
is underway and 31 forest officers have been sent on foreign study tours.
Fifteen associate experts and volunteers, plus the silviculturist and
socio-economist have taken up their posts under the technical assistance
component. Delays in the release of funds has hampered both vital capital
and promotion works. The coordinating committees have not been established
and staffing of the CFAD and field posts is not satisfactory.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 1055 - Mahakali Irrigation Project (Stage I) US$16.0 million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date:
February 27, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The engineering consultants have been appointed and are commencing
work. The Mahakali Irrigation Board has been established and the Project
Manager, senior roads engineer, and agricultural development officer have
been appointed.
Credit No. 1059 - Third Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$27.0 million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date:
August 31 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The engineering consultants have been engaged. ODA assistance in
training and laboratory operations is continuing.
Credit. No. 1062 - Grain Storage Project US$6.2 million Credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 3, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Arrangements are nearly completed for employing the engineering
consultant. NFC has assumed management responsibility for the Rice Exporting
Companies and the Project Management and Coordination Committee have been
established.
Credit No. 1093  -  Babai Irrigation Engineering Project US$3.5 million
Credit of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 5, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Consultants have been appointed and works have been initiated.
Credit No. 1100 - Agricultural Extension and Research Project - US$17.5
million Credit of April 6, 1981; Effective Date:
July 8, 1981; Closing Date: July 15, 1987
The technical assistance agreement has been signed and recruitment
of advisers is underway. The project coordinator has been named. The first
shipment of fertilizer under the project has been made.
Credit No. 1101 - Hill Food Production Project - US$8.0 million Credit
of April 6, 1981; Effective Date: May 28, 1981;
Closing Date: July 15, 1987
The project coordinator has been appointed and project activities
scheduled to begin in FY1981/82. The first shipment of fertilizer under the
project has been made.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
NEPAL
COTTAGE INDUSTRIES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENT PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:        Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
24 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Committee of key implementing agencies, with
assistance of consultants and IDA missions;
DCVI sponsored and ISC conducted a detailed
preparation study on the most promising CSI
subsectors.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
November 1977
November/December 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
June 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
October 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
December/January 1982
Section II:       Special Bank Implementation Actions
Executing Agency for UNDP-financed technical assistance
and training programs.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:      Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Government had entered into a subsidiary loan agree-
ment, satisfactory to the Association, with the NRB
for the use of funds available under the Credit
(para 39);
(b) the NRB had established, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, the CSI Refinance Fund and Unit (para 39);
(c) the NRB had issued instructions to at least two of
the participating banks, which had met the condi-
tions for participating in the CSI Refinance Fund
operations (para 40);
(d) the NRB had established a CSI Credit Guarantee
Scheme, satisfactory to the Association (para 42);
and
(e) the UNDP grant in support of the technical assis-
tance and training programs had been duly signed
(para 53).
Other Conditions
(a) Key staff positions for the Cottage Industries Ex-
port Development Division would be filled and annual
action program for the remainder of fiscal year 1982,
satisfactory to the Association, would be prepared
by January 1, 1982 (para 45);
(b) TPC would establish IMPACT offices in New York by
July 31, 1982, and in Frankfurt by July 31, 1983
(para 46);
(c) The Cottage Industries Development Board would be
reactivated by January 1, 1982, with a work program
for the remainder of fiscal year 1982 and in a form
satisfactory to the Association to assume the
responsibilities of the DCVI in the project area
(para 48);
(d) Conditions of disbursement for refinancing of sub-
loans to the Emporium or for any equity to be added
to the Emporium would be that the Emporium had es-
tablished a yarn, equipment, and textile fund with
policies, procedures, and staffing all satisfactory
to the Association, that it had appointed a suitably
qualified and experienced procurement advisor and
that it had furnished to the Association an annual
action program (para 52); and



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 3
(e) The interest rates and spreads would be reviewed
at least annually and adjusted to ensure that the
minimum rate to find borrowers remains positive in
real terms in relation to medium term inflation
projections and at a level consistent with interest
rates applicable to all term loans made to other
industries, with spreads maintained at least at the
levels established for the startup of the project
(para 57).






\                              ~~~~~~~~~812                                                    84                                                             86-                                                              8,8
X  b    t  C                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~N EPAL
ro/  ( >   ~ llunila  ~--N                                                                        COTTAGE AND SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
. Dairilula S  t m.  e   / .\   ~~~~ PROJECT  AREA
L,  ^!           +   Muqu    <         * \                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA
), =   (  \   \ 8  4,   <   /      .                                                                    -    --   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D IST RICT BOUN DA R IES
.  t  sC   R 6,    +             ,        Tlbri~, b,,kot               .,                                                                           -      -     ZONAL BOUNDARIES
,D-ndeldh.r,4'  Dot, ->                  Jui   g>t                                           
I t t t t %, ~Achh-rl                                                                                                                                                         <S~ ola  >  /    4 Rt  C,ltNAL DEVELOPMENT BOUNDARIES
Ksch m -                                                                                                                 Ifr.-(bi_  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
<    t   \                   ? >         '~~~~~~~~~~, tja,ja,kot       
e   ox        ~~K.fllli     1,                            .         R.k-l           j                   g         lanaNg       , t
i .> / st ~~~Surkhet                     '            )          V*    \ MglS _t
se  X    t   a       R    At  P    T          . Baglun13 g < 9   + 'Z     G   A   N  ,D    A    K) I            
>*<   D n  D  kh  tt   eKh9  hlL     r               R   ~~~~Tanahu   >      (V B <A  vG M f A   T    I                                                                 f 
D  6   MPlp g D~k.l  _.Kh hi                                                                                     f l t$kh ~t2, 
I  N   D  I  A                                     t   Kapi~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lb5i'Ruadh   a P      ,                i      MawNP -k.t ec)Kbr  )               $      g                            Sba SJ
<.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                  r{ /Bh ktrp-h- 5                                            S-h.             T  Cy  _p  q-gs> 
N~~~~~~~~IE D                            20   '40                                                                                                     ./0 80   10                               S   Cbh .i t  >Udl
f)  |  T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R p                                                 dhis                         = has  b   e  e Mpr e ptrdb.h old                   en  st-f xls tvFrtnc   l)j/SnalC
<,              otheeadesofhereontwhlohits ttichd Tedenmm.onsuededth                                                                             |    / _         Srha                           )   oraChiitap
O boundanesshownonthismepdonotzmpiv.onthepartoftheWorld8ankand stS \ _- ,_. Saptarl tin / . ^ { ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .T accept-rqc  Rh ...... bon nsr                                                                                                        
b,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~KLMTR 82                                                                                 84                                                              86                                                             88      :   2  403  Z)Dtkt



