-   FFCIAL       EDIT NUMBER 1191 NEP
QOCM:ENTS
Project Agreement
(Cottage and Small Industries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NEPAL RASTRA BANK
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1191 NEP
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1982, between
the INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (hereinafter called
the Association) and the NEPAL RASTRA BANK (hereinafter called
NRB), established pursuant to the Nepal Rastra Bank Act, 2012
(1955), as amended to the date of this Agreement, of the Kingdom
of Nepal (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of e.      date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,700,000), a part of which is to be relent to NRB on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that NRB agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS NRB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of NRB
Section 2.01. NRB shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and
conduct its operations and affairs, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial and


﻿-2-
investment standards and practices, with qualified and experienced
management, in accordance with the NRB Act and the statement of
policies and operating procedures referred to in Section 2.02 (a)
of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project, NRB shall:
(a) (i) establish and maintain a CSI Refinance Fund with
accounting procedures and a statement of policies and operat-
ing procedures satisfactory to the Association; (ii) pay into
the said Fund an initial capital of not less than five million
rupees (Rs 5,000,000); (iii) use the funds in the CSI Refinance
Fund exclusively to refinance up to eighty per cent (80%) of
Sub-loans made by Participating Credit Institutions to Investment
Enterprises for Sub-projects and to finance the costs of opera-
tions related thereto;
(b) provide such additional capitalization as may be re-
quired from time to time to meet the operational needs of the
CSI Refinance Fund; and
(c) establish and maintain within its organization, a CSI
Refinance Unit, with functions, a Manager and professional staff
with qualifications, experience and terms of employment, satis-
factory to the Association, and with such other support staff
as shall be required for the carrying out of its functions.
Section 2.03. (a) NRB shall: (i) establish and maintain a CSI
Credit Guarantee Scheme within its organization, with an initial
capital of not less than two million rupees (Rs 2,000,000) and
with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii) use the funds in the said Scheme exclusively to provide
guarantees of up to 75% of the principal amount of Sub-loans
refinanced under the CSI Refinance Fund.
(b) NRB shall transfer the CSI Credit Guarantee Scheme to
CGC only if the Borrower shall have complied with the provisions
of Section 3.02 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NRB shall refinance Sub-loans made by the Participating
Credit Institutions on the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement applicable to Sub-loans and Sub-projects, including,
inter alia, those set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement,


﻿-3-
provided however that, Sub-loans to be refinanced for any Trading
Company in its first year of operation, shall not exceed the
amount of two million five hundred thousand rupees (Rs 2,500,000).
(b) NRB shall: (i) make the interest rate for Sub-loans,
as specified in Part E of the Schedule to this Agreement and as
such rate may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with
Section 3.09 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, applicable
to all CSI loans by Participating Credit Institutions (except
loans for CSIs in remote areas defined by the Borrower and satis-
factory to the Association); and (ii) participate in the interest
rate reviews referred to in Section 3.09 (b) of the Development
Credit Agreement and take all action necessary to implement any
interest rates or spreads established pursuant to the provisions
of said Section.
Section 2.05. NRB shall ensure that no more than 30% of the
total amount of the Credit allocated to Part A of the Project,
shall be utilized in respect of Sub-loans made to Market Agents
for production facilities located in the districts of Kathmandu,
Bhaktapur and Lalitpur.
Section 2.06. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of this Agreement, NRB shall submit Sub-loans for
Investment Enterprises to the Association. for approval or for
authorization of withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b) When submitting a Sub-loan in an amount exceeding
the equivalent of $25,000 to the Association for approval,
NRB shall furnish an application, in a form satisfactory to the
Association, which shall include a description of the Investment
Enterprise and of the Sub-project (including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed and an appraisal of the
Sub-project) and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c) Each request by NRB for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a Sub-loan in
an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $25,000 shall be
accompanied by a statement which shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Sub-project
(including a description of expenditures financed under the
Sub-loan for such Sub-project), and shall indicate that such
Sub-loan has been refinanced in accordance with the provisions of


﻿-4-
this Agreement and such other supporting documentation as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(d) In the case of applications for approval or requests for
authorization of withdrawals in respect of the first Sub-loan to
any Trading Company, the documentation to be furnished by NRB to
the Association pursuant to the foregoing paragraphs of this
Section shall include, in addition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such Trading Company has been duly established
in accordance with the laws of the Borrower, with articles of
agreement, membership composition, paid-in capital and financing
plan and a first year action program of operation which are all
satisfactory to the Association.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NRB
shall submit applications for approval of Sub-loans pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section on or before December 31, 1984.
Section 2.07. (a) NRB undertakes that, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby
the lending Participating Credit Institution shall obtain, by
written agreement or other appropriate legal means, rights ade-
quate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association,
NRB and the Participating Credit Institution, including any
Sub-loan provisions and procedures, to ensure: (i) that goods and
services procured locally shall be purchased at reasonable and
competitive prices, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of rendering them; (ii) that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for goods procured
outside the Borrower's territory and estimated to cost more than
the equivalent of $5,000 per item or more than the equivalent of
$20,000 per contract shall be let after solicitation of at least
three price quotations; (iii) the right of the Association and
of NRB to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents; and (iv) that the Sub-
project is carried out and operated with due efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical standards.
(b) NRB shall exercise its rights, and shall ensure that the
Participating Credit Institutions exercise their rights, in
relation to each Sub-loan, in such manner as to (i) protect the


﻿-5-
interests of the Borrower, the Association, NRB and the Partici-
pating Credit Institutions, (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (iii) achieve
the purposes of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.08. NRB shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds withdrawn from the
Credit Account in respect of Part A of the Project, the Sub-loans,
the Participating Credi.t Institutions and the Sub-projects.
Section 2.09. (a) NRB shall issue to the Participating
Credit Institutions instructions, including the staffing and
training requirements set forth in Part A of the Schedule to
this Agreement, satisfactory to the Association covering the
conditions under which NRB will refinance out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Sub-loans granted or made by the Participating
Credit Institutions and such other matters as shall be required
to ensure the accomplishment of the purposes of Part A of the
Project, provided that, before such instructions are issued
to ADBN, the Borrower shall have complied with the provisions of
Section 3.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement.
(b) NRB shall not amend or waive the instructions referred
to in the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section without prior
approval of the proposed amendment or waiver by the Association.
Section 2.10. NRB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, NRB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating
or waiving any provision of the.Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.11. In order to assist ISC in the carrying out of
Part D of the Project, NRB shall prepare and furnish to the ISC
reports at intervals agreed upon between NRB and ISC concerning
the implementation of Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) NRB shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part A of the


﻿-6-
Project and of each Sub-loan refinanced under the CSI Refinance
Fund (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appro-
priate accounting practices its operations and the financial
condition in respect of Part A of the Project, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures under Category (1) (b) of the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) NRB shall retain or cause to be retained until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure and shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to examine such records.
(c) NRB shall: (i) cause the records and accounts referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year to be
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any, case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, an opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of NRB and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and NRB shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and NRB shall from time to


﻿-7-
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of Part A of the
Project, the performance by NRB of its obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition in respect of such Part of the
Project and of NRB, and other matters relating to the purpose of
the Credit.
(b) NRB shall furnish to the Association at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit
or the performance by NRB of its obligations under this Agreement
or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account, NRB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution of Part A of the Project,
its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower, the Association and NRB of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 4.02. NRB shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NRB of its
obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. NRB shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to inspect the records of NRB including those referred to in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NRB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify NRB of this event, and upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NRB:
Nepal Rastra Bank
Central Office
Baluwatar
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:                    Telex:
RABA                              NP 207
Kathmandu
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NRB may be taken or executed by its
Governor, or by such other person or persons as the Governor shall
designate in writing, and NRB shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
NEPAL RASTRA BANK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
A.   Minimum Staffing and Training Requirements of Participating
Credit Institutions
Staffing
Participating       Head Office      Zonal
Credit Institution     CSI Unit        Level       Branches
Nepal Bank Limited    One Manager      2 CSI        15 CSI
and 4 CSI        Officers     Officers
Officers         each
Rastriya Banijya      One Manager      2 CSI        15 CSI
Bank                and 4 CSI        Officers     Officers
Officers         each
ADBN                  One Manager         -         20 CSI
and 4 CSI                     Officers
Officers
Training
At least 4 CSI Officers from the Head Office CSI Unit of
each Participating Credit Institution shall receive training
abroad in CSI appraisal and supervision methods and at least 15
CSI Branch Officers shall receive local training in CSI appraisal
and supervision methods.
B.   Terms for Subsidiary Loan to NRB
1.   Interest Rates:        2% per annum and 4% per annum for
Sub-loans up to Rs 20,000 and
above Rs 20,000, respectively
2.   Amortization:          14 years, inclusive 3 years
grace
C.   Terms for Refinancing Sub-loans by NRB
1.   Interest Rates:        Not less than 5% per annum and 7%
per annum for Sub-loans up to
Rs 20,000 and above Rs 20,000,
respectively


﻿- 11 -
2.   Amortization:          maximum of 7 years, inclusive
of a maximum of one year
grace
3.   Amount of refinanc-    up to 80% of amount of each
ing:                   Sub-loan
D.   Terms of Guarantee under the CSI Credit Guarantee Scheme
1.   Premium:               1% per annum
2.   Coverage:              up to 75% of Sub-loan
E.   Terms of Sub-loans by Participating Credit Institutions
1.   Interest Rate:         Not less than 11% per annum
2.   Amortization period:   18 months to 7 years, inclu-
sive of a maximum of one year
grace
3.   Maximum Sub-loan:      Rs 800,000 (except for Trading
Companies)
4.   Minimum Equity
Participation:         (a) CSI - 20% of Sub-project
amount except for Sub-
projects under Rs 5,000
(b) Performance Contractors -
10% of Sub-project amount
(c) Trading Companies and
Emporium - 20% of
Sub-project amount


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           -day of         ,
198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


