Document of                           v t, 4 8   0
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2680-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INVESTMENT BANK FOR ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
December 26, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit : Leu. (plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei 4.47 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = U$l.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.00 - US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.06
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1. Be-
ginning in March 1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per US$1 has been used to
convert the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representa-
tive of the average cost of convertible foreign exchange.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFDJ             -        River Administration of the Lower Danube
DBSCC            -       Danube Black Sea Canal Central
DWT              -       Department of Water Transport
IEPC             -       Constanta Port Enterprise
MTTc             -       Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
NAVROM           -       River Navigation Enterprise
ROMTRANS         -        Romanian Maritime Fleet



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Investment Bank of Romania
Guarantor:      Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiary:   Danube Black Sea Canal Administration
Loan Amount:   US$100 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years, including a 3-1/2-year grace period,
through semi-annual installments, with interest at 7.95 percent
per annum.
Project
Description:  The project would consist of the construction of a 64 km canal
from Cernavoda on the Danube to South Constanta-Agigea on the
Black Sea. It would include construction of three ports on
the canal (at Cernavoda, Medgidea, and Basarabi), two locks and
their operating equipment (at Cernavoda and Agigea), related
ancillary works and equipment (such as service roads, rail
connections, utilities, buildings, signalling and control
systems), and replacement, reconstruction or relocation of
existing transport, irrigation and other facilities affected by
the construction of the canal. The benefits for the Romanian
economy of using its low cost energy saving inland waterway
system more fully for large volumes of bulk cargo movement
would be considerable as would the benefits generated from
savings in ocean freight costs as a result of using large bulk
carriers. The project would also benefit other Danubian
countries, and would become an integral part of the European
waterway system when the Rhine-Main-Danube canal is completed
in 1984. It would also help accelerate economic development
in the relatively poor Dobrogea region through which the canal
runs, and provide local irrigation and power benefits. The
risk of the project not being completed on time is small.
Our traffic assumptions on the value of imported materials
transported on the canal are conservative and are based on
production targets, planned plant location, raw material
requirements and export estimates made during the recent
subsector studies on the steel and chemical industries, the
two principal users of the canal.  The risk of a shoytfall in
traffic is thus small.
|This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Iof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Cost                                                Foreign                   x
Estimates:                               Local     Exchange    Total        F.E.
-------------( 7u mMillon)…-----------
Civil Works
Canal                                   679.4       310.9      990.3       56.6
Locks and Canal ports                    97.0        78.0      175.0       10.0
Other                                    84.2        28.5      112.7        6.4
Equipment                                  58.1        13.4        71.5       4.0
Signalling and Control                      3.7         0.7        4.4        0.3
Expropriation and Compensation             19.7         -          19.7       1.1
Other                                     114.4         -         114.4       6.6
Physical Contingencies                     95.1        38.8      133.9        7.7
Price Contingencies                        46.7        81.4      128.1        7.3
Total Project Cost                      1,198.3       551.7    1,750.0      100.0
Foreign
Financing:                            Local       Exchange      Total
---------(US$ Million)-------
State Budget                          1,198.3      301.7       1,500.0
Cofinancing                              -         150.0         150.0 /1
IBRD                                     -         100.0         100.0
TOTAL                                  1,198.3     551.7       1,750.0
/1   Notional amount.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                 US$ Million
FY 1980    1981      1982      1983
Annual                       5.0    55.0      27.5      12.5
Cumulative                   5.0    60.0      87.5    100.0
Economic Rate of Return:          About 25 percent
Appraisal Report:                 Number 2676a-RO; dated December 20, 1979
EMENA Projects Department



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE I]BRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA FOR
A DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Investment Bank of Romania, with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic
of Romania, for the equivalent of US$100 million to help finance the Danube-
Black Sea Canal Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
3-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum. Cofinancing
of about $150-200 million is being sought from foreign commercial lending
institutions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The first basic report on Romania (Report No. 1601-RO, "The Indus-
trialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. As preparation for the produc-
tion of a Country Economic Memorandum, an economic mission visited Romania
during June 1979 to collect information on economic performance in 1978 and
to discuss the 1979 Annual Plan and the new economic measures announced in
February 1978. This part incorporates the mission's findings. Country social
and economic data are given in Annex I.
3.        Over the past 25 years the Romanian economy has undergone a radical
transformation and has sustained one of the highest growth rates in the world.
The level and diversification of industrial production has increased rapidly,
providing the basis for the modernization and expansion of other economic
sectors and a general increase in labor productivity and national income.
With the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry, the population has
become increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have increased substan-
tially, not only because of the growth of personal incomes but also because
of the provision through the state budget of expanded and improved education,
medical services, housing and social expenditures of other kinds. Further-
more, Romanian participation in the world economy has changed significantly as
the level of trade has risen and its composition altered.
4.         These changes represent the outcome of a development strategy
designed to accelerate the rate of growth and to catch up, as quickly as
possible, with the level and structure of development in the developed coun-
tries. The main features of the strategy can be summarized as: high and
increasing rates of saving and investment; the creation of a broad industrial
base; the development of local natural resources; the reorganization and
modernization of agricult:ure; the balanced regional distribution of production
and income; the expansion of foreign trade and international economic rela-
tions; and the development of human resources.
1/   This Part I is identical to that contained in the President's Report
for the Covurlui Irrigation Project to be considered by the Executive
Directors on the same date as the proposed project.



-2-
5.        The main instrument for carrying out the strategy has been the
system of comprehensive central planning and management. Economic management
is organized along socialist principles, which include state and cooperative
ownership of almost all productive resources and obligatory development
planning coordinated by the central party and government authorities. The
national plan, drawn up on a five-year time frame and elaborated each year
in an annual plan, sets out for the economy, by sector and branch and on a
regional basis, specific tasks for economic and social units. It is drawn
up through a combination of central directives and aggregation of individual
enterprise plans, any differences being reconciled through discussions between
the entities involved. Over the past decade, Romania has undertaken measures
to improve the planning and management system, to increase the responsibility
of enterprises in preparing and implementing the plan and to orient the
economy to a more efficient use of resources (see para 20 for the latest
changes).
6.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. Enter-
prises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which is
controlled through a system of financial and physical production targets. In
agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the predominant units of
production.
7.        To achieve the objectives of rapid growth and structural change, the
Romanian authorities have made great efforts to mobilize domestic resources
for development and to maintain a high rate of capital formation. Over the
past 25 years, investment has grown at 13 percent per annum, and by the 1971-
75 Five-Year Plan, the proportion of national income utilized for accumula-
tion 1/ had risen to 34.1 percent (equivalent to 27-28 percent of GNP). The
sectoral allocation of investment throughout the period reflected the priority
of industrialization and the creation of a broad industrial base oriented
towards self-sufficiency; approximately 50 percent of investment has been
allocated to industry and, of this, by far the largest part has been directed
to the producer goods sector. This has resulted in rapid growth of the
industrial sector, over 13 percent per annum during the last decade, with the
producer goods sector growing more rapidly than consumer goods. In 1978
industry was the leading sector of the economy, accounting for 58 percent of
national income, and employing approximately 33 percent of the labor force
compared with 14 percent in 1950. Heavy industry, led by chemicals, ferrous
metallurgy, engineering and machine building, comprised 64 percent of gross
industrial production.
8.        This industrialization strategy has greatly increased the demand
for raw materials and energy. Romania has concentrated on exploiting local
resources of fuels, metals and minerals to be as self-sufficient as possible
in these items. However, in spite of the rapid growth in production of the
1/   That is, net investment plus change in stocks.



-3-
wide range of raw materials found in Romania and recent efforts to conserve
and economize on the use of raw materials and energy, Romania has become a net
importer of many important items, particularly coal, iron ore and oil. The
rapid growth of energy consumption, 8.6 percent per annum since 1950, has out-
paced the growth of domestic production. Having started to import oil in
1968, Romania became a net importer of energy in 1973 and in 1979 is expected
for the first time to import more crude oil than is produced domestically.
In response to those changing circumstances, the Government has recently
published an energy program for the period 1980-2000, proposing the develop-
ment of all energy resources and the restructuring of energy use to reduce
reliance on hydrocarbons. This program, and the reassessment of future
petrochemical development which is taking place within the context of the
preparation of the 1981-85 five-year plan, indicates the substantial impact
upon the Romanian economy that the oil price increases and the curtailment of
oil production in Iran are having. It is not possible to quantify the impact
of the price increases upon Romania's import bill because we have no informa-
tion upon the contract prices; however, the impact was certainly exacerbated
by the curtailment of supplies from Iran (which supplied about 50 percent of
imported oil) and the need for Romania to purchase oil on the spot market in
the short-term while looking for new contracts.
9.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, agriculture
remains a key sector of the economy, still employing 33 percent of the labor
force in 1978 (compared with 74 percent in 1950). Apart from supplying foods
and other agricultural products as inputs for agro-industries, the sector also
supplies about 30 percent of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. Though agricultural output almost tripled in the last 25 years, the
faster growth of non-agricultural sectors has reduced the share of agriculture
in national income to about 15 percent by 1978. Over the past decade, agricul-
tural performance has improved with the increased emphasis on agricultural
development and the increased investment funds made available. However, the
level and growth of production have remained below the sector's potential.
10.       Romania's population growth is about 1 percent per annum.  The rapid
growth of industrial employment has therefore drawn labor from the rural
areas. The estimated average GNP growth of approximately 9 percent per annum
since 1950, calculated on. the basis of official national income statistics,
implies a percentage growth in output per head of about 8 percent per annum,
with GNP per capita reaching an estimated $1,750 in 1978, using the Bank Atlas
methodology.
11.       The organization of the economy is such that all labor is employed
(indeed, required to work). There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus
in agriculture. Income distribution is also relatively equal, through govern-
ment policy controls over the level, growth and structure of wages. By law
the maximum wage is limited to five and a half to six times the minimum.
Monthly wages were increased by 10.6 percent in 1978 to an average of 2,011
lei. The Government also promotes its income distribution policies through
regional allocation of industrial investment.
12.       The Government aims to give the population a basic needs package,
partly by providing services such as education, health and housing. From this



-4-
basic level, the Government has planned annual increases in living standards.
Real incomes have risen at an annual rate of 6.6 percent since 1950, with the
growth rate accelerating particularly in the last decade as more benefits of
a rapidly expanding national income were channelled to consumption. Prices
of essential consumer goods and services such as foodstuffs, rents and urban
transport remain low and most social services, notably education and health
care, are provided free of charge.
13.       The value of Romania's trade grew at an average annual rate of 13
percent in the past 25 years, with a gradual acceleration in the last decade,
reflecting not only the effects of international inflation but also an in-
crease in the importance of trade, particularly industrial imports, to the
economy. The level of imports rose in response to the need for capital goods
and raw materials, reaching $8.64 billion in 1978. Exports have also grown
rapidly, reaching a level of $8.06 billion in 1978, and the share of manufac-
tured goods in total exports has increased to 50 percent, reflecting the
progress of Romania's industrialization.  Trade with LDCs and developed market
economies has also been increasing rapidly in response to policies of diver-
sifying sources of raw material supply and as a consequence of exports of more
manufactured goods. In recent years, there has also been a tendency to move
away from trade on a bilateral basis towards trade involving multilateral
payments, within the framework of the general trade cooperation agreements
signed with almost all of the country's trading partners. These agreements
also cover cooperation in production, technical assistance and economic
relations. In 1977 and 1978 the convertible balance of payments deteriorated,
however, reversing the trend of the previous three years. After a surplus of
$76 million in 1976, the trade balance experienced a deficit of $81 million in
1977 as a result of additional imports made necessary by the earthquake, the
diversion of export goods to the domestic economy for reconstruction and
continued weak demand in the developed countries for some Romanian exports.
In 1978, the deficit increased to $560 million; to a large extent this was the
result of poor agricultural performance, but it also reflected shortfalls in
production in some industrial subsectors, continued weak demand in developed
market economies for some Romanian exports and the need for supplementary
imports of raw materials. With an increased deficit on the invisibles account
of $219 million compared with $192 million in 1977, there was a convertible
current account deficit of $779 million in 1978 compared with $273 million in
1977.
14.       The structure of Romania's trade with the developed market economies
is still characterized by exports of natural resources and imports of capital
goods, although there has been a gradual increase in the share of exports in
the form of manufactured goods. Because of the present low level of reserves,
any instability in export earnings, as frequently arises from shortfalls in
agricultural output or a softening in prices, tends to place the import
program, largely sophisticated machinery and components and raw materials, in
immediate jeopardy.
Recent Economic Developments
15.       The current Five-Year Plan covers the period 1976-80.  The high
rates and the pattern of growth planned for this period suggest that the



-5-
present decade has been viewed as the decisive period during which Romania
should overcome the major constraints on its transformation from a developing
country into a developed and technologically advanced country. There have
been substantial and comprehensive revisions to the Five-Year Plan targets
during 1977 to help accomplish this. In July, increased targets for standards
of living were announced and in December, following the Eleventh Conference of
the Romanian Communist Party (RCP), revised targets for all other areas of the
Plan were announced. Also, in January 1978 important decisions were taken to
increase work incentives substantially by allowing workers to participate in
sharing the profits of enterprises (see para 20).
16.       According to the revised plan, national income is to grow at 11
percent per annum between 1976-80, practically the same rate as achieved
between 1971 and 1975. Gross industrial production will increase at 11.5
percent, compared with the original target of 10.2-11.2 percent, while gross
agricultural production is expected to grow at a rate of 6.9-9.0 percent per
annum, which would require a significant improvement over previous results
in that sector. In addition, investment is to increase by 12.7 percent per
annum, approximately the same rate of growth as in the original plan. How-
ever, the revised plan contains a larger number of investment projects, as new
projects were added following a reexamination of existing projects which led
to a reduction in investment costs of about 10 percent on average. This
reexamination, which took place in 1976 and 1977 was part of the general
campaign to increase utilization of existing capacity and to economize on the
consumption of raw materials and intermediate goods. The volume of foreign
trade is to increase by 109.1 percent in real terms over the five years, a
much faster rate of growth than in 1971-75 when trade merely doubled in
current prices. Furthermore, the Government plans to encourage the growth of
exports so that it exceeds that of imports, so as to pursue its long-term
objective of reducing external debt and allowing for the accumulation of
reserves. While the rate of growth of consumption will remain below that of
production, it will nevertheless be increased under the revised plan. Real
wages are now to increase by 32.3 percent over the five years compared with
the previous target of 22 percent. As a result, targets for retail trade and
services for the population have been increased.
17.       Although the mcost recently available figures published by the Gov-
ernment indicate that the economy is expected to fulfill, more or less, the
five-year plan targets, very high rates of growth of the major economic
indicators will be required in 1979 and 1980 to make up for the relatively
disappointing performance in 1977 and 1978. In March 1977, the economy was
dealt a serious blow when a violent earthquake occurred in the east of the
country, causing damage valued at $2 billion and leading to a detrimental
effect upon the balance of payments totalling $630 million during 1977 and
1978.
18.       The Government organized immediately an intensive reconstruction
effort with the stated aim of avoiding any impact upon the implementation of
five-year plan targets. While these efforts enabled the economy to continue
its growth, 1977 plan targets were only partially fulfilled. National income
increased by 8.6 percent compared to a plan target of 11.3 percent and an



- 6 -
increase in the previous year of 10.5 percent. Economic performance in 1978
also fell below plan, although the economy continued to grow at a relatively
rapid rate. National income increased by 7.6 percent, compared with the
annual plan target of 11-11.5 percent. Gross industrial production increased
by 9.0 percent rather than the planned 10.6 percent, and there are sizable
shortfalls in the production of several major products, particularly oil,
coal, chemicals and food products. Gross agricultural production increased by
only 2.4 percent compared with a plan target of 6.9-16.1 percent growth and
most of the growth was in the livestock subsector. Arable output fell far
below plan targets, partly because of climatic difficulties but also as a
result of managerial weaknesses and shortages of inputs. The shortfalls not
only affected the production of industries using agricultural raw materials
but also resulted in lower exports than planned. Investment, on the other
hand, increased almost as quickly as planned, 16.2 percent compared with a
plan target of 16.8 percent; however, in absolute terms, it did not make up
the shortfall brought about by the earthquake, despite the considerable
physical and human resources introduced into the construction sector. The
transfer of labor from agriculture to the non-agricultural sector increased
faster than planned, and, indeed, the economy, as in previous years, showed
relatively greater ability to create new production than to use existing
resources more efficiently; the targets for increased labor productivity and
reduced material expenditures could not be attained. While production targets
were generally underfulfilled, consumption rose more or less as planned.
Average monthly wages rose by 10.6 percent and real incomes of the population
by 8.9 percent, one percent more than planned.
19.        The Annual Plan for 1979 signals no significant deviation from the
previous path. The growth rates published in the plan - 8.8 percent for
national income, 11.5 percent for net industrial production (in keeping with
the new economic measures, the 1979 Plan specifies industrial growth in net
rather than gross terms), 5.1-5.6 percent for gross agricultural production,
16.6 percent for foreign trade, 9.1 percent for investment and 7.5 percent
for real incomes - do not, however, fully reflect the high rates of growth
expected by the Government during the current year. Early in 1979, the Gov-
ernment announced that the shortfalls in production from 1978 should be made
up in the last two years of the plan period, so that the economy may attain
its 1980 plan levels. Thus, for the major indicators the real growth rates
must be considerably higher than those included in the annual plan.
20.        In February, 1978 the Government announced changes in economic
and financial mechanisms designed to improve the planning and management of
the economy, to stimulate improvements in labor productivity, in cost reduc-
tion and efficiency of production and also to make existing provisions for
enterprise self-management more effective. The major change announced was
the introduction of net production as a major plan target, both for inducing
enterprises to fulfill plan objectives, particularly in the areas of increased
efficiency and reduction of costs and as the basis upon which worker's wages
and bonuses are paid. In future, enterprises are also to retain a higher
proportion of profits, have increased responsibility for socio-cultural
expenditures, be more concerned in the final stages of the annual plan prep-
aration, be permitted to enter into longer term contracts to ensure a closer



-7-
correlation between the plan and actual contract provisions and will have more
direct responsibilities for the achievement of foreign trade targets. The
measures are still under detailed discussion, with further refinements being
considered, although the major changes in planning, net output targets, profit-
sharing and enterprises' financial responsibilities were introduced as of
January 1, 1979. In early 1979, the Government announced that the measures
for net output and profit-sharing would be extended to cooperative agriculture.
In a complementary vein, the creation was also announced of approximately 700
Agro-industrial Councils which will coordinate the development of agriculture
within a given geographical area and provide a forum for determining the most
efficient use of resources in the sector. All these measures are designed to
make the existing management and planning system operate more efficiently
rather than to cause radical changes. However, they are a step in the direc-
tion that the basic economic report suggested was desirable if the economy was
to meet its objectives. Furthermore, they will set up new pressures between
the various levels of the economy which may lead to more substantial changes
in the future.
External Assistance
21.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by
borrowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism
earnings. In 1978, new commitments of convertible medium and long-term loans
totalled $1,216 million and consisted mainly of supplier and financial credits
with relatively short repayment periods. Gross disbursements of convertible
medium and long-term loans during the year were $1,167 million. This repre-
sented a net inflow of $585 million after accounting for the country's repay-
ment obligations. There was also a net inflow of $456 million on short-term
loans during 1978. After almost a decade of gradually reducing the size of
outstanding short-term debt, the Government was compelled in 1977 to reverse
temporarily its policy of reducing reliance on short-term debt, because of
the additional financing needs generated by the earthquake. This action had
to be continued in 1978 because of the size of the current account deficit,
which could not be covered by medium and long-term sources, despite Romania's
increased involvement in the Eurocurrency market.
22.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term
private capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under
which foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises,
preferably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of November
1978, ten joint venture agreements had been signed and a number of others
announced. In contrast with the earlier ventures, which involved total direct
foreign investments of only $10-15 million, the seventh agreement, signed in
early 1977 with Citroen, involves a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about $500
million) and will lead to a total capital inflow of aproximately $250 million.
The eighth agreement is f-or a joint production company with British Aircraft
for the manufacture of commercial aircraft; the ninth is with Data-products
Corporation, USA, for the manufacture of computer software; and the tenth is a



-8-
joint shipping company in cooperation with Libya. However, negotiations have
been broken off by Romania and Kuwait for the construction of a petro-chemical
complex which would have cost $1.25 billion and involved a capital inflow of
about $500 million. Many other joint ventures are at various stages of nego-
tiation.
23.       Romania also receives medium-term trade credits from the U.S. Exim-
bank and trades under Government guaranteed supplier credit schemes, ECGD,
COFACE, and HERMES with the United Kingdom, France and the Federal Republic
of Germany, respectively. During 1977, Romania became the first East European
recipient of a Japanese Eximbank loan, receiving $80 million for the expansion
of the port of Constanta. In 1975 Romania succeeded in securing a $100 mil-
lion, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation agreement
and also a $420 million loan from Iran on concessionary terms. However, it is
in its Eurocurrency borrowings that the Government has made most progress in
improving its access to capital markets and in raising substantial sums at
good and improving terms. During 1977, it negotiated two Eurodollar loans
totalling $125 million. In January 1978, Romania negotiated a further $100
million on the Eurocurrency market and late in the year, a further borrowing
of $300 million. The terms for the latter, an eight-year loan with four-
years' grace, are 0.625 percent above LIBOR for the first three years and
0.750 percent for the remaining years. As part of its strategy to secure
long-term energy supplies, Romania has concluded a long-term contract with
Occidental Petroleum for the purchase of coal from the U.S.; a banking con-
sortium raised a $53 million loan in April 1978 to finance Romanian participa-
tion in the Island Creek coal mine in West Virginia. In March 1979, Romania
secured a loan of $320 million from a consortium led by Canadian banks to
supplement a $650 million loan by the Export Development Corporation of Canada
for the purchase of heavy-water reactors for the first nuclear power project
in Romania. Finally, Romania has access to non-convertible currency invest-
ment credits from the International Investment Bank, Moscow.
24.       Nonetheless, Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible
currencies is still very restricted as shown by the fact that, in 1977-1978,
in spite of the above developments, short-term borrowing has been necessary.
The IBRD remains the major source of long-term development finance, although
Romania is making efforts to improve its access to financial markets. The
Bank's presence on a significant scale, and its effort to associate Bank
financed projects with co-financing through supplier or financial credits,
has a positive influence in this regard and serves to build outside confidence
in the country, thereby improving in the long-term Romania's independent
access to the world's financial markets.
Prospects
25.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.  Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as



a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. To attain its growth objectives, however,
Romania will have to rely on a major expansion of exports of manufactured
goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an increasing depen-
dence on imported raw materials and fuel.
26.        Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient
use of materials and factor inputs and reductions in production costs. The
achievement of export targets requires improvements in the quality of products
and responsiveness to customer demands, areas in which the economy appears
to have lagged in past years. To keep up with these changes and requirements,
large programs of education and manpower training have been mounted, invest-
ments in scientific and technological research have been emphasized, and
efforts are being made to strengthen technical cooperation with industrialized
countries and international organizations.  The increasing diversity and com-
plexity of Romania's economic structure also require continuing improvements
in the efficiency of economic planning and coordination and further refine-
ments in economic management.
27.        The growth rate is expected to remain quite high by international
standards during the next five-year plan period, although the latest figures
published by the Government do indicate considerably slower growth between
1980 and 1985 than originally intended. The draft plan Directives published
in July indicate an annual growth of national income of 6.7-7.4 percent com-
pared with 8.6-9.5 percent in the guidelines for the plan published at the
end of 1977. Targets for industry, investment and standards of living have
been reduced correspondingly. The Government plans to achieve its targets by
emphasizing, first, the utilization of the country's own resources and a large
local investment effort, and second, more effective use of human, capital and
natural resources. However, in order for Romania to attain its growth targets
and its long term plans for creating a competitive industrial economy, it will
have to attract foreign resources and technology and secure loans to support
its development efforts.
Creditworthiness
28.        As of June 30, 1979, Romania's total medium and long-term external
debt amounted to $5,958 rmillion. Most of these debts ($5,817 million) were
denominated in convertib:Le currencies, the major creditor countries being the
Federal Republic of Germany, France, the United Kingdom (UK) and Italy. While
the total debt does not appear excessive in relation to the volume and growth
of external trade, average maturities are relatively short and convertible
debt service payments are estimated to be in the order of $1,141 and $1,142
million a year in 1979 and 1980 respectively. The convertible medium and
long-term debt service ratio was 19.4 percent in 1978 and is expected to be
19.9 percent in 1979.
29.        The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of a
development strategy involving high investment and saving rates, and rapid



- 10 -
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from $830 million in 1971 to $4,072 million
(not counting $387 million in non-factor services) in 1978. The preferential
trade status accorded to Romania by the European Community in June 1973 is
facilitating the expansion of exports, as is the granting of most favored
nation status by the U.S. Since the early 1970s, the Government has restricted
the use of short-term credit from Western suppliers in an effort to improve
the structure of the country's external debt, but in view of the earthquake's
impact upon the balance of payments and the trade performance in 1978, short-
term debt increased again in 1977 and 1978. Assuming a continuation of present
export and debt management policies, we estimate that the debt service ratio
in 1980 will be about 20 percent after which it will remain fairly stable.
The country's present outward-looking posture, the success of both its domestic
growth and foreign trade policies, and its potential for continued development
all support the judgment that Romania is creditworthy for substantial Bank
lending.
30.       With the exception of certain Swedish claims, all pre-war foreign
debts of the country had been settled. The Swedish claims concern public
loans from the prewar period, nationalized Swedish property and other in-
terests, such as concessions granted to Swedish companies before the Second
World War. The eleventh meeting to discuss settlement of these claims was
held in Bucharest in October 1976 and further discussions were planned at a
date to be established through diplomatic channels. The Bank has been unable
to obtain a consistent picture from the two Governments of the present status
of this matter and has, therefore, urged the Romanian and Swedish authorities
to clarify their respective positions directly with each other.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
31.       The proposed loan and the proposed loan for the Covurlui Irrigation
Project ($90 million) would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
$1,452.8 million for twenty-five loans in agriculture, industry, power and
transport. Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975,
but this situation has improved considerably since 1976. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of November 30, 1979.
32.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending
continues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange
by providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. The Bank has been assisting the
Government by helping to mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The
Bank has helped to attract foreign commercial banks to provide a $100 million
cofinancing for the Second Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $75
million was approved by the Executive Directors in March 1979. Through their
contacts with commercial banks with assistance from the Bank, and subsequent



- 11 -
negotiations with those banks, the Romanian authorities now appear convinced
of the positive value of cofinancing in the form of financial credits, and
have indicated their intention to seek similar arrangements for future proj-
ects. Bank lending also aims at supporting the Government's efforts to
introduce new industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products and
production efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for necessary
electric power development. Market aspects and marketing, especially for
export goods, are also emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture
which is heavily dependent upon favorable weather and where productivity
levels are still comparatively low.
33.       A number of further loans are under consideration, including loans
for projects for horticulture, irrigation, industry, power, and a fourth live-
stock project. The Government has also proposed that the Bank consider lend-
ing for an integrated road and rail transport project.
34.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting training courses on economic and financial evaluation and
analysis methodologies in various sectors, including industry and transporta-
tion, for 165 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest annually
since 1975 in collaboration with an academic institution in Romania. Addi-
tional courses, including one for agricultural project appraisal, are under
discussion with the Government. The methodologies taught in these courses
are becoming more widely known in Romania and are expected to begin to supple-
ment the methodology normally used by the Romanian planning authorities.
35.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they
will provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer-term convertible finance
from other sources. The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected
to constitute about 13 percent of Romania's total projected convertible
currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service payments
in 1980 would be about 4.5 percent.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
Organization
36.       Romania is served by a fairly well-developed transport network
which is uniformly distributed throughout the country. It includes 11,000
route-km of railways, and some 78,000 km of roads about two-thirds of which
is gravel and earth surfaced. The Danube, which is navigable, flows through
about 1075 km in Romania, mostly along its southern border. Pipelines have a



- 12 -
limited and specialized role. Ninety percent of the foreign trade is handled
through the port of Constanta on the Black Sea, and the Constanta Bucharest
transport corridor is the most important in the country.
37.       The Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications (MTTc) is respon-
sible for all transport, including common-carrier road services, but exclud-
ing aviation and pipelines. Aviation is the responsibility of a separate
department directly subordinated to the Council of Ministers, and pipelines
are the responsibility of the Ministry of Mines, Petroleum and Geology.
MTTC's organization also includes construction and maintenance facilities. In
general, it is well staffed with competent managerial and professional staff.
Road fleets own transport, which are state owned, are operated by individual
centrals or enterprises. Motor car ownership is the only private form of
vehicle ownership in Romania.
Traffic
38        Rail and road are the most important modes of inland transport
in Romania. For freight, rail is dominant in terms of ton-km in 1977 (81
percent) though its share is slowly declining, while the share of common
carrier road services (12 percent) is rising; in tons, however, road services
are dominant (63 percent). Common carrier road passenger services are growing
rapidly, accounting for 45 percent of passenger km. Danubian river transport
and pipelines account for about 3 percent and 5 percent of ton-km, respectively.
Air and sea transport are relatively unimportant for domestic transport.
Performance
39.       The Government plans transport services to make the most efficient
use of resources, and they are operated within the framework of the national
plan. Different modes complement each other, and roads from railway stations
act as important distributors/collectors of considerable volumes of railway
traffic. Given the nature of Romania's centrally planned economy and on the
basis of its reviews of the sector to date, the Bank considers this approach
to transport planning and management leads to reasonably efficient provision
of transport services and modal allocation of traffic, although there is some
evidence of underinvestment in highways in the past.
40.       The railways are operated as a single organization subdivided into
nine regions. They are in a strong financial position, the working ratio
generally not exceeding 76 percent during the last five years and for the next
seven-year forecast. This is due to the high traffic density and staff
productivity (14.7 million gross ton-km per year and 568,000 traffic units per
employee in 1978), well ahead of any other Bank client operating a general
service railway.
41.       One of MTTc's centrals administers 41 road transport enterprises,
which operate passenger and freight services. The operations of each enter-
prise are carefully planned and controlled on the basis of performance indices,
and there are special inter-enterprise arrangements to minimize empty running.
The financial performance of each enterprise is planned on the basis of its
traffic forecast, country-wide tariffs, and enterprise costs.



- 13 -
Transport Coordination
42.       The choice of mode is left in the first place to the transport user,
who makes his selection on the basis of tariffs and quality of service, in
time for its inclusion in the plan for his chosen mode. Periodic administra-
tive reviews are made to take into account changes in transport users' require-
ments and the capacity of each mode; the latter is particularly important
because transport investments have been limited to provide little spare
capacity.
43.       In principle tariffs are cost-based, but discussions with the
Romanian authorities indicate that railway tariffs, and perhaps also road
tariffs, tend to reflect country-average rather than service-specific costs.
Again, road tariffs do not include a charge for the recovery of road infra-
structure costs.
Investment Policy
44.       The Romanian authorities have adopted hitherto a conservative
approach to transport investment, in that transport capacity was built up to
meet demand arising from regional and industrial development, rather than
being used as a tool to stimulate economic development. Thus they have
concentrated primarily on modernization of the existing system by increasing
capacity to eliminate bottlenecks rather than by extending the system. The
main investment criterion has been the payback period, which has normally been
limited to 10 years for transport.
45.       As transport infrastructure has a relatively long life, the 10-year
payback criterion has tended to restrict transport investments, which histori-
cally has amounted to only 10 percent of Romania's total investments. In
other countries transport investments account for some 18-25 percent of the
total. However, Romania has had a high overall investment rate, over 30
percent of the net national product, so that 3 percent of that product is
allocated to transport, which is comparable to other countries. The Romanian
authorities feel that they have therefore been able to devote sufficient
resources to the execution of high priority transport investments, but that
they also exercised careful investment discipline, for example resorting to
staged construction whenever possible; thus, when double-tracking a railway
line, relatively short sections were doubled as they approached saturation.
46.       While the investments undertaken so far are sound, total transport
investment appears low. For example, the railways propose to overhaul 3120 km
of track during 1981-85. Since Romania has some 15,000 km of track (exclusive
of station and other sidings and marshaling yards) this means that overhaul is
undertaken, on average, once every 24 years. This rate is low, especially in
view of Romania's high average traffic density (about 15 million gross ton-km
per year). Again, the returns on railway electrification increase with
traffic density, yet only 215 percent of Romania's route-km were electrified in
1977 and planned to increase to 20 percent by 1980 while in neighboring
Yugoslavia, where the average traffic density was only about six million ton
km per year, 25 percent of route km have been electrified, almost entirely as
part of Bank projects.



- 14 -
47.       On roads, special attention had been given to structures and the
elimination of level crossings. However, some main roads carrying relatively
large traffic volumes, are still gravel-surfaced. Furthermore, in the past,
when gravel roads were modernized, relatively lightly designed pavements were
adopted, and this policy has resulted in high maintenance costs at the present
time. One objective of Bank participation in highways would be to ensure that
the design of project roads would be related to traffic.
48.       The proposed Bank loan would be the first Bank Group operation for
transport in Romania. A clearly defined Bank strategy to assist the transport
sector has not as yet emerged, but the proposed project has provided the Bank
with an introduction to the transport sector and its role in the economy in
Romania, and an overview of the issues facing the sector in the future. The
Bank could make significant contributions to sound and rational transport
policies, project evaluation, investment programming and implementation in the
sector. The Government has shown considerable interest in the Bank's cost-
benefit analysis techniques, and several joint EDI-CEPECA (Romania's management
and administration center) transport courses have been held in Romania for 75
persons involved in transport planning, investment and operations. Introduc-
tion of these techniques would improve selection and design. This would give
the Romanians practical experience with these techniques and would also permit
them to test their validity as compared to the methods in general use in
Romania. Discussion with the Government on this idea is continuing.
B.   Waterways and the River Danube Navigation System
49.       In pursuing its policy objective of energy conservation, the Govern-
ment has begun to work towards a more intensive utilization of the inland
waterway network. This is centered on the Danube river system, which plays
only a small role in the country's transport system, accounting for 0.9
percent in tonnage and about 3 percent in ton km; it is confined mainly to
bulk transport to and from industrial complexes along the Danube. Its poten-
tial for providing energy efficient transport of low value bulk commodities is
considerable. Improvement of other rivers would become economic with the
development of large traffic volumes generated by linking the Danube river
with deep-water port facilities.
50.       Historically, the River Danube has been important for transport in
all its riparian countries, who continue to use it for both local and interna-
tional traffic. Romania has tended to locate industrial enterprises needing
large volumes of bulk raw materials on or close to the lower reaches of the
Danube. Within Romanian territory there are 25 river ports, most of which
have road and rail connections. However for the reasons described below, most
of these ports are underutilized. At present barges of up to 1000 dwt.
capacity can be used on the river, and oceangoing ships drawing a maximum of 7
meters can navigate through the Sulina Ship Canal and about 175 km up river to
Galati and Braila where cargoes are transshipped to barges.
51.       The fuller transport utilization of the Danube is limited by the
physical conditions of its delta and by the capacity of the 61 km Sulina
Ship Canal. This was constructed 100 years ago and traverses the delta from



-15 -
Sulina on the Black Sea ito Tulcea. It is not practicable or economical to
improve the situation by constructing a deep-water port at or near Sulina,
because of the extended shallow "berm" created by siltation from the Danube
and the effect of the southerly flow of the littoral drift. Romania has for
many years been considering the possibility of constructing a new deep-water
port and a barge canal in order to bypass the now uneconomic lower Danube.
Work began in 1976 on the proposed project, and about 15 kms of the total
length have already been completed. Above the delta, with fairly minor
improvements in depth and curvature, the river could accommodate convoys of
six barges of 3000 dwt. capacity each propelled by one pusher tug for which
the canal is designed. This would provide energy efficient and cost effective
transportation.
52.       All waterways transportation is administered or operated by enter-
prises responsible to the Department of Water Transport (DWT) in the MTTc.
The principal enterprises are: the Romanian Maritime Fleet (ROMTRANS); the
River Navigation Enterprise (NAVROM) responsible for all barge and tug opera-
tions on rivers, for port services at all ports on rivers, and for operating
the 3 river ports for oceangoing ships at Galati, Braila and Tulcea, and for
river passenger transport services; and the River Administration of the Lower
Danube (AFDJ) responsible for operating the Sulina Ship Canal and for provid-
ing pilotage services on the Lower Danube. These and the other enterprises
controlling waterway traffic are covered by a comprehensive tariff structure,
excluding freight charges, published in 1971. Individual tariff charges are
fixed by law and normally remain in force for five years.
The Borrower
53.       The borrower for the proposed loan would be the Investment Bank,
which is the specialized agency, under the Ministry of Finance, for investment
projects in all sectors of the economy except agriculture (including water
resources) and food processing. It has a large technical and economic staff
with branch offices in all districts of the country. The Investment Bank's
involvement in investment projects begins with preparation; its staff appraises
all major investment projects technically and financially and recommends for
or against their financing to the Government. When a particular project and
its financial plan have been approved by the Council of State, all funds are
channelled through the Investment Bank in accordance with the approved finan-
cial plan. All payments for the execution of a project must be authorized by
the Investment Bank, which keeps separate accounts for each category in the
financial plan for every enterprise. The Investment Bank is required to
ensure that a project is executed according to the financial and technical
data included in the final technical and economic study approved by the
Council of State. Its inspectors check whether the project is proceeding
according to the schedule approved in the Plan.
54.       While the Investment Bank's supervision and control function is
thus rather strong during implementation of a project, its functions are much
more limited during operation of a project. Although it has the right and
obligation to verify that an enterprise is meeting the targets set in the



- 16 -
investment plan, it has no legal authority to influence directly the manage-
ment of the enterprises or to force the enterprise directly to take opera-
tional actions which it considers necessary. In practice, however, it can
request such actions very effectively by reporting through the Ministry of
Finance to the Government.
55.       The Investment Bank is the channel for all sources of major domestic
investment financing other than in agriculture, but its own funds for onlending
as credits are relatively small. The primary source of its funds is the State
Budget. The Government would ensure the availability of sufficient funds
including foreign exchange requirements for the implementation and operation
of the project (Section 2.02, Guarantee Agreement). The Government would also
ensure that the Investment Bank can meet the debt service on the Bank loan
(Section 2.01, Guarantee Agreement).
The Beneficiary
56.       Because of the size and complexity of the undertaking the Government
established a new enterprise, the Danube Black Sea Canal Administration, to
operate the canal. The enterprise was legally established on May 12, 1979 by
Presidential decree, and a nucleus of top staff has been recruited and is in
training. It will be fully operational by the time canal operations are
expected to begin by the end of 1982. Provisionally and until the new enter-
prise takes over, construction of the project is the responsibility of the
Constanta Port Enterprise (IEPC), which is an autonomous enterprise responsible
for the operation of the present port of Constanta, and which is subordinated
to the DWT in the MTTc. It created a special unit whose responsibilities are
supervision of construction, purchase of equipment for operations and mainte-
nance, staff recruitment and training, financial control, preparation of
operating, navigational and staff regulations, and general responsibility to
ensure that the Canal Administration is competent to operate the canal when
the traffic starts using it. The Canal Administration is now taking over
these responsibilities and is in the process of absorbing the special unit.
57.       The Danube Black Sea Canal Administration is a fully established
organization with full legal authorities and jurisdictions as normal under
Romanian law. Decision making power at the enterprise level formally belongs
to the Enterprise's General Assembly which includes all the workers and
normally meets twice a year. A Working People's Executive Committee, chaired
by the enterprise's General Director and consisting of elected workers' repre-
sentatives and some members of the management, is responsible for operations.
The General and Technical Managers of the enterprise are responsible for
implementing the decisions of the Executive Committee. It is expected that
its financial position and performance will be satisfactory (see para. 65).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
58.       The project was first discussed by the Bank and the Romanian Govern-
ment in the spring of 1975. A formal request for Bank financing was made in
March 1977, and following receipt of adequate preparation data, a preparation



- 17 -
mission visited Bucharest in March 1978. The project was appraised in
February/March and July 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington in
December 1979. The Romanian delegation was headed by Mr. Ratoi, Senior Vice
President, Investment Bank and included representatives from the Investment
Bank and the Ministry of rransport and Telecommunications. A report entitled
"Staff Apprais±! Report Danube Black Sea Canal Project" (No. 2676a-RO) dated
December 20, 1979 is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
The main features of the project are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex III.
Project Description
59.        The project would consist of the construction of a 64 km barge
canal from Cernavoda on the river Danube to South Constanta-Agigea on the
Black Sea. The canal would be 70-90 meters wide at the bottom, and 95-135
meters wide at water surface. Its design takes into account adequate safety
and operational requirements which are in accordance with prevailing inter-
national standards. It would also consist of the construction of three ports
on the canal (at Cernavoda, Medgidia and Basarabi), two identical locks (at
Cernavoda and Agigea) each with two chambers 310 m long and 25 m wide and
provision of equipment for operating the locks. It would include the con-
struction of two service roads, one on each side-of the canal, construction of
railway connections, installation of utilities, buildings, signalling and
control systems (radar and radio equipment, lights and buoys, etc.). It would
also include the replacenment, reconstruction or relocation of existing trans-
port, irrigation and other facilities that have to be moved or destroyed as a
result of canal construction, as well as expropriation and compensation costs
for 600 ha of unreplaced agricultural land, and for reclamation of 2,800 ha of
land to replace 5,200 ha to be occupied by the canal (of this total 1,800 ha
are now non-productive). It would also include miscellaneous facilities, such
as concrete mixing plants and worker housing, needed to implement the project.
Financing for the project: would include substantial cofinancing from foreign
commercial lending institutions. This feature is significant in our work with
Romania since this is only the fourth time it has been included in a Bank
financed project in the country. Construction of the canal began in 1976, and
15 km. had been completedi by July, 1979. The project will be fully completed
by the end of 1984 although the canal will be open to through barge traffic
by the end of 1982. The Government has established a schedule satisfactory to
the Bank for on site delivery of all construction equipment and materials as
well as the permanent equipment for the project which would be financed by the
Bank to ensure that the project would be completed within the planned imple-
mentation schedule (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
Project Objectives
60.        The Danube Black Sea Canal is the major component of a larger pro-
gram which also includes construction of deep-water facilities at the port
of South Constanta-Agigea, adequate to handle large bulk carriers, expansion
of certain river ports and improvements in depth and curvatures of the river
Danube, and an expansion in and introduction of new types to Romania's barge



- 18 -
and tug fleet to accommodate the anticipated traffic increase. The Government
would complete these other projects to the extent necessary for the canal to
handle forecast traffic from the time it will be opened to through traffic
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(b)). The Government has informed the Bank that
Romania will operate the canal in a non-discriminatory manner. The Canal is
technically sound and well prepared. The 64 km canal and the new deep-water
facilities would eliminate the restrictions imposed by the Sulina Ship Canal
and Lower Danube Navigation reaches on cargo movements and would shorten the
distance to the sea by about 360 km. Under the terms of the Danube Conven-
tion, the Government will maintain the Sulina Ship Canal and Lower Danube
Navigation reaches to accommodate existing levels of traffic. The project
would enable Romania to use its cost efficient energy saving inland waterway
system more fully for the movement of large volumes of bulk cargo mainly
consisting of imported raw materials. The project would add significant
additional transport capacity needed for the growing economy and, with an
estimated 14 percent of total traffic being international transit traffic by
the year 2000, would also benefit other Danubian Countries, including Austria,
Yugoslavia and the Federal Republic of Germany by efficient movement of their
imported raw material requirements as well as their exports. The project,
moreover, would become an integral part of the European waterway system after
the completion of the Rhine-Main-Danube Canal in 1984. Completion of the
project would also make it economical to improve several of the tributaries of
the Danube and incorporate them into the waterway network. The Canal would
also help accelerate the economic development of the Dobrogea region, through
which it runs, one of the poorer regions of Romania. The benefits of the
Canal are well indicated by its economic return (see para. 68). The project
is particularly suitable for Bank financing because it benefits other riparian
countries and is a large project with an international aspect, which makes it
attractive for cofinancing. The Bank's participation in the preparation of
this project has helped to ensure that the most efficient construction equip-
ment configuration has been found to enable on-time project implementation and
has made a contribution to Romanian project management techniques. It has
also provided the Bank with an introduction to the transport sector in Romania.
The Bank's insistence on international competitive bidding would expose the
Romanian construction equipment and materials manufacturers to international
competition.
Project Implementation
61.       The project is being constructed by the Danube Black Sea Canal
Central (DBSCC), the Romanian Construction Trust established especially for
the project under contract with the legal but provisional beneficiary, the
Constanta Port Enterprise (IEPC) (see para. 56). DBSCC's Director-General is
a Deputy Minister (of the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications) who
has overriding powers over all government agencies related to the construction
of the canal and who reports directly to the President of Romania. DBSCC
employs a labor force of 15,000, including 1,000 qualified engineers; these
will be increased to a peak of 30,000 and 1,500 respectively by 1980. It
carries out most of the construction work directly but does subcontract
specialized works. DBSCC is well organized, its performance is good, and is
only hindered by the present shortage of earth-moving equipment.



- 19 -
Project Cost and Financing
62.       The estimated total project cost, excluding interest during cons-
truction is US$1,750 million equivalent, with an estimated foreign exchange
component of US$551.7 million. The costs of equipment and materials have been
estimated at prices prevailing as of November 1979. Physical contingencies
have been estimated at 9 percent of the base cost. Price contingencies on
foreign exchange costs are based on an annual increase of 7 percent for
imported equipment during the construction period. Due to very low inflation
under the Romanian system of administered prices, price contingencies on local
costs have been calculated at one percent per annum.
63.       The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million would finance 18.2 percent
of the estimated foreign exchange costs of the project. The proposed loan to
the Investment Bank would have a term of 15 years, including 3-1/2 years of
grace, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum, and would be guaranteed by the
Government. The Investment Bank would carry the foreign exchange risk on the
Bank loan. Of the balance of the foreign exchange costs, US$229.5 million has
already been expended by the Government. The remaining balance of US$222.2
million would be financed partly by cofinanced financial credits, and the
balance by the Government from the State Budget.  The Investment Bank is
expected to arrange cofinancing of about US$150-200 million. In the unlikely
event that this does not materialize, the outstanding balance would be financed
from the State Budget, which has already planned funds to be available for this
purpose. All the local currency funds required by the project would also be
financed from the State Budget.
Financial Analysis of the Danube Black Sea Canal Administratrion
64.       The new Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration is an integral part
of Romania's centrally planned economy under which all enterprises conform
to national development plans which are financed very largely from the State
Budget. As concerns Romanian traffic using the canal, which would be 86
percent of total estimated traffic in the year 2000, the great bulk of the
financial benefit accrues to the State in all cases. For this reason, the
financial performance of the new canal enterprise cannot be viewed in isolation
from the rest of the economy and financial performance is meaningless as an
indicator of investment performance, which is provided by the economic rate of
return. Nevertheless a proforma financial analysis was undertaken to obtain
an idea as to its financial position and performance.
65.        Since the canal enterprise is a new entity and will not operate
until after the project is completed, no past or present financial data are
available. The financial analysis, therefore, is a proforma one and is based
on the principles that the enterprise would be financially and economically
viable and would be self :Liquidating over its economic life of 65 years. The
canal is a highly capital--intensive investment. Pricing policy for the canal
would ensure that canal dues would be established at levels that would not only
cover actual cash operating costs, which are very small, but would recover the
total cost of the investment over 65 years (the equivalent of depreciation),
and interest on external financing, in equal annual parts, to loan maturity.
Within the context of the Romanian system, this approach is satisfactory to



- 20 -
the Bank. This approach to canal dues compares most closely with normal
practice accepted in Romania and would ensure that the financial position and
performance of the enterprise would be satisfactory. The Government has
agreed that this is the approach it would establish (Loan Agreement, Section
4.01(a)(ix)).
Procurement
66.       Equipment to be incorporated into the project, including the lock
gates, with a total estimated cost of $25 million, construction materials
(bitumen and reinforcing steel) with a total estimated cost of $35 million and
construction equipment with a total estimated cost of $40 million, together
equivalent in cost to the proposed Bank loan ($100 million) would be procured
according to ICB under the proposed loan. There would be no retroactive
financing or advance contracting under the proposed loan. Items costing $100
million including contingencies would be procured following international
advertising and competitive bidding in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement Under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits - March 1977." Romanian
manufacturers and suppliers would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. It is estimated that foreign
suppliers would win contracts estimated to cost about $5 million principally
for specialized machinery and equipment for the lock gates. Other items to be
procured through ICB (about $95 million) are available domestically and, based
on experience with previous Bank-financed irrigation and power projects, it
is expected that Romanian manufacturers and suppliers would be successful in
bidding for most of these items. Cost estimates are based on the conversion
rate of US$1 = lei 18. The balance of equipment and construction materials
would be procured under Romanian procedures and would not be eligible for
financing under the proposed Bank loan. The Bank would not be financing
construction works under the project which would be carried out by the Romanian
Construction Trusts which are familiar with local conditions, methods and
regulations.
Disbursements
67.       The proposed Bank loan of $100 million would be disbursed for
(i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, spare parts
and construction materials procured through international competitive bidding;
and (ii) 100 percent of the ex-factory price of equipment, spare parts and
construction materials manufactured or supplied locally and procured through
international competitive bidding.
Benefits and Risks
68.       The total program as described in para. 60 would enlarge and improve
transport capacity in the most critical and important transport corridor in
the country (see para. 36) by establishing a direct canal link between the
Danube and the new deep-water facilities at the port of South Constanta-Agigea
which will be able to handle bulk carriers. Other alternatives were carefully



considered, but were rejected as being infeasible or less attractive economi-
cally than the proposed project. The benefits for the Romanian economy of
using its low cost energy saving inland waterway system more fully for the
movement of large volumes of bulk cargo mainly consisting of imported raw
materials would be considerable; as would the benefits generated from savings
in ocean freight costs as a result of using large bulk carriers. Completion
of the project would make it economical to improve several of the tributaries
of the Danube within the borders of Romania and incorporate them into the
waterway network. As noted in para. 60 the project would benefit other
Danubian countries, includiing Austria, Yugoslavia and the Federal Republic
of Germany, and with the completion of the Rhine-Main-Danube Canal in 1984,
the project would become an integral part of the European waterway system.
The project would also help accelerate the economic development of the Dobrogea
region through which the Canal runs--one of the poorer regions of Romania--and
provide local irrigation and power benefits. In 1985, it is estimated that
about 51 million tons of traffic would move through the canal, of which about
7 million tons would be international transit traffic. By 2000, total traffic
would rise to about 100 miLlion tons, of which about 14 million tons would be
international transit traffic. These estimates are based to a great degree on
specific projects which are already under or will begin construction in the
near future. They reflect the expected growth and diversification of the
Romanian economy in the 1980's, as well as Romania's growing dependence on the
external sector in the future. Because projected traffic volumes predominantly
consists of bulk cargo, barge transport is inherently the most effective mode.
Moreover, in Romania alternative transport modes are treated as complementary
rather than competitive, and MTTc is responsible for modal allocation of
traffic. Given the clear cost and energy saving advantages of barge transport,
MTTc will allocate the traffic to the project facilities. In addition, the
available alternative transport facilities, essentially rail, along the routes
to be served by the project are already operating near full capacity and could
not handle the projected traffic. For the purposes of the economic evaluation,
the complete works, including the project which the Bank would help finance,
as well as the other works described in para. 60, were considered. The eco-
nomic evaluation of the project was carried out in two stages. A least cost
analysis compared the cost of constructing the canal to the cost of construct-
ing railway capacity additional to the present double track railway line,
which was the "next-best" alternative. The canal was found to be the least
cost approach for discount rates at or below 24 percent excluding sunk costs
and 16 percent including sunk costs. This result held true even when its
traffic volumes and cost estimates were varied in a manner adverse to the
canal alternative. The second stage was to estimate the economic rate of
return for the project. This is estimated at 25 percent excluding sunk costs
and 19 percent including sunk costs. The sensitivity analysis shows that a 20
percent reduction in project benefits reduces the economic return to 18 and 12
percent respectively. However our assumptions with respect to traffic projec-
tions are conservative (see para. 69), and this outcome is considered unlikely.
This compares very favorably with return expectations for similar investments
in other countries.
69.       The clear economlic justification for the project and the planned
nature of the Romanian economy which helps ensure that traffic forecasts will
be realized reduce the risks that otherwise might be expected in this project.



- 22 -
One risk to the project is the uncertainty of the export prospects of its
principal user industries - steel and chemicals. The future of these two
industry subsectors has been the subject of a separate examination by the
Bank. The conclusions of this work indicate that the risk is small in the
case of the steel industry, whose exports will be largely in the form of
manufactured goods, which will not use the canal for shipment out of Romania.
For the chemical industry, the risk of export shortfalls is much greater. But
these are expected to be only a small portion of the forecast traffic and in
the event that they did occur, these items would be consumed domestically and
a proportion of them would be transported on the canal to meet market demand
in the Dobrogea region. A second risk to the project would be a shortfall in
the volume of imported raw materials transported on the canal to Romanian
destinations. Our traffic assumptions with regard to this are conservative
and are based on production targets, planned plant location, raw material
requirements and export estimates made during the separate examination of the
two subsectors, which estimates themselves are conservative. We expect that
physical implementation will be completed and will not be subject to serious
delay since construction is well underway, and that the canal will be effi-
ciently run once it is open to traffic.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Investment Bank
of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Republic of
Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
71.       Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section
III of Annex III.                                               1
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
December 26, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
SAJLE 3A
ROMANIA- SOC3  INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AXERAGES
LAND AA (TOUSAND                                    A                          -  OST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL     .      237.5                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
ACRICULTURAL      149.6                                  MST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOH1        INCOHE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP 1.
GNP PER CAPITA (US3)                   180.0       510.0    1750.0           2906.3      1942.6      3075.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRABS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1342.0        3013.0    4036.0           2033.2      1646.7      2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STAISNS)ICS
POPULATION, DID-YEAR (MTLLIONS)      18.4         20.4      21.6
UEJA1 POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 33.7          40.8      44.0             56.3        51,2        72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULAtION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          30.0
YEAR STATIONA9Y POPULATION IS REACIED                   2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                        77.0         85.0      91.0             81.5       28.2         33.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0         135.0     144.0            138.8       100.5        91.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          28.2         25.9      26.0             25.6        35.4        33.3
15-64 YIS.                          65.1        65.5       65.0             62.9       56.3         57.5
65 YES. AND ABOVE                    6.7          8.6       9.0             10.2         5.1         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERtCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2          1.0       0.9              0.9         1.7         2.1
URBAN                               3.8          2.8       2.5              2.6        3.0
CRUDE 3tRSTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     20.0         20.0      19.0             18.5       27.5         31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       9.0          9.0       9.0              9.2         9.2         8.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.2          1.3       1.2              1.2         1.8         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           85.6         89.0     140.0            115.7      102.0         98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCEYT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   105.0        118.0     123.01L          134.2      120.8        112.7
PROTE1NS (GRAMS PER DAYI           81.0         92.0      96.719           95.4       80.9         70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PiULSE       24.0         28.0        ..             45.4       31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALIY RATE        3.0          2.4       1.0              1.3         5.1         2.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 8IRTH (YEARS)    64.0          69.0      70.0             70.0       65.6         68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            75.7         49.4      31.0             31.5       45.5         20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE UATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       69.4         73.9
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..       85.1         94.6
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       43.0         64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Of POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       70.1
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              ..       88.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            780.0/f      840.0/i   750.0            661.6     1343.2        981.8
POPULATION PER YURSING PERSON       620.0/f         ..     590.0            677.1      765.0        397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPtTAL ISED
TOTAL                             130.01f      120.0     108.0            180.1      197.6        240.6
UR8AN                             5so.67?       50.0      60.0               .,      260.2
RURAL                             620.07f      770.0     730.0               ..     1055.0
ADIUlSSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED           ..         23.0        ..             15.3        17.3        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE StZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         3.2/h       ..              ..        4.7
URBAN                                ..          2.8/h      ..               ,.        4.4
RURAL                                ..          3.4/h      ..               ..        5.1
AVERAGE NU8BER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.4/h      ..               ..        1.1
URBAN                                ..          1.3/h      ..                .        1.2
RURAL                                ..          1.4/h      ..                .        1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (IERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         49.0/h      ..               ..       66.0
URA8N                                ..        86.0Th       ..               ..       85.1
RURAL                                ..        27.075o      ..



-24 -                                         AMNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TASLE 3A
ROMANIA - SOCIAL LIDICATORS DATA SHLET
NEFERENCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED 'AMERAGUS
ROMANIA                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) '&
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
HGST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    DNCOME        04CfXE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROuP /Id    CROUP /0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        113.0     109.0            105.7      101.7        107.6
MALE                 101.0       112.0      110.0            107.1      110.0
FEMALE                95.0       114.0      108.0           104.5        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 24.0         45.0     *62.0             65.9       51.2         39.7
IALE                  27.0        51.0      65.0             70.3        56.4
FEMALE                22.0        38.0       59 0            62.2        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  54.0          58.0      70.0             20.4        18.3
PUPrL-TEACHZR RATIO
PRIMaRY                            25.0         21.0      21.0             26.7       27.1
SECONDARY                          16.0         18.0      19.0               ..       25.3
AD3LT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..           .       98.0               *-       86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TNOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..            105.5       53.4         68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        109.0        152.0     146.0            233.7      225.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         73.0     120.0            148.0      102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERESTI") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 147.0        169.0     129.0               ..       78.5
CiNEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0           9.8       8.7              6.4        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      9600.0      9900.0   10200.0
FElALE (PERCENT)                   44.9        45         44.6             32.3       24.5         27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              64.5        49.o       3414             25.8       28.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 20.5        23.0       32.7            33.1        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PECENT)
TOTAL                                57.1         56.0      55.9             37.6       33.8         40.1
MALE                                 64.5         63.3      62.8             57.0       51.3         55.7
FEMALE                               50.1         49.0      49.1             28.0        16.3        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.7          0.7       0.7              1.0         1.3         1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..        ..             47.9       57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS      ..           ..        ..              5.0        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             15.4       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROLUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     378.0              ..       550.0
RURAL                                *-           '-     378.0            436.1      403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BEM.OW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-eighted geomecric means, excluding the extresm
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of coumtries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Europe;  /d  Upper Middle Income (51136-2500 per capita. 1976);  /e  Nigh Income  (over $2500 per capita.
1976);  /f  1962;   LE  Av. 1972-74;   /b  1966;  /L  WHO estimate.
Mosc Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
AuguSt, 1979



-25-                                                                     ANNEX'I
=Tmn OF $WI" nrAn                                                                   Page 3tTf 5 pages
tine    Alnsishthe  ate  ra  b   fina cercese  sunrelir JsdS the ant inthoitatie end remlleI, it absld ejas be Lacted noat tbq  Lw  not be interma-
t1   i   earbehras   fthe 1.0k of stamdardiand defletiane id amcenptused by diffeint c0atin.t L. eolleti.g the dt.. The data are, momsthelean,
useful to describe orders of maiistde, indimle trame, ned charastemne certain -Jov dlfferwsens hotessa countrien.
The p4pflgdgrep   ewrmp  for neck indicator ens mopalemi"e-wigtnd gnomestric sass, excluding the esine  uan of thnidctredi. .   uuan
ccunijWiUj9ijZ~hIito lark of data, group scenges,o  all indicsatrs for Capital lUIrpis  Oil Exportnrs aed of indicators of Access to Water and borate
Disposal, Mosains,  woran Dictribtion and Fwenty fon othe  otey  apsm  nraopsletion-weidttnd geometrio mmmsi ~iit t eb-imb of the estram  Xcuiin  ad
the moet poPaIted retry.  Biase the                  of orut mine       : the imad4atw M,its  -  emelabilit. of date  -ad is not aicecaution mini berarcoied
inrelatian_e.r                                                                     uso_n_a5ao~_onohr    be   cuie   r    a)  ieful  asym imaitian or  eixsrtnd- " Mins ynb   CannnEnf the rabiesofa
indicator at a ti NE pM  the etntrar end refereo* Wasps.
iAnS AliA (thnsuesd sq.h.)                                                                  Acewes to borate   iwsl(eoo  o   ouain.                      otl   rs    dsr 
~TtTotal_sorter  area rnqsr  'on lend are.a nd inijmd waters                             lie    fpol   ttl  ob,nd7nl   evd  yeesadson
WMutsri-tt rncst  ci..t.-.u of  Wgirultsral .r.e used tmeprarily                    per.og.t.s of noair repecti-e pyoplations. berets disposal ap  Inolsds
on pessatly for crops, peatures, marist end knithon  gerd     or to                       the collection end disposal, win or without treattent, of luame  scenstn
im. fallos.                                                                               sod cats-water by wtatr-bone synstes or the ass of pit privies and s.iler
casta.llatioo..
glaM CMA  rA (MA - GPEPpr.capita setimaten  at correal nerirt prices.,                 9p4lpp             4in-Ppulation divded by  -encr of prsotiriog plysictaea
iliIiad W7ii"  "oorcson method as Wonld Isak Atlas (1976-78 basic);                     jtflUNiYod~e   school at Zni-rety leve.
196., 1970, sod 1978 data.                                                                poaslati"o"e larsise Torsos - Population divided by -ster of preeticiag aIr
SPlITY ClZRUNTRfIO  PEP CAPITA - Annual o-suptis of oc. srial ...rgy                           cAn  fsaLl  gredcte  -isee, practical cures., ad assistant mirses
(coa oen  lignite, peirolere, natural go end hydro-, onecsr -d- ab                       Pnfleticai sr Hospital bed - total, obs. an  oeral - Papuintios (total, orbio,
tis-In   cloatricity) in kilgruec of coal equtrleot Pci' capita; 1960,                     an    -Ial)divided by their rnpective asr    f hopitl  beds asiabri
1970, and 1976 data.                                                                        poblir and privatc gorra1 and specili.ed bontpit:! asd e-ibilitatios  rice
Hcspita.ls arc retablisins.to  perenet]y staffed by at least cu    iecso.
PORUIATIONI All) VITAL STATISTICS                                                              Estails -et. providing prioripafly cutodial  -e  er  sot inluded. Rural
Total ?i,.tn    idya    illi.o..(   Ac of Jo]4' 1; 1960, 1970, end                          b.hopitas   occ,mmi  cliedndclonrsntprnetj   tfe
1977 dt,by aphsiciso, (but by a endoaLl assistant, curs, eidifc, etc.) which of fc
Ulbce   oplto    (Rreto  ttl               atio of bris  to total popultioc;                 in-peticnt accoindation and provde a liaitr9  range of erdical facilitie..
diLffvc t dcA.fitio of  etFrti  acssay nff-t conpn-billty of data                       Adnissiion  pr Hospital Red - Total senior of edmissions to or discinrgca free
sag oetrici; 1960, 1970, and 1975 data.                                                   heit    dicidod by tic ounher of hedu.
PrisoletionPrj ectibon
Popultoni   ea             c- fecet popilotioc projectiiin  err based on              HOUSING
1975       j                                                                                     in ~        hl tota  population by ag  sod cc sod thric euctlity sod fertility  Avre   leo  Hseii prsons ver b-uoh.1d) - total.  ric  and meal -
eae.Poetion peran.ror  foe sortality ratcs c-speic of threc                       AiecidosIseof a grop of individuals  soc shars living quince   and
Ic-ei  ausesig I fc vopccten     at bitth   inteussci  cootry's                        turic sain  arelo.  A boarder or lo.c  my or  ay not Be in-iuded In tic
PIre cpito in   _c1cc, nd fesalo life  ropctanoy  tibilisiga                             cohl   o    tatiotoa  prec..
75   ar.Thc parat.re  for fcrtility ratc also ihr three Ice_lo                Aeeg  nosir'of ocor..v.             on-ttl,ubn   n   oal-Araensc
a-cendg  Zicoio  in fertility nccording to  moan ls-c  sod past                         oprsPuper mo  i   al ubnadrral                    oecpivd convecilsoa  duiliogo,
fsnily ol nnog poefrnnec. Each coutry is then aissigned onc cf three                    reipctecl.   oding  coelde non-peesanet itructur     and u-occpicd psrto.
nie  ombinatioso  of sociality ci f-ettlity trcnde for projectionAcest tlcerilit  (croc-t of dwvllinao) -toa.ib,ndral-C-
pirpos...ctional deliligs cth electricity in liringqate  ccp etage of
Stttionc p.pooclation - to a utatiocury popeitioc three is no grooth                      total, uric, sod cora  dellinga  -vp-tiv-ly.
sues the birth rate ie etesi to thc death  atc, soi also tic oge
strocturt rtais contant.Tis if achievd only after fertility rateo                  EMATIl9N
dellio  toti   repacevt lviofeuot rcproductioc rate, oh.a                             Aj-cted Enrolnment Patios
"hc g"ncrtioc ofroi    epinces atcclf ....ctiy.  'T'i etationa.cy po.o-                 Friay school - total, mai  sod freale - dec.. total  ale  sod frea-Le  -uoi-
muon ill     ca v.. itiatd'on tic bacic of tie projoeted ciara,t.reitiec                    _tn of all ages at tic priser  lcvc  as pvrocotcgc   o   rpo iorpemry
of the popu1ctio  in tic yce.  2000, sod tin rate of decilor of f-ctility                 c-hool-oge popeitic.Ic; n_wlly includes ciidreo  gcci 6-li yvc   hocb
rate to repl=oert I-vi.'                                                                  adjcted for diffeern   lengtho of prieury education; for couctriv. cith
Y.a. sta,tionar   oultion Ii reheahd - The yec sirs  tationcry population                     niversal cId_ation  socoat sa  coce.d itO  poroct noe0c  puptil
sloe ins hero ecacici.                                             cc~~~~~-  ieloc or c-iic  the official sciol agc.
Population iccoity                                                   Pvc~~~~~~~~llondsot schooli- total, nair and fecair - Conputd as i  c;  ecod
Pv4   =.  a.-Mld-yno population per oqurec kiloevte, (110 hrotsees) of                       edctotcqie   cI...ot for  year  of app-cod .p                  . ey itorolo;
total ar_                                                                                 p-oidee g-nral coctiona.l, or tearher training icat-utoi-  foe popslr
Per   q no.h. ngrieultera1 lan  - Cosputd no sio  for ogriculto..l land                     usualy of 12 to 17 yvaro of ngv;  -orcpoodvec  -oun-  a.. gcnvralip
SouainM    trootue   rrpoct) - Childre  (0-14 yvcs(), cociig-age                    Vont ioca  -orolac-     occnt     -fdncci ) -Vo.ation..I  -ototui-  ioolode
(15-64yvacs, and  ctire  (65 yarn ad cove) a- preovoingr  of sid-ycur             trohaial                  oretia,c  oticer prgr_s  och operete i.d.perd.ntlyora
population; 1760, 1970, sod 1977data.                                                       depryatic of seodary icetitutions.
Poultion tGoh Onty (pverovt) - total - Annua  growth rairo of total eid-                  Ppnil-tcahic  ratio - cenary. and ar...iary - Total ctudeoto  -iro1i   ii
yvc:  popu.lntono for 1990-hO-, 1960-70, -i 1970-.77"t                                       prisao'y and nccd-ry le,els dicidvd by numbero of t-ahies. - the cen
Ponultlon Grocth Rtot  (pe-ct) - urba  - Annel growth eaten of urban                            pending lcenl..
pooitio_  for 1950-it, 1960-70  and 1970-75.                                            Adult lit-eray rate )pvrcvnt) - Liteecte odo1to  (able to rod nod ucite)a
CdBithate I c P.tioh ai-     -Anul live hirtt. peri thooad of aid-                      apore_tcgc of total sdit populatio  aged 15 pec-  and core.
jibo7Polatiiill   071970  and 1977da.
Crude loath Rntv   cce tohour-n   - Anea  ictbho per th-undi of rid-yea-                 lltlRId
ppito;19 0, 1970, c           "ioS    I 7 -  1977 data                           Pa-ng   C-  (perr th . .a.d puua.tio-) - Pacceogee  -c  -up-oo  ator- c
Proc   tio Perdoi.o  Rate - ieAge onhvr of diugt-ru ncoac  cull bc                         orstiog leic than eight pe-uno; vocludco onhlance, iv--v  and nilitary
iher  -o1a  epeoductioc period If ab  _operivooi pemi  age-                              veicl_
opecifc fvrtlity rte,; uually  ive-year  -owrgv  vodiog in 1960               Radio P-ee-ev   (per thioucod populntitn) - ill typro of r-o-ocr  for r.idL
0970, ad 1975.                                                                            iro.icacto  to gonro ..     lrprtocndo   ooalc  colde- uclic-ed
Fsoily flaning -A-Pcto-c.A-..Il)thouoand.)- A.    L  -b , oof                               eoIoIaooutie    nin yeusnioitoccfrLiotuti
ocopt-re of bieth-ecteol diico  under  onpicen of t otionol fcnily                        iffect; datn for  -eet yra-  sq  ncct be copa... hie ci-o   -t.0  cooctri
p-ianohi  poges..                                                                         abolicied lice-oig.
Foly  lnnn             ' dec  prcn   f  e,ined.cos-ee  -iPerooctage of carried            TV Peceiv-c  (per itneani popultioc(    TV rcie~   for broodoant to geocra
conof-      hl-bcig  g  (i-iyer)             bb   u  iiti,-cntrol dviccob uiii  pee thnecadpoeti; ecluvo nicenoe,dfTVecicr  iccountrie
to all curied coven in cane agc group.                                                    ad ic ypvc che   regiotratton  ofTV  Itm  _cinff eti.
Nrospaper Ciroolation  (per tihoradipopltin-lcetcovrgoscaic
FOOD AND NTifTRITTCN                                                                           of 'al   eea  io etoeppR,  teiac2tn  hpreithoci  puhica                           ilo
Indie  of Focd Production per Ccpita (19691-71=1       - Ind- of pvec-piti                  devoted priacily to recording geoal  ccci. n        fItcconaid-red to he 'doi1y"
anolprodutilc of all fooZ     osdie.Pod        uct)t on vcludec ccc  ad               if it eppears at leatI ou  ti-ecacek,
fcv  sd   iicccaendar yecr  Idc.  Coaoi ti. c-vee pricory goode                         Ci-em  AnounI Atteticoc  per Capote -e  Pear - B-od cc tic l-eur  h         fti-keto
(e.g.ouaae instead of.sugar)  thlci-arc dilte and cootoinoocrie-t                         i-1i doriog tie year,  -ocldiog adti-c..  to drive-ic cionao i-i noble
(eg  coffe  Ined tea are ccc  drd).  Ag grrrte production of cool coutry                 mt
iu btoed or net ioa  aveag  producer price clghts.
Per ccci~to  oppiY o  ceois (percet of  esui--tenc) - Computed from                   LABORc POtCO
v-rgy equiv.leot of net food -uppliec  -vilbile in country p-ee cpita                 Totalblhr Piece(tihoca-ic   - E-n-mi-aly -ct-c  perroc   ocuo                 acd
per day.  A_eilbhe cuppliec  _onprio  doar~ti Leprod_ction,  ap_to Illo                 force, cd un-picyrd lo   cooding hou-ivoc_, otodtets, etc  lefio'it__o
roport,, and  hangre irstock.  Net ouppliec coolode anical feed, reed,,                Lcevairi-o   ctri-o aretcot  ocarII.
untiticcued cc foci proceos_g, ad licc..         i  d-tbteiotlo. Reqeire-           Penn l _erceoltr) - Penile Pucel force  t peceotage of ti to1 lat.  force
veete cere ecticiaed bp PhF he   cc phyiological cre1do" foe coca                    9geltrce  .pcpeo           L       oreIcfmn,forctry, hunting and
acilvi n  aod heath cocterioc rde 'unetca  tropertr,  o4  -eghto,               fichiog co percentage of toto1 1hbe force.
agean  1oro ditr,ibtic-o, f popooti-, and al11-log 10 peeceot for                   Induotry (percnt) - Lour force in ain,g, cotc  -),nao tcorieg aid
nateIat Iouhld le_v.                                                                   electr-itp, enter and gao I. peec-tage oftotlIcbe force.
Per  tpt  opp o  protect (g-un  per day) - P-cte,e-t-et .' poe,                       Peocnloht   pret      oa,ae    n   cie-Peiio no
capita  -ct -uppl  f foo  peay. Ne~t cupl   f fodc   cl                 naticityl entertare copoted Iu totl   r0 o   eoriirfrcet  pr
ab-oc. hequir--ee    foe ali oc-utrie- 1c toPblYohed ipUSA pro-lde foe a                 -ctaget of total, nile andfial  popuicicc   of cliage   "eieot%olp;I
nioiesccs aluce, of £0 gec of totol p-ri.ti  per dy and 2P grae  of                     1)60, 191,ad 1975 dat.Th-ei  cc  11,0't pcntccipctconrateoreflccte
anice  cd po1ue protein, of  hcih 10 g-sn  ohould be animal protein.                     ge-c_ot-utor  of.thepopulation, and long tie teend.  A fec ettinatec
Tece  taad--  are  -eer tban tione of 75 gron  of total protein and                    ar  frococolo.il  oco_e,.
PS  ean  of  -ne  prot eco I  to a_erge for the  -1d, propoced bp PAP               fnrocnl  Peeiny Ratlc  -    tiOl  cf popoltioc under iS and 65 cod over to
ic tie Ticd Woreld  ood Porvy.                                                          tie laborfcdrocinc age group of 15-hi yer.-
Per _cipttprotein  -upepy Peon noinl and pule - Foteic  -opply of foci
derce   rm   n i  so   uc,i   rn   e   a.INCO0M  DISTRIBUTIPP
Chl .oe  1I_) Sisettltyht   pethdad(- An-ua  dentho prtho-cad                        Percentage ofPrvt[coe(o 00ahanhid   - Pecovdh   ihe
in age groo pi_-pea,., to children in tii    g   rop   u   ont dcccl                         poecc-t, richeat Pt pIernt, poorest 20 pere..et, and pcoreut 40 percent
opiog ...ontriec dote d-rtoed fror life toitoc.                                           tf tosholde.
ILEALT                                                                                    POVERTY TARdbFT GRO10S
Life Eporet-ey at B-rth (y-a,p  - AIvrgo rnter df yeco of life                            Elumnted A-iclte Poveetp Ticcoo Icede  01$ per ospi to) - orba  nod rurl1
reaon    t birth; i196, 1970, and 1977. dita.                                        Abcolote povety iocoso level I  thait incca  1e-vl hello ohih i ni.iil
infant Mortali ty Rite (per thouand( _- Anua  deatho of ifanto under one                     -utr-tih..aily edequate diet plus ec-etia1 con-foodeculrn cc noct
pec of ago per thcu-sd lice tirtoc.                                                       affo_dbte.
dArst,       ufCoe   proto  popolatioc  - totl  uric  end,road  -                         Fetimated Poitic- P-oerty In-oc  leonl (ul$ per -apt) - -bIrha  and c-ci
Nmeofpeopl  'tocel, ore        an   ua   ithreasnalacrs  t                         PRat-   catv   po-tyrip  -oelel is ann-thirdo  aegepreenpita
r     -  atrspply  iclodec treated orf-ce enters or anrae    u                       ennibon   ftecIty   eanlclI   eoe   eothe r-r1 le-c
osotoninted  -toer such no that from protected  crb-hl-r, upringr,                     ccit  ad-ut-ct fcr hIgher cost of lvn    cuhncc,
and celtery cello) as pre-ttage  of thei r,ecpertio  popslnti...u.  In    ta                  ted Pcltc    ro  mide   s ty Incom  Leve  (                    ct' - uri  and
anurc   rc   public fountnin or scandpo loae ntsrehnrul- Perevnt of ppulotico  (rine andrual  sh -e  ahe-lte por"
200 cotorofro L_  Icuee may he -ocdere,d a  cn                  recnabl
Ic-co    f that house.Inorlcas erosvcale  owrc_oud inPly
that tie hcuecie or "nv", of the bu-child do tot hi-r to ipeed                                                                    E.i...occ   and local Data Di--n
dhuprcp i'tir parIt of the day sn fetotbog tic fnity'. ceter iredo                                                           O-o-ii  d-ly-s  and Pr-pecct-n  Pepacteot



-26-                                         ANNEX I
Pg 2 -of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978
US$M1n.           %            1961-65            1966-70           1971-75           1975-78
GNP at Market Prices                        36,040           100.0          9.0/              7.71/             11.32'              9.1I
Gross Fixed Domestic Investmrent            10,905            30.3         11.3               11.2               11.2               11.9
Gross National Saving                       10,126            28.1
Current Account Balance                       -779             2.2              22
Export of Goods, RFS                         8,639            24.0          9. OV3            10.904             23.6'v I1..5v
Imports of Goods, NFS                        9,174            25.5         10.7VJ31           12.7 W /           22.32 j?
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
National Income-"                  Labor Force                         N.I. Per Worker
US$Bln.          S              Min                                UB U_               S
Agriculture                                   4.46            15.3          3.36              32.7               1,327              46.8
Industry                                     16.87            57.9          3.41              33.2               4,947            174.6
Construction                                  2.97            10.2          0.92               8.9               3,228            113.9
Other5-                                       4.83            16.6          2.59              25.2               1,865              65.8
Total/Average                        29.13           100.0         10.28             100.0               2,834             100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1978
Central Government
Lei Billions        % of GDP
Total Receipts                               300.8            52.4
Total Expenditures                           299.3            52.1
Total Surplus                                  1.5             0.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1975          1976          1977               1978
Money Supply                                 176.4           201.4        207.5              232.5
Short-Term Bank Credit                       170.2           194.0        194.5              212.8
Retail Prices (1975 = 100)                   103.9           104.4        105.0              107.3
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices            0.2             0.5          0.5                2.2
AJ Growth rate of national income                                                                                ENENA CP1D
2/ In current prices
3/ Growth rates of exports and imports only.
it System of material production methodology.                                                                    December 18, 1979
5/ Includes net output of the non-productive sector.



- 27 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (Convertible Currencies)                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 19T8
All Currencies)
1971                   1978                                  US $ Mln       %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods and NFS                +944        3,983       4,459          Capital goods            2,289       28
Imports of Goods and NFS                -988        4,080       5,018          Consumer goods           1,405       17
Resource Gap (deficit = -)               -44          -97        -559          Foodstuffs                  784      10
Intermediate goods         667        8
Interest Payments                        -40         -195        -168          Raw materials            2,911       37
Other Factor Payments (net)              -25          +19         -52            Industrial             2,538       32
Balance on Current Account              -109         -273        -779            Agricultural              373       5
Total             8,056     100
Direct Foreign Investment
Net MLT Borrowingi!
Disbursements                      +312         +928      1,167                  EXTERNAL DEBT (June 30, 1979)
Amortization                       -190         -561         602
Subtotal                           +122         +367       +565                                        US $ Mln
Export Credits Extended3/(net)             2/        -171        -186
Short-Term Credit (net)                  -20         +156        +441          Total M and LT                5,359
Net Errors and Omission                   -            -           -1            of which convertible
Increase in Reserves (+)                  -7          +32         +49            currencies                  5,817
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                             635.6     2,622.1    3,346.5
of which Oil and Oil Products    36.6         875.4       n.a.
Exports                             425.5     1,463.0    1,800.2         DEBT SERVICE RATIO                %
of which Oil and Oil Products   143.0          688.1      n.a.
Convertible currencies only   19.4
EXCHANGE RATES
1.  Official Rate
Before August 1971                     6 lei:US$1
August 1971-February 1973              5.53 lei:US$l
February 1973-March 1978              14.97 lei:US$l
Since March 1978                    :4.47 lei:US$l
2.  Tourist Rate
Before August 1971                     18 lei:US$l
August 1971-February 1973              16 lei:US$l
February 1973-October 1974            114.35 lei:US$1
Since October 1974                     12 lei:US$l
3.  Converstion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973 - March 1978                 20 lei:US$l
Since March 1978                       18 lei:US$l
/ Includes use of IMF credit.                                                                               EMENA CP1D
V Included in M and LT Capital.
/ Includes S, M and LT credits extended.                                                                  December 18, 1979



28-                              ANEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (A of November 30, 1979
us$ Million
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan Number       Year       Borrower                     Purpose                   Bank    TW      IDA  Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                                           150.0                   -
Ln. 1020-RO       1974       Investment Bank              Fertilizer                   60.0                  5.0
Ln. 1027-RO       1975       Investment Bank              Special Steel                70.0                   .6
Ln. 1083-RO       1975       BAFI a/                      Agricultural Credit          30.0                  3.4
Ln. 1169-RO       1976       BAFI                         Flood Recovery               40.0                  1.9
Ln. 1242-RO       1976       Investment Bank              Hydropower                   50.0                 14.3
Ln. 1247-RC       1976       BAFI                         Irrigation                   6o.o                 15.6
Ln. 1368-RO       1977       BAFI                         Irrigation                   6o.o                 29.6
Ln. 1436-RH       1977       Investment Bank              Bearings                     38.0                 25.1
Ln. 1447-RO       1977       Investment Bank              Glass Fiber                  18.3                  2.0
Ln. 1448-RO       1977       Investment Bank              Polyester                    50.0                 20.1
Ln. 1479-RO       1978       BAFI                         Agricultural Credit          71.0                 45.1
Ln. 1509-RO       1978       BAFI                         Irrigation                   40.5                 39.4
Ln. 1536-RH       1978       Investment Bank              Tire                         85.0                 77.4
Ln. 1581-RO       1978       Investment Bank              Post Earthquake              6o.o                 47.0
Ln. 1634-RO       1979       Investment Bank              Chemicals                    40.0                 33.9
Ln. 1651-RO       1979       Investment Bank              Pipe                         40.0                 40.0
Ln. 1652-RO       1979       Investment Bank              Thermal Power                70.0                 63.8
Ln. 1669-RO       1979       BAFI                         Livestock                    75.0                 67.1
Ln. 1670-RO       1979       BAFI                         Irrigation                   70.0                 70.0
Total                                                  1,177.8 c/            601.3
of which has been repaid                                   7.3
Total nov outstanding                                  1,170.5
Amount sold                19.8
of which repaid             5.9                           13.9
Total now paid by Bank b/                              1,156.6
Total undisbursed                                                             601.3
a/   Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
b/   Excluding exchange adjustments
c/   In addition, a $85 million loan for the Third Livestqck Project was approved by the Executive Directors
on October 30, 1979, and was signed on December 17, 1979. Also a $100 million loan for the Danube-Black
Sea Canal Project is to be considered by the Executive Directors on the same date as the proposed project.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln No. 1020    Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1374; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after initial delays
due to changes in site and project scope, and delays in design and construc-
tion. Procurement is virtually complete, and construction is nearing comple-
tion. Most plants have been commissioned, and the urea plant is expected to
be the last one to be commissioned, probably before mid-1980. The final
project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1027    Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack
of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under the
Bank's Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers.
More recent delays have been caused by late delivery of Romanian manufactured
equipment. The cold mill was commissioned in July, 1979 and construction on
the bar mill is progressing in accordance with contracted schedules with
commissioning expected in February, 1980. Total project costs are expected to
be essentially equal to appraisal estimates. The project is now expected to
be completed in 1980.
Ln No. 1028    Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment and skilled
labor shortages are likely to result in a fifteen month delay in commissioning
of generating units. Prcoject execution is otherwise according to plan and
satisfactory. Training of future operational staff is in hand. The loan is
now fully disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1083    Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
Construction of the pre-mix feed mill is satisfactory and final project
procurement has been carried out under contracts tendered internationally.
Disbursements amounted to US$26.6 million as of November 30, 1979 or 89
percent of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1169    Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 Million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 2,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project execution is proceeding well. Equipment procured under
international competitive bidding has been delivered and only small quantities
of spare parts remain to be procured. Delivery of flood warning equipment is
expected to be completed in 1979 and installation will extend into 1980.
Disbursements as of November 30, 1979 totalled $38.1 million or 95 percent of
the loan amount.
Ln No. 1242    Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million Loan of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed and
mechanized excavation methods will begin early in 1980.  Project execution is
currently about one year behind schedule. Civil works for the dam and under-
ground power station are well underway, and 100 percent of the loan amount has
been committed.
Ln No. 1247    Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development Project;
US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project
works is progressing satisfactorily. Out of 11 dairy farms, four farms are
completed and contracts for purchase of 9,130 imported heifers (100 percent of
total) valued at over US$8 million have been awarded. Procurement contracts
for all equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and silo in Negruvoda is
near to completion and will be operational by the end of 1979. Work on soil
erosion control and the land levelling is behind schedule. Disbursement as
of November 30, 1979 amounts to $44.4 million or 74 percent of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1368    Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Contracts for all equipment and materials have been awarded. Some
construction equipment and about 35 percent of pipe has been delivered.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Construction of project works is underway, progress is satisfactory, and are
about 40 percent complete. In 1979 about 18,000 ha have been irrigated.
Works on surface and tile drains are behind schedule. Disbursements as of
November 30, 1979 amounted to $30.4 million or 51 percent of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1436    Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15, 1977;
Date of Eff'ectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Contracts on most major packages have now been signed and imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. Project costs are
expected to be close to, or slightly over, appraisal estimates, according to
the initial cost data and overall economic aspects of the project look some-
what more favorable due to the improved market outlook, improved product mix,
and changes in project design to achieve lower product costs.
Ln No. 1447    Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.3 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. The Bank
has reviewed the procurement of roving machines and has decided that proce-
dures undertaken by the Borrower were inconsistent with those required under
the Loan Agreement. Therefore the portion of the loan (US$197,080) that would
have otherwise been eligible for disbursement has been cancelled. The procure-
ment of equipment for Section II (Spinning) financed by the Bank is nearly
completed. However, start-up of this section is now expected before end of
March, 1980 with about 12 months delay behind appraisal estimate. This is
mainly due to civil construction delays because of severe winter conditions
and also delays in imported equipment delivery and erection. Commissioning
and three-shift operation is targeted for June 1980.
Ln No. 1448    Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily with production still expected to begin
in the second quarter as planned.
Ln No. 1479    Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania
in a development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for the develop-
ment of a large multiplier herd, establishment of testing and selection
centers, expansion of industrialized swine production, and provision of
slaughtering and processing facilities. Project implementation is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Construction materials and slaughterhouse equipment
procurement under ICB is almost complete. Disbursements as of November 30,
1979 were $25.9 million or 36.5 percent of the loan amount.



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1509    Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Bids for all procurement contracts were received in November and
December, 1978, and almost all contracts have been awarded. Construction of
project works is proceeding satisfactorily, and about 25 percent of irrigation
works have been completed. Disbursements as of November 30, 1979 were $1.1
million.
Ln No. 1536    Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness:  June 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Construction of the Zalau plant (truck tires) is slightly behind
schedule with expected completion in the first quarter of 1980. The Turnu-
Severin plant (off-the-road tires) has been delayed 17 months mainly as a
result of difficulties in obtaining adequate responses from prospective
suppliers of the main technology and equipment package. The Romanian Govern-
ment has recently begun negotiations with prospective suppliers for the OTR
package.
Ln No. 1581    Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements have
lagged because the amount of advance contracting has been greatly reduced,
because of the use of terms which extend payments far beyond what was envis-
aged, and because of delays in submitting withdrawal applications. They are
expected to accelerate later this year.
Ln No. 1634    Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January 15,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Initial procurement and execution of the project are proceeding
satisfactorily, and the final commissioning is expected by end 1981, as
scheduled.
Ln No. 1651    Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of February 26,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
After an initial delay of six months procurement and construction are
proceeding satisfactorily, and it is expected that a contract for the main tech-
nology package will be signed very soon.



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1652    Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of
February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is expected to be delayed by about one year because of
delays in Tuxrceni I and the necessary sequential arrangements for implementa-
tion of bothl projects. Orders for the three Bank financed 330 MW thermo-
electric units have been placed.
Ln No. 1669    Second Livestock Project; US$75.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 6, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Progress in project implemaentation is satisfactory. Draft tender
documents for procurement of construction materials were received and review
comments have been communicated to the Borrower for incorporation in the
revised bidding documents. Disbursements as of November 30, 1979 were $7.9
million or 11 percent of the loan amaount.
Ln No. 1670    Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project; US$70
Million Loan of April 16, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
July 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Initial preparatory works are proceeding satisfactorily. Draft
bidding documents for procurement of equipment and materials under ICB were
received and review comments have been communicated to the Borrower for
incorporation in the revised bidding documents.



- 34 -                       ANNEX III
ROMANIA
DANUBE BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  Not known
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:                     Ministry of Transport
and Telecommunications
(MTTc)
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:                1975 and Spring 1977
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:                                         March 1978
(e)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:                February 18, 1979
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:                    December 14, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                         Within three months of
loan signing
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government of Romania would operate the canal on a non-
discriminatory basis (para. 60);
(b) The Government of Romania would complete the other major projects
it is carrying out in association with the proposed project to
the extent necessary for the canal to handle forecast traffic from
the time it will be opened to through traffic (para. 60);
(c) The Government of Romania has established a schedule satisfactory
to the Bank for on site delivery of all construction equipment and
materials as well as the permanent equipment for the project which
would be financed by the Bank to ensure that the project would be
completed within the planned implementation schedule (para. 59); and
(d) The Government of Romania would establish canal dues on the basis
described in para. 65.



______________________________~ ~ ~ ~ ~    IBRD 14312
--i  -\                  U.SSR                                                                          ,-                               'JUNE1979iv
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
DANUBE-BLACK SEA PROJECT
TRANSPORTATION
BJCU-EST    NURI- SNG -UITU.
.* ESASTRA ROITEOS
I'll~I
Th,II',T_ III................ . .. _,,- ~ < ,A\}9--IIIUUI2R4ATITTENHCINDR ES  1
J                                                                                                                                                                                                        7
(I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
-1A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
5 tt/#S rg'J/<\&5    < / 
'Cr  'Tndse !AmOes >Nv,_ ;'//\>,       
onvlv;/e=yoP arswevdMessneel   >   T   >spVmIn  M  <   {LATINA   >   \>  @   _LHAREST                      11            G   tr   dd  , <  9               Y        l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
IT~~~~~~~~ _ /_ CR1091 -n   TI __ __                       --< 2_____________________________________________






I BRD 14313 R
NOVFMBER 1979
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
DANUBE-BLACK SEA PROJECT SCHEME
Cernavoda                                                                                                                                                  -    Danube- Block Sea Canal
U     Locks
CERNAVODA LOCK_- 'eNa                                                                                                                                         Overhead bridges, road or railway
U                                                                                                                          - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hydrographic baisin of the canal
Roads
.10  dgidia                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways
Coch rleni                                                                               O*i       ~S  ATws
LONGITUDINAL PROFILE:
oP   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-_____=                                  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poarta Alba           \\               -                       ;                 |Siltk
CONSt  K4_TAN; JA                        -.    tSand, gravel
rQ                           Cumpana       / L   *        2       tN-45g eoeefonvr.
~~-S~gtE ConstgeLimesto-
5                                     Ag iLAGIffA:tgu                0          5         10oetr OS I  15       20r       25
}                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of the readers of rhr repono0 atrhith it is attachdrttdTe denminaion uasedan Ft
LO N G I T U D I NAL  PROF I L E                   70.2 m                                                                      datff:lriaptrrancae ttitlfd,<P^nb etnodrtr,hetSftal statits or anv terafiliaes,rny /ognrsn an te leal sttus ooananvu rytoron r enoisemut o
-FV exptni'jl
ture~~~
hishwa  bridge   -
~~~i5.r ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    T.-ph-r0pidIwMAO-y  -V  -f-1.y . ,w--.
Mao 12m  Embnnherett lOei~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~645m                                                                                                                    A  4
r,      high. oy      roil.oy             high-V                                                0-h-d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .  iCnsat
ridge  bridge  bridge                  High..y bridg.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
b,idge  LOCK                                                                                                                   bridge                                  R    0    M~~~~ I    II    I  ~nit   Aie N/nut
KILOMETERS                                                                        htpl~~~*siejC               '                                   Son
Mir.                           f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L3A1



