Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2676a-RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
December 20, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (plural lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei   4.47 = US$1.00
Leu   1.00 = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu   1.00 = US$0.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.00 - US$1.00
Leu   1.00 = US$0.06
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1, having
been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974. Beginning
in March 1978 a trading rate of lei 18 per US$1 has been used to convert the
priceq of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative of the
average cost of convertible foreign exchange.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                      =  3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)         =  0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 hectare (ha)                   =  2.47105 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                      =  0.2642 gallon (gal)
1 liter per second (1/sec)       =  0.0353 cubic foot per second (ft3/sec)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)
(m3/sec)                       =  35.3147 cubic feet per second (ft3/sec)
1 kilowatt (kw)                  =  1.3410 horsepower (hp)
1 kilogram (kg)                  =  2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)               =  2,204.6225 pounds (lb)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
bt           Barge tons
DBSCC        Danube-Black Sea Canal Central
cmt          Cargo metric tons
CONTRANSIMEX State Company for Foreign Trade
DWT          Department of Water Transport
dwt          Deadweight tons
IB           Romanian Investment Bank
ICH          Hydrotechnical Research Institute
IPTANA       Road, Water and Aerian Design Institute
ISP,IF       Land Reclamation Design and Research Institute
ITFG         Enterprise for River Navigation
LDN          Lower Danube Navigation
mlTc         Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
SPC          State Planning Committee
The Administration  Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration (the canal operating
enterprise)
ROMANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Table of Contents                         Page No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..........................                 .           1
A.  The Transport System ................................                  1
B.  Transportation Policy, Planning and Coordination ....                  2
C.  The Subsector  .......................................                 3
D.  The River Danube Navigation System ....              ..............    4
E.  Bank Group Transport Sector Operations in Romania ...                  5
Annex 1.1 Freight and Passenger Movements -
Growth and Modal Breakdown ....           ...........    6
II. THE DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL ADMINISTRATION AND THE
BORROWER ................................................                  7
A.  Organization and Management of the Canal ....              ........    7
B.  The Borrower ........................................                  8
C.   International Traffic  ...............................                8
Annex 2.1  Translation of the Decree Creating the
Administration ...........................               9
Annex 2.2  Provisional Organization Chart, Canal
Administration ...........................    11
III.  THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT .....................    12
A.   Inland Waterway Subsector Investment Program ... .....    12
B.  Project Objectives, Dimensions and Timing  ....             .......    12
C.  Project Description .................................    13
D.  Project Design ......................................                 15
E.   Soil Conditions  .....................................               15
F.  Project Construction  ................................                16
G.  Supervision and Technical Assistance ....               ............    16
H.  Construction Schedule ...............................                 16
I.  Project Cost ........................................    17
J.  Project Financing ...................................    18
This report is based on the findings of appraisal missions to Romania in
February, March and July 1979 consisting of Mr. N.C. Yucel (Economist)
and Messrs. A.H. Clark, A.A. Fateen and Y. Latizeau (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                           Page No.
K.  Procurement and Bank Involvement ....................   19
L.  Project Monitoring and Reporting ....................   21
M.  Employment, Ecology and Regional Development ... .....   22
Annex 3.1  Other Essential Investments ....        ..........    23
Annex 3.2  Project Description - Further Details
and   Information   ..........................    25
Annex 3.3  Summary of Studies and Design Work
for   the   Canal   ............................  27
Annex 3.4  Implementation Schedule and Critical Path.    28
Annex 3.5  Project Cost Estimate ....................   29
Annex 3.6  Foreign Exchange Component ....        ...........   30
Annex 3.7  Equipment to be Incorporated in the
Project and Suitable for Bank Financing           31
Annex 3.8  Construction Equipment Recommended for
Bank   Financing   ...........................    32
Annex 3.9  Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement            33
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .....................................    34
A.    General   .............................................     34
B.  Traffic Analysis and Forecast .......................    35
C.  Least-cost Analysis .................................    37
D.  Project Benefits ....................................    39
E.  Economic Costs of the Project .......................   43
F.  Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis ....       ........   44
Annex 4.1  Information on Traffic Forecasts .... .....   46
V.  FINANCIAL AND TARIFF ANALYSIS - DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL
ADMINISTRATION ..........................................    49
A.  General Principles ..................................    49
B.    Canal   Dues   ..........................................   50
C.  Costs to be Covered by Dues .........................   51
D.  Financial Forecasts and Tariff Analysis ....        .........   53
E.  Cash Flow Statements and Balance Sheets ....        .........   55
F.  Accounts and Audit ..................................    55
Annex 5.1  Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration -
Capitalization of Canal Operations .......   56
Annex 5.2  Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration -
Pro Forma Financial Statement, Analysis
of Canal Barge Transit Dues and Cash
Flow  Statement   ...........................     57
Annex 5.3  Cash Flow Statement - Ministry of Trans-
port and Telecommunications ....       ..........    58
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....          ..............   59
Annex - Documents in Project File ............................   60
Maps - IBRD 14312, IBRD 14313R



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System (Map IBRD 14312)
1.01      The Socialist Republic of Romania has an area of 237,500 square
kilometers. It is bordered by Bulgaria to the south, Hungary and Yugoslavia
to the west, and to the north and northeast by the USSR. The Black Sea lies
to the east providing Romania with a 245 kilometer-long coastline. Along
much of its southern border flows the Danube, the most important navigable
river in southeast Europe.
1.02      Romania's topography consists of three principal relief zones of
approximately equal size. In the middle of the country lie the Carpathian
mountains rising to over 2500 meters. Around this mountain range there are
hills and tablelands ranging in height from 500 to 200 meters. The third
relief zone consists of the lowlands located in the western and southern
regions of the country.
1.03      Despite the existence of extensive mountainous areas, Romania
has a fairly well developed and evenly distributed transport network. The
principal mode of the system is railways with 11,000 route-km. The rail
network is evenly distributed throughout the country and has stations in 1441
locations providing easy access to rail transport from almost all production
and population centers. The road system is 78,000 km long, about two-thirds
of which is gravel and earth surfaced. There is only one expressway of 100 km
and 264 km of four-lane highways.
1.04      The Danube River flows through and along the borders of Romania
over a distance of 1075 km. It offers great potential for complementing the
country's transport network by providing energy-efficient transportation for
low value bulk commodities. The deep-sea port of Constanta on the Black Sea
is the country's main outlet for its seagoing trade, handling about 90% of the
total. It is an important element in the transportation system since, with
rapid industrialization and economic development, foreign trade has become a
vital element in sustaining the growth of the economy.
1.05      No data have been available on "own transport" services (owned only
by State enterprises) to determine their extent although they are relatively
minor. Ignoring these services and movement by private cars, rail is the most
important mode of inland transport in Romania. In 1977 it accounted for 81%
of the total ton-km. Road transport is the next important mode--12% of the
total ton-km--and during recent years it has been slowly increasing its share.
Inland waterways and pipelines account for 3% and 5% of ton-km respectively.
Air transport is relatively unimportant for freight transport. In passenger



- 2 -
transportation railways are again the dominant mode, accounting for about
53.4% of passenger-km. Public buses are the next important mode for intercity
passenger trips, accounting for 46.3% of total passenger-km. Growth and modal
breakdown of freight and passenger movements are shown in Annex 1.1.
B. Transportation Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.06      Responsibility for all transport mocdes, with the exception of
air transport and pipelines, is vested in the Ministry of Transport and Tele-
communications (MTTc). Aviation has a separate department subordinated to the
Council of Ministers and pipelines are the responsibility of the Ministry of
Mines, Petroleum and Geology. The functions of the Ministry's headquarters
are planning, coordination, design, administration and budgeting. Actual
transport operations and construction of transport facilities are largely
delegated to centrals and the enterprises within them. Separate departments
exist within MTTc for railways, sea and river transport. For road transport
there is a Directorate of Highways responsible for the supervision of enter-
prises for highway construction and maintenance works.
1.07      The planning process in the transport sector follows the basic
approach used for all sectors as well as for the overall economy. Transporta-
tion projects included in the plan originate both at the micro level through
the enterprises and judets (especially for roads) and at the macro level
through the State Planning Committee (SPC). The demands for transport of the
economic enterprises and sectors are reconciled with the existing capacities
and expansion plans of transport enterprises. The latter are determined after
a review of all expansion plans and the setting up of priorities within the
allocated investment budget. Review and coordination of new investment
proposals are the responsibility of MTTc which submits its program to the SPC.
The program is further reviewed and modified through the same interactive
process used for all sectors.
1.08      Romanian transport strategy, in broad terms, has been to view
the national transportation network as a unitary system in which each trans-
port mode complements the rest and does not compete with each other. The
Government's declared objective has been and is today to combine and to
coordinate different modes so as to provide the needed transport services at
the minimum cost to society and with the least energy consumption. Within
this general policy, investments in transport facilities have followed rather
than preceded the investments in other sectors, as has been the case in many
developing countries of the world. Development of industrial capacity rather
than extension of transport facilities has been perceived by the Romanians as
the main spearhead of economic development. This policy has had the effect of
freeing resources for use elsewhere in the economy and of forcing transport
enterprises to maximize services with the capacity available. However, it has
also led to creation of congestion in heavily used corridors, such as the one
linking the main production centers with the country's main port at Constanta.
At present, there is little surplus capacity in the system and as a result no



- 3 -
flexibility is available to adjust to seasonal variations as well as to long-
term increases in demand resulting from economic growth, which will require
substantial additions to the available capacity in the near future.
1.09      Transport coordination is achieved through discretionary controls
within the framework of the comprehensive transport planning process discussed
above. Each user of transport services is required to specify both his
transport needs and the mode he desires about a year in advance. His specifi-
cations are reviewed by the authorities and often accepted. Users are allowed
to revise their demands downward, without penalty, if the request is made 10
days before the service is required. Monthly reviews are made of transport
requirements and modal allocations are revised according to departures from
the plan. However, although the choice of mode is made initially by transport
users, in practice the allocation of traffic to different transport modes is
determined by the overall transport investment program. No extensive data are
available at present to determine the nature of the relationship between
transport prices and the cost of providing them, but in interpreting transport
demands for investment requirements, the Romanian authorities base decisions
on general cost characteristics of alternative modes as well as types of
commodities and haul lengths involved. As a result, there is little evidence
suggesting serious distortions in modal allocation of traffic.
C. The Subsector
(i) Organization and Operations
1.10      Water-borne traffic of Romania is operated by the following economic
(i.e., commercial-type) enterprises and Government agencies, each of which has
its own clearly defined area or areas of responsibility.
(a) The enterprise for operating the Romanian Maritime Fleet
(IEFM), also known as ROMTRANS. Headquarters at Constanta.
Subordinated to the Department of Water Transport (DWT)
in MTTc.
(b) The Constanta Port Enterprise (IEPC). Subordinated to
DWT.
(c) The Administration of Sulina Free Port (APLS). An eco-
nomic enterprise subordinated to the Ministry of Foreign
Trade and International and Economic Cooperation, and
responsible for "free port" activities at the seaport
of Sulina.
(d) The Enterprise for River Navigation (ITFG), also known as
Navrom Galati, with headquarters at Galati and subordinated
to DWT. It is responsible for:



-4-
(i)  operating the three river ports for oceangoing ships
at Tulcea, Galati and Braila, and for normal cargo
operations at Sulina;
(ii)  stevedoring, shore-handling and loading and unloading
of river barges at those four ports and at all upriver
ports in Romania;
(iii)  owning and operating the barge fleet of Romania and
the tug fleets for river transportation (no industrial
enterprises own their own barges); and
(iv) passenger river transportation.
(e)  The River Administration of the Lower Danube (AFDJ).  This
is a Government Agency of DWT, responsible for operating and
maintaining the ship canal between Sulina and Tulcea (the
Sulina Canal) and for providing pilotage as well as for
operating the Lower Danube Navigation (LDN) between Sulina
and Braila.
1.11      The above, with the exception of (e), are economic enterprises with
separate legal status, established by decree. There is a comprehensive tariff
structure covering all the above, excluding ocean and river freight rates,
published by the MTTc, General Direction of Civil Navigation in 1971. Indivi-
dual tariff charges are also fixed by law; the charges normally remain in
force for five years when they may be reviewed and changed, either to allow
for inflation or perhaps for other reasons, such as the earning of excess
profits. This is in line with the general principle of strict control of
prices. To date, only minor changes have been made in the tariff rates. To
enable tariffs to be collected in foreign currencies, they are denominated in
gold francs. In the absence of agreements, payment is to be made in US
dollars, pounds sterling, Swiss francs or other freely convertible currency.
The gold franc contains 0.29032258 grams of fine gold, the value of which, on
November 24, 1978, was US$0.3941055. At the trading rate, or internal conver-
sion coefficient, of lei 18 = US$1, the gold franc is equivalent to lei 7.09
which is the value used in this report.
D. The River Danube Navigation System
1.12      Historically, the River Danube has served as an important transporta-
tion facility for all its riparian countries, which continue to use it for
imports and exports as well as local traffic. In particular, in Romania there
has been and still is a strong tendency to locate industrial enterprises
needing large volumes of bulk raw materials on or close to the river. There
are about 25 river ports to serve the traffic. At present, barges of up to
about 1000 dwt capacity are used, but with some improvements in depth and
curvatures, the river could accommodate convoys of six barges each of 3000-ton
capacity, thus providing the possibility of highly cost-effective transporta-
tion. Unfortunately, this is obstructed by the physical conditions of the



- 5 -
delta (some 5000 sq. km) through which the Danube flows into the Black Sea.
The 61-km long Sulina Ship Canal, which traverses the delta from Sulina (on
the Black Sea) to Tulcea, and was constructed about 100 years ago, enables
oceangoing ships, drawing a maximum of 7.0 m over the Sulina Bar, to navigate
up river about 175 km to Galati and Braila, where cargoes are transshipped to
barges. In recent years, with the rapid growth in cargo volumes, particularly
dry bulk, the draft restriction at the Sulina Bar has inhibited the use of
large bulk carriers, thus imposing heavy uneconomic transportation costs.
Despite the rapid growth in cargo volumes, particularly dry bulk, the role of
the Danubian waterway system in Romania is at present limited to about 3% of
the total ton-km of total cargo movements.
1.13      Because of the extended shallow berm created by siltation from the
Danube and the effect of the southerly flow of the littoral drift, it is not
practicable or economical to relieve the situation by constructing a deep-
water port at Sulina for the accommodation of large bulk carriers. Initial
investment costs would be extremely high while substantial recurring costs
would be incurred in maintaining adequate water depths. Such a possible
alternative was therefore discarded. On the other hand the deep-sea port of
Constanta on the Black Sea is beyond the influence of the delta and can be
expanded southward. Romania has for some years therefore been planning to
construct a barge canal from the Danube at Cernavoda to new deep-water facili-
ties at Constanta (South Constanta-Agigea) so as to bypass the now uneconomic
LDN. Work started in 1976 on the project. The linkage provided by the
project will enable Romania to avoid the heavy uneconomic transport costs that
are increasingly hindering its industrial development. The elimination of the
limitations on the use of the LDN system will also open the river for growth
in international transit traffic, which is at present inhibited from using
this sea access. Romania has requested the Bank to assist in financing the
project, both directly and through co-financing.
E. Bank Group Transport Sector Operations in Romania
1.14      The proposed loan would be the first Bank Group operation in the
transport sector in Romania. A clearly defined Bank strategy has not as yet
emerged because of the present lack of detailed and comprehensive knowledge
of the sector within the Bank. However, the project has provided the Bank
with an introduction to the sector and the principal issues facing it, and,
in the future, the Bank could make significant contributions toward sound
and rational transport policies and investment programs and implementation
of those programs. Indeed, the Bank has already contributed to the more
efficient implementation of the present project (para 3.07). On a broader
aspect, the proposed loan would help to develop further Romania's access to
international capital markets, through co-financing, already successful in
Bank projects in other sectors.



-6-                         ~~~~~~~AN1NEX 1. 1
N     CO - '00       40
0        .0.0.        ...0
.a
0                               .
°0      C     4Ol_o         _CN
-oN  N    0.0.             '000
O, ~ ~    ~    ~     . U        gg  
U~~~~~   00  -0                              O I'-
.0~~~~~~~~~~: O               NO F -          10
.0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ e                             .
00.    -w,                  2e 0 
- ~  ~ ~       00"'          000- <nn  or
,:3  ^  R             n0400. 0o         00          0
X ~~~~~~~~~ ~ 0C o
8  V   _   E   S -  N   Z o~0 
f   3  9 o >on o                    _



7-
II. THE DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL ADMINISTRATION
AND THE BORROWER
A. Organization and Management of the Canal
2.01       The canal project is unique to Romania, unprecedented in its size
and nature. Because of the extremely large investment and substantial eco-
nomic benefits of the project and its long economic life, the Government
decided that it should be entrusted to a new separate entity that will operate
the canal on an economically and financially viable basis. The Bank agrees
with this general approach. By Decree of the Council of State, No. 180-1979,
signed by the President May 12, 1979, the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration
(the Administration) was created, subordinated to DWT of MTTc. The Administra-
tion has legal status and is to be organized according to the principle of
financial self-sufficiency and operated pursuant to legal provisions for the
organization and operation of State enterprises. An English translation of
the Decree is given in Annex 2.1. Mr. Niculai Zeicu was appointed Director
on July 18, 1979. He formerly was Director of the Constanta Port Enterprise
(IEPC).
2.02      Pending the creation of the Administration, since by law there has
to be a "beneficiary" of an investment that has certain duties and obligations
during the construction period, the IEPC was named as the provisional bene-
ficiary and entered into the construction contract for the canal. IEPC crea-
ted a special unit to carry out those duties and obligations which include:
(i) maintenance of records of project expenditure;
(ii)  supervising construction;
(iii) purchasing equipment for operations and maintenance;
(iv)  staff recruitment and training;
(v) preparing operating, navigational and staff regulations; and
(vi)  generally to ensure that the whole organization is complete
and ready to take over operations as soon as the canal is
open to traffic.
The Administration has now taken over responsibility for the construction
contract as the beneficiary, together with the special unit mentioned above.
2.03       Until commencement of operations on the canal the Administration
is expected to comprise four main divisions:
(i) Investment. Responsible for planning, control and super-
vision of construction;



- 8 -
(ii) Supply. Responsible for contracts for lock installations
and other equipment to be incorporated in the project; also
port cranes and equipment for the canal ports, etc.;
(iii)  Personnel and Training; and
(iv)  Finance.
2.04       It has not yet been decided whether the canal ports (included in the
project) will be operated by the Administration or be handed over to other
existing enterprises, e.g., Navrom Galati and IEPC. An organization chart for
canal operations is given in Annex 2.2. In any event the accounting records
of the ports would be kept separate from those of the canal operations.
B. The Borrower
2.05      The proposed loan would be made to the Investment Bank (IB) and
guaranteed by the Republic of Romania. The IB is the specialized agency,
under the Ministry of Finance, for investment projects in all sectors of the
economy except agriculture (including water resources) and food processing.
It has a large technical and economic staff with branch offices in all dis-
tricts of the country. The IB's involvement in investment projects commences
in the preparation phase of a project; its staff appraises all major invest-
ment projects technically and financially and recommends approval or otherwise
of their financing to the Government. When a particular project and its
financial plan have been approved by the Council of State, all major funds are
channeled through the IB in accordance with the approved financial plan. All
payments for the execution of a project have to be authorized by the IB which
keeps separate accounts for each category in the financial plan for every
enterprise. It is the IB's obligation to ensure that a project: is executed
according to the financial and technical data included in the final technical
and economic study approved by the Council of State. Its inspectors check
whether the project is proceeding according to the schedule approved in the
plan.
C. International Traffic
2.06       International traffic on the River Danube is regulated by the
Danube Commission, under the Convention of 1948, which subjects the Danube to
a particular regime including non-discriminatory passage. Under the Conven-
tion Romania has the responsibility to maintain the navigability of the river,
within its jurisdiction, and including the LDN, at present levels. The
Romanian Government states that the canal will be a national waterway and not
be subject to the Danube Commission. However, it is the Government's inten-
tion that it will be open to navigation by traffic of all countries on a
non-discriminatory basis, and the Government has given the Bank a letter to
this effect.



- 9 -                           ANNEX 2.1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Translation of the Decree Creating the Administration
DECREE
regarding the establishment of the Danube-Black Sea
Canal Administration
The State Council of the Socialist Republic of Romania enacts:
Article 1: On May 1, 1979, the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administra-
tion is hereby established, located in Agigea, Constanta Municipality, sub-
ordinated to the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, Water Transport
Department, for the purpose of operating and maintaining the canal.
The Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration shall be organized accord-
ing to the principle of financial self-sufficiency, with legal status and
shall be operated pursuant to legal provisions for the organization and
operation of state enterprises.
Article 2: The Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration has the
following ain duties:
(a) contracts the machines, installations and equipment required
for operation and ensures their reception;
(b) contracts ships for maintenance and operation, and the port
cranes;
(c) contracts design documentations, verifies and approves the
execution designs, approves payment of the works;
(d) carries out quality control and reception of the construction-
erection works;
(e) participates in the technological tests of the fixed assets
that are going to be part of the Administration's endowment;
(f) draws up operation and maintenance norms for the navigable
Danube-Black Sea Canal; supervises the operation of the
machines, equipment and buildings;
(g) ensures recruitment and training of personnel required for
maintenance and operation of the canal;



- 10 -                           ANNEX 2.1
Page 2
(h) draws up regulations and technical instructions for opera-
tion and maintenance personnel;
(i) manages and coordinates water consumption required for
navigation, irrigation, industrial and potable water supply;
(j) secures control and guiding of navigation on the canal;
(k) operates and ensures maintenance of telecommunications,
automation, dispatching and signaling installations, as
well as installations for information feed-back that con-
tribute to the safety of navigation and water management on
the canal;
(1) ensures all operation and maintenance activity.
Article 3: During the period up to the commissioning, the average
number of technical, economic, administrative and other skills is of 30 jobs
in 1979, 50 in 1980 and 80 in 1981 and 1982. The Danube-Black Sea Canal
Administration is placed within the I-st grade of organization, Group IV of
branches.
Article 4: Expenditures for the operation of the Danube-Black
Sea Canal Administration, including the training up to the commissioning of
the canal are covered from the investment cost of the project.
Article 5: Workers shall be employed within the operational depart-
ments of the Administration taking into account the remuneration indicators
approved by the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications for the transpor-
tation sector.
Article 6: The personnel of the Administration having the duties
of site surveyors will have the remuneration approved by Decree 109/1975 for
the workers of the Danube-Black Sea Canal Central and the other rights up to
the completion of the works.
PRESIDENT
NICOLAE CEAUSESCU
Bucharest, May 12, 1979
No. 180



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OANtSIE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Danube-Black Se. Canal Administration
Provisional Organization Chart
I WORKING PEOPLE'S COUNCIL
EXECUTIVE BOARD
G E N E R A L  M A N A G E R
OPERATION DIRECTION                                                                                                                             I    tnvePtmnt  Devopment
| Central Dispatching                                                                                                                             Organization and Labor
of the Cnal                                                                                                                                    P rotection Dept.
| Operation and Water                                                                                                                             |Personnel Remouneration_
ManS ameolt De artmPtenI                                                                                                                                                           I
Hydroterhmical Junctions
Operation DePartrent                                                                                                        I                   Juridic Office
Electronic Sign. nd Telecot.                                       PRODUC T    V E   U N I T S
|_Installation  0perntion  Det.                                                                                                                Administratlion Dept
_  | Techoicna  Pleet. Equipment &   |  Canal                  Cernavoda                     Agigea                  Sign, and
Tras.    M asOEat oD   .               Op-rtinJunctinJtioion-                                                        Telecom                    Protoco. Dept.
Mainrerance             Operation and                Operation and            Installation
Hydrographica- 1        Maintenance                  Maintenance      i      Mnintenance
Chief Pilot                            M. Se ring               Section                      Section                 Section                                                                          -
Section-
-  edgidia               No. 1                        No                      Agigen
MAINTENANCE, SCHEDULING AND                                                                                                                  _
SUPERVISION DIRECTION
CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
aals M=inten  nce and                          iS c  =                                          0     0 c  u
drographic Measprig Dept.                                     .          44 u  |4                                                               Internal Fina ncng
l t InstallationnMaintennnceDept.am                   u           h'            .         01 C                                                    C3nt  lDet.3l1]1I>|II nI
__  Wa   n   Supp
Nhydritechnical                            .
Maintenance Dept.    5.0   N                                         444                        -, -0                         c...tig  ept
Electr. Sign., Telec-m  and Lb                .        5     5     .0      .0     p     a      0.0 .         j 
Source:~~~~~~~~~L DDC                                                                 11
Installations Mainnc        pt. t
Techn ical Fleet Eq.ips.eot and         544 444              4.   4.   40         0     4.     00.           0      4 0 5.                                             f which
Maintenan e D.F.   .00  0tn                                                        0    -5        m     .4Technical Ad.n. Personnel
Maintenance De 1.  440   33   . 4~~~  443   N44  EN   443     3      4443   4-~~~   04         TOTAL   Worker-       octoa          Prod  ive
C1_hief Mechanic
Snorces DBSCC
March 1979



- 12 -
III. THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A. Inland Waterway Subsector Investment Program
3.01      The subsector investment program is essentially based on the project
canal. It includes the following additional investments, all of which are
essential to the operation of the canal, which are included in the economic
analysis:
Cost
US$ Million
Seaport facilities                         395.6
River ports and improvements               100.4
Barges and tug fleets                      185.1
Total                                 681.1
Further information is given in Annex 3.1 and the economic analysis, Chapter
IV. During loan negotiations, the Government agreed that the other essential
works necessary for the canal shall be completed to the extent necessary to
handle the forecast traffic from the time it shall be opened to through
traffic.
3.02      The project will also provide the economic base for improvement or
incorporation into the inland waterway network of several of the Danube
tributaries in Romania. In particular, a 70-km waterway link along the River
Argesul to Bucharest is being considered. Other multipurpose waterway develop-
ment programs for navigation, hydroelectric power and irrigation are also
being considered. These further developments, however, are not considered in
this report.
B. Project Objectives, Dimensions and Timing
3.03      The principal objective of the project is to provide low-cost
inland waterway transportation for large and rapidly growing volumes of bulk
raw materials needed for Romania's growing industries and which will also
encourage and facilitate the growth of international transit traffic. It is
designed to eliminate the restrictions and uneconomic costs imposed by the LDN
on inland cargo movements by constructing a 64-km canal from Cernavoda, on the
Danube, eastward to a point just south of the Port of Constanta (Romania's
only deep-sea port) on the Black Sea, where a new port is being constructed
(South Constanta-Agigea). The port will have facilities for handling dry bulk
carriers of up to 150,000 dwt and a barge transshipment terminal. The canal is
designed for barge traffic and will accommodate convoys of up to six barges of



- 13 -
3000 dwt each, transiting in both directions, i.e, up to 18,000 tons per
convoy. In addition, three ports will be constructed along the length of the
canal at Cernavoda, Medgidia and Basarabi.
3.04      The canal project is one of the largest civil engineering works
currently being undertaken in the world. It involves about 294 million m3 of
earth moving (242 million by dry excavation, 17 million by dredging, and 35
million by blasting), five million m3 of concrete of which one million is
reinforced, six million m3 of stones for side-slope protection, about 1.2
million t of cement and 200,000 t of reinforcing and structural steel.
3.05       Construction of the canal and its supporting facilities started
in 1976.  They will be open to through barge traffic between the Danube and
Agigea by the end of 1982 and are scheduled for completion by 1984.  The first
36 km (from Cernavoda) are superimposed on the existing Carasu irrigation
channel and about 15 km had been completed by July 1979.
C. Project Description (Map IBRD 14313 R)
3.06      The project consists of the following elements, further details of
which are given in Annex 3.2:
(a)  Civil Works
(i)  The Canal
Construction of a canal about 64 km long, 7 m deep,
70 to 90 m wide at the bottom and 135 to 95 m wide at
water surface between Cernavoda and the Danube and South
Constanta-Agigea on the Black Sea.
(ii) The Locks
Construction of two identical locks at Cernavoda and
Agigea. Each lock has: (a) two chambers 310 m long
and 25 m wide; (b) walls and base of heavily reinforced
concrete; and (c) double drop-type gates at
each end.
(iii) Canal Ports
Construction of three canal ports at Cernavoda, Medgidia
and Basarabi.
(iv) Utilities
Construction of two service roads, one on each side
of the canal between Cernavoda and Agigea and railway



- 14 -
connections, installation of power, electricity, water,
drainage, sewage facilities, pipelines for fuel transport
and telecommunication systems and provision of equipment
therefor.
(v)  Buildings
Construction of administration buildings needed for
canal construction and operation and a building for
Cernavoda pumping station.
(vi) Reinstallation of Affected Facilities
Replacement, reconstruction or relocation of existing
transport, irrigation and other facilities that have to
be removed or destroyed as a result of canal construction.
(b) Equipment
- Provision of equipment for operating the lock gates, for
moving barges in the locks, for Cernavoda lock pumping sta-
tion, and general cargo-handling equipment for canal ports.
(c) Signaling and Control
- Provision of radar and radio equipment, light and floating
buoys, signaling installations, navigation control system,
water management information system and automated coordinating
system for the needs of irrigation, navigation and canal
operation.
(d) Expropriation, Reclamation and Compensation
(i) Reclamation of about 2,800 ha of agricultural land to
replace about 5,200 ha to be occupied by the proposed
canal. Of the latter, about 1,800 ha are now non-
productive; and
(ii) Compensation for about 600 ha of unreplaced agricul-
tural land and for demolished or dismantled buildings,
vineyards and orchards.
(e) Miscellaneous
(i) Provision of miscellaneous facilities needed to imple-
ment the project. These include, inter alia, housing
for workers, concrete plants, aggregate plants, trans-
port modes, workshops, etc.
(ii) Supervision.



- 15 -
D. Project Design
3.07      The project was designed by the Road, Water and Aerian Design
Institute (IPTANA), supported by about 37 other local institutes which special-
ize in canals, locks, hydrology, geology, seismology, land reclamation,
transport, energy, construction, organization, etc. IPTANA is well-established
and highly experienced, as are the supporting institutes, with ample profes-
sional staff, laboratories and equipment. Studies and research work started
in 1973 and are adequately completed; final engineering has also been prepared.
A summary of the studies and design work is given in Annex 3.3. Several
acceptable layouts were considered by the Romanians and the present is the
least-cost solution and acceptable to the Bank. The Bank reviewed all aspects
of construction--design, methods, procedures and equipment--and suggested
certain improvements, particularly as regards the use of the largest and most
efficient excavating equipment available. These improvements were accepted
(para 3.26). With these improvements the Bank is satisfied that the project
is technically sound and is being carried out in the most economic manner.
E. Soil Conditions
3.08      The topography of the land through which the canal is being built
and the soil conditions are not the most favorable for this type of work and
add considerably to the project cost. For the first section of the canal
between Cernavoda and Basarabi (km 0 to km 41), the canal layout follows the
Carasu Valley alignment. The soil is mainly clay of about 35 m thick over-
lying limestone strata. Between km 0 and km 20 the level of water in the
canal (+7.5 m) is, in certain locations, higher than the surrounding land;
adequate side-slope protection and drainage systems are provided.
3.09      The second section of the canal between km 41 and km 61 runs in the
high plateau which has levels ranging generally from +50 to +65 m with a
maximum of about +70 m above sea level. Most of the material to be excavated
in this section is chalk and limestone; about 35 million m3 have to be blasted
before being removed. The permanent ground water level in this plateau is
always higher than the canal water level. In addition, there are seven main
faults crossing the canal between km 41 and km 55. This is expected to cause
some difficulties during excavation of the limestone strata. Such excavation
should be carried out by big excavators and loaders operating on a dry site.
Several pumps with 20 m3/second capacity will be used during canal construction
to ensure the removal of seeping water, and the necessary measures are being
taken to ensure adequate control and drainage of water seeping into the canal
during and after construction.
3.10      For the last section between km 61 and km 64, the ground level
falls gradually from +62 m to sea level at the coast. Excavation will be
mainly in limestone covered by a 25 m-thick layer of clay.



- 16 -
F. Project Construction
3.11      Construction of the canal project is being carried out by the
Danube-Black Sea Canal Central (DBSCC) (created specifically for this proj-
ect), under contract with the MTTc beneficiary, Danube-Black Sea Canal Admin-
istration (para. 2.01). In Romania all similar works are constructed by
Romanian Construction Trusts, or Centrals, which are experienced and familiar
with local conditions and regulations. This practice is acceptable to the
Bank since, because of regulated wages and material prices, Romanian construc-
tion costs are likely to be lower than those that would be submitted by
foreign contractors under international competitive bidding (ICB).
3.12      DBSCC is under the direction of a Deputy Minister of MTTc, who
has overriding powers over all authorities related to the construction of
the canal. He has wide experience and an outstanding reputation acquired
through responsibilit'y for several projects of comparable magnitude and
complexity. DBSCC employs about 15,000 workers including about 1,000 quali-
fied engineers; these will be increased to 30,000 and 1,500 respectively by
1980. DBSCC is well organized; its performance is good and compares ade-
quately with that of international contractors.
3.13      Land needed for the project is either owned by the Government
or already expropriated. It will be available for the project as needed.
G. Supervision and Technical Assistance
3.14      The Administration as the beneficiary has prime responsibility for
supervision and control of the project. Local institutes, principally IPTANA,
involved in the design will continue to provide technical assistance to DBSCC
during the construction period, as well as supervision and quality control, to
ensure that work is carried out satisfactorily and in accordance with agreed
plans and specifications. Of the 1,000 engineers available now to DBSCC
(para. 3.12), 200 have supervisory responsibility and they adequately super-
vise project construction. The above arrangements are satisfactory.
H. Construction Schedule
3.15      Construction of the canal started in 1976 and is scheduled for
final completion in early 1984. However, the implementation schedule is
planned to ensure that barges can transit the length of the canal by the end
of 1982. Achievement of these goals is conditional upon the availability in
due time of (i) adequate numbers of highly productive construction equipment
and (ii) construction materials. During loan negotiations an undertaking was
obtained from the Government that (i) the necessary construction equipment
will be made available on site by the end of 1981 to ensure the opening of the
canal to through traffic by the end of 1982 and final completion of the



- 17 -
project in 1984, (ii) that 50% of the bitumen and reinforcing steel financed
by the Bank loan will be made available to DBSCC before the end of 1981, 25%
before the end of 1982 and 25% before the end of 1983 and (iii) that equipment
to be incorporated in the project will be made available by mid-1982. About
4% of the work had been completed by the end of 1977, 11% by the end of 1978,
and about 22% is expected to be completed by the end of 1979. Work is progres-
sing on all fronts with different degrees of efficiency. The implementation
schedule and critical path, as shown in Annex 3.4, were discussed with the
Government and the IB and confirmed during loan negotiations.
I. Project Cost
3.16      The total project cost is estimated at lei 31,500 million (US$1,750
million equivalent). The estimate is based on expected November 1979 prices
and includes physical and price contingencies. It excludes interest during
construction. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$551.7 million
equivalent, or 31.5%. The foreign exchange component is reasonable considering
the type of the project and the state of development of Romanian industry.
The cost estimate has been reviewed with the IB and MTTc and appears reason-
able. It was confirmed during loan negotiations. Details of the cost esti-
mate are given in Annex 3.5 and of the foreign exchange component in Annex
3.6.
3.17      The cost estimate for civil works is based on unit rates of work
prevailing in Romania under the system of regulated prices of materials and
wages. However, the cost of excavation, which constitutes about 50% of the
cost of civil works, compares reasonably with international prices. Cost of
equipment used for excavation and construction is included in the estimated
cost of the different items of the project, and includes spare parts.
3.18      Although detailed engineering has already been carried out for
all items of the project, physical contingencies have been provided at 9% on
all items, taking into consideration the anticipated difficulty in removing
hard limestone between km 41 and 61. Because of the very low inflation rate in
Romania, price contingencies on local costs have been compounded at 1% annually.
This is in line with the practice for Bank-financed projects in Romania.
Price contingencies on foreign costs are compounded at an annual rate of
7%.



- 18 -
3.19      Phasing of expenditure on the project, spread over 1.976-1984, is
estimated as follows:
Calendar                 Lei Million                        US$ Million
Year          Local      Foreign      Total    Local       Foreign      Total
1976              46          20          66       2.6          1.1        3.7
1977             991         560       1,551      55.0         31.2       86.2
1978           1,869         851       2,720    103.8          47.3      151.1
1979           3,085       1,406       4,491    171.4          78.1      249.5
Subtotal        5,991       2,837       8,828    332.8         157.7      490.5
1980           4,165       1,896       6,061    231.4         105.3      336.7
1981           4,730       2,153       6,883    262.8         119.6      382.4
1982           4,506       2,052       6,558    250.3         114.0      364.3
1983           1,777         810       2,587      98.7         45.0      143.7
1984             401         182         583      22.3         10.1       32.4
Total          21,570       9,930      31,500  1,198.3         551.7   1,750.0
J. Project Financing
3.20      The project is included in the 1975-80 Unified National Plan for
Social and Economic Development and in the 1981-1985 Plan now being discussed.
As regards the foreign exchange costs, it is expected that, by the end of
1979, the Government will have committed the equivalent of US$229.5 million in
foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan amounts to US$100 million. Judging
by the response of co-financiers to other Bank-financed projects in Romania
it is expected that offers of co-financing will be obtained. They would be in
the form of direct Bank loans and not suppliers' credits which would not be a
rational possibility for this project. The amount and timing of co-financing
will depend on market conditions and on the amounts and timing of co-finance
being raised by Romania, with Bank assistance, on other Bank-financed projects.
It is likely that for this project co-financing will be in the range of
US$150-200 million equivalent. The terms may be affected by Ronania's recent
weak balance of payments position.



- 19 -
3.21      On the above basis the finance plan would be as follows:
US$ million         % of               % of
equivalent       total costs   foreign exchange
Foreign exchange costs:
Government of Romania        229.5            13.1              41.6
Proposed Bank loan           100.0             5.7               18.1
Co-financing (maximum)       222.2            12.7              40.3
Subtotal                   551.7            31.5             100.0
Local costs:
Government of Romania    1,198.3              68.5
Total                    1,750.0           100.0
3.22      The Bank should continue to assist the Government in obtaining
co-financing from appropriate sources, but, regardless of the amount of
co-financing available, Romania is considered capable of financing the balance
of foreign exchange costs, as well as the local costs. Also, it would not be
possible for all offers of co-finance to be made, approved and effective until
after Board approval of the proposed Bank loan. Therefore, approval of the
proposed loan should not be deferred on this account, or made conditional on
the obtaining of co-finance.
K. Procurement and Bank Involvement
Civil Works
3.23      Romanian Construction Trusts have already begun implementing all
civil works. This is acceptable to the Bank since the Trusts are experienced
and familiar with local conditions, methods and regulations. Under this
arrangement construction costs are likely to be less than those which might
have been submitted by international contractors.
Equipment to be Incorporated in the Project
3.24      Equipment to be incorporated in the project, including the lock
gates, is suitable for Bank financing under ICB.  A list of such equipment is
given in Annex 3.7 with a total cost estimated at US$25 million equivalent.
Construction Materials
3.25      As regards construction materials, the IB requested, and it is
recommended that the Bank loan be used to finance bitumen (used for sealing
the side slopes) and reinforcing steel (Annex 3.6) for which Romania is a



- 20 -
net importer. It is recommended that this be limited to 35,000 t of bitumen
and 70,000 t of reinforcing steel at a total estimated cost of US$35 million
equivalent.
Construction Equipment
3.26      The considerable quantities of additional construction equipment
needed to complete the works on time are, in principle, suitable for ICB.
A list has been drawn up, comprising mainly the larger items, with a total
estimated cost of US$40 million equivalent which will be financed by the
Bank (Annex 3.8).
Project Items Suitable for Bank Financing
3.27       In summary, the following project elements are most suitable for
Bank financing:
Category                                  US$ million
1. Equipment to be incorporated
in the project                              25.0
2.  Construction materials                         35.0
3.  Construction equipment                         40.0
Total                                      100.0
During negotiations it was agreed that items costing US$100 million equivalent
including contingencies would be procured following international advertising
and competitive bidding in accordance witn the "Guidelines for Procurement
Under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits - March 1977". Romanian manufacturers
and suppliers would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is lower. It is estimated that foreign suppliers would
win contracts estimated to cost about $5 million principally for specialized
machinery and equipment for the lock gates. Other items to be procured
through TCB (about $95 million) are available domestically and, based on
experience with previous Bank-financed irrigation and power projects, it is
expected that Romanian manufacturers and suppliers would be successful in
bidding for most of these items. The balance of equipment and construction
materials would be procured under Romanian procedures and would not be eligible
for disbursement under the proposed Bank loan.
Bank Financing
3.28      During loan negotiations agreement was reached on items above for
which the loan will be disbursed. Disbursement would be 100% of foreign
expenditures or 100% of ex-factory expenditures. There will be no retroactive
financing or advance contracting under the Bank loan.



- 21 -
3.29      Goods and services for which the loan will be disbursed will be
procured by CONTRANSIMEX, a State company for foreign trade. The Danube-Black
Sea Canal Administration and the Danube-Black Sea Canal Central are responsible
for procuring all other goods and services.
3.30      In accordance with the foregoing and the project construction
schedule (para. 3.15), an Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements has been
prepared as Annex 3.9. This was confirmed during loan negotiations.
3.31      Because of the urgency to get the construction equipment on site and
working at the earliest possible moment, the Romanian authorities agree that
the ICB process must start immediately, to the extent of preparing specifica-
tions, drafting notices and contracts, etc., so as to avoid any delay when the
proposed loan becomes effective. The IB has already arranged with the design
agencies to start the process as a matter of urgency. The Bank has already
received draft tender documents for most items and review within the Bank
has started.
L. Project Monitoring and Reporting
3.32      The IB is responsible for submitting to the Bank quarterly progress
reports containing information needed to follow up project implementation as
compared to the estimated schedule. The reports will include all data on
progress of construction of each major item of civil works included in the
project, progress on equipment and material procurement (whether or not
financed by the Bank loan) and detailed project expenditure. The reports will
underline any circumstances that may adversely affect the schedule of construc-
tion, date of completion or project cost. During loan negotiations the format
of progress reports and dates required for their submission were agreed.
3.33      The IB is also responsible for preparing and submitting to the Bank
a completion report within six months of the loan closing date. The report
will comment on project timing, execution and cost, and on the performance of
DBSCC, as well as benefits obtained from its initial period of operation and
those forecast for the foreseeable future. The report will also comment on
the performance of the IB (the Borrower) and the Guarantor as regards their
respective obligations under the Loan and Guarantee Agreements and on the
degree of accomplishment of the project objectives. During negotiations the
contents of the completion report and its timely provision were discussed.



- 22 -
M. Employment, Ecology and Regional Development
Employment
3.34      Construction of the project is providing new jobs for about 15,000
men and women in 1979, including about 1,000 engineers. These numbers are
expected to increase to 30,000 and 1,500 respectively in 1980 and thereafter.
Operation of the project is expected to provide continuous jobs for about 700
persons.
Ecology
3.35      The canal and its supporting facilities are expected to have posi-
tive effects, on balance, on the ecological conditions in the area. Studies
carried out by specialized Romanian institutes concluded that the canal's
fresh water would have no adverse effects on biotic conditions in the sea and
the canal-sea connection. A physical planning model study was prepared to
study means for preservation and relocation of historical and archeological
monuments.
3.36      The canal will contribute to minimizing pollution by reducing trans-
port fuel consumption substantially, as compared to an alternative railway
transport system. It will allow the productive utilization of excavated earth
for improving the quality of poor soil in the adjacent areas, prevent floods
by controlling water in the valleys of about 28 tributary streams, and create
an environment attractive to tourists. The canal region is the driest and one
of the poorer regions in Romania. Flood control and water storage systems
will help in saving crops during flood and drought seasons. The canal,
because of fluctuating supplies of water from the Danube and tributary valleys
and the system of irrigation works, would inhibit mosquito breeding and the
spread of malaria. The existing Carasu irrigation canal, upon which the first
34 km of the canal are based, needs about 140 m3/second of water, whereas the
total quantity needed for the canal after its completion is estimated at 190
m3/second. The difference of 50 m3/second to be taken from the Danube is not
likely to adversely affect the water level in the lower parts of the river
because its rate of discharge at Cernavoda reaches a minimum of 2,000 m3/second
and a maximum of 10,000 m3/second.
Regional Development
3.37      The project conforms to the planned regional development scheme for
the southeastern part of Romania. It will stimulate economic activity and
generate new employment opportunities. It will improve agriculture locally,
encourage tourism and generally enhance the amenities and quality of life in
the region.



- 23 -                          ANNEX 3.1
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Other Essential Investments
The investments necessary to enable the canal to be used to its
fullest potential are:
(a) South Constanta-Agigea Seaport. A port, enclosed within
new breakwaters, is being constructed on the Black Sea
adjacent to Agigea (5 km south of Constanta) to handle the
forecast canal traffic. It is a feasible extension to the
existing port of Constanta and will provide scope also for
an oil terminal and for further general and bulk cargo
facilities in the future. The part of the port designed
for canal traffic consists of: (i) a basin of about 180 ha
for barges and tugs; (ii) eight piers totaling about 1,800 m
long and 7 m deep for berthing barges; (iii) one pier 700 m
long and 11 m deep for general cargo ships; (iv) one pier
700 m long and 14.5 m deep capable of handling bulk carriers
up to 60,000 dwt each; and (v) one pier 700 m long and 19 m
deep capable of handling bulk carriers of 150,000 dwt each.
Work involves dredging of about two million m3, of which one
million is sand and one million is limestone, and reclamation
of about 700 ha using about 130 million m3 of soil excavated
from the canal site. Work is underway, construction being
by the Constanta Hydro-technical Construction Enterprise
(CHCE) under contract with the Constanta Port Enterprise.
CHCE is a subsidiary of DBSCC, both under the same Director,
thus ensuring parallel construction and completion. The
cost of the port related to the canal traffic is lei 7,122
million (US$395.7 million equivalent).
(b) Danube Ports and River Improvements. Construction of
additional port facilities at the Danube ports of Galati and
Calarasi and deepening and improving the curves in certain
sections of the river between Cernavoda and each of the
above two ports in order to allow safe transit and loading
and unloading of convoys of large barges using the canal.
Work at Calarasi involves creation of a new barge basin by
dredging about 5 million m3, and construction of berths
2,000 m long. Work at Galati involves construction of
berths 1,200 m long. Deepening the river Danube between
Cernavoda and Calarasi and between Cernavoda and Galati and



- 24 -                          ANNEX 3.1
Page 2
improving curves therein involves dredging of about one
million m3. Work is progressing. Total cost is lei 1,808
million (US$100.4 million equivalent).
(c)  New Barge and Pusher Fleet.  The composition of the new
barge and pusher fleet needed to transport the canal traffic
forecast to the year 2000 has been calculated on the basis
of origin and destination data. The fleet will be con-
structed in Romanian yards. Numbers and estimated costs as
follows:
Cost/unit    Total Cost        rTotal Cost
Type      Number   lei million   lei million   US$ million equiv.
Barges   2,000 dwt         25          4.5          112.5               6.25
2,500 dwt       106          5.4          572.4              31.80
3,000 dwt       308          6.3        1,940.4             107.80
Subtotal        439                     2,625.3             145.85
Pushers    600 hp           6         10.0           60.0               3.33
800 hp          1         11.0           11.0              0.61
1,640 hp         12         15.0          180.0              10.00
2,400 hp         20         22.8          456.0             25.34
Subtotal         39                       707.0              39.28
Total                                   3,332.3             185.13
Phasing of expenditure to conform to traffic growth requirements
would be:
Lei million      US$ equiv.
to 1982           1,676.0          93.11
1983             237.7          13.21
1984             272.1          15.12
1989             323.3          17.96
1999             823.2          45.73
Total          T,332.3         185.13



- 25 -                          ANNEX 3.2
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Project Description
Further Details and Information
Para. 3.06(a)(i) - The canal is about 64 km long, 7 m deep, 70 to
90 m wide at the bottom and 95 to 135 m wide at water surface. The canal
bottom is level; it is one meter above the mean water level of the Black Sea,
which is tideless. The hydrographic basin of the canal covers an area of 875
km2. The project provides for the control of the high water from 28 tributary
valleys by gradually moving it to storage basins. About 44 km are of straight
sections and the remaining 20 km are of 16 curves of 3,000 to 55,000 m radius,
well beyond the minimum radius required for the planned convoys. The side
slopes are well designed and totally protected by bitumen sealing or concrete
walls, as appropriate, mainly to avoid the effects of waves from passing
vessels. The canal has a safety coefficient of 4.0 to 4.3 and a blocking
coefficient of 7.4 to 8.2; these coefficients are adequate and in accordance
with international norms. The canal is designed to allow barge convoys to
pass in opposite directions.
Para. 3.06(a)(ii) - The Locks. Water flows by gravity from the
Danube to the canal through a channel outside Cernavoda lock. In rare cases
when the water level in the Danube is lower than the water level in the canal,
a pumping station of an adequate capacity of 205 m3/second is used to pump
water into the canal. At Agigea, water flows by gravity from the canal to the
Black Sea through reinforced concrete culverts and sluice valves without the
need for a pumping station.
Para. 3.06(a)(iii) - Canal Ports. The Cernavoda port is located
between the lock and the Danube, the Medgidia port in the vicinity of a new
cement factory (one million t annual capacity, at present), and the Basarabi
port near the workshop for construction equipment repairs which will be used
later as a ship repair facility for barges and tugboats. Each of the three
ports has its own basin with adequate possibility for future expansion.
Cernavoda port will handle about two million t annually in 1985
and a maximum of 7 million t annually after 2000. The project provides for a
maximum of 7 million t annually after 2000. The project provides for the
construction of a nine-ha basin, 520 m of loading and unloading berths and 220
m of waiting berths, as well as for cargo-handling equipment and transit
sheds.
Medgidia port will handle about 5 million t annually in 1985
and a maximum of 16.5 million t in 2000. It will receive mainly 5 million t



- 26 -                          ANNEX 3.2
Page 2
of coal annually for the Medgidia power station, 2.5 million t of cement
to be produced annually by 1990 by the Asbocement Combine Company, raw
material for the cement factory and various agricultural products. The proj-
ect provides for the construction of a 20-ha basin, 2,140 m of loading and
unloading berths and 950 m of waiting berths, as well as for cargo-handling
equipment, transit sheds, repair shops and convoy assembly water area.
Basarabi port, mainly a repair facility, will handle only 0.7
million t by 1985 with a possibility of doubling this traffic by 2000. The
project provides for the construction of a 12.8-ha basin, 1,070 m of operating
berths and 350 m of waiting berths, as well as for workshops and
repair facilities.
Para. 3.06(a)(vi) - Reinstallation of Affected Facilities. These
include four main overhead road bridges at Cernavoda, Medgidia, Basarabi and
Agigea; four railway overhead bridges at Cernavoda, Medgidia, Agigea and
across the Poarta Alba-Midia (km 37) irrigation canal; as well as telecommuni-
cations, railway, road, electricity, water, gas and oil systems. The project
also provides for the recovery of the affected irrigation system and the
construction of a new irrigation system at the reclaimed areas and a drainage
system for the affected areas at the Carasu Valley. Bridges are designed
with adequate clearance for all barges and tugs that will use the canal.



- 27 -                         ANNEX 3.3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Summary of Studies and Design Work for the Canal
(1) Hydrographical, geological, seismological, technological,
topographical, social and environmental studies;
(2) Soil investigation studies, excavation technologies, hydro-
mechanization, side-slope protection and protection against
frost, flood and erosion;
(3) Construction material studies (quarries and aggregate),
utilization of excavated material (clay, silt, chalk, lime-
stone) for reclamation, cement manufacturing and road
construction;
(4) Model studies for canal, convoy system, locks, ports and
pumping stations;
(5) Studies for automatic control, navigation security, flood and
water control; management information system and optimization
of project execution time schedule; and
(6) Project design (canal, locks, ports, roads, bridges, railways,
power, water, telecommunications, buildings, equipment, draw-
ings, specifications, construction, installation and organiza-
tion). Among the supporting institutes, in particular, the
Hydrotechnical Research Institute (ICH) played a major role
in hydraulic studies and model tests for the canal, convoy
system, locks, ports, water intakes and pumping stations,
while the Land Reclamation, Design and Research Institute
(ISPIF) carried out soil investigations, geological, topo-
graphical and hydraulic studies and a detailed seismic survey
of the area.
Bank staff thoroughly reviewed all the above studies and designs
with the respective responsible institutes and found them accept-
able.



SIAFF APPkAISAL REPLOT
DANUBE-BILACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMAN IA
1/
Implementation Schedule and Critical Path
It em    Year                   1976             19/7            19)8              1979             1980               1981               1982              1983 -/         1984-4
Site preparation                             ____
Conatruction equipment
(demand)
Construction equipmentL_______
(delivery)
Canal (excavation) 2/                                                   rw
Canal (protection)2/                                                          _     __         _                                                 \     , _                              |      t_
Cernavoda lock                                      _                                       _____  _____ _______   __                             \___
Cernavoda puimping starion
AF,Igea luck ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~(a,
Aiigea lock                                         __--                _____    _______                          ___.__/________
Equipment (permanent)                                              / ,                                                                  - . . |
South ConaLanta-Agtgea                                                                                                                       \'
povrt_                                                                    _ _________ ___ __ ___                      - -------
3/rt_3
(ther auxiliary works a                        ____ ___                      _     _       _           _  ___  __                                 \   -- _____.                      -
TechnIcal testing             _.  __ _ ____                    ___        L_                        _____
1/ Studies and project design have been completed.
2/ Excent for part above water level which will be completed by end 1984.
3/ For facilities needed for canal traffic.
4/ In 1983 and 1984 other complementary works not affecting navigation on the canal will be completed.
-----------Critical  path



- 29 -
ANNEX 3.5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Project Cost Estimate
-----Lei million-----    ----US$ million------
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    %
Civil Works
Canal                       12,229    5,596  17,825    679.4   310.9   990.3   56.6
Locks                         1,066       741   1,807       59.2    41.2   100.4    5.7
Canal ports                     680       663   1,343      37.8    36.8    74.6    4.3
Utilities                       218        86      304     12.1      4.8    16.9    1.0
Buildings                       141         3      144       7.8     0.2      8.0    0.4
Reinstatement of affected
facilities                 1           424   1,581       64.3    23.5    87.8    5.0
Subtotal civil works  15,491    7,513  23,004    860.6   417.4 1,278.0   73.0
Equipment
Equipment cost                  826       198   1,024       45.9    11.0    56.9    3.2
Installation                    220        43      263     12.2      2.4    14.6    0.8
Signaling  and Control
Signaling                        43        11       54      2.4      0.6      3.0    0.2
Control systems                  24         2       26       1.3     0.1      1.4    0.1
Expropriation and Compensation
Expropriation                    61        -        61       3.4      -       3.4    0.2
Compensation                    153        -       153      8.5       -       8.5    0.5
Land replacement                140        -       140       7.8       -      7.8    0.4
Miscellaneous, including
Supervision                  1,436         -    1,436      79.8       -      79.8    4.6
Studies and Design
Studies and Research            228        -       228     12.7       -      12.7    0.7
Design                          395        -       395      21.9      -      21.9    1.3
Subtotal                  19,017    7,767  26,784  1,056.5   431.5 1,488.0   85.0
Contingencies
Physical                      1,712       698   2,410      95.1    38.8   133.9    7.7
Price                           841    1,465   2,306       46.7    81.4   128.1    7.3
Total project cost        21,570    9,930  31,500  1,198.3   551.7 1,750.0  100.0
Source:   DBSCC and Bank Staff
December 1979



- 30 -
ANNEX 3.6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Foreign Exchange Component
US$ Million
1.  Equipment on site                        165.3
2. Equipment on order from Comecon
countries                             18.3
3. Equipment still needed for project
completion                           168.6
4. Steel reinforcement - 106,250 t
x $320                                34.0
5.  Bitumen - 51,000 t x $220                 11.2
6.  Permanent equipment                       34.1
7.  Physical contingency                      38.8
8.  Price contingency                         81.4
Total            551.7
Sdnrce: Bank Staff Estimate
December 1979



- 31 -
ANNEX 3.7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Equipment to be Incorporated in the Project
US$?,million
Lock gates, including spares                7.8
Hydraulic equipment                         4.5
Pipes, metal plates                         3.3
Floating pontoons                           2.5
Gaskets and paints                          1.6
Pumping station (Cernavoda)                 3.0
Communication and information system        1.0
Miscellaneous equipment                     1.3
Total                                   25.0
Source: IB and Bank Staff
December 1979



- 32 -
ANNEX 3.8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Construction Equipment Recommended
for Bank Financing
Unit      Total
Pricel'   Cost
3           No.         US$1,000
Excavators (7.0 to 8.Om )             8       1,000      8,000
Excavators (2.5 to 3.2m3)            50         210    10,500
Dump trucks (50t off highway)    100            200    20,000
Mobile and tower cranes (llOmt)   12            125      1,500
Total                                            40,000
l/ Unit prices are based on expected bid award (either to local
or to foreign suppliers), and include spare parts.
Source: IB and Bank Staff
December 1979



- 33 -
ANNEX 3.9
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement
US$ million
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Quarter              Quarter        Fiscal Year       Cumulative
1979-80
June 30, 1980          5.0              5.0              5.0
1980-81
September 30, 1980  10.0                               15.0
December 31, 1980   15.0                                30.0
March 31, 1981        15.0                              45.0
June 30, 1981         15.0             55.0             60.0
1981-82
September 30,1981  10.0                                70.0
December 31, 1981    7.5                                77.5
March 31, 1982         5.0                              82.5
June 30, 1982          5.0             27.5            87.5
1982-83
September 30, 1982   5.0                                92.5
December 31, 1982    3.0                                95.5
March 31, 1983         3.0                              98.5
June 30, 1983          1.5             12.5           100.0
Source: Bank Staff
December 1979



- 34 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01       Romania's current Five-year Development Plan calls for a continua-
tion of the past industrialization strategy, with particular emphasis on the
expansion of basic industries which require large volumes of low-value bulk
raw materials. Domestic resources of such raw materials are being depleted at
an accelerating pace--initially iron ore and coal in particular, but also,
since 1968, crude oil. Demand is therefore increasingly met by imports, and,
as a consequence, the rapid growth of international trade relations which
characterized the past 25 years will continue to be a feature of the Romanian
economy in the future.
4.02       These large import volumes of low-value bulk raw materials require
an adequate, low-cost inland transportation system. The only feasible routes
are the LDN from the Port of Sulina and the rail system from the deep-sea Port
of Constanta, neither of which can meet the low-cost criterion, the LDN
because draft limitations severely restrict the size of oceangoing vessels
with the consequent loss of the benefits of using large bulk carriers, and the
rail route because this mode is inherently higher cost than water transporta-
tion for this type of traffic. Further considerations are that distances for
traffic bound for upriver destinations are unnecessarily long via the LDN
route and that traffic on the rail system from Constanta is approaching
congestion levels. The project was therefore designed to provide the least-
cost inland transportation system primarily to meet the specific transport
requirements, both inland and also oceangoing, of several industrial projects
which are being implemented under the current plan.
4.03       The project will provide much needed additional transport capacity
in the heavily trafficked corridors of the transport network and will comple-
ment existing facilities. In particular, by establishing a direct linkage
between Constanta and the Danube, it will assure full utilization of the
existing inland waterway system and realization of benefits arising from the
use of this low-cost and energy-efficient transport mode in moving large
volumes of bulk cargo. The project represents an essential and substantial
part of the current program for expansion of transport capacity parallel to
the growth of the economy. The elimination of the limitations on the use of
the LDN system will also open the river for growth in international transit
traffic which is at present inhibited from using this sea access.
4.04       For the purposes of the economic evaluation, the project is defined
as including, in addition to the canal, that part of the new deep-sea port at
South Constanta-Agigea which will serve the canal, river improvements, con-
struction of three new ports on the canal, improvements and expansion of
Danube ports, and a new barge and pusher tug fleet. Therefore the project
represents a complete and integrated transport system.



- 35 -
4.05      The economic evaluation of the project has been carried out in two
stages: (i) a least-cost analysis of the canal component compared with a
railway system as the next best alternative, and (ii) an estimation of the
rate of return on the total project as defined above. Because construction of
the canal and its supporting facilities started in 1976 both analyses were
carried out (i) excluding the sunk costs and (ii) including the sunk costs
(capital expenditures made to the end of 1978 are considered sunk costs). In
the first stage of the economic analysis the canal alternative is found to be
the least-cost solution for discount rates considerably higher than the
presently accepted range of opportunity cost of capital in Romania, even with
the inclusion of the sunk costs. The total project yields a satisfactory rate
of return, with and without sunk costs, bearing out the economic rationale
underlying the project. In both cases results were subjected to sensitivity
to variations in traffic volumes and cost parameters. Under each of the
sensitivity assumptions used the overall rate of return remains acceptable,
while the canal remains the least-cost alternative.
B.  Traffic Analysis and Forecast
4.06      Traffic projections discussed in the following paragraphs are
largely the results of analysis of data relating to specific industrial
projects, primarily iron and steel, located in the canal area and the cor-
ridors which will be served by the project. Projections for steel and chemi-
cals traffic are based on the findings of Bank subsector studies regarding
production targets and their timing, location of plants, raw material require-
ments and export potentials.
4.07      Traffic expected to use the project is projected to year 2000.
However, because of the long economic life of the project, which for the
purposes of economic analysis is assumed to be 40 years, traffic projections
are extended beyond the year 2000 on the basis of annual increases of 2% in
volumes to allow for normal growth. Traffic forecasts for the project are
summarized below.



- 36 -
Traffic Projections 1985-2000
(million tons)
1985       1990       2000
Imports
Iron ore                                 13.50     21.60       20.30
Coal for steel production                 3.10       5.50      [0.60
Coke for steel production                 1.20       1.30       1.40
Nonferrous metal concentrates              .42        .75        .88
Ferrous and nonferrous metals             1.00       1.20       1.40
Fodder                                     .08        .10        .10
Logs                                       .15        .15        .15
Chemical raw materials                    1.80       2.00       4.50
Total                                 21.25      32.60      39.33
Exports
Rolled products                           2.00       2.40       2.80
Cement                                    1.50       1.50       1.50
Cereals                                    .50        .50        .70
Other agricultural products                .30        .30        .60
Fertilizers                               3.00       3.00       3.00
Chemical products                          .40        .40        .60
Faience, marble                            .70        .80       1.10
Others                                     .60        .65       1.4C
Total                                  9.00       9.55       11.70
Internal traffic                           13.60      22.63      37.07
Transit traffic                             7.50      10.40      13.80
Grand Total                           51.35      75.18    101.90
Basis for Traffic Projections
4.08       Parallel to Romania's rapid industrialization during the last 25
years, its foreign trade has also undergone radical changes both in volume
and composition. Between 1950 and 1975 the volume of foreign trade, measured
in current prices, rose from US$.604 million to US$11.8 billion.   Over the
past decade, there has been a marked acceleration in the rate of growth,
reaching about 18.5% per annum in 1975. This rapid growth is due, to some
extent, to international inflation, but more importantly is the- result of a
steady acceleration in the real growth of foreign trade. The ratio of trade
to GNP has increased to 20% in 1975 compared to about 13A' in the 1960s.
Moreover, the sectors on which the successful growth of the economy are based,
e.g., metallurgy, chemicals and engineering, have been those in which the
importance of foreign trade has increased the most. The pace cf industriali-
zation has resulted in depletion of domestic supplies of raw materials. At
present Romania has to obtain about 95% of iron ore and 70% of coal require-
ments from abroad. It is certain that Romania's dependence on the external
sector will grow even more in the future and exports will have to be increased



- 37 -
to help pay for the growing imports. Parallel to the growth in export-import
traffic, domestic traffic is also expected to increase. During the period
1970-77, total freight volume, exclusive of own-transport, increased about 72%
from 414 m tons to 713 m tons. With further growth and diversification of the
Romanian economy in the 80's, the internal freight movement is certain to
increase at rates equaling or exceeding this rate.
4.09      For the above traffic projections the following categories were
analyzed. Full information is given in Annex 4.1.
Imports and exports
(a)  Imports of raw materials for steel production
(b)  Imports of ferrous and nonferrous metals
(c)  Imports of chemical raw materials
(d)  Exports of steel products
(e)  Exports of cement
(f)  Exports of chemicals and fertilizers
(g) Miscellaneous export and import commodities
Internal Traffic
International transit traffic
C. Least-cost Analysis
4.10      The canal component of the project constitutes a major portion of
the project investment costs. Therefore, before estimating the rate of return
on the project the canal has been subjected to a least-cost analysis by
comparing it with an alternative land transport facility linking the deep-sea
port of South Constanta-Agigea with origin and destination points. Given that
a preponderant portion of the forecast traffic is low-value bulk commodities,
a railway system is used as the next-best alternative. The railway solution
used in the analysis is designed to move the same forecast traffic volume as
the project, excluding international transit traffic which will only occur in
the forecast volume if the canal is built. Therefore, it is assumed that
transport-related benefits resulting from both the project and next-best
alternative are the same, although the canal yields some minor non-transport-
related benefits. In the cost comparison these latter benefits are deducted
from the cost of the project for the year in which they occur. Because of the
long economic life of the canal and its capacity to accommodate a much larger
volume of traffic than that forecast, a 40-year period of analysis has been
used. Bearing in mind less severity of indivisibilities in railways compared
to the canal, the railway investment expenditures are phased parallel to the
growth of traffic volume.
4.11      Economic costs of both alternatives have been arrived at by border
pricing of-individual cost components of both capital and operating costs.
For tradable items, the conversion factors have been estimated by taking the



- 38 -
ratio of domestic prices to long-term international prices expected to prevail
during the 1980s. All calculations have been based on November 1979 real
prices and they exclude transfer payments, taxes, duties and price contingencies.
4.12      The canal alternative requires higher initial capital expenditures
(about 31.3 billion lei, including sunk costs, for the canal, canal ports,
river ports and barge terminal at South Constanta-Agigea port, and 4.7 billion
lei for barge and pusher tug fleets) than the railway alternative (about 12
billion lei for new lines, marshaling yards and other supporting facilities
and about 11.9 billion lei for locomotives and freight cars). Inland waterway
and railway transport costs have been estimated on the basis of the optimal
modus operandi established for each major origin and destination point,
bearing in mind the volume and type of commodity to be transported. In the
case of barge transport, for a predominant portion of forecast traffic, the
type of operation involves the use of convoys consisting of six barges of 3000
dwt capacity pushed by a single pusher tug. Similarly, railway transport
costs are estimated on the assumption that the most suitable type of operation
would be used for each origin and destination point. On these bases, inland
waterway transport costs are estimated to be about 0.045 letu on the average
per ton/km compared to 0.198 leu by rail. Cost streams on the canal and the
next-best alternative for selected years are shown below.
-----------Canal Alternative------------   ------Rail Alternative--------
Capital Cost/  Annual Costs/  Benefits-/   Capital Costs/  Annual Costs/
-----------------------------(in million lei)---------------------------
1977          1617              -
1978          2720              -            -                 -               -
1979          4291              -           500              2300              -
1980          6061              -           500              5300              -
1981         6883               -           500              4130              -
1982          7458              -           500              4130              -
1983          3587            1090          203                -             3017
1984           907            1276          249                -             3421
1985           410            1505          336              1011            3523
1990          1026            2068          466              1435            4944
1995           587            2397          537                -             5588
2000          1092            2811          621              3000            6393
2005            90            3088          702              1074            7055
2010            90            3393          794              1148             7785
2015            90            3728          899               238            8591
/a   Includes fleet/rolling stock and their replacements.
7b   Includes transportation and maintenance costs.
/c   Includes canal specific benefits, i.e., savings in excavation cost
of fill used in port construction, and 50 percent of benefit accruing to
international transit traffic.



- 39 -
4.13       Based on the methodology and data presented in the foregoing section,
the canal with its supporting facilities is the least-cost alternative for
discount rates at or below 24% without the sunk costs. Even if the sunk costs
are included in the analysis the canal alternative remains the least-cost
solution for discount rates at or below 16%, which is well above the oppor-
tunity cost of capital of 9.0% presently estimated for Romania. These results
are tested for their sensitivity to variations in traffic volumes as well as
the cost parameters of the alternatives examined. In these tests the sunk
costs are excluded from the analysis. The results obtained are summarized
below.
Crossover discount rate
(a)  20% increase in canal investment costs                       16.0
(b)  20% reduction in traffic volume                              15.7
(c) 20% reduction in rail alternative
investment costs                                          18.3
(d)  20% increase in barge transport costs                        21.8
(e) 20% increase in total cost stream of
canal alternative                                         14.7
(f) 20% reduction in total cost stream of
rail alternative                                          14.2
(g) Combining 10% increase in total canal cost
stream with 10% reduction in total rail
cost stream                                               15.2
4.14       In all the sensitivity tests carried out assumptions used are
conditions that are adverse to the canal alternative. The above results show
that even under these rather unlikely situations the canal solution remains
the least-cost alternative for discount rates which are above the opportunity
cost of capital. These results confirm the strong economic case for adopting
the canal alternative and barge transport for moving forecast traffic volumes.
D. Project Benefits
Nature of Benefits
4.15       The project will ensure that the planned industrial enterprises
will receive their raw material requirements at the lowest cost. The avail-
ability of a deep-sea port adequate to handle large bulk carriers will enable
Romania to have access to a larger number of overseas suppliers of raw mate-
rials than it presently has. The project will generate substantial benefits
for the economy in the form of significant savings in ocean freight costs
resulting from the use of large bulk carriers for imports of raw materials,
and, by enabling the economy to utilize the Danubian waterway system to its
full potential, will generate substantial transport cost savings in internal
movement of bulk commodities. The benefits accruing from the project will
also extend beyond the borders of Romania to the riparian countries. The
availability of a new deep-sea port on the coast of the Black Sea, which is



- 40 -
directly linked to the Danubian system, will offer significant transport cost
savings for these countries in importing bulk raw materials and exporting
finished products. It is expected that an adequate part of the benefits
accruing to the international transit traffic will be captured by Romania in
the form of canal transit dues and port charges.
Assessment of Benefits
4.16      Because the existing transport facilities along the routes to be
served by the project are presently utilized fully, forecast traffic volumes
cannot be accommodated without some capacity expansion. In a "do-nothing"
situation transport costs would rise sharply due to (a) continuous increases
in ship-waiting times at ports, (b) serious congestion along the inland
transport routes leading to progressively longer travel times and delays in
deliveries, and (c) ultimately complete stoppages in growth of production
activities which would use the project. Under these circumstances it would
not be possible to estimate meaningfully the economic benefits of the project
with reference to transport cost savings resulting from it. Therefore, for
the purpose of quantifying the project benefits and estimating its rate of
return, a "without project" situation has been defined.
4.17      Under the "without" case there is still a need for expansion of
transport capacity to ensure the physical movement of traffic. These addi-
tional capacity requirements have been estimated on the basis of an optimal
distribution of forecast traffic in which commodity flows are assigned to
those routes and modes so as to minimize transport costs. Bulk commodities,
mainly imports of industrial raw materials, are allocated to the waterway
system through the Sulina canal to Galati/Braila river ports and the remainder
of forecast traffic is assumed to be transported by railway.
4.18      Given the traffic distribution between the waterways and railway
networks, the investment expenditure of the "without" case has been determined.
This level of investment represents the minimum capacity expansion require-
ments of the existing transport system. Any reduction in this amount would be
more than offset by increases in transport costs through delays in various
parts of the system. Therefore, the investment expenditures of the "without"
case are assumed to represent that portion of the project benefits which is
not captured as transport cost savings. The investment expenditures of the
"without" case are estimated by border pricing of cost components using the
methodology discussed in paras. 4.11 and 4.12. These involve expansion of
Braila/Galati river ports to handle both seagoing vessels and barges as well
as river improvements, all amounting to about 6.5 billion lei or US$360 mil-
lion. Also in order to increase the capacity of the rail facilities along
Cuilnica-Constanta route and provide adequate rail terminal facilities at
Constanta, an additional capital expenditure of 4.5 billion lei or US$250
million is required. With the addition of 7.3 billion lei or US$404 million
for barge and pusher tug fleets and rail rolling stock, the total capital cost
of the "without" case is estimated at about 18.3 billion lei or US$1.0 billion.
4.19      The principal economic benefits accruing from the project are (i)
ocean freight cost savings on imported bulk raw materials, (ii) savings on



- 41 -
oceangoing ship days due to shorter distances under the project by eliminating
the Sulina route, (iii) savings in barge transport costs due to shorter
distances under the project, (iv) savings in transport differential costs
between railways and barges, (v) reductions in ship-waiting times at the port
of Constanta, (vi) benefits from international transit traffic, and (vii)
non-transport-related benefits. These are discussed below.
Ocean Freight Cost Savings
4.20      Because Braila/Galati river ports have limited access through
the Sulina Canal, imported bulk cargo can only be brought in by ships of
15,000 dwt maximum partially laden. The project will enable Romania to
utilize large bulk carriers of up to 150,000 dwt primarily on a charter
basis for imports of raw materials from India, South and North American
countries. Benefits resulting from this are conservatively assumed to be
$10 or 180 lei, on the average, per ton of raw material imported.
Savings in Ship Days
4.21      Without the project seagoing vessels will need about 34 additional
hours for a round trip from Sulina to Galati/Braila river ports. Moreover,
the additional distance between Constanta and Sulina will add approximately 26
hours to ship time. In estimating benefits of the project time savings have
been conservatively assumed to be 48 hours at US$5000 per day which will
accrue to the Romanian economy.
Savings in Barge Transport Costs
4.22      Barge traffic destined to upriver ports will save a distance of 150
km, one way, by utilizing the project canal and the deep-sea port at South
Constanta/Agigea. These benefits are estimated, on the basis of additional
distances involved between Galati/Braila and upriver ports, at barge transport
costs of 0.045 leu per ton/km.
Savings in Transport Differential
4.23      These benefits will accrue to internal traffic and a portion of
export traffic. They are quantified on the basis of the transport cost
differential between inland waterways and railways. (See the least-cost
analysis, para. 4.12.)
Reductions in Ship-waiting Time
4.24      Without the project a part of the export traffic would be handled at
the already congested Constanta port, where average ship-waiting time is at
present about 8 days. In estimating the project benefits arising from savings
in ship-waiting times, only the ship movement required to handle the project-
related export traffic is considered. With this assumption, ship-waiting
times are estimated to be 1920 ship-days in the year 1985, 2000 in 1990 and
2320 in 2000 and benefits are arrived at by using US$5000 per ship-day.



- 42 -
Benefits from International Transit Traffic
4.25      As noted above, benefits accruing from the project will also be
shared by several of the Danubian countries. These benefits, similar to those
enjoyed by the Romanian economy, will be mainly in transport cost savings. In
the analysis, it is assumed that Romania will capture 50% of these benefits in
the form of canal toll charges and port dues. Even with these charges, the
transport cost reductions resulting from the proposed project will make it
advantageous for the riparian countries to utilize the new transport facilities
and encourage transit traffic.
4.26      The following summarizes the quantified benefits accruing to Romania
from the project:
Benefit Streams from the Project
(in 1979 prices; in million lei)
International    Transport
Transit            Cost
Years                    Traffic          Savings      Total
1979-82                      -                 -          -
1983                       203             6,077       6,280
1984                       249             6,892       7,141
1985                       336             7,032       7,368
1990                       466             9,301       9,767
1995                       537            10,782      11,319
2000                       621            12,479      13,100
2005                       702            13,437      14,139
2010                       794            14,468      15,262
2015                       899            15,579      16,478
Distribution of Project Benefits
4.27      The project benefits arising from internal and export-import traffic
will accrue to Romania in full and will pervade the whole economy. Transport
cost reductions for imports of industrial raw materials, both in terms of
ocean freight rate savings as well as in terms of lower inland transport costs,
will ultimately be reflected in the realization of the development plan goals
and reduced prices for Romanian industrial products. The project will also
enhance the competitive position of Romania in international markets for
industrial products. Given the increased reliance on imported raw materials
for maintaining industrial production of the country, the improved export
position of Romania will be an important factor in its future development
efforts. Benefits related to the internal traffic will foster industrializa-
tion efforts of the country.
4.28      As to international transit traffic, it is recognized that the
benefits accruing to international transit traffic may not be wholly passed on
to Romania. Consequently, it has been assumed that only 50% of these benefits



- 43 -
will be captured. In this manner the facilities offered by the project will
still be advantageous for the riparian countries to use. Non-transport-related
benefits of the project will accrue to Romania in full.
4.29       The project will generate further benefits which could not be
adequately quantified and therefore reflected in the analysis. Utilization of
the River Danube waterway system to its full potential under the project will
provide much-needed relief to the already congested transport system and will
reduce transport costs for traffic which will continue to use the existing
facilities. The availability of the most energy-efficient transport facility
for the movement of large volumes of low-value bulk traffic will be a factor
reducing Romania's dependence on imports of oil. Moreover, given that the
relative price of energy including petroleum products will be certain to
increase in the future, the advantages of the project are certain to be higher
than the benefit estimations indicate. The project canal will also serve as a
fresh-water reservoir for irrigation in the region, one of the driest parts of
the country. In addition the project will stimulate economic growth in the
canal area, which Is one of the least developed regions of the country,
following the availability of adequate and low-cost transport facilities.
E. Economic Costs of the Project
4.30       Similar to the methodology outlined in paras. 4.11 and 4.12 for the
least-cost analysis, the total economic costs of the project are estimated by
border pricing of each cost component. Economic cost estimates are based on
November 1979 prices and exclude price contingencies. Local taxes and customs
duties are also excluded from the cost estimates. Annual operating costs of
the project are also estimated separately without price escalation. The total
economic cost stream of the project is given below.
Economic Cost Stream: Total Project
(January 1979 prices, in m. lei)
Canal         Port            Fleet          Transport Costs
1977-1978          4,337            -                -                  -
1979             4,291           510              -                   -
1980             6,061           900              -                   -
1981             6,883        1,200               -                   -
1982             6,558         1,400             900                  -
1983             2,587           450           1,000               2,198
1984               583           300             324               2,573
1985                -             -              410               3,035
1990                -             -            1,026               4,410
1995                -             -               -                5,111
2000                -             -            1,092               5,643
2005                -             -               90               6,199
2010                -             -               90               6,811
2015                 -            -               90               7,483



- 44 -
F. Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
4.31      Based on the methodology and data presented in the foregoing sec-
tions the project yields a satisfactory rate of return of 25.5% excluding the
sunk costs. With the inclusion of the sunk costs the rate of return is about
19%. The first year rate of return, based on transport costs savings, is
estimated to be about 13% using a 10% discount rate and excluding sunk costs.
These results confirm the economic justification of the project, its impor-
tance for the Romanian economy, and its timing.
4.32      The economic return was tested for its sensitivity to variations
in the cost and benefit parameters. The results are summarized below.
Rate of Return
Without       With
Sunk-Costs Sunk-Costs
(a)  20% increase in project capital costs             20.6          14.6
(b)  20% increase in total cost stream of
the project                                    18.8          12.8
(c)  20% decrease in total project benefit
stream                                         17.7          11.7
(d)  Two-year lag                                      17.0          11.0
The above tests show that even under these rather unlikely situations the proj-
ect yields a satisfactory rate of return. These results confirm the strong
economic case for the project.
Risks
4.33      The risk of not attaining project objectives due to shortfalls
in forecast traffic, cost overruns or delays in project implementation is
considered low. The fact that traffic forecasts are largely based on industry-
wide analysis as well as specific projects which have been or will be commis-
sioned minimizes the risk that they will not be realized. Forecast traffic
is certain to use the proiect because existing facilities are already fully
utilized and because barge transport is the most efficient mode moving this
predominantly low-value bulk cargo. One risk is the vulnerability of export
prospects of the project's principal user industries -- steel and chemicals.
Failure to realize the targets set for steel exports will not greatly affect
the forecast traffic volume as these will be mainly in the forir of manufactured
goods using other transport facilities. For the chemical industry, risk of
export shortfalls is much greater. As this group of commodities represents a
small portion of the total traffic, it will have negligible effect on total
project benefits. Moreover, such shortfalls wculd not necessarily reduce the
project traffic volume as there is a domestic demand for chemicals in the
canal area and a fair proportion of them would be transported using project
facilities. A second possible risk would be a shortfall in the volume of
total steel output with a resulting shortfall in the volume of imported raw



- 45 -
materials. This risk is considered low as traffic assumptions are highly
conservative and are based on industrywide production, consumption and export
estimates made by Bank staff. If the total steel output target is found to be
in excess of demand, it is likely that production of older, less efficient
plants will be reduced. Thus the output levels of new plants at Calarasi and
Galati, which will rely on the project for their raw material supplies, would
be unchanged. Despite these assurances, however, the risk of shortfalls in
forecast traffic volume is taken into account in the sensitivity analysis. As
shown above, under the assumption of a 20% reduction in traffic volume, the
project still yields a satisfactory rate of return. Because work on the proj-
ect started in 1976 and a considerable portion of it has been completed, cost
estimates and the project implementation schedule benefited from the experience
gained thus far. Therefore they are realistic and reliable. As a result,
risks of cost overruns and delays in project implementation are considered low.
However, in the unlikely event of a two-year delay in opening the project
canal to through traffic, the rate of return on the project still remains
satisfactory.



- 46 -                             ANNEX 4.1
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Information on Traffic Forecasts
Imports and Exports
(a) Imports of Raw Materials for Steel Production. Imports of iron ore,
coal and coke, required to sustain the planned steel production, account for
about 59% of import-export traffic and about 41% of domestically generated
traffic in 1985 (18 m tons); for 1990 the respective share of steel-related
imports are: 67% and 43% (28.4 m tons) and for year 2000: 65% and 39% (32.3 m
tons). These traffic forecasts have been based on steel production targets
which have been recently reviewed by the Bank and found to be economically
viable. Production of raw steel is planned to reach 20.4 m tons in 1985 and
about 24.5 m tons in 1990 after which no major expansion in steel capacity is
expected. It is assumed that after 1990 steel output would be increased by
1% per annum to keep up with the growth in demand parallel to population
increases. In order to sustain the production level in 1985, it is estimated
that Romania will import 8.0 m tons of coal, 1.2 m tons of coke and 27.7 m
tons of ore representing 62%, 3% and 87% respectively of the total require-
ments. The two major steel complexes which will rely on the project for their
raw material requirements are Calarasi and Galati, both located on the Danube.
Phase II of the new Calarasi plant, is assumed to be completed in 1990,
producing 2.7 m tons of steel per annum requiring 4.1 m tons of coal (2.0 m
tons of which will be imported) and 6.4 m tons of iron ore (6.0 m tons of which
will be imported). All 8.0 m tons of the imported raw materiaLs will utilize
the canal project. The Galati complex, which at present has an annual capacity
of 7 m tons, is being expanded to 9.5 m tons capacity requiring about 25.5 m tons
of raw materials. Of this amount 18.9 tons will be imported. It is estimated
that about 15 m tons will be transported by the facilities of the project, the
remainder being supplied through other sources. The Hunedoara plant will
receive 1.5 m tons of its 14.3 m tons of raw material requirements--of which
8.9 m tons will be imported--through the use of the canal. Steel-related
traffic projections for 1990 are arrived at by increasing the volumes of
imported raw materials by 20% parallel to the planned increase in output.
It must be noted that this is a conservative assumption as Romania's reliance
on imported raw materials will continue to increase. The project, which brings
about considerable transport cost savings for imported bulk materials, will be
certain to attract this additional traffic.
(b) Imports of Ferrous and Nonferrous Metals. The Romanian ferrous and
nonferrous metallurgical industries have been growing at an average annual rate
of 10% during the past two decades. The current Five-year Plan and the Pros-
pective Plan to year 1990 aim at a somewhat faster growth rate. The forecast
imports of metals needed to sustain this growth rate are estimated to be 1 m
tons in 1985, 1.2 m tons in 1990 and 1.4 m tons in year 2000.



-47 -                             ANNEX 4.1
Page 2
(c) Imports of Chemical Raw Materials. Imports of raw materials for
chemical production are the next largest group of items in traffic forecast
figures. The chemical industry exceeded other branches of industry in terms
of growth for nearly 20 years until about the 1970's when the growth rate
settled to about 16%. Current plans call for a continued expansion though at
a somewhat reduced rate, 15%. Romania, in order to sustain the functioning
of its well-established chemical production capacity and to maintain the growth
rate envisaged in the plan will increasingly be dependent on imported raw
materials, particularly hydrocarbons derived from crude oil and other chemical
concentrates.
(d) Exports of Steel Products. Romania is expected to increase its
exports of raw steel, mainly rolled products. In the forecast figures, steel
exports amount to two million tons in 1985, 2.4 m tons in 1990 and 2.8 m tons
in 2000. Given the fact that Romanian exports of rolled steel products aver-
aged around 1.3 m tons in the 1970's, the forecast figures represent realistic
expectations.
(e) Exports of Cement. The construction materials industry has been one
of the fastest growing subsectors of the country with output often exceeding
domestic demand. This has permitted Romania to export a significant proportion
of its output, particularly that of cement, for which it has established a
steady market. Given that the current plan includes expansion of cement pro-
duction in Medgidia, the forecast of 1.5 m tons of cement exports per annum
for the whole analysis period is a continuation of the existing condition and
therefore represents a conservative estimate of traffic in this commodity.
(f) Exports of Fertilizers and Chemicals. Annual fertilizer exports
have been projected to be around 3.0 m tons to year 2000.  Other chemical
products, carbide, and synthetic rubber are expected to add about 0.4 m tons
in 1985 and 1990 and 0.6 m tons in 2000 to export traffic.
(g) Miscellaneous Export and Import Commodities. Other items which are
included in the import forecasts are fodders and exotic woods. Wide variations
in crop yields from one year to the next make it difficult for Romania to sup-
ply the whole of the fodder requirements for its livestock production. There-
fore, in order to maintain the targets set for livestock products, it will be
necessary to supplement local production of animal feed with some feedgrains
and protein needs.  Exotic woods, on the other hand, will supply woodwork
industries with essential raw materials. These two import items are projected
to add 230,000 tons of traffic in 1985 and 250,000 tons in 1990 and 2000.
Among the export items, sanitary equipment and faience are projected to be
around 0.5 m tons in 1985, 0.6 in 1990 and 0.8 in 2000. Other export items
include cereals, livestock products and commodities of a general cargo nature.
Internal Traffic
Traffic forecasts for internal traffic, similar to export-import
traffic, have been based largely on individual project developments within
the area of the project and along the routes which will be served by it. In
addition, past trends have also been examined and the growth potentials of



- 48 -                            ANNEX 4.1
Page 3
the canal area have been borne in mind. Traffic volume between points along
the canal and the rest of the country increased rapidly during recent years,
reaching about 8 m tons in 1978. About 80% of the traffic volume consisted
of construction materials, i.e. gravel and stone from the banks of the River
Danube; about 11%, coal and coke, and the remainder, general cargo and agri-
cultural commodities. In the forecast traffic volume, construction materials
continue to be important, about six m tons in 1985, eight m tons in 1990 and
12 m tons in 2000. This is mainly but not exclusively due to the construction
of South Constanta-Agigea port which is planned to continue in several stages
until year 2000. Moreover, several public works, mainly roads, are in the
plan for the canal area and will require substantial volumes of construction
materials. The planned thermal power station at Medgigia will also receive
its coal supplies through the waterway network, adding about 5 m tons to the
traffic volume in 1990, increasing to 6.7 m tons in 1995 and 10 m tons in year
2000. The Medgidia cement factory will generate an additional 1.4 m tons of
traffic in 1985, 2.0 m in 1985 and about 3.3 m in year 2000. The remainder of
the forecast traffic consists of general cargo of various types, cereals and
petroleum products.
International Transit Traffic
The River Danube enables its riparian countries to benefit from sub-
stantial transport cost savings afforded by the project in importing essential
raw materials for their industries as well as exporting finished products to
the Middle East and the rest of the world. At present traffic originating
from or destined to these landlocked countries is hampered by inadequate
capacity offered by the Romanian ports at Braila and Galati and the limita-
tions on the size of seagoing vessels which can use the Sulina Canal. As a
result, Romania is not, at present, in a position to accept several offers
that have been made by Danube riparian countries for the transshipment of
their cargo. To date Romania has received firm and long-term contracts from
several of the riparian countries amounting to some 7.5 m tons by 1985. This
international transit traffic consists of upstream movement of bulk cargo,
e.g., iron ore of about 2 m tons for Austria from Brazil; 0.5 m tons of soya
bean oil to Austria from the USA, bulk phosphates from Morocco, about 2.0 m
tons and 1.5 m tons of oil for Czechoslovakia. Major components of downstream
traffic are rolled steel products from Hungary and Czechoslovakia, 0.5 m tons
and 0.1 m tons from Austria; and chemicals, ceramics, timber and glassware
from Austria and Czechoslovakia, 0.3 m tons. The traffic projections based
on specific contracts that have been negotiated by the Romanian authorities
and the Danubian riparian countries do not take into account the effects of
the Rhine-Mainz-Danube Canal. The completion of this canal will extend the
influence area of the proposed project to the Western European countries and
will certainly add substantial amounts to the volume of international transit
traffic. Accordingly, forecast volumes of 10.4 m tons in 1990 and 13.8 m tons
in 2000 are conservative estimates.



- 49 -
V. FINANCIAL AND TARIFF ANALYSIS--
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL ADMINISTRATION
A. General Principles
5.01      Since there are no past or present financial data for use as a base,
the financial analysis will be a pro forma one to demonstrate the approximate
level of canal tariff dues that it will be necessary to levy in order to cover
the direct operating costs, the liabilities in respect of the investment and
benefit (described below). It will also relate these tariffs to prices under
alternative routes, thus supporting the economic return. In Romania's cen-
trally planned economy all net benefits of an economic enterprise accrue to
the State. Prices are therefore fixed at levels designed to cover costs with
a small margin (benefit) for specific purposes, largely according to the
annual or other plans for each enterprise. Financial rates of return on
investment are meaningless as an indicator of investment performance, which
is provided by the economic rate of return.
5.02      The purposes and distribution of the benefit are:
(a) repayment of original working capital over 15 years;
(b) up to 10% of annual benefits to the State. These pay-
ments, which clearly are variable, are treated as addi-
tional recuperation of investment;
(c) the creation of development funds for future investment
by the enterprise, in accordance with approved plans;
(d) employees' housing funds;
(e) social activities for the workers in the enterprise,
according to plan;
(f) workers' bonuses;
(g)  the balance is paid to the State.
It should be noted that in this case the State agency to receive payments will
be MTTc.
5.03       In a more normal industrial project for an ongoing enterprise in
Romania, where the economic life more nearly approximates borrowing terms, the
beneficiary enterprise is expected to generate funds from its operations to:
(a) assist in financing the investment out of depreciation
(see below);



- 50 -
(b) nieet service on external debt;
(c) repay the State's investment over a period related to
the economic life of the project;
(d) pay interest on any local borrowing; and
(e) pay to the State some return on its investment.
However, in the circumstances of this project, the whole of the investment
funds are being provided by the State, including external financing, i.e.,
the proposed Bank loan and any co-financing that might be obtained. Although
the IB is the borrower, the MTTc is primarily responsible for providing the
funds to service the external debt, which would be relatively short-term. The
economic life of the civil works in the canal is probably between 60 and 100
years, but for the purposes of this analysis the average economic life of
the project is assumed to be 65 years, which is reasonable. This means that
the administration will repay the total investment by paying one sixty-fifth
commencing with the first year of operations (1983). This is not depreciation
in the Western accounting tradition but a formula for amortization of invest-
ment funds. It does mean, however, that the Administration may not necessarily
be able to provide sufficient funds to repay external debt as the liability
arises. In addition, the Administration will pay the total interest on
external debt, starting from the commencement of operations. Since tariffs
have to cover these liabilities, interest becomes, for this purpose, an
operating cost.
B. Canal Dues
5.04      Dues will be assessed on barge tonnage, irrespective of the cargo
tonnage, or whether they are loaded, partially loaded or in ballast. Although
dues will be cost-based, they will be related to the economic benefits by
demonstrating that total prices for canal transit (including barge tariffs and
canal dues) will be less than comparable existing prices via Sulina. Although
the Government considers that the railway and canal are not strictly competi-
tive, since each will tend to attract the traffic for which it is best suited,
the financial analysis will also demonstrate that canal prices for the traffic
it is expected to handle will be less than comparable rail prices for the
Agigea-Cernavoda section.
5.05      Canal transit dues will be levied on the barges and not on the cargo.
This is so for the following reasons:
(a) Because of the imbalance between imports and exports and
between upstream and downstream internal cargo movements, a
number of barge transits will be in ballast. A convoy may
include loaded and empty barges;



- 51 -
(b)  Different cargo categories require different storage space
and/or have different densities;
(c)  There will be different levels of partial barge loading;
(d)  The same use is made of the investment by a barge irrespec-
tive of its load level;
(e)  For tariffs to be levied on cargo, it would require complex cal-
culations for tariffs on each of a wide variety of cargo. This
would be difficult to levy and administer; and
(f)  It is already the basis of assessment of dues for transiting the
LDN.
5.06       In order to calculate the levels of barge transit dues necessary
to cover costs and provide a margin of benefit, it is necessary to calculate
the approximate barge capacity required by a ton of cargo, taking into account
(a), (b) and (c) of the above paragraph, i.e., cargo tonnage translated into
required barge capacity. However, there is no mathematical correlation
between cargo tonnage and vessel capacity, so an approximate ratio has been
calculated, based partly on the Suez Canal appraisal report ratio and partly
on Romania's own tariff coefficients for various commodities. This gives a
coefficient of about 1.0 barge ton per kilometer (bt/km) for 0.65 cargo metric
ton per kilometer (cmt/km). In considering the financial analysis it must be
borne in mind that this coefficient, although critical, is necessarily approxi-
mate and allowance must be made for a margin of error.
5.07      Prices are generally assessed, and fixed by the Government, for
five-year periods in advance. This has the advantage of providing cost stabil-
ity for industrial financial forecasts. They may be changed in exceptional
circumstances such as, for example, substantial unexpected inflation.
5.08      The canal is a highly capital-intensive investment with a very long
operational life. The pricing policy will be the pragmatic one of enabling
the Government to recuperate the investment cost over time, including interest
on external financing, while enabling the economic benefits to accrue, as far
as possible, to the user industries by way of reduced inland transportation
charges.  Within the context of the Romanian system this approach is satis-
factory to the Bank.
C. Cost to be Covered by Dues
5.09      Financial costs to be borne by the Administration, and therefore to
be covered by canal dues, comprise three principal categories, apart from
benefits:
(a) Cash operating costs (labor, repairs and maintenance, and
miscellaneous). In this analysis they represent only about
8% of the total.



- 52 -
(b)  Amortization of investment funds, which extends through the economic
life of the investment (in lieu of depreciation). It would be
equivalent to about 52%.
(c)  Interest on external debt through the term of the debt, about
40%. Internal funds are interest-free.
5.10       Capital costs are thus critical in fixing the level of canal dues.
Recuperation of investment is a fixed annual sum. Interest on external
debt, however, is related to debt maturity, interest rates and repayment terms
(e.g., fixed equal payments of interest plus capital), and has no relationship
to the economic aspects of the investment. It is variable, the highest charge
occurring at the beginning of operations and rapidly decreasing over the term
of the debt at the same time as traffic is expected to rise. It is likely,
therefore, to exert a dampening effect on traffic growth in early years
because of insufficient price incentives to use the canal as compared with
existing routes. As regards domestic traffic, the effect may well be to
reduce the economic incentives to industrial growth that the canal is designed
to foster, while it would be likely to inhibit the growth of international
transit traffic, for which substantial demand remains unmet. Transit traffic
may be regarded as marginal and dues from any increase in such traffic would
represent economic benefits accruing directly to the State. It is clear,
therefore, that debt interest is the most critical item of cost to be covered
by dues.
5.11       Considering the foregoing, three possible alternative formulae for
the payment of interest by the Administration to MTTc were reviewed:
(a)  payment of interest as it becomes due;
(b)  payment in equal annual parts of the total interest to
loan maturity; and
(c)  the treatment of interest as part of the original invest-
ment cost to be amortized over 65 years. During appraisal the
MTTc and the IB agreed that Case (b) would be adopted. This
is acceptable to the Bank on the grounds that:
(i) the resulting levels of dues would be sufficient to
encourage the use of the canal and the growth of traffic;
(ii) the levels of dues would ensure the optimum retention
within the country of the economic benefits;
(iii) economic benefits would be distributed directly to the
user industries, this being an important aspect of
Romania's economic structure;
(iv) it would enable MTTc the better to plan its own budgetary
requirements during the term of the debt; and
(v) it compares most closely with normal practice in Romania.



- 53 -
5.12      The amount and maturity of the proposed Bank loan, as assumed for
this analysis, are US$100 million equivalent for a term of 15 years including
three years grace. The interest rate is assumed to be 8% per annum, which
approximates the Bank's current lending rate. The number, amount, interest
rates and maturities of possible co-financing loans are not known. It is
assumed that the total amount of US$222.2 million equivalent will be obtained
as shown in the finance plan (para 3.21). Terms are assumed to be uniform
maturities of 10 years from 1980 including five years grace at 10% per annum.
Actual terms obtained may prove more or less favorable.
5.13      Under the circumstances there is no purpose in treating separately
interest during construction, or before commencement of operations, and
interest after operations begin. Total interest is therefore amortized in
equal annual installments over 12 years from commencement of operations
(1983) to the latest maturity (1994), i.e., of the proposed Bank loan.
D. Financial Forecasts and Tariff Analysis
5.14      A combined pro forma financial statement, analysis of canal barge
transit dues and cash flow statement has been prepared, based on the foregoing
review and agreed tariff policy, and on the traffic forecasts (Annex 5.2). The
years 1983 and 1984, while the project is being completed, will be introductory
start-up years, and traffic will not reach its normal growth pattern until
1985. Because of this and since canal dues will be set for the five-year
period 1983-87, this period should be considered as a whole in assessing the
dues. This means that dues should be set at a level that will provide, over
the period, sufficient cumulative benefits to meet the requirements detailed
in para 5.03. The level of dues to meet all criteria has been calculated at
leu 0.195 per btk. This, however, will result in deficits being incurred
during the start-up years, 1983 and 1984, and initial working capital must be
sufficient to ensure the cash flow to meet the fixed capital costs, which
amount to about 92% of the total costs to be covered by dues. Since the debt
service dates are not yet known, working capital requirements have been assumed
at about six months annual costs, or lei 375 million. Annual repayments, out of
benefit, would be lei 25 million for 15 years. During negotiations it was
agreed that the Administration would be provided with sufficient working
capital for the normal course of operations of the canal and other facilities
included in the Project. This is as provided by law and covers the Adminis-
tration's liabilities as regards amortization of investment funds and payment
of interest on external loans.
5.15      During the second five-year period, 1988-1992, traffic growth would
enable dues to be lowered to leu 0.165 per btk. Further traffic growth, com-
bined with elimination of interest after 1994, will enable dues to be substan-
tially lowered, to about leu 0.12 for 1995-1999 and to leu 0.08 for 2000 and
after.
5.16      As regards price incentives to traffic to use the canal, the follow-
ing table compares total transport costs of one metric ton of cargo from Agigea
to Cernavoda, through the canal, via Sulina and by rail:



- 54 -
1983-87   1988-92   1993-94   1995-99    2000
Assumed canal transit dues
per btk - leu                  0.195      0.165      0.140    0.090    0.080
Equivalent dues per cmtk
Coefficient = 0.65 leu         0.300      0.254      0.215    0.138    0.123
Total price per cmt - lei
By Danube-Black Sea Canal
Canal dues - 64 k           19.2        16.3       13.8        8.8      7.9
Freight                     11.0       11.0       11.0        11.0    11.0
Total                   30.                   777 24.8   18         .
Via Sulina and LDN
Dues - LDN                  10.9       10.9       10.9        10.9    10.9
Freight                     30.0       30.0       30.0        30.0    30.0
Total                  40.9        40.9       40.9       40.9    40.9
By Rail
Freight                     21.0       21.0       21.0       21.0    21.0
Transshipment at
Cernavoda                  21.3       21.3       21.3       21.3    21.3
Total                   42.3       42.3       42.3       42 3    42.3
=~~
5.17       Savings by the canal as compared with the Sulina route are about
28% in the first five years, rising to about 40% in 1994.  Thereafter, with
the elimination of the annual charge for interest on external debt, the
savings are more than 50%. Savings over the rail route are somewhat greater.
Even in the early years the savings are substantial and give an adequate
margin for higher levels of dues if necessary. These figures also indicate
that dues are relatively insensitive to traffic volumes since, for the total
canal transport price to reach parity with the Sulina route, traffic volumes
would have to be about 35%, 45%, 55%, 70% and 75% lower than forecast for the
respective periods.
5.18       The MTTc is primarily responsible for providing the IB with funds
needed to service the external debt on this project. A cash flow statement
has been prepared (Annex 5.3) that shows, on the basis of this analysis, that
the MTTc's shortfall on debt servicing for this project will reach about 3,500
million lei in 1989. This is because of the assumptions made regarding the
amount of and short repayment terms of co-financing. A reduction in the
amount of co-financing (e.g., to about US$150 million as more probable) on
longer maturity terms would ameliorate the situation. In any event, in the
first place debt service would be guaranteed by the general resources of the
Government and, secondly, the cash flow becomes positive in 1995, while
capital amortization continues until 2047.



- 55 -
5.19      This analysis demonstrates that the Administration can, with a
rational formula for setting canal transit dues, be a financially viable
enterprise, conforming with the laws regarding financial self-sufficiency,
and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, while ensuring the optimum retention
within Romania of the economic benefits of the project. During negotiations
it was agreed that revenues of the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration
(derived from tariffs set in accordance with the agreed formula in para 5.11)
would be sufficient to meet the Administration's responsibilities regarding
amortization of investment funds and payment of interest on external loans.
As regards any necessary adjustments of tariff levels, this is satisfactorily
covered under Romanian law and the wording of the Loan Covenant.
E. Cash Flow Statements and Balance Sheets
5.20      Since the allocation of benefits (surplus) cannot be anticipated,
it is not possible to prepare a more detailed cash flow statement than is
given in Annex 5.2 or balance sheets. In any event, in the unique circum-
stances of this project as a financial enterprise, allied to the Romanian
economic financial system, any such financial statements would add nothing to
this analysis.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.21      In addition to the financial control and audit functions exercised
by the IB, as the agency responsible for financial and economic aspects of
investment projects that are channeled through it, the Ministry of Finance,
through its State General Financial Inspectorate, is responsible to the Gov-
ernment for the equivalent of an audit of financial enterprises. The content
and presentation of financial accounts differ from those normally submitted to
the Bank, but it is possible to adjust them to provide sufficient information
for the Bank adequately to monitor project implementation and operations.
During loan negotiations it was agreed that the Bank will be provided, not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, with a certified
copy of the financial statements of the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration
for such fiscal year, together with an audit report thereon by the Ministry
of Finance.



- 56 -
ANNEX 5.1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration
Capitalization of Canal Operations
------Million Lei------
A.  Project Cost                                             31,500
Add: Cost of administrative
buildings                                         7
31,507
Deduct: Cost of canal ports:
Civil works               1,343
Equipment                     6
Contingencies               237              1,586
29,921
Residual values:
Construction workers'
housing                   97
Basarabi workshops          145                242
Net fixed assets taken over                              29,679
Recuperation - 65 years                                     456.6 p.a.
B. Preliminary Expenditure
Training                                                   2
Wages and salaries                                        53
Social security                                            9
Miscellaneous                                             49
113
Recuperation 65 years                                         1.7 p.a.
Source: Bank Staff
December 1979



STAFF APPFRAISL £IUORT
DAWUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMAN IA
Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration Pro Forma Financial Statement,
Analysis of Canal Barge Transit Dues and Cash Flow Statement
1983        1984        1985         1986        1987         1988        1989         1990        1994         1995        2000
A.  [raffic
Cargo metric tons (cmt) - millions                                40.7         48.0        56.4        58.5         61.6        65.6         70.7        76.9         85.7        88.1        101.9
Cargo metric ton kilometers (cmtk) - millions                  2,226       2,665        3,169       3,294       3,468        3,738       4,003        4,352       4,756       4,862        5,681
Barge ton kilometers (btk) equivalent
(coefficient = 0.65) - millions                             3,425        4,100       4,875       5,068        5,335       5,751        6,158       6,695        7,317       7,480        8,740
B. Annual Costs to be Covered by Transit Dues - million lei
Amortization of Investment Funds:
Cost of investment, including preliminary expenditure   412.4              449.8        459.2       459.2       459.2        459.2       459.2        459.2       459.2        459.2       459.2
Interest on external loans, including interest
during construction                                        350.1        350.1       350.1        350.1       350.1       350.1        350,1       350.1        349.5           -           -
Subtotal                             762.5       799.9       809.3        809.3       809.3        809.3       809.3        809.3       808.7       459.2        459.2
Recurring Expenses
Labor costs: Cross wages                                        21.0        22.1         23.3        24.5        25.6         26.8        29.1         30.3         32.1        32.6         35.0
Social security                                   3.2          3.3         3.5         3.7          3.8         4.0          4.4         4.5          4.8         4.9          5.3
Repairs and maintenance                                         20.0        20.2         20.4        20.6        21.0         21.5        22.1         22.8        26.1         26.9        32.3
Miscellaneous                                                   18.7         18.9        19.1        19.3         19.6        20.0        20.4         20.8         23.4        24.0         27.3
Subtotal                              62.9        64.5         66.3        68.1        70.0         72.3        76.0         78.4        86.4         88.4        99.9
Total                                825.4       864.4        875.6       877.4       879.3        881.6       885.3        887.7       895.1        547.6       559.1
Add benefit (say) 107. of total annual costs
excluding interest                                                47.5         51.4        52.6        52.7         52.9        53.2         53.5        53.8         54.6        54.8         55.9
Total revenue required (nominal)                                    872.9        915.8       928.2        930.1       932.2       934.8        938.8        941.5       949.7        602.4       615.0
C.  Revenue Required per btk - leu                                      0.2549      0.2234       0.1905      0.1835      0.1747       0.1625      0.1525       0.1406      0.1298       0.0805      0.0704
Assumed Transit Dues per btk - leu                                 0.195        0.195       0.195        0.195       0.195       0.165        0.165       0.165        0.140       0.090        0.080
Revenue - million lei                                               667.9        799.5       950.6        988.3    1,040.3          948.9   1,016.1      1,104.7      1,024.4       673.2        699.2
Benefit (deficit) - million lei                                    (157.5)      ( 64.9)        75.0       110.9       161.0          67.3      130.8        217.0       129.3        125.6       140.1
Cumulative                                                                   (222.4)     (147.4)    ( 36.5)        124.5        191.8       322.6       539.6
D. Cash Flow - million lei
Working capital - opening                                        375.0        192.5       102.6       152.6        238.5        374.5       416.8       522.6
Benefit (deficit)                                               (157.5)     ( 64.9)        75.0       110.9        161.0         67.3       130.8       217.0
Amortization of working capital                                 ( 25.0)      ( 25.0)    ( 25.0)    ( 25.0)    ( 25.0)          ( 25.0)   ( 25.0)       ( 25.0)
Working capital - closing !/                                     192.5        102.6       152.6       238.5        374.5        416.8       522.6       714.6
1/ Subject to other allocations of benefits.
Sources: Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications and Bank Staff
December 1979



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DANUBE-BLACK SEA CANAL PROJECT
ROMANIA
Cash Flow Statement - Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
---------------------------------------------------------------- Million lei -------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------- Outgoings -----------------                     --------------------- Recoveries -----------------------
Annual         Cumulative
Debt Service             Working                                         Amortization          Amortization of                        surplus           surplus
Interest        Repayment    capital         Total              Interest       oi investment        working capital          Total        (deficit)         (deficit)
1989          211.7                                      211.7                                                                                         (211.7)           (211.7)
1981         462.4                                       462.4                                                                                         (462.4)           (674.1)
1982          517.1                                      517.1                                                                                         (517.1)         (1,191.2)
1983          538.2             94.0        375.0      1,007.2                350.1           412.4                   25.0               787.5         (219.7)         (1,410.9)
1984         534.5             101.6                     636.1                350.1            449.8                  25.0               824.9          188.8          (1,222.1)
1985         510.3             761.8                     272.1                350.1           459.2                   25.0               834.3         (437.8)         (1,659.9)
1986         434.5             837.6                   1,272.1                350.1            459.2                  25.0               834.3         (437.8)         (2,535.5)
1987         351.1             921.0                   1,272.1                350.1           459.2                   25.0               834.3         (437.8)         (2,973.3)
1988         259.4           1,012.7                   1,272.1                350.1           459.2                   25.0               834.3         (437.8)         (2,973.3)
1989         158.5           1,113.5                   1,272.0                350.1           459.2                   25.0               834.3         (437.7)         (3,411.0)
1990           73.4            162.7                     236.1                350.1           459.2                   25.0               834.3          598.2          (-,812.8)
1991           60.1            176.0                     236.1                350.1           459.2                   25.0               834.3          598.2          (2,214.6)
1992           45.8            190.3                     236.1                350.1           459.2                   25.0               834.3          598.2          (1,616.4)
1993           30.2            205.9                     236.1                350.1            459.2                  25.0               834.3          598.2          (1,018.2)
1994           13.4            222.5                     235.9                349.5            459.2                  25.0               833.7          597.8          (  420.4)
1995                                                                              -           459.2                   25.0               484.2          484.2              63.8
1996                                                                              -           459.2                   25.0               484.2          484.2             548.0
1997                                                                             -            459.2                   25.0               484.2          484.2           1,032.2
4,200.6          5,800.6         37.50    10,375.2              4,200.6          6,831.8                  375.0           11,407.4
Source: Bank Staff
December 1979



- 59 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
and IB on the following:
(a) Timely completion of other essential investments necessary for
the canal (para 3.01);
(b) (i) Necessary construction equipment will be made available on
site by the end of 1981; (ii) 50% of bitumen and reinforcing steel
financed by the Bank will be made available before the end of 1981,
25% before the end of 1982 and 25% before the end of 1983, and (iii)
equipment to be incorporated in the project will be made available
by mid-1982. The implementation schedule and critical path (para
3.15);
(c) The project cost estimates and the foreign exchange component
(para 3.16);
(d) Project items to be financed by the Bank (para 3.28);
(e) Schedule of loan disbursements (para 3.30);
(f) Format of the progress reports to be submitted quarterly (para 3.32);
(g) Provision of adequate working capital to the canal Administration
(para 5.14);
(h) Pricing policy to be adopted in setting canal transit dues and their
review (para 5.19);
(i) Submission of annual audited financial statements (para 5.21);
6.02      Based on the above agreements the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$100 million to the Investment Bank with the guarantee of the
Republic of Romania on standard Bank terms for a term of 15 years including
a grace period of three and one-half years. It is recommended that the
approval of the loan is not deferred pending or made conditional on the
obtaining of co-financing (para 3.22).



- 60 -
ANNEX
Documents in Project File
A.   General
1.   Government Study - Danube-Black Sea Canal - Data and Information,
August 1978.
B.   Engineering
1.   List of construction equipment available on site, July 1979
2.   List of construction equipment under contract, July 1979
3.   Agreed list of construction equipment for project completion,
July 1979
4.   Layouts and designs for canal locks
5.   Theoretical and actual performance indicators for principal
construction equipment used on site
6.   List of spare parts for principal construction equipment used
on site
7.   Volumes of excavated materials by types and location
8.   Schedule for excavation by location, type of materials, and volumes
C.   Organization
1.   Laws relating to financial self-sufficiency and organization
and operation of enterprises (in Legal Department files).
D.   Economic
1.   Detailed traffic projections by commodity and by origin-
destination points
2.   Transport cost estimates for each origin and destination
point by barge transport
3.   Transport cost estimates for each origin and destination
point by railway transport
4.   Capital cost estimates for railway alternative
5.   Details of data, assumptions and calculations for least-cost
analysis and the economic return from the project
E.   Financial
1.   Details of data, assumptions and calculations for debt-servicing
and financial analysis
2.   Present tariff structure for subsector



______________n_______________                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD   14312
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
A                                                                               1.>, \ J > -x ! A k t t DANUBE-BLACK SEA PROJECT
_                                       yt <9_ R; x ; aX TRANSPORTATION
_ AA  ITRIOTOAPITA-
0TPIE ILIA OTOR- SSRCh
Z A ' ............................................................................ . , ,4RD A.GE~~-L  T.   -.A.. 1A.
r   ~~~    9    P    _   Jns   fi   {   .,  /  n  u  Male ); 2 > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~- | @ | _ \ \5 / \4 { /~~-                                         E ,                                       CCAD
12__/\Xu 5TA
41pT   S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U-RS    -.A   1-
ACED  EIEDARD.SA,  ARMED. ND.,  Ass~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C ..A
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
'A,,3  8   U   L   G   A   R,<  I  A  2eo   /
;~~~~~   ~~~~    SC CD 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAR~~~A                                                                    R






I BRD 14313 R
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA   V
DANUBE-BLACK SEA PROJECT SCHEME
A C ernavoda_                        __~~e°                                  8@o,          /                                                                  _    Danube- Black Sea Canal
U     Locks
\RNAVODA LOCK'_ _,0.                                                                 /           -X <Naodari                                                    Overhead bridges, road or railwoy
/7'                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hydrographic basin of the canal
<   \ < < _   / M edgidia  /   A   1   BZAC K  = R   Roads
<~~~~~~ 10  e gidia ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways
i                              Co4. e=dgb,V    S / ;A                                                                                                           Towns
K~~~~~~~~~~~2 ~~~~~~~~~LONGITUDINAL  PROFILE:
jova
Poarta Alba                                                                                      S         gravel
CONSTANTA                                            and, cravel
Basarabi                                                                                     Rdclay
Limestone
Villa Noi                    -triatrag Cavatarta part                         ChaIlk                              KiT
~~,                                                    ---Future ~~~~Vile Nmi              m
I  o~~~' ~Cumpana
jo                                                  NeW port
~- - N       /           |- LOCK AGI                                Kilo-neters 0         5          10        15         20         25
. rseederso f rehtpv toe-vwh 1 tolahravv - Th, vd---en-on   -sed -,,d yen
&-,,d-coor I - rc soap-- do --ot -,tr 00~ tver of the World So-,? -nd ,t
att,ifw-e, arrrdus-eo Or 0,0 ev .OatSo ayts,ty Oy -ned--o,er o
LONGITUDINAL  PROFILE                                                                           70.2m--p-- o -h vb-srod--,et
-  JsS. R
HUNGARY
tatlWave                                           5    5    m Ove-rhead  0cerheed  O-erhead G
bs,dg.~                                      hahwavy        -aI-y               h,ghatay                       -- -
r,-T3                         ~~~~~~~      ~~bridge  bridge                                                           highsuov 6ride
O-rheaa/                                       IMedgidal~       (Madgidial.aorl)-                                                              Overhead 
highaCoy      rEEiN VO                                                                                                                             y
b,idghw      CERNAVODA                           bt  6ebididgigeg                                                                   *ir         ee d                                  R    O     M     A     N     I A 
LOCK                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~ROM           A  N    I  A
M-     vx      2 12          E.b.4-E mb1               nymenLIO m___-                                                                       '-     AGIGEA
m          5         10         15        20         25       3K          35         40         45         50         55        60         65                      t         :                                                        SO   1 A
KILOMETERS                                                                                   - ~~~~,,  -               BULGARiA         ~~~~'' *-v0.



