LOAN NUMBER 1794 RO
Loan Agreement
(Danube-Black Sea Canal Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA DE INVESTITII
Dated                               ,1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1794 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            J   J     0     , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANCA DE INVESTITII (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Borrower intends to contract loans from foreign
lending institutions under reasonable terms in an approximate
aggregate amount equivalent to two hundred million dollars
($200,000,000) to assist in the financing of the said Project;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context other wise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist
Republic of Romania;
(b) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign
Trade, established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(c) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower as approved
by Decree No. 314/1971 of the Council of State of Romania, and
Decree No. 125/1970 concerning the organization and operations of
the Borrower, ratified by Law No. 22/1970 of Romania, as amended
by Decree No. 314/1971 of the Council of State of Romania, as
amended from time to time;


﻿- 2 -
(d) "Danube-Black Sea Canal Adninistration" means the
state enterprise for operation and maintenance of the canal
included in the Project, established by Decree No. 180/1979 of the
Council of State of Romania;
(e) "Danube-Black Sea Canal Central" means the central
for construction of the canal included in the Project, established
by Decree No. 109/1975 of the Council of State of Romania;
(f) "IPTANA" means the road, water and aerian design
institute established by Decision No. 1991/1965 of the Council of
Ministers; and
(g) "CONTRANSIMEX" means the foreign trade enterprise of
Romania, for import and export of goods and services in transpor-
tation and telecommunications field, operating under Decree No.
276/1979 of the Council of State of Romania.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement which
the Bank and the Borrower have agreed are to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Foreign Trade Bank is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods and services
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan


﻿- 3 -
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Bark and the
Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, financial, transport, agricultural,
ecological, environmental and administrative practices as follows:
(a) the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the
Project, including the procurement of the goods and services
required therefor;
(b) CONTRANSIMEX shall, in accordance with the technical
assistance received from IPTANA and other departments and agencies
concerned, procure such goods and services required for the
Project as shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan or as shall be imported from outside of Romania;
(c) the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration and the
Danube-Black Sea Canal Central shall, under their respective


﻿responsibilities and in accordance with the technical assistance
received from IPTANA and other departments and agencies concerned,
procure the goods and services required for the Project other than
those referred to in the foregoing paragraph (b); and
(d) the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration shall:
(i) if necessary, update its detailed schedule for the
implementation of the Project in such form and
substance as shall be satisfactory to the Bank and
the Borrower;
(ii) make timely arrangements, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, with
IPTANA for the supply of the general engineering
services required for the Project, and with the
Danube-Black Sea Canal Central or any other
appropriate construction trusts or centrals of
Romania as required for all works included in the
Project; and
(iii) have overall responsibility for the implementation
of the Project and the supervision thereof and for
the coordination of the Project-related activities
of other departments and agencies of Romania.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause all necessary measures
to be taken for the canal included in the Project to be opened to
through traffic by December 31, 1982, and for the Project to be
completed by December 31, 1984, according to the implementation
schedule referred to in Section 3.01 (d) (i) and the Bank and the
Borrower agree that it shall be necessary to ensure that adequate
construction equipment and materials as well as the equipment to
be incorporated in the facilities included in the Project shall be
made available on site in due time.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿-5-
Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project until its comple-
tion.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in order
to realize the purposes of the Project, it shall be necessary:
(a) for the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration:
(i) to operate the facilities established under the
Project with due regard to ecological, environ-
mental and safety factors;
(ii) to maintain records adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations, resources and
expenditures;
(iii) to submit its accounts and financial statemen s
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year to an
independent audit conducted, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Ministry of Finance of Romania;
(iv) at all times to manage its affairs, plan its
future expansion and carry on its operations,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering,
transport, financial and administrative practices
and under experienced and competent management,
assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers;
(v) to be granted all such rights and interests in
land and all such other rights and powers as are
necessary in the management or operation of the
assets managed or operated by it;
(vi) at all times to operate and maintain the installa-
tions, equipment and other property managed or
operated by it, including all structures con-
structed and machinery installed under the Project
and, as and when. required, make all necessary


﻿- 6 -
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with appropriate administrative, engineering and
transport practices;
(vii) except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, not to transfer or otherwise dispose of
any of the assets managed or operated by it, except
in the normal course of its business;
(viii) to be provided with sufficient working capital
for the normal course of operations of the canal
and the other facilities included in the Project;
and
(ix) to ensure that in the first full fiscal year after
the opening of the canal included in the Project to
through traffic, and in any fiscal year thereafter,
the sum of the annual benefits of the Danube-Black
Sea Canal Administration shall be at least suffi-
cient to cover the sum of (A) the equivalent in Lei
of one sixty-fifth (1/65) of the total investment
in the Project (exclusive of interest and commit-
ment charges payable thereon but inclusive of
any other charges payable thereon), (B) the equiva-
lent in Lei of one-twelfth (1/12) of the total
amounts of interest and commitment charges payable
on the external loans incurred to finance the
Project, including interest during construc-ion,
and (C) one-fifteenth (1/15) of the total amount of
the working capital provided and estimated to be
provided under the preceding subparagraph (viii),
provided, however, that for the first full five
fiscal years after the opening of said canal, the
foregoing requirements may be met on the basis of
such five years rather than on a yearly basis; for
the purposes of this subparagraph (ix), the term
"Lei" means Lei in currency of Romania, and the
term "annual benefits" means the       difference
between gross revenues and operating and adminis-
trative expenses (including adequate provision for
maintenance but excluding the amortization of
investment) accountable to any one fiscal year;
and


﻿- 7 -
(b) that the construction of South Constanta-Agigea seaport,
construction of the Danube ports of Galati and Calarasi, improve-
ment of the river between Cernavoda and each of the above two
ports, and provision of the barge and pusher tug fleet be com-
pleted to the extent necessary for the canal included in the
Project to handle the forecast traffic for the canal from the time
it shall be opened to through traffic.
The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized
under the laws of Romania, ensure that the requirements set forth
in this Section will be met.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower;
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive and financial standards and practices and in accordance with
the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations in respect of the Danube-Black
Sea Canal Administration.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower
to create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower
represents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists
on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b)   For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a
lien shall be created on any of the Borrower's assets as security
for any debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create the
lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in
the creation of such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if the lien shall be
created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank,
an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan.


﻿-8-
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in
carrying out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall
take such measures as shall be necessary according to the State
Plan of Romania and the applicable laws in order to achieve the
purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information;
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To
that end:
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time at the
request of either party furnish each other such information as the
other party shall reasonably request and exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the progress of the Project,
the operation of the facilities included in the Project, the
benefits derived from the Project, the performance of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the operation,
resources and expenditures of the Danube-Black Sea Canal Adminis-
tration, the compliance by the Danube-Black Sea Canal Adminis-
tration with the requirements set forth in Section 4.01 (a) of
this Agreement, the other essential investments as described in
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, other matters relating to the
purposes and the general status of the Loan, and the compliance by
CONTRANSIMEX with the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment; and the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
exchange views with representatives of the Danube-Black Sea Canal
Administration and other agencies of Romania with regard to the
Project, the operation of the facilities included in the Project,
the benefits derived from the Project, the operation, resources
and expenditures of the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration and
the compliance by the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration with
the requirements set forth in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement
and with representatives of the Romanian transport industry with
regard to the benefits of the Project to the Romanian economy aild
the position of the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration in such
industry;
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from the Danube-Black Sea
Canal Administration and the other agencies of Romania concerned
with the Project, and furnish to the Bank, upon their preparation,


﻿- 9 -
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and con-
struction and procurement schedules for the Project, and the
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree;
(c) the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank
within forty-five calendar days Jfter each calendar quarter a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Borrower shall agree, on the progress of the Project during such
quarter;
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit and examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, installations, sites, works, buildings and equipment
of the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration, the factories,
installations, sites and works in Romania where goods required for
the Project are manufactured insofar as the Project is concerned,
the other facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and the records and documents of the Danube-Black Sea
Canal Administration insofar as they concern the Project and the
other records and documents relating to the Project;
(e) the Borrower shall for each fiscal year of the Danube-
Black Sea Canal Administration: (i) obtain from the Danube-Black
Sea Canal Administration and furnish to the Bank not later than
six months after the end of such year, (A) certified copies of the
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) of the Danube-Black Sea Canal
Administration for such year audited in accordance with the
pz-)visions of Section 4.01 (a) (iii) of this Agreement, and (B)
the report of such audit by the auditors referred to in said
Section 4.01 (a) (iii) of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank and the Borrower shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank
such information concerning the beforementioned financial state-
ments of the Danube-Black Sea Canal Administration and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall find to be necessary and shall
reasonably request;
(f) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each of its fiscal years, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements (balance sheets,


﻿- 10 -
statements of income and expenses and related statements, as
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower) for such fiscal year
submitted to an independent audit conducted, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by the
Ministry of Finance of Romania, and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditor of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and
the Borrower shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such
information concerning the beforementioned financial statements of
the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall find to be
necessary and shall reasonably request; and
(g) promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than June 30, 1985, or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall
reasonably agree, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits dLrived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Bank and the Borrower of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance
of the service thereof or the performance by either party of its
obligations under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The date                   )     , is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA)
64145  (WUI)
For the Borrower:                        Telex:
Banca de Investitii                      011238 BINVR
Str. Doamnei No. 4                       011239 BINVR
Bucharest                                011188 BINVR
Romania
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                         Q
Regional Vice Prei ident,
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA DE INVESTITII
By                IS!peettv
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment to be           25,000,000         100% of foreign
incorporated in                             expenditures
facilities in-                              and 100% of local
cluded in the                               expenditures,
Project                                     ex-factory
(2) Construction              35,000,000         100% of foreign
materials                                   expenditures
and 100% of local
expenditures,
ex-factory
(3) Construction              40,000,000         100% of foreign
equipment                                   expenditures
and 100% of local
expenditures,
ex-factory
TOTAL    100,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from the territory and in the currency
of any country other than Romania; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of Romania and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, Romania on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part I:   Civil Works
(a) The Canal
Construction of a canal about 64 km long, 7 m deep,
70 to 90 m wide at the bottom and 135 to 95 m wide
at water surface between Cernavoda on the Danube and
South Constanta-Agigea on the Black Sea, provided with
signaling and control system for navigation and water
quality and quantity monitoring system.
(b) The Locks
Construction of two locks, one at Cernavoda and another
at Agigea. Each lock has: (i) two reinforced concrete
chambers about 310 m long and 25 m wide; (ii) double
drop-type gates at one end and mitre-type gates with
protection devices at the other end; and (iii) other
necessary equipment and facilities.
(c) Canal Ports
Construction of three canal ports at Cernavoda, Medgidia
and Basarabi equipped with necessary equipment and
facilities.
(d) Utilities
Construction of service roads, railway connections,
power facilities, water supply and sewerage, telecommu-
nication systems and provision of equipment therefor.
(e) Buildings
Construction of administrative buildings needed for
canal construction and operation, as well as for a
pumping station at Cernavoda.


﻿- 15 -
(f) Reconstruction of Affected Facilities
Replacement, reconstruction or relocation of transport
facilities, irrigation and other facilities dismantled
or removed as a result of canal construction.
Part II: Miscellaneous
(a) Expropriation, reclamation and compensation for the
land occupied by the canal, ports and other works
included in the Project as well as for vineyards and
orchards affected thereby and buildings demolished as a
result of the construction thereof.
(b) Provision of miscellaneous facilities needed to imple-
ment the Project, including, inter alia, housing for
workers, concrete plants, gravel and sand sorting
plants, transport means and workshops.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984;
however, the canal included in Part I (a) of the Project is
expected to be opened to through traffic by the end of 1982.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 1984
through   July 15, 1994                     4,350,000
On January 15, 1995                               4,300,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.60%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             3.20%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.85%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                             6.90%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.95%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and services shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Identical or similar items to be procured for the Project
shall be grouped together, wherever practicable, for the purpose
of bidding and procurement, and such grouping of items shall be
subject to agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
4.   Bidders are required to prequalify in accordance with cri-
teria agreed between the Bank and the Borrower in respect of goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Categories (1) and (3) in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to the Loan Agreement. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be
furnished by CONTRANSIMEX, through the Borrower, to the Bank for
its comments before the applicants are notified and CONTRANSIMEX
shall make such additions to or deletions from such list as the
Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 19 -
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods,
or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids.
2.   Goods manufactured in Romania will be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Romania if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a


﻿- 20 -
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid
from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, CONTRANSIMEX shall furnish,
through the Borrower, to the Bank, for its comments, the text of
the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a list of prequalified bidders to whom
the invitations to bid will be sent, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been opened, CONTRANSIMEX
shall inform the Bank, through the Borrower, of the names of the
bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c) After bids have been evaluated, CONTRANSIMEX shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank,
through the Borrower, of the name of the bidder to which the
contract is intended to be awarded and shall furnish to the Bank,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations f)r award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be incon3istent with the Guidelines or


﻿- 21 -
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and CONTRANSIMEX,
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $300,000 and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, CONTRANSIMEX shall furnish, through the Borrower, to the
Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with an analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bauk shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and the Danube-
Black Sea Canal Administration and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  30      day of  &Aj , 198 c.
FOR SECRETARY


