Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10985
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1442-MLI/SF1O-MLI)
JULY 31, 1992
MICRO)FICHE COCPY
1iepOrt NO: 10985        Type (PCR)  Cov.F
THThI) EDUCATION PROJICUT
C4 1442-MLI
ALEGRE, 1 /        7     / T9059/ OXD75
Date E,t: 19932(0728         By: TS
Population and Human Resource Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
I US$ = FCFA 298 (Average for late 1988)
GLOSSARY
AfDB           African Development Bank
CAA            Agricultural Training Center
CS             Specialized Center for Agricultura Extension Agents
DEF            Directorate of Fundamental Educa'ion/Direction de l'Enseignement Fondamental
DETA/FP        Directorate of Agricultural Technical Education and Vocational Training
DETP           Technical and Vocational Training
DNAFLA         Directorate for Literacy and Applied Linguistics/Direction Nationale de
lIAlphabdtisation et de Linguistique Appliqude
DNEF           National Directorate for Fundamental Education
DNPES          Directorate for Planning and School Equipment
Elv            Veterinary Training Institute
ESC            Education Sector Consolidation Project
FAC            French Cooperation Agency
GRAEB          Groupe de Recherche-Action sur I'Education de Base
IDA            International Development Ass ciation
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IPEG           Primary Teacher Training College
IPN            National Pedagogical Institute
MDR            Ministry of Rural Development
MEN            Ministry of National Education/Minist6re de l'Education Nationale
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PPF            ProJect Preparation Facility
PTA            Parent-Teacher Association
SAR            Staff Apprais-, Report
SRD            Special Drawing Rights
TA             Technical Assistance
TOT            Training of Trainers
UNESCO         United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID          United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD RAW
Washton, D>. 23
USA
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
July 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on MALI - Third
Education Project (Cr.1442-MLILSF10-MLI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Mali: Third Education Project (Credit
1442-MLI/SF10-MLI" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit
of  this  project  has  been made  by  the  Operations  Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment                                            2
Thb docsment hb as  trk"d dbb*Uon and mvy be n od rbdpIentset I* tbe doporman of thebr
enkiai duties. lb contents may not onware be discosed without Wodd Bank auhorfztUonL



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MLALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECr
(CREDIT 1442-MLI/SFIO-MU)
TABLE OF CONTEN'S
Page No.
PREAC . ......................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...........................              ................
PART L PROJECr REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE .
1. Project Identity .1
2 Background.                                                            1
3. Project Objectives, Components and Targets.                           4
4. Project Design and Organization .. ...........................        6
5. Project Implementation, Supervision and Risks.                        7
6. ProjectResults .10
7. Project Sustainability .11
& IDA Performance .12
9. Borrower Performance .12
10. Project Relationships       ..13
11. Consulting Services and Fellowships   ..13
12. Project Documentation and Data    ..14
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECIIVE                            15
1. Design and Objectives.                                               15
Z Execution .17
3. Impact on the Country's Development .23
4. Lessons to be Drawn .24
5. Conclusion .26
PART IIL STATISTICAL INFORMATION .28
1. Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits .28
2. Project Timetable .29
3. Time line of Planned and Actual Disbursement Schedules .30
4. Planned and Actual Disbursement by Category..                        31
5. Project Cost by Category .32
6a. Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Components  .    .33
6b. Basic Data and Education Sector Performance Indicators  . .34
6c. Project Results    ..35
7. Compliance,with Credit Agreement Covenants .36
8 Use of Bank Resources .37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



PROJECT COMPLEUION REPORT
MAU
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1442-MLVSF1OMLI)
PREFACE
Thi is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Education Project in Mali, for
which Credit 1442-MLI and IDA Special Fund SF-10 MLU were approved on March 1, 1984 in the
amounts of SDR 4,440,000 (US$4.6 million equivalent in 1984) and SDR 4,660,000 (US$4.9 mllion
equivalent in 1984), respectively. A Project Preparation Facility in the amount of US$1 miDlion was
approved on June 23, 1983. The Credit was closed on September 30, 1990, the date stated in the
Credit Agreement Credit 1442-MLI was fully disbursed, and SF-10 MU had an undisbursed balance
of SDR 31,175 which was canceled on March 26, 1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resource Division of the Sahelian
Department of the Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and by the
Borrower (Part IL, which was received by IDA in July 1991).
No completion missice was undertaken to prepare the sections of this PCR which were
contributed by the IDA staff. These sections are based, jr alia. on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA
memoranda, consultant reports, and interviews of IDA staff and former IDA staff who were involved
with project design and project implementation.



-~~~~~li
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECI
(CRED1T 1442-MLIISF10-MLI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.      The objectives of the Third Education Project were to:
(a)  strengthen the Ministry of National Education (MEN) in the areas of education
planning and financing and administration of technical education and vocational
training;
(b) improve the quality of basic education by experimenting with and implementing new
programs for teachers and students;
(c) increase access to basic education for children and adults (particularly women and
young farmers) by training new teachers, and by revising the training program
through the existing non-formal adult education programs; and
(d) improve the skills of agricultural extension workers and  ivestock technicians.
To achieve the above objectives, the project included the following components:
Project Components and Description
2.      Institutional Development. Educational Planning: Reorganizing, expanding and assisting
MEN's Planning Directorate in order to (i) improve its capacity for data collection and school
mapping, (ii) prepare educational development programs, (iii) analyze the cost of these programs, and
(iv) monitor their implementation. The project included financing for furniture, equipment,
constructon of expanded facilities, and incremental operating costs, as well as specialist services (36
expert months and 15 consultant months), and 17 fellowships to the regular staff of the Directorate
for Planning and School Equipment (DNPES) or National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) (totalling 128
months).
3.      Administration of Technical Education and Vocational Training. Establishing and assisting
a separate division within MEN to organize, manage and supervise planning and management of
technical education and vocational training programs in consultation with private and para-public



-iv-
sector employer.;. The project financed construction, furniture, equipment and operating costs for
new offices. Technical assistance for administration of the division, curricula preparation, and teacher
training was to be provided by French bilateral aid. The Institutional Development componert
accounted for 9.3% % of the total base project costs at appraisaL
DeveloRment of Basic Education
4.      Experiments in Educational Reform: Developing and experimenting with implementation
of new basic education curricula (grades 1-6), adapted to the Malian environment, including
introduction of these curricula in 40 schools in the Segou region, and training of 240 teachers in the
new curricula. The project included financing for operating costs to apply new programs and
curricula in 40 schools in the S6gou region and training, furniture, equipment, and office supplies for
a team of specialists in Segou and furniture equipment and materials for the 40 experimental schools,
and specialist services to assist in evaluating the experiment. In addition, the project wa; tntended
to provide support for revising and experimenting with curricula for grades 7-9 started under the
Second Project and it was agreed that th,se curricula would be put into effect.
5.      Teacher Training: Expanding the teacher training capacity by 360 student places by
constructing two new primary teacher training colleges (IPEGs) in Niono and Kangaba; and
improving the quality of teacher training programs by revising the training curricula in connection
with the reform of basic education, and by setting admissions criteria for the IPEGs designed to keep
the repetition rate at or below 5% at the end of the first training year. The project was expected to
finance construction, furniture, equipment, 18 months of operating costs, specialist services (18
months) to assist with revision of teacher training curricula, and fellowships (72 months) for training
and study trips.
6.      Adult Education Programs: Strengthening the capacity of the Directorate for Literacy and
Applied Linguistics (DNAFLA) to train new instructors, produce new instructional materials and
radio programs, evaluate new programs and supervise adult functional literacy programs; and
expanding adult functional education programs by financing operating costs for three new programs
to be implemented by DNAFLA, supporting: i) functional literacy programs for agricultural workers
employed by State Development Corporations, (ii) post-literacy programs for young farmers holding
responsibilities at the village level, and (iii) home economics programs for women. :h.e project was
expected to finance production of 305,000 instructional brochures, radio programs, training of 920
instructors, specialist services (18 consultant/months), and operating costs. The Development of Basic
Education component accounted for 58.8% of total base project costs at appraisaL
Livestock and Agricultural Technician Training
7.      Training of Agricultural Extension Agents: Improving the quality of training of agricultural
extension agents through (i) improvement of the Agricultural Training Center (CAA) facility in
M?Pessoba, (ii) establishment of a specialized center (CS) to upgrade about 40 extension agents
employed in cotton production and (iii) establishment of an upgrading program for in-service
extension agents. The project included financing for construction, furniture, equipment specialist
services (36 consultant/months) for launching the upgrading program, and fellowships (68 months)
for upgrading CAA and CS teachers.



.V.
8.      Livestock Technician Training: Starting up and operating upgrading training activities for
in-service livestock technicians in the new Veterinary Tnining Institute (EIV), which was built under
the Second Education Project. The annual output of 60 extension agents was to be maintained
during the project life. The project included financing for complementary equipment to prepare and
implement an upgrading program for livestock technicians already employed, incremental operating
costs for the EIV at Sotuba, technical assistance (36 consultant/months), and felowships for EIV
teachers. The Livestock and Agricultural Technician Training component accounted for 25.1% of
total base project costs at appraisal.
Project Management
9.      Project Unit: Strengthening and operating the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
The project was expected to finance additional local staff, expatriate accountant and architect,
equipment, operating expenses, specialist services for an annual audit of project accounting, and
fellowships.
10.     Project Preparation: Assisting the Government in preparing future investment projects in
the education sector. The nroject was expected to finance architectural and education specialist
services (16 consultant/months). The Project Management component accounted for 6.9% of total
base project costs at appraisal.
11.     Implementation Experience. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), located in the MEN,
was responsible for the overall management and coordination of the Project. The Livestock and
Agricultural Training component was implemented by the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR).
Within IDA, project supervision was managed by the Education sector staf£, in consultation with
agriculture, livestock and water supply sector staff. The PIU, which received assistance under the
Project Management component, benefitted from a competent and devoted staft and project
implementation proceeded according to schedule, and without major problems, except for delays in
recruitment of consultants and awarding of fellowships.  In fact, physical components and
disbursements proceeded ahead of schedule throughout the implementation period, due to good
preparation under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The only major delays in hardware
components were construction of the two IPEGs under the Basic Education component, financed by
the African Development Bank (AfDB), and correction of a water supply problem encountered under
the Livestock and Agricultural Training component, which took four years to resolve. Software
components in the Basic Education quality improvement proceeded much more slowly, hoxvever, and
difficulties arose in the implementation of the component. Since student intake at several schools
and institutes supported under the Project was tied to the availability of civil service employment for
graduates, drastic reductions in student intake were experienced after such employment opportunities
decreased. In the case of the IPEGs, a shift from a situation of an expected shortage of teachers to
one of a surplus of qualified and unemployed teachers led IDA in the follow-up Education Sector
Consolidation (ESC) Project, to recommend using two of the IPEGs for upgrading training for
employed teachers. Delays were experienced in several components in recruitment of consultants
and award of fellowships; this was partially due to the Government's preference for use of local
experts and local training seminars over the expatriate consultants and training abroad which had
been programmed under the Project.



-vi-
REesults
12.     The degree to which the Project objectives were achieved is descnbed below:
(a)  Pevelopment of the institutional capability of the MEN in the areas of education
planning and financing and administration of technical education and vocational
training, was partially achieved. Delays in the awarding of fellowships resulted in less
completed training under the Project than anticipated.
(b)  Improvement in the quality of basic education. was partially achieved. The new
curricula were introduced in 40 schools in Segou Region, and 240 teachers were
trained in their use. Instead of the Pedagogical Training Specialist provided for
under the Project, a Malian team was recruited, and the revised IPEG teacher
training programs produced by this team were found by IDA to be too theoretical in
content.
(c)  Increasing access to basic education for childreny by expanding primary teacher
training was less successful than anticipated, although some improvement was made
in enrollment nationwide. Enrollment ratios in basic education, which stood at 20.4%
for the first cycle and 12.8% for the second cycle in 1981, had increased to 24% for
the first cycle but decreased to 8% for the second cycle by 1987. The physical
construction of IPEGs under AfDB financing was completed with some delays. The
two-year IPEG training program was extended to a four year program.
(d)  Improvements to basic education for adults based on use of national languages, ran
into organizational and financial problems. This program extended beyond the
Project area, and the conclusion of the Interim Evaluation was that it required
consolidation before being expanded. The Government's assessment concerning the
programmed complementary linguistic research was that it was about 50% achieved.
(e) Improvement in the skills of agricultural extension workers and livestock technicians.
was largely achieved. The physical improvements of CAA facilities were achieved as
scheduled, but the water supply problems which arose at the EIV took several years
to resolve. The Training of Trainers (TOT) program at CAA and the upgrading
training program at the EIV were successful, but the issue of declining intake of
trainees was not addressed early enough in Project implementation.
13.          Disbursements of Credit proceeds were generaily on schedule and the cost
performance was good. The satisfactory execution of the hardware part of the project is explained
by the thorough preparation financed by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and the completion of
final designs and bidding documents by or before project effectiveness.
Y Mhe prect objective was an indirect one. 'Me Government poi9q was not to allow cdildren into schools unless a trained teacher wu
avaiable to teach them; hence, the constraint on access was the number of tained teaches



-vii-
Findings and Lessons Learned
14.     (a)  The benefits of a well-defined and experienced PIU were evident in the efficiency
with which the physical aspects of the Pioject were implemented.
(b) The implementation of the software components lagged behind that of the hardware
components, partly because of (i) the Government's preference for local experts and
training se.ninars over expatriate consultants and training abroad, and (ii) the lack of
consensus between IDA and the Government on how to appropriately expand the
DNAFIA experiment on the use of national languages in basic education and adult
literacy programs.
(c)  It became difficult to implement the new curriculum in Segou, due to the need to
consolidate work on the new curriculum in other parts of the country not included
in the project.
(d) Although the agricultural and livestock training objective was largely met, the issue
of sustaii-ability of the training programs needed to have been more adequately
addressed at the design stage. During implementation, the substantial programs and
budget revisions were unable to address fully the sustainability issue, in light of the
significant declines in student intake experienced by the CAAs and the EIV.
Some additional lessons learned, as reported by the Government, are the following:
(e)  The Project objectives were too ambitious and each Project component could have
been more carefully prepared to ensure better monitoring and evaluation during
implementation.
(f)  The decentralization of responsibilities from DNAFLA to the Regional Education
Directorates, which occurred toward the end of project implementatioa, was
inappropriate due to the insufficient number of staff at the Regional level and led
to inadequate reporting to the Project Coordinator.
(g) The pedagogical objectives for the literacy animators were far from achieved; the
length of the intensive training course was insufficient and the animators needed to
be recruited at a higher level (at least ninth-grade education). The expected
recruitment of students between the baccalaureat level and higher education did not
materialize.
(h) The agricultural and livestock training comr-nent reached its objectives, but would
have been improved by earlier anticipation ox the need for post-project coverage of
recurrent expenses related to infrastructure and equipment.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR
MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credi l442-MLI/SF10-MLI)
PART I. PRO.ECT REVIEW FROM DA'S PERSPE
1. Project Identit
Project Name:    Third Education Project
Credit No.:     1442-MLUISF1O-MLI
RVP Unit:       Africa Region
Country         Mali
Sector          Human Resources
Subsector       Education and Agricultural Training
2. Backgound
2.1     Sector Development Objectives. The Government's educational objectives, as stated at
national conferences in 1962 and 1978, and restated in documents for an international donors'
conference in 1982, supported the Five-Ycar Plan's emphasis on human resource development and
included: (a) equal access to high quality education; (b) replarement of expatriate teacheis in
secondary and higher education by Malian staff; (c) better coordination between the outputs of the
education system and the country's labor requirements; and (d) improvement in the Grovernment's
educational planning capacities. Credit 420-MLI, signed in 1973 and closed in 1980, and Credit 733-
MLI, signed in 1977 and closed in 1983, both supported quality improvement and expansion of basic
education (including adult literacy), science and technology instruction, technical and vocational
education, training of agriculture and livestock extension agents, and management training for priority
sectors. In 1980-81, however, basic education reached only 20.4% of the nopulation at first-le
level, and 12.8% at second-cycle level, even though Mali had made great efforts to develop adult
education programs and to research low-cost delivery methods for basic education. An in-depth study
of the education-training sector completed by Malian specialists with assistance from UNESCO in
1981, identified both managerial and educational constraints on development of the sector. Basic
education needed to be better adapted to Ma!ian conditions, possibly through the use of national
languages and ruralization efforts. Meanwhile, enrollment was rapidly increasing in secondary and
higher education. Higher education was producing an excess of graduates in certain fields, while
there was a perceived shortage of qualified permanent teaching staff. Administration of the
education system was viewed as too centralized, and budgetary allocations had increased for secondary
and higher eeucation at the expense of basic -.;ucation.
.2.2    The Project Performance Audit Report for the Fuist Education Project issued in 1982,
recommended, inter alia, that key institutions such as IPN and the Directorate for Planning and
School Equipment (DNPES' be strengthened. While building on the experience gained during
implementation of the first two Eduation projects, both of which had a positive impact on the



2 -
Education sector in Mali, the Proiect also focused ous .e need to match the educational system's
output more closely with the labor requirements of the economy, and to use available resources more
effectively. Specific measures identified by the Government in 1984 to be taken or studied further
included the following: improving the enrollment rate; developing efficient school data-collection and
mapping services; reorganization of Malian higher education, and ending the system of automatic
recruitment of higher education graduates by the civil service; and establishment of a Technical
Education Division in the MiON (responsibility for the administration of technical and vocational
education had been shared by several departments). These measures were designed to be
;nplemented in the short term and formed the basis of the Government's education and training
policy in 1984.
2.3     By ii084, the following measures had already been taken by the Government to address the
above problems: elimination of scholarships systematically granted to ali secondary students and
reduction of scholarships formerly granted to higher education students studying abroad (this reduced
the schc'arship share of the education budget from 45.2% to 29% between 1978 and 1982);
redistribution of appropriations to the various levels of education, resulting in an increase in the share
of basic education from 27.8% to 38.4% of the education budget between 1978 and 1982;
establishment of kegional Directorates of Education in all provincial capitals and in the District of
Bamako; and assignment of responsibility for the reform of basic education to the National
Directorate for Fundamental Education (DNEF), to be achieved through the National Pedagogical
Institute (IPN) and the DNAFLA. The Government had also announced measures to stem the
growth of civil service employment by ending the automatic recruitment of higher eeucation
graduates.
2.4     Economic and Policy Context. In spite of extreme variations in rainfall and the country's
landlocked position, Mali has potential for economic development. The agricuiture and mineral
sectors, in particular, hold potential for long-term economic development. During the period 1960-81,
the low average annual economic growth of GNP per capita of 1.1% in constant prices, resulted
largely from poor economic management and poor allocation of public resources. In 1980, about
93% of the total Malian labor force was employed in agriculture or livestock production, and the
traditional sector, dorminated by subsistence agriculture, accounted for 40% of GNP ar-d all export
earnings. In 1984, imports and exports together accounted for half of GDP, with cotton and livestock
comprising 80% of exports. In 1989, the proportion of the 7.8 million population dep-ndent on the
agriculture sector remained at nearly 90%, and the sector accounted for about 50% of GDP.
2.5     In 1980-82, Government reforms in public finances, civil service employment, education,
agriculture, and state enterprises, were facilitated by technical and financial assistance from both IDA
and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). An Economic Management and Training Project (IDA
Cr. 1307-MLI) in the amount of US$10.4 million was approved in 1982 following approval of a PPF
in 1981, and a one-year IMF Standby Program in the amount of SDR 30.4 million approved in 1982
with a follow-up 18-month IMEF Standby Program approved in 1983. Although recruitment of civil
servants had been reduced, and automatic hiring of graduates had been discontinued, civil servants
and employees of parastatals still comprised about 80% of the modern sector wage earners who made
up about 5% of the total work force. The Government was exploring major restructuring options
for state enterprises.



-3 -
2.6     The 1981-85 Development Plan included reforms on civil service recruitment and parastatal
efficiency, as wel as on reorientation of education. After the stabilization program supported by IMF
resources was launched by the Government in 1982, the pace of reform slowed in late 1986 and early
1987, when the Government failed to implement some policy measures agreed with IDA and the
IMW. In late 1987, the Government renewed its commitment to reform. Soon thereafter, a Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) for 1988-1990 was approved, as was a Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Program, an IMF Standby and Structural Adjustment Facility program for 1988-1989, and Mali's
eligibility for the Special Program for Africa. During the period 1981-1988, although economic
growth and performance were erratic in Mali, real GDP growth averaged 2.7% per annum. The PFP
program for 1988-90 aimed at attaining an average annual growth rate of real GDP of about 4.5%
in 1989-90, while reducing the annual rate of inflation to about 3.5% in 1990.
2.7     Linkages Between Project. Sector and Macro Policy Objectives. Inadequate development
of human resources long constituted a serious constraint on economic development in Mali
Following two decades of economic stagnation in the 1960s and 1970s, the Five-Year Plan for
Economic and Social Development for 1981-85 introduced an economic reform program which
emphasized the role of the human resource sector in overall economic development. Under the
1981-85 Plan, about 8%  of the total investment budget was allocated for human resource
development, and about 25% of the total recurrent budget was allocated to education.
2.8     From the mid-1970s to the mid-1980;, a rapid growth occurred in secondary and higher
education at the expense of basic education which did not reflect the development and manpower
needs of the nation. The excess of secondary and higher education graduates became a social and
economic problem with broad budgetary consequences. To address the problems of insufficient
resource aDocation to basic education and excess secondary and higher education graduates, in the
face of strong opposition from parents and students, the Government took measures from 1978-1983
to reduce public expenditures on scholarships for secondary and higher education, and to eliminate
automatic recruitment of higher eA:ucation graduates into the Civil Service (automatic recruitment
was replaced by competitive examinations in 1983). This allowed reallocation of the available
education budget in favor of basic education. The shortage of qualified basic education teachers in
the civil service was a serious constraint on enrolment and educational development since the
Government all .wed new classes to open only if trained teachers were available. Teacher training
and program revision were supported under the Project in an effort to improve both access to and
quality of basic education. By 1984, the Ministrv of Education had employed about one-third of all
civil servants in Mali; salaries accounted for about 60% of the entire education budget and about
92% of expenditures for basic education. Achievement of the Government's education sector
objectives also required improvements in the managerial capacity of the MEN, to facilitate planning,
school mapping, and collection and analysis of education statistics. The Project addressed this need
by including an institution building component to make such improvements in the MEN.
2.9     Achievement of the development objectives for the agriculture and h.stock sector, the
base of the economy and the promise of future expansion, was hampered by the lack of a broad-based
literate population. Improving the knowledge, practices and modes of behavior of the population as
a whole, depended upon the spread of literacy which in turn, required that basic education be made
more widely available. The linkage between the agriculture and education sectors was evident in the



-4-
delivery of literacy programs through the regionally based rural development agencies. This was
addressed under the Project in two ways. First, components to improve the quality of, and the access
to, basic education were designed to contribute to expansion of the literate population in rural areas.
Secondly, training of agriculture and livestock extension workers was included as a major project
component. This training supported another sector objective related to macro-economic goals -
better coordination between the outputs of the education system and the country's labor
requirements.
3. Project Objectives. Components and Targets
3.1     Project Objectives. The objectives of the Third Education Project were to:
(a) develop the institutional capability of the Ministry of National Education (MEN) in
the areas of education planning and financing and administration of technical
education and vocational training;
(b)  improve the quality of basic education;
(c)  increase access to basic education for children and adults (particularly women and
young farmers) by expanding primary teacher training and non-formal adult
education programs; and
(d) improve the skills of agricultural extension workers and livestock technicians.
3.2     Project Components.  To achieve the above objectives, the Project included four
components as outlined below.
Institutional Development:
(a) Educational Planning: Reorganizing, expanding and assisting MEN's Directorate of
Planning and School Equipment (DNPES) in order to: (i) improve its capacity for
regular data collection and school mapping, (ii) prepare educational development
programs, (iii) analyze the cost of these programs, and (iv) monitor their
implementation.  The project provided financing for furniture, equipment,
construction of expanded facilities, and incremental operating costs, as well as
specialist services (51 consultant/months) and 17 fellowships to DNPES and National
Pedagogical Institute (IPN) staff (totalling 128 student/months).
(b) Administration of Technical Education and Vocational Training: Establishing and
assisting a separate division within MEN to improve planning and management of
technical education and vocational training programs. The new division was to
consult regularly with private and para-public sector employers on employment
possibilities and related training programs. The Droject provided financing for
construction, furniture, equipment and operating costs for new offices. Technical
assistance for administration of the division, curricula preparation, and teacher
training was expected to be provided by French bilateral aid.



-5 -
Development of Basic Education:
(a) Experiments in Educational Reform: Developing and experimenting with new basic
education curricula (grades 1-6), adapted to the Malian environment both in content
and in use of national languages, including introduction of these curricula in 40
schools in the Segou region, and local training of 240 teachers in the new curricula.
This component was executed by the Director of Fundamental Education (DEF).
The project provided financing for operating costs and training to support the
development of and experimentation with the new curricula, as well as furniture,
equipment, educational materials, and specialist services. In addition, the project
included financing for educational materials for the introduction in the project
schools, of the new curricula for grades 7-9 prepared under the Second Project.
(b)  Teacher Training: Expanding the teacher training capacity by 360 student places in
two new primary teacher training colleges (IPEGs) in Niono and Kangaba; and
improving the quality of teacher training programs by revising the training curricula
in connection with the basic educational reform, and by setting admissions criteria
for the IPEGs designed to keep the repetition rate at or below 5% at the end of the
fist training year. The project provided financing for construction, furniture,
equipment, operating costs, specialist services (18 consultant/months), and fellowships
(72 student/months).
(c)  Adult Education Programs: Strengthening the capacity of the DNAFIA to train
new instructors, produce new instructional materials and radio programs, evaluate
new programs, and supervise adult functional education programs; and expanding
adult functional education programs by supporLing the following three programs: (i)
functional literacy programs for agricultural workers employed by State Develop-
ment Corporations, including training of about 200 instructors and production of
240,000 educational brochures (ii) post-literacy programs for young farmers holding
responsibilities at the village level, including training of about 300 instructors and
production of 50,000 educational brochures, and (iii) home economics programs for
women, including training of about 420 instructors and production of 15,000
illustrated educational brochures. The project included financing for the production
of instructional materials and radio programs, training of new instructors, specialist
services (18 consultant/months) to evaluate the three programs, and operating costs
for the above three programs.
Livestock and Agricultural Technician Training:
(a)  Training of Agricultural Extension Agents: Improving the quality of training of
agricultural extension agents through (i) improvement of a facility to better house
the Agricultural Training Center (CAA) in M'Pessoba, (ii) establishment of a
specialized center to upgrade about 40 extension agents employed in cotton
production, and (iii) establishment of an upgrading program for in-service extension
agents. The project included financing for construction, furniture, equipment,
specialist services (36 consultant/months), and fellowships (68 student/months).



- 6-
(b)  Livestock Technician Training:  Starting up and operating upgrading training
activities for in-service livestock technicians in the new Veterinary Training Institute
(EIV), which was built under the Second Education Project. The project provided
financing for facilities, equipment, teacher training, incremental operating costs for
the EIV at Sotuba, technical assistance (36 consultant/months), and fellowships for
EIV teachers. The annual output of 60 extension agents in the EIV and in the
adjacent USAID assisted facility was to be maintained during the project life.
Project Management:
(a)  Project Unit: Strengthening and operatir6 the existing PIU, which was responsible
for the preparation, implementation and supervision of al MEN investment projects.
The project provided financing for additional local staff, expatriate accountant and
architect, equipment, operating costs, specialist services for an annual audit of project
accounting, and fellowships.
(b)  Project Preparation: Assisting the Government in preparing future investment
projects in the education sector. The project provided financing for specialist
services (16 consultant/months).
3.3     Project Targets. Quantitative targets were set for components under the Basic Education
and the Livestock and Agricultural Training components of the Project. The new Basic Education
curriculum was to be introduced in the Segou Region in 40 schools, and 240 teachers were to be
trained in the curriculum. In addition, two Primary Teacher Training Colleges were to be constructed
in Niono and Kangaba, with an annual output of 180 students each. The functional literacy programs
were to train 200 instructors and benefit 120,000 adults in 2,000 villages; the post-literacy programs
were to train 300 instructors and benefit about 19,000 farmers in 150 villages; and the home
economics programs were to train 420 instructors and benefit 5,000 women in 500 villages. The three
Agricultural Training Centers in the country were to maintain the number of new extension agents
at 175 per year at each Center, and the Center in M'Pessoba was to upgrade 40 extension agents and
produce 120 new extension agents per year in cotton production. In addition, The Livestock Training
Institute at Sotuba, constructed under the Second Education Project and an USAJID assisted facility
were to limit the number of new livestock extension agents per year to no more than 60 from both
institutions.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1     The Project supported capacity building for the DNPES and the IPN within the MEN, as
well as strengthening and operating the existing PIU; together these institutional development
components accounted for 16.2% of project financing. The PIU, which had been supported under
the two previous Education projects, functioned well, while the DNPES suffered from weak
management.
4.2     The agricultural and livestock training components of the Project were well-defined and
had clear targets. These components were implemented by the MDR, which was experienced in
implementation of agriculture projects. The one design weakness was the failure to anticipate water



-7-
supply problems which seriously handicapped the functioning of both EIV and CAA (Samanko) for
four years (see Section E of this report).
4.3     The Basic Education components of the Project, which accounted for about 60% of the
project financing, addressed the heart of the educational system in Mali - basic education, teacher
training, and adult literacy programs. The basic education component was implemented in the Segou
Region, and the teacher training component in the Niono and Kangaba regions. While the
geographical coverage of the above components was limited, the software issues proved to be complex.
and complicated the Project implementation.
5. Project Implementation. Supervision and Risks
5.4     Project Implementation. The PIU was located in the MEN and was responsible for
overseeing implementation of all components of the Project, except the livestock and Agricultural
Training component, which was implemented by the MDR. The PIU received assistance under the
Project, and benefitted from a competent and devoted staff. Project management received a
consistently high "1" rating in supervision reports throughout project implementation, which
proceeded according to schedule, and without major problems, except for delays in recruitment of
consultants and award of fellowships. The Credit was approved and signed in March 1984, and
became effective in September 1984. During the first two years of project implementation, both
physical components and disbursements proceeded ahead of schedule, due to good preparation under
the PPF (including preparation of all bidding documents by the PIU); the November 1986 supervision
report indicated an expected project completion date six months earlier than estimated at Appraisal
(December 1988). During the following two years, while physical components and disbursements
continued ahead of schedule, delays in software components led to a revision of the expected
completion date to that estimated at Appraisal. The actual completion date of March 1990 was only
15 months later than the original estimate; Credit 1442-MLI was fully disbursed and SF1O-MLI was
about 93% disbursed when the Credit was closed on September 30, 1990. The undisbursed balance
of SDR 31,175 was canceled on March 26, 1991. In supervision reports, the "Overall Status" of the
Project was rated "1" until mid 1986 when it was downgraded to "2" until Project completion.
Similarly, "Available Funds" was rated "1" until late 1985, when it was downgraded to "2" for the
remainder of the implementation period. The "Development Impact" stayed at a high rating of "1"
longer, until July 1987, when it was downgraded to "2" until Project completion. The Project was
always rated "2" or above in every category.
5.5     The institution building component of DNPES and IPN was relatively small in terms of
funding, accounting for only 9.3% of total base project costs at Appraisal. Nevertheless, this was an
important component, including fellowships for MEN staff and research on education sectoral issues.
By late 1985, the education sector study on costs and financing of education in Mali and a study on
the relationship between training and employment had been completed; copies of these reports were
not officially transmitted to IDA, however, until one year later. An aid coordination and sectoral
discussion mission in November 1986 reviewed the Govemment's report on financing and reform of
education. IDA found that the report formed a good basis for discussion, but that further studies
were needed on (a) better management and economies in the existing system, including resource
aDlocation and use, and selective quality improvement, and (b) expanding efforts to supplement
Government funds with other sources of financing, including regional and local sources such as



-8 -
Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs). These further studies were completed in 1987. During 1987,
consultant reports indicated that DNPES was isolated within the Ministry and not able to function
weli. By 1988, however, momentum had developed within DNPES regarding the preparation of the
Education Sector Consolidation (ESC) Project, in coordination with the PIU. The Government's
decision to use local seminars and on-the-job training instead of overseas training led to delays in
awarding of fellowships for DNPES and IPN staff, and to a request that the Government submit a
plan for IDA approval on redeployment of training resources. Due to weak management in DNPES,
and slow overall implementation, this component was not fully successful.
5.6     The component addressing improvements in the quality of and access to Basic Education,
accounted for more than half of Project financing - 5&8% of total base project costs at Appraisal.
In 1984, the Government agreed that the African Development Bank (AfDB) would finance
construction and equipment of two Teacher Training Colleges (IPEGs). By late 1985, however, the
AfDB Credit Agreement was not yet signed, due to temporaly suspension of disbursements to MalL
In late 1986, the bids for the AfDB-financed IPEGs were opened and evaluated. Construction began
in May 1987 and the IPEGs opened in late 1988. Instead of utilizing the project provision of 36
months of the service of an expatriate specialist, the Government decided to have the content of the
IPEG programs revised by local staff beginning with a seminar of inspectors in 1984. The revised
programs, which were completed in 1986 and implemented in the IPEGs, witb monitoring by a special
IPN team by mid-1988, were considered by IDA to be too theoreticaL By late 1986, the IPEGs other
than those financed by AfDB ' were operating on a four-year program, with recruitment of lower
secondary school graduates, rather than on a two-year program with recruitment of baccalaureat-level
graduates. This resulted in pedagogical and financial implications which were of concern both to IDA
and to the AfDB. The 1987 Interim Evaluation of the Project reminded the Government that any
quality improvements in IPEG programs should be cost-effective. Under the ESC Project, teacher
training will be revised by the Government to two year programs, with recruitment of upper
secondary school graduates. Since student intake was related to availability of Government
employment, the IPEGs experienced a drastic intake decline by 1988; as a result, the two AfDB-
financed IPEGs were used to house all teachers trainees, and the others were transformed into in-
service training centers. Mali now has both reduced opportunities for civil service employment of
teachers and an excess of qualified and unemployed teachers by reference to its budget.
5.7     The Basic Education components of the Project also included experiments with the use of
national languages in basic education and in functional literacy programs for adults. In the adult
literacy component, DNAFLA achieved the project objectives related to training of new instructors
by 1987; production of teaching materials was delayed due to difficulties encountered in the printing
of manuals. The experimentation with use of national languages in the curriculum of basic education
and in adult literacy programs was consistent with Mali's stated sectoral objectives, and IDA agreed
with the pedagogical soundness of the approach. Both components proved complex to implement,
however. An evaluation of the adult literacy component showed financial and organizational
difficulties, and the 1987 Interim Evaluation of the Project advised that the experiment with use of
national languages required consolidation prior to expansion, especially in the non-Project part of the
experiment. The Government preferred continuing with limited introduction of national languages
' ITere were no IPEGs financing in the IDA Credit proceeds.



-9-
on an experimental basis, while increasing the number of languages introduced from two to six. In
contrast, IDA favored a large-scale expansion of the use of the two languages which had been
experimented with under the Project. The lack of consensus on this issue led to IDA dropping this
component from the ESC Project.
5.8     The component addressing training of agricultural extension agents at CAAs and livestock
technicians at EIV, accounted fcr one-fourth of Project financing - 25.1% of total base project costs
at Appraisal. In late 1984, the curriculum for the CAAs was not yet well-defined. By late 1986, the
Directorate for Agricultural Training had begun to prepare students to set themselves up in private
agricultural businesses, in view of the reduced employment opportunities for graduates in the civil
service. By late 1987, the rehabilitation and extension works at CAA (M'Pessoba) had been
completed, following IDA approval of supplementary civil works. In late 1984, the EIV was
operational for first year students.
5.9     The lack of water at EIV and CAA (Samanko) made both institutions almost non-
functional. Selection of the land had been done without ensuring availability of water; drilling was
done without success. In late 1985, E1V was still having a water shortage problem. By late 1986, the
EIV water supply situation had improved (two wells were dug during the rainy season), but a
permanent solution to the problem was still needed. An attempt was made to combine the water
supply of EIV with that of a USAID project; and advice was sought from IDA Water Supply staff
regarding the possibilities of filtering water pumped in the river, or of connecting EIV to the city
water supply system, an extension of which was planned. In late 1987, the water supply problem still
limited the efficiency of training at EIV. IDA agreed to have EIV connected to the urban water
supply system on a cost sharing basis, as a branch off the nearby veterinary laboratory financed by
USAID. By late 1988, however, it was evident that the final attempt to negotiate such a cost sharing
arrangement was unsuccessful; instead, the EIV water supply problem was solved by connection with
the public water main at a cost to the Project of CFAF 64 million (US$214,800). This solution to
the four-year water supply problem required an amendment to the Credit Agreement.
5.10    In late 1988, both the Agricultural and the Livestock training subcomponents were
evaluated by an agricultural training specialist who found that the CAAs' TOT program for extension
agent training had nearly exhausted project funding, and EIV's cost efficiency had suffered as a result
of drastically reduced intake of students, related to a decline in recruitment of graduates into the civil
service. This component was not continued under the ESC Project, nor was it included in an IDA
agriculture project.
5.11    The component strengthening the PIU accounted for 6.9% of total base project costs at
appraisal. The PIU, which was created within MEN under the First Education Project, was
strengthened under the Second and Third Education Projects, and operated efficiently under the
(Third) Project. A PPF in the amount of US$1 million approved for the Project in June 1983
allowed the PIU to work on the Project even before Effectiveness. One area of strengthening was
in the accounting unit and in preparation of annual audit reports. While the first annual audit of
project accounts was delayed, due to difficulties in finding a competent firm to do the study, audit
reports for both 1984 and 1985 were received by late 1986, and their recommendations were followed.
The 1987 audit report was received by mid-1988. Another area of strengthening was in monitoring
the Project technical assistance and training components. Although the closer monitoring of these



- 10 -
components by the PIU might have contributed to improved performance, delays in software
components resulted from Government's expressed preference for using Malian experts rather than
expatriate specialists, and training programs in Mali rather than sending trainees abroad.
5.12    Costs and Financing. Disbursements of Credit proceeds were generally on schedule and
the cost performance was good. The satisfactory execution of the hardware part of the project is
explained by the thorough preparation financed by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and the
completion of final designs and bidding documents by or before project effectiveness.
5.13    Project Supervision. Project supervision responsibilities were carried out from August 1984
through July 1988 primarily by IDA staff in the Education sector, in consultation with colleagues in
the agriculture, livestock and water supply sectors. The make-up of IDA staff involved in project
supervision is shown in Table 8. The assignment of Project Officer or Task Manager primarily
responsible for project supervision changed frequently during the early years of implementation, but
remained more stable during the two years (1987-88) when supervision of the Project was closely tied
to preparation of the follow-up ESC Project. In conjunction with supervision of this Project, the PIU
was instrumental in working with IDA staff to prepare the ESC Project
5.14    Project Risks. The major project risk identified at appraisal was the possible failure of the
Government to allocate a sufficient share of its budget to the recurrent costs of expanding basic
education and to the operating costs of project-financed institutions. Progress on budget allocations
was to be monitored during project implementation through annual progress reports and a mid-term
in-depth review, based on agreed indicators and a timetable; in addition, it was to be monitored in
connection with the IMF Stal.aby programs, which recognize education reform as a major objective
in Mali. The second identified project risk concerned possible shortages of adequately trained staff
for project-financed institutions. This risk was expected to be mitigated by significant allocations
under the Project for fellowships and technical assistance.
5.15    The first risk, concerning recurrent costs and operating costs, was successfully mitigated by
the Government's reallocation of funds from secondary and higher education to basic education. The
second risk, concerning trained staff, was not fully overcome by Project-financed fellowships and
technical assistance, since these were not implemented in a timely manner; for example, the
DNAFLA, DEF and EIV had not yet recruited the specialists proposed under the Project by late
1986.
6. Project Results
6.1     The degree to which the Project objectives were achieved is described below:
(a)  Development of the institutional capability of the MEN in the areas of education
planning and financing and administration of technical education and vocational
training, was partially achieved. Delays in the awarding of fellowships resulted in less
completed training than anticipated. The Ministry requested that funds assigned to
fellowships be utilized for technical assistance (TA) to the Planning Department.
This was done, but the TA was poorly chosen by the Ministry and had no beneficial
impact.



- 11 
(b) Improvement in the guality of basic education. was partially achieved. The new
curricula were introduced in 40 schools in Segou Region, and 240 teachers were
trained in their use. The Pedagogical Training Specialist provided for under the
Project was replaced by a Malian team, and the revised content of the IPEG teacher
training programs, prepared by the team, was too theoretical in the view of IDA.
(c) Increasing access to basic education for children by expanding primary teacher
training was less successful than anticipated, although some improvements were made
in enrollment and literacy nationwide. Enrollment in basic education, which stood
at 20.4% for the first cycle and 12.8% foi the second cycle in 1981, had increased
to 24% for the first cycle but decreased to 8% for the second cycle by 1987. By
proiect completion, in 1990, however, it had become evident that Mali had an excess
of qualified and unemployed teachers. In view of the budgetary constraints on civil
service hiring, expanded teacher training programs would not contribute to improving
access to basic education. While the ph}ysical construction of IPEGs under AfDB
financing was completed in the fail of 1988 after some delays, the two-year IPEG
training program had been extended to a four year program in late 1986, with a
higher cost to achieving pedagogical results with no measurable impact in the
classrooms.
(d) Improvements to basic education for adult (particularly women and young farmers),
based on use of national languages, ran into organizational and financial problems.
Furthermore, it extended beyond the Project area, and the conclusion of the Interim
Evaluation was that it required consolidation before being expanded. The adult
literacy rate increased from 10% in 1981 to 15% in 1987. The objective of
conducting complementary linguistic research was about 50% achieved.
(e) Improvement in the skills of agricultural extension workers and livestock technicians.
was largely achieved. The physical improvements of CAA facilities were achieved
as scheduled, but the water supply problems which arose at the EIV made both
institutions non-functional and took several years to fully resolve. The TOT program
at CAA and the upgrading training program at the EIV were successful, although
EIV's cost-efficiency suffered from a reduced intake of students due to a decline in
civil service employment opportunities.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1     The last few supervision missions for the Project were carried out in conjunction with
preparation of the (Fourth) ESC Project. Discussions during these missions included agreement with
the Government on continuation of selected project components under the ESC Project or other
financing. While the Agricultural and Livestock Training component was identified in these
discussions as likely to receive continuing assistance under the ESC Project, it was finally excluded
both from the ESC Project and from a subsequent IDA agricultural project. IDA guided the
Government toward seeking funding from other donors, however. Prospects of sustainability are
bleak for the short term. The financial and institutional capacity of Mali to keep the project benefits



- 12-
going in the post-implementation era is in doubt. The curriculum experiment supported under the
Project was successful in the sense that IDA and the Government reached agreement that use of
national languages for the first few years of basic education with gradual conversion into French at
higher levels was a pedagogically sound approach. These programs did not receive continuing support
under the ESC Project, partly due to a lack of consensus between IDA and the Govemment on how
the experiment should be expanded. While IDA proposed a significant expansion of coverage, using
the two most widely used national languages, the Government preferred to increase the number of
languages to six, but introduce each language into the curriculum on a limited and experimental basis.
While the strengthening of the PIU under the Project contributed to successful project implementa-
tion, the DNPES and the IPN sections of the MEN did not achieve significant institution-building
from the Project intervention.
8. IDA Performance
8.1     The assignment of responsibility for the Project supervision changed frequently during the
first years of implementation, but remained more stable in 1987-88. Despite these changes, IDA
provided a supportive working relationship and professional advice which served as a quality control
mechanism to the project. For example IDA responded to the Government's preference for using
Malian experts and trainers by requesting a plan for redeployment of the Project's training resources,
including sharpening short term specialized consultancies. IDA also recommended in the subsequent
Project that the ESC IPEGs be used for in-service teacher training in view of the surplus of qualified
teachers, and of the cutbacks in civil service. IDA support of experiments with use of national
languages in basic education curricula responded to the Government's sectoral objectives. In the
Agricultural and Livestock Training components, IDA performed effectively, including in the active
search for a solution to the water supply problem. The project appraisal failed to capture the long-
term perspective of teacher training requirements; this is explained by the limitations on policy
dialogue caused by the uneven commitment of the Government on teacher training issues, and it is
also explained by the unpredictable dramatic deterioration in overall financial status and constraints
on civil services.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1     The benefits of a well-defined and experienced PIU were evident in the efficiency with
which the physical aspects of the Project were implemented. A general Government preference for
the use of Malian experts and local training seminars over expatriate consultants and training abroad,
while consistent with the Government's sectoral strategy, contributed to delays in software
implementation. In the Basic Education component, implementation and subsequent dialogue could
have been more vigorously pursued, so that a consensus could have been reached concerning the
appropriate manner in which to continue the use of national languages under the ESC. As a result
of the lack of in-depth factual dialogue on political sensitivities and linguistic considerations, the
situation remains deadlocked with little prospect for further action at the moment. The MDR was
efficient in its implementation of the agricultural and livestock training component, except for
resolution of the water services and supply problem.



- 13 -
10. Project Relationships
10.1         Within IDA, the Education sector staff involved Agriculture, Livestock and Water
Supply staff or consultants as appropriate in preparation and supervision of the Project. Cooperation
between IDA and Govermnent officials was enhanced even during project preparation, by the
existence of an established and well-managed PIU in MEN. Relationships between IDA and the
AfDB regarding IPEG construction, and between IDA and FAC on specialist services was good.
Within Government, working relationships between MEN and MRD were adequate.
11. Consulting Services and Fellowships
11.1    Specialist services actually financed under the Froject comprised 386.5 staff/months,
including 132 staff/months of locally-recruited specialists, as shown in the following table. Consulting
services under the Project amoanted to US$1.6 million or 11.9% of total base project costs at
Appraisal, and disbursements for consultants and professional fees made up 15.2% of total IDA
disbursements under the Project. An additional 5.8% of IDA disbursements were made to refinance
the US$1 million PPF, a portion of which was allocated to consultant services.
11.2    The Project actually provided 435 student/months of fellowships for the training of local
staff as shown in above table. Fellowships accounted for US$ 1.1 million or 8.2% of total base
project costs at Appraisal, while training and fellowships accounted for 9.8% of IDA disbursements
under the Project. All fellowships were financed under the IDA Special Fund Credit. About 95%
of the fellowships under the Institutional Development component of the Project were designed as
training abroad, with about 65% in Canada, the United States, or France, and about 30% in other
West African countries. The fellowships under the Basic Education components were designed as
study trips, most locally and some in other African countries. The Agricultural and Livestock
component fellowships were for pedagogical or technical training in France. The Project
Administration component fellowships were for study trips and seminars in France or Senegal.
11.3    Delays were experienced in recruitment of consultants and in award of fellowships mainly
because Government was never pe suaded that outside expertise was needed. Recruitment of an
expatriate Pedagogical Training Specialist for the Basic Education components was indefinitely
delayed, due to the Government's preference to continue working with the Malian team that had
begun the work.



- 14 -
COMPONENT                    EXPERTS                 STAFF/      FELLOWSHIPS/
l____________               SPECIALIZATION             MONTHS   STUDENT MONTHS
INSTITUTIONAL       Planning and Education Ftnancing      36
DEVELOPMENT         Education Statistics                   3
School Mapping                        6
Linkage of training and Employment    6
Technical Education                   18
Sub Total                             69              203
BASIC               Evaluation                             6
EDUCATION           Methodology of Ruralized Teaching
for Primary Level                     6
Integration of Practical Work into    3
General idducation
Primary Teacher Training              36
Evaluation of Functional Literacy     6
Evaluation of Rural Youth Training    6
Evaluation of Women's Training        6
Professors/Consultants               2.5
Sub Total                            71.5             65
AGRICULTURAL        Agricultural Training                 42
AND                 Livestock Technician Training         36
LIVESTOCK
TRAINING            Sub Total                             78              146
PROJECT             Procurement                            2
ADMINISTRATION   Interim and Final Evaluation              4
Auditing                              6
Project Preparation                   24
Architect (locally recruited)         66
Accountant                            66
Sub Total                             168             21
Total                                386.5            435
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1      Original documentation for the Project prepared by IDA was adequate for preparation of
the Completion report, except that information on actual project costs by financier at project
completion was incomplete and did not permit accurate reconstitution of costs. The Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) provided an adequate framework for implementation of the Project. Following
completion of the Interim Review of project implementation in mid-1987, the last three supervision
missions for the Project took place in July 1987, November 1987 and June/July 1988, and were carried
out in conjunction with preparation of the ESC Project, and subsequent reviews of tail-end project
activities were merged with the ESC processing. No completion mission was undertaken for the
Project. Both Cr. 1442-MLI and SF1O-MLI were closed on September 30, 1990. Cr. 1442-MLI had
been fully disbursed, and SDR 31,175, the amount undisbursed under SF1O-MLI, was canceled.



15 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTWE
1. Design and Objectives
1.1     Analysis from Borrower's Perspective. The Third Education Project (1983-89) comprised
four components: (a) Institutional Development; (b) Development of Basic FEducation; (c) Livestock
and Agricultural Technician 'Training: (d) Project MKqagement and Monitoring. In ace-;dance with
World Bank procedures and the instructions for preparation of the Project Completion Report, the
Borrower gives below its assessment of the implementation of the project from the standpoint of its
design and objectives, its execution, its impact on the country's development and the lessons to be
drawn.
Basic Institutional Development Component
1.2     The institutional development component consisted of two parts: education planning and
creation of a Division of Technical Education and Vocational Training. Education Planning. The
objectives under this head were as follows:
(a)  to provide the Directorate for Planning and School Equipment (DNPES) with
appropriate offices;
(b) to provide the DNPES with the equipment, furniture and supplies necessary for its
operation;
(c)  to bolster the Directorate's personnel by recruitment of additional staff and recourse
to foreign technical assistants (experts and consultants);
(d)  to ensure the basic and refresher training of DNPES staff;
(e)  to carry out a certain number of studies and research projects in order to obtain:
(i) reliable statistics on the different types of education; (ii) a map of school
expansion for all levels, based on demographic movements, current reforms and
budget constraints; (iii) basic data on the education system in order to identify
deficiencies and propose appropriate solutions for remedying them.
1.3     Division of Technical Education and Vocational Trainin   The establishment of the
Division of Technical Education and Vocational Training was designed to foster: (a) the planning of
technical education, in particular the definition of the vocational profiles to be adopted; (b)
permanent consultation with employers and business circles; (c) coordination and control of the
activities of the technical training establishments; (d) the preparation and adaptation of training
programs; (e) the basic and advanced training of technical and vocational teachers and instructors.



-16-
Basic Education Development Component
1.4     Reform of Basic Education. Purpose. To obtain data on which to base the training to be
given to students graduating from basic education in order to equip them to immediately become
active and productive members of socicty. Intermediate objectives. (a) to set up a team of education
specialists in S6gou charged with preparation of new first-cycle programs and teacher training, and
with experimentation with these programs; (b) to experiment year by year with teacher training
programs. Teacher Training(lEs Tne aims were: (a) to build two teacher training colleges
(Instituts P6dagogiques d'Enseignement Gen6ral (IPEGs) at Kangaba and Niono to train 360 primary
teachers per year in order to mect the country's requirements; (b) to allow reform of the teacher
training program so that the teachers produced would be able to apply the reformed primary program
under experimentation. (c) Adult Education.
1.5     This part of the project was designed to strengthen the national efforts directed onward:
(a) intensification of the literacy campaign; (b) training for young farmers; instruction for women. The
specific objectives assigned to each of these three subcomponents were: For functional literacy: (a)
Open 2,000 literacy centers; (c) Reach 50,000 listeners; conduct linguistic research on four languages:
Senoufo, Minianka, Bobo and Bozo; (b) Set up 1,200 groups of radio listeners; Equip the print siop
of the Directorate for Literacy and Applied Linguistics (Direction Nationale de l'Alphab6tisation
Fonctionnelle et de la Liriguistique -- DNAFLA); (c) Produce 440,000 brochures in four years. For
young farmer training: (a) post-literacy traih.ing; (b) evaluation of the post-literacy training; and (c)
training of 300 instruators from th_ "Operations de Developpement Rural" (ODRs). For training for
women: Continuation of the experiments started with the Second Education Project. (a) Instruction
in management, dyeing and soap-making; (b) retraining of instructors; (c) ensuring the training of
women in cooperative methods: Awareness arousal in 120 villages; (d) training of 440 instructors; (e)
opening and equipping of 1.20 women's centers; (e) training of 3,600 women; (f) production of
brochures.
Livestock and Ay cultural Technician Training
1.6     This consisted of two parts: Training of Agricultural Extension Agents. This training was
designed to prolong the upgradinig activities funde~d by means of Credit 733-MU and the USAID-
financed project. Its. objectives were as follows: (a) to train competent agricultural extension agents;
(b) to provide some of them with specialized training in cotton production; (c) to set up a system of
in-service training for extension agents and if need be for foreman and management-level staff.
Training for Livestock Technicians
1.7     For the agricultural extension agents, this training took over from the project funded by
Credit 733-MLI, its objectives being: (a) to continue the assistance to the Livestock Technician
Training Center (EIV); (b) to train competent livestock technicians; (c) to set up a retraining system
for technicians in post.



- 17 -
Project Management and Monitoring
1.8     The object was to strengthen the Project Unit by provision of personnel and equipment
and coverage of operating and related costs; to ensure the monitoring of the project by covering the
costs incurred for the purpose; To prepare future education projects.
2. Execution
Institutional Development Component
2.1     Education Planning. Infrastrujctur  CO ^Ae and Equipment. The project made it possible
to build offices for the DNPES in the Ministry of Education compound that were equipped as
planned. The staff are quite satisfied with their working conditions. Personnel and Training. A team
of 18 specialists was formed by the Ministry of Education to carry out the tasks assigned tG the new
organization. The planning staff were trained by means of study fellowships and training courses in
the USA, Canada, France, C6te d'Ivoire and Senegal. Significant savings were achieved with respect
to the project funds by utilizing fellowships abroad financed by other programs. In addition to the
specialized national personnel, the DNPES received external technical assistance in the form of the
services of an expert for three y, rs plus the following consultant services:
(a)  one specialist in statistics (three months);
(b)  one specialist in school mapping (six months);
(c)  one specialist in matching training to employment (six months).
(d)  Studies and Research Projects.
(e)  School statistics.
A statistical yearbook has been produced each year. La addition, now .- .ot the DNPES is
computerized it has a data base that can be used in research and studies on tl.4l education system.
The procurement of microcomputers has made it possible to produce documentatk: i on schedule and
to upgrade its quality. In the same way, missions in the field have been able to improve the quality
and reliability of data gathered.
(f) School expansion map. The first map was produced on December 31, 1985. Since
then, two seminars have been held t^ Gpersonnel. In addition to the DNPES' own
specialists, the Basic Education Inspectors, the Advisers to the Basic Education
Inspectors and the staff responsible for planning in the national and regional
education directorates also attended this training. All were initiated into techniques
for gathering, analyzing and interpreting statistical data relating to schools and their
environment. The work on the school expansion map was held up for two years
because of the time taken by UNESCO to provide the necessary consultants.



- 18 -
(g)  General studies. Initially, as of January 1984, the DNPES was to produce two
general studies a year. This schedule could not be adhered to owing to the
magnitude of the fields concerned. The studies related to: the cost and financing
of education; alignment of training on employment oppox tunities; the school map.
(hb  Project studies. The programming calls for two studies per year, the aim being to use
the general studies as a basis for preparing concrete project proposals to be
submitted to the Government for financing. At this level, the results comprise
essentially the proposals submitted in the context of the preparation of the 1986-90
Five-Year Plan. It is apparent from the various reports that the preparation of the
general reports took too long notwithstanding the fact that consultants were
employed, while the project studies were too summary to serve as a basis for
programming investments. The Ministry of Education's Administrative and Financial
Directorate (DAF) which has now been assigned the responsibilities formerly
handled by the DNPES is not prepared to assume this role. Its organization chart
does not include a planning unit. It is accordingly necessary that the DAF promptly
take steps to improve its organization to enable it to perform this DNPES function.
This is in fact problem that the rGovernment has yet to take care of regarding the
planning services and/or units in the different ministries.
2.2     Technical and Vocational Training (DETP). The !)ETP has achieved results that are
satisfactory overall. The division was created in 1983 but the decree making it official was not
approved until 1986. The offices were built dnd equipped, and a conference room was in fact added
to the original plan. The division has six Malian specialists and two French technical assistantce
specialists. It was able to dispense with the expert position and the study fellowships included in the
project thanks to the specialist staff provided under the bilateral cooperation agreement with France.
The DETIP handled the coordination and supervision of the technical and vocational training
establishments most efficiently, in both the public
and the private sector. It made studies in 1985 which enabled i. to pinpoint the inadequacies of
technical and vocational training and to identify the training needs in the tertiary and secondary
(industry and civil engineering) sectors. These studies also made it possible to produce vocational
profiles (1986) which were used as a basis for preparation of new curricula. In addition to these
studies, the DETP produced the following:
(a)  technical training programs for the "Brevet de Technicien" and "Certificat d'Aptitude
Professionnelle";
(b)  vocational programs and five project documents for agricultural high schools;
(c)  some 20 instructional documents.
2.3     On the other hand, consultation with employers and businesses has been the weak point
in the implementation of the division's program. Although this task was specifically assigned to the
section responsible for Orientation and Development of Training, contacts remained very limited.
The staff of this section vere overloaded and did not have adequate logistic means to enable them
to remain in constant contact with employers and businesses in Bamako and the rest of the country.



- 19 -
A unit or section should have been established in the division for the specific purpose of pursuing
and expanding such consultation. The lack of interest shown by the majority of employers in working
to better the alignment of training on the needs of business and industry is also r grettable. In view
of the specific nature of the problems of technical and vocational training, it is essential that the
question of structure be reviewed in order to arrive at an appropriate solution without delay.
Development of Basic Education Component
2.4     Reform of Basic Education. Establishment of Team of Specialists. Decree No. 268/PG-
RM of October 18, 1980 and its Implementing Order No. 11/MENCAB of January 3, 1981 provide
for the setting up of the team in Segou. This team, consisting of nine education specialists and three
graphic artists prepared and experimented with the class curricula for the first through sixth years
from 1983 to 1987, thanks to the production and distribution of student record cards and strict
monitoring of the classes. The students in the experimental schools were tested quarterly to
determine their levels. In 1987/88 experimental teachers' guides were prepared based on the
convergent methodology of teaching French and national languages in order to improve the curricula.
Each year the team organized retraining courses under the aegis of the National Pedagogic Institute
(IPN) in order to ensure the training of the 240 teachers needed to staff the planned schools. In
actual fact, more than 240 teachers benefitted from this training. The quality of the results is
explained by the good conditions under which the special team and the experimental classes were able
to function. It should be noted that, thanks to OECD and CIAVER, the team benefitted from three
to four local training courses per year. It also participated in all the national courses and seminars
as well as at least three courses organized in Brussels by CLAVER.
2.5     Comrletion of the Experiments with Secondan Curricula by IPN. The Second Education
Project had financed experiments with second-cycle curricula for basic education in nine ruralized
experimental schools in the Sikasso region. These schools have been provided with laboratories,
workshops and agricultural and craft equipment. The Third Project entrusted continuation of this
experimentation to an IPN team. Evaluation missions from the IPN, the Education Projects Unit and
the World Bank have assessed the progress in this area and their reports reveal that the
experimentation suffered from a number of handicaps: (a)lack of guidance for trainers; (b) inadequate
teaching materials; (c) overdemanding training programs. Integration of the academic and practical
disciplines was not achieved. The experimentation was carried out under physical conditions that
could not be reproduced nationwide with national resources alone.
2.6     Basic Education Teacher Training. Construction of Two Teacher Training Colleges
(IPEGs). The construction of the Kangaba and Niono IPEGs was three years behind schedule
because the Credit Agreement was not signed by the African Development Bank until 1986. The
premiss, furniture and equipme-it have been found entirely satisfactory by all parties, the two
colleges having been well designed for housing and training under good conditions 360 teachers
capable of implementing the ruralization programs. The graduates of these IPEGs are thought very
highly of in both public and private schools. Teacher Trhining. The teacher training curricula have
been entirely revised by a team from the Institut Pddagogique National et de l'Enseignement Normal
(IPN-EN), with special reference to the following two points:(a) teaching practice:lst year: practical
work consisting of observation of demonstration classes, followed by trial lesson; 2nd year three-
month period during which the student teacher is entirely responsible for the class. the new teacher



- 20-
profile:The intention is that the student teachers should be familiarized to a greater extent with the
realities of life in rural Mali and that they should be able to help the people where they work to
improve their living conditions. Steps have been taken to ensure the continuous imlprovement of the
curricula. The inspectors general, the inspectors of basic education and the inspector of teacher-
training colleges reported their observations on the programs to the Director General of the IPN
who, in his turn, called them to periodic meetings to correct the problems noted. In July 1989 a
seminar was also held to consider the curricula in the training schools. Adult Education. Execution
of the "Adult Education" component was started in 1986, i.e. two years behind schedule. It has been
the subject of several reports. However, the data given in these reports are not always mutually
consistent, especially as regards statistics. Moreover, a final evaluation report or a wrap-up report
might have provided good reference material for the project completion report.
2.7     Functional Literacy. In 1985-86 the DNAFILA carried out a vast awareness-arousal
campaign, not only in the country's political, administrative and technical organizations but also and
especially among the entire population, literate and illiterate.  This greatly facilitated the
establishment of the first literacy centers. Responsibility for this area has now been transferred to the
regional education directorates. The fact that these did not regularly send the DNAFLA progress
reports on the project is a major cause of the lack of documentation on the overall results obtained.
Oening of Centers. Of the 2,000 centers planned, 809 have been opened, i.e. 40%. Listener
Registration. Of the target figure of 50,000 listeners, 19,838 (40%) have attended the different
literacy centers. Linguistic Research. Six national languages were used for literacy work at the time
the project was designed. Research was needed on four languages so that every Malian could be
made literate in his mother tongue or in a language he already spoke.
2.8     Bozo langeage. The research performed led to production of a document entitled "Etude
Morphologique du Bozo" (Morphological Study of the Bozo Language), which is currently being
printed by the DNAFLA print shop. Some reading books and lists of specialized terminology have
been prepared in this language.
2.9     Syvnara language. The studies on this language, which has already been used experimentally
as a literacy mediur i, are in a very advanced stage. The DNAFLA has published a document entitled
"Phonologie et Morphologie du Sy6nara" (Phonology and Morphology of the Sy6nara Language).
2.10    Bobo (or Bomu) language. The researcher who was to perform the studies on this language
was no longer available to the DNAFLA when the Project was started. However, the results of
scientific description work are to hand, together with a glossary prepared in cooperation with the
Catholic Church.
2.11    Minianka (or Mamara) language. For the reasons stated above, no new document has been
produced on this language. All together, it can be considered that the "Complementary Linguistic
Research" objective was 50% achieved.
(a)  Instructor Trainine. One thousand one ' ndred sixty-five instructors have been
recruited and trained by the DNAFLA and the regional the regional education
directorates.



- 21 -
(b)  Organization of Radio Listener Groups. More than 300 of the 1,200 groups planned
have been formed, i.e. about 25%. It should be noted, however, that many people
followed and are still following the broadcasts of their own accord.
(c)  Equipment of DNAFLA Print Shop. The equipment has been provided and
installed to the DNAFLA's satisfaction, making it possible to meet the needs for
production of teaching materials.
(d)  Production of 440.000 Brochures. This particular target was more than met, 500,000
brochures (114%) having been produced and distributed to the regional education
directorates for the litcracy centers.
2.12    Young Farmer Training. This post-literacy training requires the assistance of the
"Op6rations de Developpement Rural" (ODRs) and of specialists in management, agriculture,
livestock, health, etc. In executing this subcomponent the DNAFLA collaborated with 12 ODRs
The target was to train 300 instructors, while in fact 310 (103%) were trained in the methodology to
be employed to enable them to train, in their turn, other newly literate persons. Based on the
experience gained, the DNAFLA has devised a young-farmer training strategy for "Post-Uteracy
Traininge which is still being applied in the villages. Of the 3,500 man-months planned for the
monitoring and evaluation of this subcomponent, 1,155 have been carried out (33%).
2.13    Training for Women. The results are very good and in certain cases have appreciably
exceeded expectations. For instance, 700 instructors have been trained as opposed to the 440
planned. As to actual training, 3,000 women (target figure 3,600) have received basic training in
craft-type activities and management practices. Training courses in soap-making, dyeing and pomade-
maidng were given. Imstead of brochures, instruction sheets were prepared for these purposes. The
booklets used in the literacy centers rclated to hygiene, nutrition and construction of improved stoves.
2.14    Horizontal Support: Groul2e de Recherche-Action sur l'Education de Base (GRAEB).
The planned training sessions wcre conducted to the satisfaction of the DNAFIA and of the
members of the Group. They assistcd preparation for and the obtaining of seven advanced-studies
diplomas and three third-cycle doctorates.
Livestock and Agricultural Technician Training
2.15    Training of Agricultural Extension Agents. The Third Education Project made it possible
for the following results to be obtained:
(a)  The renovation of the buildings of the M'Pessoba Agricultural Training Center
(CAA) was completed satisfactorily although slightly behind schedule. The center
has been equipped and provided with sufficient furniture to reach its full operating
capacity while at the same time improving the quality of the tr-ining provided.
(b)  During the project execution period:



-22 -
(i)  the planned technical assistance was received and served its purpose
satisfactorily;
(ii)  the training of the directors and of certain CAA trainers in agricultural
education methodology was accomplished. This has enabled the Directorate
of Agricultural Technical Education and Vocational Training (DETA-FP) to
organize workshops in teaching methods for all CAA and specialized center
teaching staff. The financial and administrative staff also benefitted from this
training, which served to improve the management of the establishments;
(iii) the required instructional materials were delivered;
(iv) the funding of operation was assured and the budget forecasts were even
exceeded.
Thanks to favorable conditions, the DETA-FP was able to achieve the objectives set, including in
particular:
(v)  in basic training: reaching the annual capacity of 175 students (100%); with
the change in the Government's employment policy as of 1985, the annual
number of admissions was trimmed from 170 in 1984 to 124 in 1988. At the
same time, the number of graduates hired by the Government dropped from
176 in 1985 to 29 in 1988, thus making it much harder for young graduates to
obtain employment;
(vi) in in-service training of extension agents from 1986 to 1988: more than 15
Operations de Developpement have been able to send their staff to retraining
sessions on seven topics. This type of training has been provided to 949
agents over three years out of a total of 1,422 (67%) for Mali as a whole.
This indisputably represents a success for the DETA-FP. 'The users and
beneficiaries have also appreciated the quality of the training;
(vii) in operation: despite the Center's good working conditions, some difficulties
were noted: excessive centralization of all orders at the level of the Education
Projects Unit, slow-moving administrative procedures and shortages of funds
although the budgets set for the items concerned had been appropriated.
Livestock Technician Training
2.16    The Third Education Project enabled the Livestock Technician Training Center (EIV) to
achieve its objectives. The curriculum has been revised and is being taught thanks to the provision
of complementary equipment for the school: vehicles, teaching and documentary materials, and shop,
laboratory and farm equipment. The technical assistance service was received until December 1984,
after which the remainder of the budget allocated to this item was used to resolve other problems,
and specifically water supply for the school by connecting it to the town system. The training of the
trainers and of the directors was done both in Mali and elsewhere. In basic training the target of



-23 -
admission of 60 students per year has been achieved. The competence of the graduates has been
enhanced by diversification of the courses based on the revised curriculum. With the termination of
automatic hiring of graduates for government service, the school, like the DETA-FP, is having to
reduce its total output of graduates and is now only taking 35 students per year. As to regular
training and retraining, between February and December 1988 the District school retrained 454
agents in the Bamako District and the Koulikoro, Segou and Sikasso regions.
Project Management and Monitoring
2.17    The Education Projects Unit's activities in the context of the Third Education Project
focused essentially on: (a) the preparation and awarding of contracts; (b) supervision and control of
construction work; (c) preparation of disbursement requests and reports to be sent to the Bank; (d)
financing of training abroad and of technical assistance; (e) monitoring of activities carried out in each
project component, financing of operating and related costs and supply of the necessary equipment;
and (f) finally, preparation of future education projects.
2.18    Thanks to efficient administration of the project, the activities -- with a few exceptions
(construction of the IPEGs) -- were carried out within the schedules set. Considerable savings were
achieved on the civil engineering work and training abroad. On the other hand, monitoring and
operating costs were higher than projected due to certain operating expenses being charged to this
line. IDA met its commitments and disbursements were made as requested. The borrower, on the
other hand, owing to the economic difficulties besetting the country, was not always able to furnish
the Government financing on schedule; this tended to be disruptive for the programmed actions.
Relations with the cofinancing agencies were also satisfactory. However, there were delays in
provision of funds by the African Development Bank for construction of the IPEGs. Altogether, the
borrower's good relations with the financing agencies made it possible for the different program
activities to be carried out and for excellent results to be achieved in most sectors.
3. Imgact on the Country's Development
Institutional Development Component
3.1     Generally speaking, the impact of training and education projects is felt in the more or less
long term. It is therefore possibly too early to seek to measure the impact of the project's
institutional development component. Moreover, such an assessment would be more appropriate in
a project evaluation than in a completion report. This report accordingly summarizes the information
obtained from the documentation and interviews with the project managers, which indicates areas
where research might be warranted and provides some indicators of impact. As regards education
planning: (a) the system is now more efficie-at thanks to a better understanding of its strengths and
weaknesses; (b) planning has been improved by the availability of statistical data; (c) projections are
much more reliable because they are now based on forward studies. As regards technical education
and vocational training: (a) human resources are being developed in fields which have always been
exclusively covered by external consultants until now; (b) procedures, techniques and technologies
suited to development; of applied research in training institutions have been devised; (c) maintenance
problems have been solved thanks to greater specialization on the part of the staff. In the context



-24-
of evaluation of the project impact, it would be interesting to seek to assess the benefit to national
enterprises from use of local humian resources and also locally developed procedures and techniques.
3.2     Basic Education Development Component. Various factors-humar,, material, ecological-
are involved in the development of a country. It is accordingly no easy matter to separate out the
respective impacts of individual factors on development. There can be no doubt that once rural
dwellers are made literate they benefit from access, through reading, to information that will enable
them to improve their health status and upgrade their work activities. Through the work done and
demonstrations given, advanced training has providedl newly literate young farmers with the technical
kmow-how needed to manage their farms and to apply modem crop and livescock production
methods. The carpenters, blacksmiths and masons produced by the ruralized schools have set
themselves up in business for their own account right where they were trained and are thus becoming
extension agents for new working techniques in their locations. The increase in their monetary
incomes, although slowed by poor sales of craft products, is a clear index of the impact of training
on women's development Moreover, the women who audited the training courses have been able
to organize themselves into cooperatives to handle certain of the expenses of their literacy centers.
Livestock and Agdicultural Technician Training CoMnonent
3.3     At the level of the Directorate of Agricultural Technical Education and Vocational
Training (DETA-FP), the project had an impact by training quality agricultural extension staf£ As
to its impact on farmer output, this has not been verified because no evaluation has been carried out
in the field. Regarding the Livestock Technician Training Center (EIV), the project made it possible
to upgrade the livestock technician profile. Instead of just animal health agents, they are now
development-promotion agents possessing producer skills combined with those of communicators and
extension agents, which makes them more eftective and better able to respond to farmers' concerns.
3.4     Project Management and Monitoring. At the operating level, the manager role played by
the World Bank is noteworthy. Its commitment to surporting the project facilitated the obtaining
of financing from other sources such as the African Development Bank and FAC (Fonds d'Aide et
de Cooperation).
4. Lessons to be Drawn
Basic Education Development Component
4.1     The project met the Borrower's requirements, but the objectives were too ambitious. More
thorough preparation would have prevented overoptimistic assumptions. The obligations regarding
monitoring need to be defined more closely, specifying on the one hand the frequency and content
of the progress reports required, and on the other the relations between the Project Unit and the
services benefiting from the financing. Wherever possible, national consultants should be used
because of the significant benefits to be obtained in terms of cost and efficiency.
4.2     Avoid changing staff during a proiect. The Adult Education subcomponent ran into
problems. Changes in the project staff complicated the monitoring and evaluation of what was done.
Imtead of the three parts of the subcomponent being run by the appropriate DNAFLA divisions they



-25 -
were assigned to regional education directorates toward the end of the project. Because these
directorates did not have enough personnel they were unable to monitor the project properly or to
make regular reports to the project coordinator. As to the material assistance expected from the
villages, this proved to be much less than expected because of the unfavorable weather conditions
and the current economic crisis.
43      Recruit instructors of a good level and extend the duration of the intensive training. From
the pedagogic standpoint, the strategies advocated in the project document were far from producing
the expected results. First, the duration of the intensive training (30 days, 6 hours per day and 5 days
per week) proved to be distinctly inadequate. Experiments carried out by several centers have,
however, shown that 45 days' intensive training followed by a 15-day consolidation phase would be
more effective. Finally, the low level of the instructors employed (fourth to sixth year of basic
education) was not such as to equip them to effectively implement this strategy. Neither could they
take care of two or three centers and apply the mutual teaching method. It should also be noted that
the main assumption made by the project was not met, since it was impossible to use young high
school graduates during the summer vacation just before they moved on to the higher education
establishments. Consideration should therefore be given to using instructors of at least ninth year
level. With good training, these should be able to run the literacy centers more effectively. However,
recruiting at this level would aggravate the problems connected with expecting the instructors to work
without pay.
4.4     Increase awareness arousal in order to attract people to the literacy programs. The
quantitative objectives as regards numbers of listeners were not fully achieved for two main reasons.
On the one hand, mobilization of the population during the busiest time in the farm year was
extremely difficult if not impossible. On the other, as soon as the listeners in the sixth and seventh
regions realized no allowances would be paid they abandoned the project literacy centers.
Ensure more efficient collaboration between the different government agencies concerned. The
education and training of rural young people sometimes suffered on account of the relations between
certain technical departments and the DNAFIA In particular, the ODRs tended to ignore what
other agencies were doing in their areas of influence. They did, however, recognize the impact that
post-literacy training could have on the effectiveness of their programs. Make women's work easier.
It is well known that women's participation in education and training activities is complicated by
certain difficulties: (a) social constraints (marriage, baptism, funeral ceremonies, etc.); (b) overwork:
household activities, caring for children, field work, fetching water, firewood, etc.). Easing of the
burden of this work and organization of income-generating activities could provide greater
encouragement for women to attend the literacy centers more regularly. Notwithstanding all the
difficulties enumerated above, the results produced by the Adult Education subcomponent of the
Third Education Project can still be considered encouraging.
Livestock and Agricultural Technician Training
4.5      The Third Education Project achieved its objectives as regards training of agricultural
extension agents. However, given the present employment situation: this training should be
reoriented by incorporating management and retum-assessment courses; when projects are designed,
resources should be included to cover post-project expenditures, particularly those pertaining to
infrastructure and equipment.
______________________________1



-26 -
5. Conclusion
5.1     The Third Education Project is an example of a partnership-type project. As such, it raises
a certain number of North-South cooperation problems. This project had assigned too large a role
to international experts. Fortunately, when it came to execution certain spfcialized services were able
to do without the expert positions called for by the project without this in any way affecting the
smooth progress of the program or the quality of the results. This serves to underscore the comments
made above regarding the need to maximize utilization of local skills by making a special point of
drawing upon local capabilities in projects. It is also evident from experience with this project that
there is a need to simplify and streamline the procedures used by donors and executing agencies
(UNESCO) in order to prevent delays in provision of financing and consultants. For its part, the
borrower needs to improve its organization in order to manage inputs and products more efficiently,
especialy as regards classification and archiving of the documentation produced. However, despite
these observations we can affirm that the Third Education Project achieved its objectives It is
therefore important that those responsible for the implementation of the Fourth Education Project
learn the lessons to be drawn from the preceding projects and take into account the inadequacies and
difficulties detailed in this report.



27 -
LIST OF OFFICIALS MET
Director General of IPN-EN
Director General of Basic Education
Director, DETA-FP
Chief, DNAFIA Directorate of Administrative Affairs
Director, Project Unit
Deputy Director, Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs
Inspector of Experimental Schools
Project Unit Accounts Division
Inspector of Training Schools
Chief, DNAFLA Division of Linguistic and Pedagogic Research
Deputy Director, DNAFLA
Acting Chie£, DNAFLA Division for the Promotion of Women
Chief, Technical Education and Vocational Training Division
Director, Livestock Technician Training Center.



-28-
PART 111. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
(tables)
1. Readed Bank Loam and Crods
CThrough 6/3Q,91)
TITLE                        PIUPOS  &          DATE OF           STATUS                 COMMENTS
AMOUT          AppRtOVAL
(USS MILLION)
COMPLETED PROJECTS
Education                (0420-0)                5.0       06/19/73 CLOSED 06/30/80           FULLY DISWRSED
Integrated Rural Dev.    (0491-0)                8.0       06/06/74 CLOSED 09/30/78           FULLY DISWIISED
Livestock                (0538-0)               13.3       02/11/75 CLOSED 06/30/84           FULLY DISURSEO
DISWRSED  15.06
Mail-Sud Agriculture      0669-0)               15.5       12/14/76 CLOSED 12/31/64              CANCELED   0.44
DISBURSEO   9.65
Second Education         (033-0)                10.0       07/0-/77 CLOSED 06/30/83              CANCELED   0.35
IStURSED   7.97
Industrial Develop.      (0986-0)                8.0       02/26/80 CLOSED 06/30/88              CANCELED   0.03
Economic Mgt & Train.    (1307-0)               10.4       12/07/82 CLOSED 12/31/88             DISfURSED  11.22*
ISWRSED  28.9S
S,ecord Mall-Sud Rural Oev41415'0)              25.9       10/11/83 CLOSED 09/30/90               CANCELED  0.01'
ONGOING PROJECTS                            (SOR)                                                      (SoR)
Office du Migor Cons.    CA035-0)                9.0       OS/17/Wa CLOSE 06/30/92              DISBURSED   1.29
& (1906-0)              39.8        05/17/850 CLOSE 06/30/97             OISBURSED   5.46
Rural Water Supply       (F007-0)                6.3       12/20/610 CLOSE 06/3*/92             DISBURSED   6.10
& (1431-0)               4.6        12/20/810 CLOSE 06/30/92             DISBURSED   5.19
Hea th Developmnt        (1422-0)               16.7       12/06/8rO CLOSE 09/30/91             OISURSEO  18.80
Mopti Area Dev.          (1597-0)               19.5       05/21/85TO CLOSE 09/30/91            DISfURSEO  12.96
Public Enterprise
Sector Ad.j              (1937-0)               40.0       06/24/8O CLOSE 06/30/92              DISBURSED  27.01
Public Enterpri'se
Inst. Dev.               (1938-0)                9.5       06/24/6&0 CLOSE 12/31/94             DISUIRSE1   5.11
Education Sector Cons.   (2054-0)               26.0       06/29/89rO CLOSE 12/31/94            DISBURSED   4.87
Agricultural Sector      (2163-0)               53.0       06/21/90rO CLOSE 12/31/96            DIStURSEO  18.42
Structural Adjustment    (2188-0)               70.0       12/11/9mO0 CLOSE 06/30/93            DISBURSED. 19.29
Agricultural Services    C2235-0)               24.4       05/02/21TO CLOSE 09/30/95            DIStURSED   0.00
2rd Health. Pop. and Rural
water Supply             (2217-0)               26.6       03/19/91TO CLOSE 12/31/97            DIStURSE0   0.00
The diffetence betwemn the Credit amount and  hk  totcl disbursed wnd canceled mount is attributable to the
variations with USS value of the SDR. The Credits are specified, and the disbursements wAda in SOR.



- 29 
2. Project Tilmotable
ITI                          DATE PLUANND           DATE RCVISED              DATE ACTUAL
IDENTIFICATION                                                                                 7/81
PREPARATION                                   11/81-3/82                                       11/81-10/82
APPRAISAL MISSION                             12/82                  12/82                     1-12/82
APPROVAL OF PPF (USS I MILLION)               10/81                                            6/63
CREDIT AND SPECIAL FUND NEGOTIATIONS          9/83                   8/83                      1/84
BOARD APPROVAL                                12/83                  1/84                      3/84
CREDIT & SPECIAL FUND SIGNATURE                                                                3/84
CREDIT & SPECIAL FUND EFFECTIVENESS                                                            9/84
ANENDHENT TO CREDIT ACREEMENT
INCREASING AMT OF SPEClAL ACCT. &                                                              1/86
REDUCT. OF UNALLOCATED
REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS Of CREDIT L              -                                            7/88
SPECIAL FUND
PROJECT COMPLETION                             2/88                                            3/90
CREDIT CLOSING                                 9/90                                            9/90



-30-
3. EstImated and Actual Disbummemnt Schedule
ACIUAL.
Co.1442-Pl   SFlO-MI0      tOTAL        Cu.1442MLI  SFIO-*Ntl    TOTAL          TOtAL
SANK   U*  000    u3s 'OOII    us$ '000    us6 loO           usS '000      US OOO       Al 4 OF
FISCAL  EStTNAIIO    *ItliUD       IStINAED    ACIUAt        ACIUAL        ACIUAL       EstiNAT
TEAS    OIJLAtIVE    CILliLTIW   CIUILVE   CULAIIVE   CISLtATIVE   CLU TIIVE   lOIAL
1983 1     410          440            850         46                        46          55
2      40          4490           950         64            110        7MI          0o
J      510         53o          1,040         71?           19"          ir         u
4      160        5I0           1.140         all          $336       1,15         lot
19561      600          630          1,230         92?          470        1,398        114
2      100         no           1,430        106            OIS       2.321        1M2
3      M1          I30          C,M20        1,182        1,300       3.090         191
4      930         910          1,900        2,343        2,030       4.7          230
1981 I    1,00        1,120          2,190       2.602         2 223       4,625        220
2    1,210         260          2,470       2,923         2,440       5,363        21t
3    1,50        .410          2,160       3,125         27m1       5s,9s         214
4    1.40        1,560          3,040       3.269         2,683       6,154        202
1988 I    1 670       1,0o           3,420       3,541         3,406       6,951        20t
2    1i000       1,940          3.600       3,695         3,565       7,2so        291
3    2,040       2,140          4,130       3,94?         3,740       7,66          to
4    2.230       2.330          4,360       4,088         3,92        7,960         In
1989 1    2,400       2,560          5.02a       4,376         4,160        ,536        170
2    2,600       2,12o          5320        4,516         4,3A 0      8,6 6        16
3    2.920       3,040          5,960       4,716         46002       9,398         Is?
4    3,020       3,300          6.320       4,962         4,935       9,896         is?
1990 I   3,430        3,600          r.030       S os          5,o07      10,125        244
2    3,610       3,840          7,510       5,179         5'238      10 41        259
3    3,890       4,080          7.910       5,199         5,380      10,580         133
4    4,220       4,420          6,64        5,199         5,496      10.6           124
1991 I   4.640        4,660          9,500       5,215         5,506      10,21         113
2                                                         5,516 S16     ,5n
S                                                         56'1      10,036
TIUt  tine of Ptaruwd AM  Actult Oisursemnt Shedules
I0
O ANUo DISUzEIIIS
aG  ACIUA DUSMAUNEWS



4. Planned and Actual Disbrusement by Category
CAlEGORY                    PLANNED ALLOCATION IN        REVISED ALLOC. (1988) IN        ACTUAL TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS    ACTUAL TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS
CREDIT AGREEMENTS         CREDIT AGREEMENTS (SDR '000)            (SOR '000)                  (USS 00C  EQUIVALENT)
(CR.1442-MLI)     SF10-MLI    (CR.1442-MLI)      SF10-MLI    (CR.1442-MLI)      SF10-MLI    (CR.1442-MLI)      SF10-NLI
SDR '000
1. CIVIL WORKS                                     1,250                          1,480                          1,433                           1,713
(EXCLUDING PART B.3)
2. FURNITURE                          120                            270          .                 274                            297
(EXCLUDING PART 8.3)
3. AUDIO VISUAL AND                   510                            780                            872                          1.029
OFFICE EQUIPMENT AND
VEHICLES
(EXCLUDING PART 8.3)
4. AGRICULTURE AND LAB                               930                           1,130                           878                           1,037
EQUIP, CONSUNABLES,
MATERIALS, AND
OTHER EQUIP.
(EXCLUDIUG PART 9.3)                                                                                                                                         -
S. CONSULTANTS AND                  1,530                          1,201                          1,378                          1,710
EXPERTS' SERVICES
6. TRAINING AND                                     1,060                           950                            885                           1,122
FELLOWSHIPS
7. OPERATING AND                                     770                            980                          1,465         .                 1,834
MONITORING COSTS
UNDER PARTS A,B,C
8. INCREMENTAL                        860                          1,600                          1,456                          1.753
OPERATING COSTS UNDER
PARTS A,B,C
9. INITIAL DEPOSIT IN                  60             120            120             120            (70)            (32)          (103)            (86)
SPECIAL ACCOUtNT
OPERATING
10.REFUNDING OF PPF                   970                            469                            529                            529
ll.UNALLOCATED                        390            530
TOTAL                               4,440          4,660           4,440          4,660           4,440          4,629           5.215          5,621



-32.
5. Prolect Cost by Cat.oy
,..............................................................
CATEGORY             APPRAISAL ESTIMATE    I          ACTUAL TOTAL COST
TOTAL COST                        USS MILLION
,    US MILLION            ,
, ,,.,,,, .......~~~~~~~~...I...                              ,,,,, ................I
*  INVESTMENT COSTS                                              IDA           AfDC   GOVT
! CIVIL WORKS               I               7.4        !        1.7T           nJa
FURNITURE                                0.a                  .30
! EQUIPMENT                 I               2.0        !        2.07
SPECIALIST SERVICES                      2.0                 1.71                        £
LOCAL TRA|INING                          1.2                 1.12        !               i
! TOTAL BASE COSTS          !              13.4         1        ,
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   0.8                  *
P PRICE CONTINGENCIES                      31                                       a
OPERATIONS & MAINTENAN.                                      3.59        ' 
!SPECIAL ACCOUNT                                       I         .19        !       *       !
PPF REFUNDING            j                                     53        j       j
! TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      17.3                  0.84
a           I                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Su a 
!                           |                                               a               a11.9 FOREIGN EXCKANGE
a_ *,Lla                                            
a  -Whl



- 33 -
6a. Planned and Actual Completion Dated of Componente
PROJECT COMPONENTS                           PLANNED           ACTUAL              MONTNS
COMPLETION       COMPLETION            Of DELAY
1. 0UPED (MEN)
CONSTRUCTION                                   09/30/65        09/30/85                       0
EQUIPMENT/FURNITURE                            12/31/87        12/31/87                       0
SPECIALIST SERVICES                            09/30,87        12/31/88                      15
TRAINING                                       06/30i'87       NOT COMPLETED                 NC
OPERATIONS                                     06/30/87        03/31/90                      33
2. TECHNICAL EDUC. (MEN)
CONSTRUCTION                                   09/30/85        09/30/85                       0
EQUIPMENT/FURNITURE                            09/30/85        09/30/85                       0
OPERATIONS                                     12/31/85        03/31/90                      51
3. BASIC EDUC.
EQUIPMENT/FURNITURE                            06/30/86        06/30/86                       0
SPECIALIST SERVICES                            11/30/88        NOT COMPLETED                 NC
TRAINING                                       06/30/85        06/30/87                      24
4. TEACHER TRAINING
CONSTRUCTION (AfIS)                            09/30/86        12/31/88                      27
EQUIPMENT/FURNITURE (AfOS)                     09/30/86        12/31/88                      27
SPECIALIST SERVICES                            09/30/86        NOT COMPLETED                 NC
TRAINING                                       06/30/85        NOT COMPLETED                 NC
OPERATIONS                                     12/31/88        03/31/90                      1S
S. ADULT EDUC.
EQUIPMENT                                      12/31/87        12/31/87                       0
SPECIALIST SERVICES                            12/31/88        12/31/88                       0
TRAINING                                       09/30/88        12/31/87                       9
OPERATIONS                                     09/30/88        03/31/90                      18
6. CAA/CS
CONSTRUCTION (M'PESSOBA)                       09/30/86        12/31/87                      15
EQUIPMENT/FURNITURE                            03/31/87        03/31/87                       9
SPECIALIST TRAINING                            09/30/85        12/31/88                       1
TRAINING                                       09/30/85        NOT COMPLETED                NC
12/31/88       03/31/90                      15
7. EIV*SOTUBA
EQUIPMENT                                      03/31/85        12/31/88                      45
SPECIALIST TRAINING                            06/30/86        12/31/88                      30
TRAINING                                       03/31/86        NOT COMPLETED                 NC
OPERATIONS                                     12/31/88        03/31/90                      1S
8. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
EQUIPMENT                                                                                     0 0
SPECIALIST SERVICES                            12/31/88        03/31/90                      15
TRAINING                                                       NOT COMPLETED                 NC
OPERATIONS                                     12/31/88        03/31/90                      15



- 34 -
6b. Baslc Data and Education Sector Performance Indiaors
INDICATOR                                         1981                  1987
ECONONIC
POPUULATION                                                             7T                7.8 6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE                                                 2.5%                2.7%
RURAL POP. AS X OF TOTAL                                         92% (1987)
POP. EARNING LIVELIHOOD                                          83% (1983)
IN RURAL SECTOR
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH                                                 43
GNP PER CAPITA                                                       USS190             USS200
EDUCATION
ADULT LITERACY RATE                                                      10%                15%
GROSS ENROLLMENT RATIOS (1980-81)
BASIC EDUC. (1ST CYCLE/6-13 YEARS)                                    20.4%                 24%
BASIC EDUC. (2ND CYCLE/14-16 YEARS)                                   12.8Z               8.0%
SECOND EDUC. (3RD CYCLE/17-19 YEARS)                                   1.1%                3.0%
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING                                       (2559 STUDENTS)
FEMALE ENROLLMENT
BASIC EDUC. (1ST CYCLE)                                                 36X                 37%
BASIC EDUC. (2ND CYCLE)                                               29.6%                 32%
SECONDARY                                                               23%                 25%
FINANCING OF EDUCATION (1981-82)                                      22.5%              25.5%
X OF TOTAL RECURRENT BUDGET
ALLOC. TO EDUC.
DISTRIBUTION OF RECURRENT PUBLIC EXPEND.
BY LEVEL OF EDUCATION                                                                       35%
BASIC EDUC. (1ST CYCLE)                                        38.0% (BOTH CYCLES)          19%
BASIC EDUC. (2ND CYCLE)
SECONDARY (INCL. TECHNICAL)                                            21.0                 19X
HIGHER EDUC.                                                          11.0%                 19%
ADMINISTRATION (MEN)                                                   8.4%                  4%
SUBSIDIES TO PRIVATE EDUC.                                                                   4%



- 35 -
6c. Project Results
PERFORMANCE                                        ESTI1ATED AT                           EXECUTED 8Y
INDICATORS                                         APPRAISAL                              CLOSING DATE
ACTUAL            GOAL SET
AT APPRAISAL        AT APPRAISAL
PART ti OF PROJECT
1) INTRODUCTION OF NEf tASIC EDUC.           0              40 SCHOOLS                    40 SCHOOLS
CURRICULUM IN SEGOU REGION.                  0              240 TEACHERS.                 > 240 TEACHERS.
2) TRAINING OF PRIKARY SCHOOL TEACHERS       0              ANNUAL OUTPUT OF 360          ANNUAL OUTPUT 360 ORIGINAL
AT IPEGS TO BE CONSTRUCTED UNDER PROJECT                    STUDENTS.                     AFTER 1985 REDUCTION IN
NIONO AND KANGABA SCHOOL.                                                                 STUDENT INTAKE TO ZERO AND
IPEGS USED TO HOUSE STUDEN
3) ONAFLA-IMPLEMENTED LITERACY PROGRAMS
FOR ADULTS NEAR BAMAKO.
A)  FOR AGRICULT. WORKERS                    0              INSTRUCTORS/tROCHURES         INSTRUCTORS/BROCHURES
D)  FOR YOUNG FARMERS                        0              200            240,000        200        /    TOTAL
C) FOR WOKEN                                 0              300             S0,000        300        /       OF
420            15.000        420        /  500,000
PART III OF PROJECT
4) TRAINING OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION      175              MAINTAIN MAX. TOTAL           ANNUAL OUTPUT OF 170 IN 19
AGENTS AT 3 CAA'S (KAYES, BASMAKO,                          ANNUAL OUTPUT OF 175          REDUCED INTAKE OF STUDENTS
SIKASSO REGION).                                            NEW AGENTS.                   AFTER 1985 TO 124 IN 1988.
5) TRAINING OF AGRICULTURE EXTENSION         0              ANNUAL OUTPUT OF 40           REDUCED INTAKE OF STUDENTS
AGENTS IN COTTON PROOUCTION AT CAA/                         NEW AGENTS IN COTTON          AFTER 1985.
M'PESSOSA (SIKASSO REGION).                                 PRODUCTION.
6) TRAINING OF LIVESTOCK EXTENSION           0              MAX. ANNUAL OUTPUT OF         ANNUAL OUTPUT OF 60 ORIGIN
AGENTS AT EIV (SOTUBAj.                                     60 NEW AGENTS FROM IEV        REDUCED INTAKE OF STUDENTS AFTER
AND CS                       1985 To 35 IN 1991.



7. Coqpliance with Credit Agreement Covenants
COVENANT STATUS:  N a MET                                                                                                                                        COlFt: MALI
h a NOI MET                                                                                                                                    CR.1442-10.I/
P * PENDING                                                                                                                                        SF10-Mll
SECTION NO OF                                MAJOR COVENANT                                STATUS                caOENTs                      ACTION TAKEJ/REQUIRED
CREDII
AGREEEN_I
2.02 (C)         THE BORROUER SHALL OPEN AND MAINTAIN A SPECIAL ACCOUNT IN MALIAN          N
fRANCS IN A COMMERCIAL BANK UtDER CONDITIONS ACCEPTABLE TO THE BANK
3.01 (A)         THE BORROWER SHALL DECLARE ITS COaIUIMEIT TO THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES   H             PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES IERE MET
AS DESCRIBED IN ANNEX II OF IHE CREDIT AGREEMENT AND IN IHE TECHNI-                WUF SOFTWARE COMPONENTS WERE
CAL NOTE AND UILL IIPLEMENT THEN WITH THE NECESSARt EfFICIENCY                     IMPLEMENTED MORE SLOWLY
3.04 (C)         THE BORROWER SHALL:
(A) PROVIDE EACH YEAR, BY OCIOBER 15, ALL INFORMATION ON THE AGREED
INDICATORS REGARDING MOEIS BLDGET FOR THE NEXT YEAR; AND
(B) REVIEW WITH IDA BY DECEMBER 31, 1986. PROGRESS IADE IN IMPLE-        1
MENTING THE AGREED BOCETARY TARGETS.
3.08             THE BORRWER SHALL APPOINT CIVIL SERVANTS S'WCESSFULLY TRAINED             N         TRAINED STAFF WERE APPOINTED TO
UNDER THE PROJECT, TO APPROPRIATE PROJECT-RELATED POSITIONS FOR A                  THE PROJECT, HUT "CH OF IIE
PERIOD E0UML TO AT LEAST TWICE THE TRAINING PERIOD AND AT LEAST                    OVERSEAS INtENDED TRAINING WAS
FIVE YEARS.                                                                        REPLACED BY LOCAL SEMINARS.
3.09             THE BORROUER SHALL DETERMINE CONDITIONS Of ADMISSION TO THE IPEGS         N         STARTING Ft866 THE DURATION OF    IDA AND Afdb CONCERNED ABOUT
BY JULY 1, 1986 AND APPLY THE SAID CONDITIONS THEREAfTER                           TRAINING WAS POUBLED TO 4           PEDKAOGIC AND FINUACIAL IMPLI-
YEARS; STUDENTS ADIITTED AfTER    CATIONS. MID-COURSE EVALUATION
LOWER SECONDARY FOR 4-YEAR PRO-   REtUSTED BT IDA
GRAM AND AFTER BACCALAUREATE
__________________________ _ ___   FOR  2  YEAR  PROGRAM
3.10             THE BORROWER SHALL TAKE ALL NECESSARY MEASURES FOR KEEPING THE            n         1985-86 fIGURES WERE 180 AND
OUTPUT Of THE CAAS AND THE IEV AT 175 AND 60 RESPECTIVELY                          64, RESPECTIVELY
4.01 (C)         THE BORROWER SHALL: (A) AUDIF THE SPECIAL ACCOUNT AND THE PROJECT         N         AUDIT fOR 1986 AND 1987 CON-
ACCOuNTS; AND (B) PRESENT ANNUALLY THE AUDIT REPORT NOT LATER IHA                  PLEIED.  1987 REPORT RECEIVED
SIX NOTHS AFTER THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR                                         BY IDA 1/88
F 1                                                               11    .   |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-37 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
Table M: Stilf Iln
(stat feeIs)
STAE I        PROJECT CYCLEActu
Idniffeatlim/Prgp ratlon                                     90.3
Appraisal                                                    60.6
egotiations                                                   7.2
Supervision                                                  60.2
Pct                                                           8.5
LM~~~~~~~~~~~~L
STAFF INPUTS
BIy IDA FICL rEIAR
(staiftw | 
FY             81                  83                 as 8S            87       88       89        90        91       92
lden./
Prep.          0.5      78.4    11.3
Appraisat                        48.7      11.9
Negotiations                                7.2
Supervision                                 4.3    19.3      12.8     11.8    7.1        2.5      0.7       1.7
PCR                                                                                       1.0               5.1      2.4
TOTAL         0.5       78.4    60.0       23.4     19.3     12.8     11.5     7.1       3.5      0.7       6.9      2.4
HIS staff detail data begins only in FY81.
Table B: mission Oata by Staas of Proiect
STAFF
NO. OF      SPECIALIZATIONS                 WEEKS
MISSION               MONTH/YEAR      PERSONS     REPRESENTED C)                  IN FlELD
IDENTIFICATION          07/81           4          ED (3), EC                     1.5
10/81           1          ED                             1.0
PREPARATION             02/82           1          AR                              1.0
APPRAISAL               11/82           5          EC, ED(C). ED, AR, AE           3.0
POST-APPRAISAL          05/83           1          ED                              1.0
TOTAL                                                                    7.5



- 38-
(Table 8., continued)
STAFF-                       TYPE
SUPERVISION                     NO. OF      SPICIALIZATIONS      WEEKS       PERFORNANCE       OF
NO.          MOTH/YEAR       P118014      REPRESENTED (a)   IN FIlff       STATUS (b)   PWLN (Cc)
1                03/84                                                                 Initftl suary
2                08/64           5         AR(2).EP,AII.D       10             1            ",T
3                03/85           2         ED/EC.AE              2             1            P,T
4                09/85           1         ED/EC                 2             1            0
5                05/66           1         PO                    2            2             T,O
6                09/86           2         AE, AR                6             2            M.T
7                11/86           2         PO,0ED                2             2            H,t
8                06/87           2         PO,AR                 2             2            M,T
9                11/87           3         PO,ARED(C)            6             2            1,T
10                07/88          1          AR                    2            2             N.T
11                06/89 Cd)     n/a        nWe                   n/a           2             1,T
12                06/90 td)    nM/         nWe                   nW            2             N,T
13                09/91 (d)     n/a         n/s                 nWe            2             N,T
TOTAL                                                      34
Ca) SPECIALIZATION                    (b) PERFORIMNCE STATUS            (c) TYPE OF PROBLEM
..............                        ....................... ................. ................... .......
AE  a AGRICULTURAL EDUCATOR               1 a Problemfree or                 F a Financial
ED  a EDUCATOR                                minor problm                   N a Managerial
EC  a ECONOMIST                           2 * Moderate problem               T * Technical
AR  a ARCHITECT                           3 * major problem                 0 * Other
(C) a CONSULTANT
EP a EDUCATION PLANNER
PO 5 PROJECT OFFICER
(d) ARIS update.



