Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4542-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
January 30, 1984
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =     Mali Franc
US$1.00            =     784 MF
MF Million               US$1,275
US$1.00            =     SDR 0.955153
MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (m 2)       =  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)  =  0.39 square mile
1 hectare                  =  2.47 acres
i metric ton (t)              2,204 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY ...*...*...............................                       ........... .............  iii
BASIC DATA ............................... .............. ..........*..**.......***..**    iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................................... .     v
I.    THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ....................*..........                       1
A.  Social and Economic Background .............................                        1
B.  The Educational System  . ........................o............... .                2
C.  Main Issues in Education.....................................                       3
D. The Government's Strategy for
E`ducationa'l Development .......... .......................................     7
E.  The Bank Group's Role in  the  Sector ...........................                   9
II.  THE PROJECT. .................o..**...o..*....o..................................   11
A.  Project Objectives  ...           .......... .............. ...... ........ .  1i
B.  Project Components .................. ..........................................   il
C.  Project Description. .................o*...........................o..............   12
Part I:      Institutional Development ........................    12
Part II:    Development of Basic Education ....... ............    13
Part III:  Livestock and Agricultural Technician Training...    14
Part IV:    Project Management             ....        ......... ......    15
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN ..................  .........                   ....    16
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...... ..................   ....... ...   ......    20
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .....................s.......                ......o................... .   25
VI.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................    26
This report was based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Mali in December 1982. The mission consisted of Messrs. J.C. Lair (general
educator and mission Leader), P. Bussat (architect), D.O.M. Gooday
(agricultural educator), Ms. D.C. Pitts (economist) and Y. Lefebvre (educator,
consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Population, Labor Force and Employment; Estimates (1979), and Trends
by Professional Category of Directljr Productive Manpower in Modern
Sector Activities and in Civil Service Employment (1975-1979)
3. Structure of the Education System
4. Administrative Structure of the Ministry of Education
5. Status of the Education System in 1981-82
6. Recurrent Education Expenditures
7. Comparison of Recurrent Costs per Student in Selected
West African Countries
8. Enrollment Pyramid
9. Statement of Intent
10. Details of Summary Account by Project Component
11. Estimated Costs by Category of Expendi-ture
12. Detailed Breakdown of Estimated Unit Costs
13. Detailed Financing Plan
14. Estimated Amount to be Disbursed Against Certified Statement
of Expenditures
15. Summary of Specialist Services
16. Summary of Fellowships
17. Project Implementation Schedule
18. Schedule of Disbursements
19. Disbursements against Statements of Expenditures
20. List of Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
Map:   No. IBRD 17190



- iii -
GLOSSARY/GLOSSAIRE
AfDF     African Development Fund/Fonds Africain de Développement
CAA      Agricultural Technician Training Center/Centres d'Apprentissage
Agricole
CC       Livestock Extension Agents Training Center/Centre de Communication
CFP      Vocational Training Center/Centre de Formation Professionnel
CS       Centers for Agricultural Specialization/Centres Spécialisés
(Agricole)
DEF      Directorate for Fundamental Education/Direction de l'Enseignement
Fondamental
DES      Directorate For Secondary Education/Direction de l'Enseignement
Secondaire
DNAFLA   Directorate for Literacy and Applied Linguistics/Direction Nationale
de l'Alphabétisation Fonctionnelle et de la Linguistique
DNFAR    National Directorate for Agricultural Training/Direction Nationale de
la Formation et de l'Animation Rurale
DNPES    Directorate for Planning and School Equipment/Direction Nationale de
la Planification et de l'Equipement Scolaires
ECICA    Centra'l School for Industry, Commerce and Administration/Ecole
Centrale de l'Industrie, Commerce et Administration
EF       Basic Education/Enseignement Fondamental
EIV      Veterinary Training Institute/Eco'Le d'Infirmiers Vétérinaires
ENS      Higher Teacher Training College/Ecole Normale Supérieure
ENSEC    Secondary Teacher Training College/Ecole Normale Secondaire
ES       Secondary Education/Enseignement Secondaire
FAC      Fund for Aid and Cooperation/Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
IPEG     Pedagogical Institute for General Education (Primary Teacher Training
College)/Institut Pédagogique d'Enseignement Général
IPGP     Management Institute/Institut de Productivité et de Gestion Pré-
visionnelle
IPN      National Pedagogical Institute/Institut Pédagogique National
MDR      Ministry of Rural Development/Ministère du Développement Rural
MEN      Ministry of Education/Ministère de l'Education Nationale
PU       Project Unit/Bureau du Projet
UNDP     United Nations Development Program/Programme des Nations Unies pour
le Développement
USAID    United States Agency for International Development/Agence des Etats-
Unis d'Amérique pour le Développement International



- iv -
REPUBLIC 0F MALI
BASIC DATA
General (1981)
GNP per capita                                 US$190
Land area                                       1.24 million km2
Population                                      7 million
of which:  urban                             17%
rural                             83%
Population growth rate                          2.5%
Life expectancy at birth                       43 years
Literacy rate                                  10% adult literacy
Enro'lment in Education (1980-81) (year of nationwide student strike)
Gross En- Pupil/
Theoretical                              rollment   Teacher
Level                   Age Group    Enrollment    % Female    Ratio         Ratio
Basic Education
(6-13 yrs) lst cycle  1,429,637        291,159        36.0       20.4%      44.0
Basic Education
(14-16 yrs) 2nd cycle   431,167         55,245        29.6       12.8%      19.2
Secondary Education
(17-19 yrs)              418,745         4,820        23.0         1.1%     11.0
Technical Education
(Lycée Technique)
(1981-82)                                  910        10.7                  17.5
Higher Education (1981-
82)                                      4,497
Primary Teacher
Training                                 2,559                              15-0
Education Expenditures (1981-82)
Recurrent expenditures on education as %
of total Government recurrent budget:               22.5% (1981)
Percentage Distribution of Recurrent Education Expenditures
Primary                                               38.0% (1981)
Secondary (including technical education)             21.0% (1981)
Higher Education                                      11.0% (1981)
Administration (MEN-Bamako)                            8.4% (1981)
Average Annual Cost per Student (1981)
US$            % of GNP per Capita
Primary                                30                        15.7
Secondary                             395                       207.8
Higher Education                      731                       384.7



- v -
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Government of Mali
IDA Credit Amount:      SDR 4.44 million (US$4.6 million)
IDA Special Fund
Credit Amount:       SDR 4.66 million (US$4.9 million)
Terms:                  Standard
Project
Description:          The proposed Project would:  (a) deve'op the institu-
tional capability of the Ministry of Education in the
areas of educational planning and financing, and admin-
istration of technical education and vocational
training; (b) improve the quality of basic education;
(c) increase access to basic education for children,
and adults (particu'larly women and young farmers) by
expanding primary teacher training and non-formal adult
education programs; and (d) improve the skills of
agricultural extension workers and livestock
technicians.
Benefits and Risks:    The strengthening of educational planning and admini-
stration is expected to result in a more effective
control and guidance of student flows, a more efficient
allocation of budgetary resources, and a closer match
between the output of the education system and the
requirements of the economy. Increased access to basic
education should increase the quality and number of
skilled workers entering the labor market. The major
risk concerns the possible failure of the Government to
allocate a sufficient share of its budget to recurrent
costs of expanding basic education and operation of
project-financed institutions. Recent experience with
reducing scholarships, however, indicates that the
Government is making a concerted effort to resist
pressure to siphon funds from basic education back into
scholarships and higher education. Progress would be
monitored in conjunction with the IMF Standby programs,
and through annual progress reports and a mid-term in-
depth review. Furthermore, the support for educational
planning provided in the project is expected to assist
the Government to develop a sounrd analytical basis for
a continuation of its reform policies. The second risk
concerns possible shortages of adequately trained staff
for project-financed institutions. The project
addresses this risk by providing important allocations
for fel'Lowships and technical assistance.



- vi -
Estimated Project Cost: 1/
Local     Foreign    Total
--------US$ million---------
I.   Institutional Development
Educational Planning               0.2         0.8        1.0
Administration of Technical        0.1         0.2       0.3
Education
II.   Development of Basic Education
Educational Reform                 0.1         0.6       0.7
Teacher Training                   2.1         4.0       6.1
Adult Education                    0.3         0.8        1.1
III.   Agricultural and Livestock
Technician Training
Agricultural Agents Training       0.6         1.7       2.3
Livestock Technicians Training    0.3          0.7       l.0
IV.   Project Management
0.5        0.4        0.9
Base Costs                       4.2         9.2      13.4
Contingencies: Physical          0.2         0.6       0.8
Price              1.0        2.1        3.1
Total Project Costs         5.4       11.9       17.3 2/
Total Financing Required   5.4         11.9      17.3
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
-------…U'$ million--------
IDA                                        1.2         3.4        4.6
IDASF                                      1.3         3.6        4.9
AfDF                                       2.0         4.9        6.9
Governnent of Mali                         0.9         -          0.9
Total                            5.4         11.9      17.3
1/   The project will be exempt from taxes and duties, except for taxes
on fuel which are expected to be negligible.
2/   Includes US$1.0 million PPF advance.



- vii -
Estimated Diabursements:
FY    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990           1991
--------------------------US$ million------------------------
ANNUAL
IDA                      0.5      0.4      0.6      0.7      0.8      1.2       0.4
IDASF                    0.6      0.4      0.5      0.9      0.9      1.1      0.5
CUMULATIVE
IDA                      0.5      0.9      1.5      2.2      3.0     4.2       4.6
IDASF                    0.6      1.0      1.5      2.4      3.3     4.4       4.9
TOTAL                    1.1      1.9      3.0      4.6      6.3     8.6       9.5
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable.






I. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A. Social and Economic Background
Population
1.01     With a population of about 7 million and a GNP per capita of only
US$190 (1981), Mali is one of the poorest countries in Africa. The high birth
rate (2.6% per year), and low life expectancy at birth (43 years), has
produced a young population, 53% being under the age of 20. Approximately 17%
of the Malians live in six large urban centers which had an average annual
growth rate of 5.5% during the 1970s. The rest of the population is scattered
among 10,000 isolated villages.
1.02     Health and nutrition are poor.  Only 25% of the Malians have access
to a potable water supply within 5 km of their homes, and hygiene and sani-
tation standards are low. Between 90% and 95% of the Malians are illiterate.
Although there are several major ethnic groups--Bambara, Peuhl, Songhai,
Tuareg--Mali has a high degree of social unity. The Bambara language, the
lingua franca of commerce, is a contributing factor to this sense of unity and
is spoken readily by most Malians. French, the official language, is spoken
by only a small minority.
The Economy
1.03     From 1960 to 1981, the annual growth of GNP per capita averaged 1.1%
in constant prices, although there were dramatic fluctuations which primarily
reflected variations in rainfall. The traditional sector, dominated by sub-
sistence agriculture, accounted for about 40% of the country's GNP in 1980 and
for all its export earnings, while employing 93% of the total labor force.
Agricultural development is managed by 23 State Development Corporations,
("Opérations de Développement"), which often exercise considerable financial
and managerial autonomy. In addition, the Government has increasingly used
these '`Opérations" as vehicles for delivering social services such as literacy
and health education.
Development Trends
1.04     Economic development in Mali faces severe handicaps, among the most
serious of which are extreme variations in rainfall and the country's land-
locked position. In addition, poorly developed physical and human resources,
as well as an inadequate infrastructure and a narrow domestic market for
industrial products, constrain economic growth in both the short and the
medium term. However, Mali does have prospects for economic growth. Agricul-
ture has potential for development both in the south, where rainfall is
highest, and in the vast inland delta of the Niger River, through irrigation.
Mineral resources (iron ore, phosphates, petroleum) offer long-term
development possibilities, as do new planned investments for extracting
cottonseed oil, manufacturing cotton textiles for export, and producing sugar.



- 2 -
1.05     Because of poor economic management during the 1960s and the 1970s,
economic growth stagnated.  However, the Five Year Plan for Economic and
Social Development for 1981-85 introduced a program of economic reform which
emphasized the key role of the human resources sector in building a foundation
for overall economic development. About 8% of the planned total investment
has been allocated for human resource development, of which about MF 30
billion (US$40 million) has been earmarked for education and training
projects.
Human Resources
1.06     The total work force was estimated at 5.6 million (a 50% participa-
tion rate) in 1979, of whom more than 90% were employed in agriculture and
livestock production. Modern sector wage emploîment, estimated at about
82,000, is dominated by the public sector: about 80% of modern sector wage
earners are civil servants (44,000 altogether), or employees of parastatal
enterprises (22,000 persons). About 33% of the civil servants are employed by
the Ministry of Education (Annex 2).
1.07     Manpower shortages developed after independence as a result of the
departure of foreign employees and the rapid expansion of all sectors of the
economy. To deal with these shortages, the Government offered civil service
employnent to all graduates of higher education. As enrollments in higher
education increased, civil service employment grew rapidly, particularly at
the higher levels. During the period from 1975 to 1979, the average annual
growth rate for the professional and managerial civil service category was 23%
(with a high of 30% in 1978-79). For middle level staff the rate was 19.5%,
while the number of skilled and unskilled workers increased by only about 3%,
leading to a shortage of these workers. In January 1983, however, the
political secretariat of the governing party, which determines -- and
supervises -- the Government's policies, recommended the mandatory application
of Article 1 of the Civil Service Statute of 1978. This article states that
recruitment of civil servants may take place on]Ly when vacancies exist.
B.   The Educational System
1.08     The structure and organization of the education and training system
are similar to those of other West African countries formerly administered by
France (Annexes 3 and 4). Education is compulsory through Grade 9. The nine-
year course, called Basic Education (Enseignement Fondamental - EF), is
divided into two cycles: the first cycle (EF1, Grades 1 to 6) corresponds to
primary education, and the second cycle (EF2, Grades 7 to 9) corresponds to
lower secondary education. A competitive examination allows students to
proceed from EF1 to EF2. After another competitive examination at the end of
Grade 9, students can enter either general secondary education (Enseignement
Secondaire - ES) which, after a three-year course, leads to the baccalaureate,
or they can enter the technical schools, which offer technician and skilled
worker training programs. Mali has not established a university but, instead,
has created a number of specialized institutions of higher education oriented
toward professional training (Annex 3). EF1 teachers are trained in the



Pedagogical Institute for General Education (IPEG), EF2 teachers are trained
in the Secondary Teacher Training Schools (ENSEC), and ES teachers are trained
in the Higher Teacher Training College (ENS). There is no training in Mali
for technical and vocational education teachers. The training of mid-level
agricultural and livestock technicians takes place at three Agricultural
Centers (CAAs) and three Centers for Agricultural Specialization (CSs) which
train agricultural extension agents. There is also a Veterinary Training
Institute (EIV) which trains junior livestock technicians. Annex 5 gives
basic statisties on the educational system in 1981-82.
Organization and Management
1.09     The Ministry of Education (MEN) administers all nonagricultural
education and training programs, including higher education. Decision-making
responsibilities are centralized in Bamako and delegated to the heads of eight
departments (Annex 4). The Directorate for Fundamental Education (DEF)
delegates some of its responsibilities to 30 regional inspectors who supervise
EF schools and teachers. The seven agricultural institutions are the respon-
sibility of the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR).
1.10     Of West African countries, Mali has probably made the greatest
efforts to develop adult education programs and to research low-cost delivery
methods for basic education 1/ for children and illiterate adults. Two teams,
one in the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) and the other in the Direc-
torate for Literacy and Applied Linguistics (DNAFLA), are responsible for
adult education programs, and are developing programs for formal and non-
formal basic education.
1.11     Out of the eight departments, four (the EF, ES, DNAFLA and Higher
Education) administer specific levels of education, one supervises IDA-
financed education projects (the Bureau des Projets Education - BPE), and
three are responsible for overall management of the system. These three are
the Office for Administration and Budgeting (CAF), responsible for financial
management; the Directorate for Planning and School Equipment (DNPES), respon-
sible for educational planning, school guidance and school construction and
procurement; and the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN), responsible for
curriculum development, educational research, evaluation and teacher train-
ing. Several departments share the responsibility for the administration of
technical and vocational education.
C. Main Issues in Education
Education and Manpower Requirements
1.12     The development of the educational system during the past decade
has not been consistent with the requirements of economic development.
1/   For the purpose of this report, basic education will refer to
fundamental education for children and literacy programs for adults.



- 4 -
Enrollments in basic education increased by only 2% per annum between 1975 and
1981; as a result, the number of illiterates haLs continued to increase. At
the same time, enrollments in secondary education increased by 8% per year and
enrollments in higher education increased by 11% per year while the growth of
employment in the modern sector outside the civil service was stagnating.
This resulted in an oversupply of graduates, which was absorbed by the civil
service. The relatively rapid growth of secondary and higher education
enrollments has been stimulated by a generous scholarship program which, until
recently, was available to secondary and higher education students and by the
automatic civil service employment offered to all graduates of higher
education (para. 1.07).
1.13     The rapid growth in secondary and higher education has led to a
relative neglect of basic education, thus constraining human resources further
in a n-umber of ways. First, achieving the Government's objective of
developing the agricultural and livestock sector will require a literate
population capable of acquiring modern economic behavior and adopting new
technologies and modern health, family planning and nutritional practices.
This development must be based upon expansion of basic education. Second, the
development of the productive base of the economy is being jeopardized by the
substantial shortage of manpower at the skilled worker level (para. 1.07).
Although the current output of 175 extension agients from the agricultural
training centers is adequate, the other existing training programs outside the
agricultural sector (Annex 3) are inadequate in terms of numbers and quality
of trainees. Third, the excess of general secondary and higher education
graduates has become a major social and economic problem, with serious
budgetary consequences not only for the sector, but for the whole Malian
economy.
Educational Costs and Financing
1.14     Recurrent education expenditures for aLl levels for 1978 and 1983 are
given in Annex 6. In 1983, projected expenditures will amount to CFAF 23 bil-
lion (US$33.0 million), or about 25% of total 1983 Government recurrent
expenditures, representing about 3% of the GNP. Salaries account for about
60% of the entire education budget and represenlt about 92% of expenditures for
basic education. In 1981, the cost per student was estimated at about US$30
for primary education (15.7% of GNP per capita), US$395 for secondary educa-
tion (207.8% of GNP per capita) and US$731 for higher education (384.7% of GNP
per capita). Compared with other West African countries, the cost per primary
student is low (Annex 7) mainly because of low salaries for teachers, but the
unit costs for the other two levels are high, largely because of the generous
scholarship programs. In 1980-81, EF with 347,790 students, had a 38.6% share
of the education budget, while secondary and higther education, with a total of
23,548 students, accounted for 34.4%. In addition, secondary and higher
education are also receiving substantial externael support. Most of the
technical assistance, capital expenditures and fellowships financed by
external donor agencies go to secondary and higher education.
1.15     Until recently, measures taken to change the scholarship or civil
service recruitment policies have met with serious opposition in the form of
parental anger, student strikes, and riots. The Government, however, aware of



- 5 -
the importance of the problem and faced with a severe budgetary crisis, has
begun to take drastic action. In 1978, scholarships accounted for 33% of the
budget for education; in 1981, following a tightening of eligibility criteria,
scholarships dropped to 22.5%. Beginning in 1982, graduates from technical
secondary schools were no longer recruited by the civil service. Finally, in
1983 the Governnent instituted a policy of using competitive exams rather than
automatic hiring ta recruit higher education graduates into the Civil Service
(para. 1.07).
Limited Access to Basic Education
1.16     The gross primary enrollment ratio declined from 29.2% in 1978-79 to
27.2% in 1981-82, further narrowing the base of the educational system (Annex
8). The low annual enroliment growth (para. 1.12) is mainly due to the
shortage of primary teachers.
1.17     The shortage of qualified primary school teachers is an important
constraint on the development of primary education since the Government allows
new classes to open only to the extent that trained teachers are available.
In 1980, the four existing training colleges produced 532 graduates. This is
clearly inadequate, since even a modest 5% annual growth of primary school
enrollments would require, with the present staffing policies, an overall
output of 900 teachers per year and a doubling of the total output of the
teacher training colleges by the end of the decade. Employment in the educa-
tion sector is likely to become more attractive as other opportunities for
civil service employment are reduced (para. 1.07). Therefore, the educational
background of student teachers is likely to improve. As a result, there will
be less of a need to emphasize general education in teacher training, with
more time being spent on professional training. A corresponding revision of
the teacher training curricula, as well as an adaptation of the programs to
reflect the projected basic education reform, is needed to improve the quality
cf the training.
1.18     It is likely that the constraints on the growth of primary education
caused by the shortage of trained teachers have led to a large flow of
students to the country's Arabic schools, which are reportedly enrolling a
growing number of primary-age students. Unfortunately, the lack of adequate
educational statistics makes it impossible to determine the size of this
flow. There are also disparities among cities and rural areas and among
regions, with the highest enrollment ratios in Bamako (43.6%), and the lowest
in Mopti (10.9%) and Gao (12.12%). The enrollment of girls accounts for 34%
of the total. As far as adults are concerned, only 2% are reached by adult
education programs.
Low Quality of Education
1.19     The quality of instruction in Malian schools, and consequently of
pupil achievement, is low. Every year about 27% of the pupils in the primary
grades (Grades 1-6) repeat, and about 8% drop out. As a result, only 60% of
the pupils entering Grade 1 ever reach Grade 6, and less than 50% reach Grade
7. It takes more than 13 pupil-years to produce one primary school graduate
whereas, theoretically, only six years should be needed. The main reasons are



- 6 -
a curriculum, patterned after the French, which is inadequately linked with
the local environment; poor teaching practices (despite two years of
professional teacher training); inadequate school facilities; and a shortage
of teaching materials.
1.20     At the beginning of the 1980-81 academlc year, the Government
decided, following social and political pressure and repeated demands from
teachers, to change all teaching programs for the first six years of basic
education. However, only a practical work program with a limited scope called
"ruralization" was introduced in the curriculum. This program has so far
yielded few of the intended results and parents have strongly criticized this
kind of reform. The Government new realizes that only carefully designed
programs with clearly defined objectives, implemented gradually after well-
planned, well-monitored and carefully evaluated experiments, will manage to
restore the confidence of parents and students.
1.21     Indicators for the quality of nonformal basic education are not
readily available because the conditions for student recruitment and teaching
are not uniform. However, the "Opérations de Développement" (para. 1.03) are
benefitting from the positive effects of nonformal basic education, as
literate adults are becoming increasingly involved in responsibilities ranging
from crop accounting to cooperative management.  Measures to further improve
program quality are being implemented. These measures include the production
of pedagogical materials in local languages, the printing and distribution of
a monthly newspaper in Bambara, and on-the-job training programs for newly
literate youth.
Institutional Weaknesses
1.22     Development of an educational sector strategy to implement measures
to correct the main issues noted above is made diLfficult by the lack of infor-
mation on education costs, enrollments, the number of teachers and by the
unclear lines of responsibility among MEN's eighl; departments (para. 1.09).
To address these problems, the DNPES (para. 1.10), charged with the
responsibility for educational planning, is being reorganized and its
objectives and tasks are being more clearly defined.  Over the medium term, it
would be advantageous for the Government to shift; the school guidance,
construction and procurement responsibilities now included in DNPES to another
department to allow the DNPES to foecus more on its planning functions. As an
immediate priority, and in order to produce high quality work, DNPES will need
assistance to collect data, prepare a school map, undertake analyses of
educational costs and financing, and prepare good sectoral development plans.
1.23     Another serious constraint to efficient project implementation is the
lack of a sound managerial capacity in the education sector. The Management
Institute (IPGP), now supported under the Economic Management and Training
Project (Cr. 1307-MLI), is expected to strengthen MEN's mid-level administra-
tive staff through on-the-job training. However, the responsibilities of MEN
departments should be clarified and staff assigned accordingly. For example,
four departments (IPN, DNPES, DEF and DNAFLA, paras. 1.10 and 1.11) have
overlapping responsibilîties and an uneven distribution of senior staff. IPN
is overstaffed, and DNPES and DEF are understaffed.



- 7 -
1.24     The necessary expansion of technical education and vocational train-
ing, under the Secondary Education Department, has been hampered by poor
administration and planning, which has led to a lack of objectives and
strategies consistent with country needs, an absence of dialogue between
employers and technical educators, and the paucity and poor quality of local
teaching staff. The Government has concluded that it needs a special depart-
ment, assisted by an expatriate specialist in administration and staff train-
ing, to make technical education and vocational training more efficient. The
department would also be assisted by a special committee which would include
employer representatives from the private and public sectors.
D. The Government's Strategy for Educational Development
1.25     The Government articulated its objectives for educational development
at national conferences in 1962 and 1978, and recently restated them in
documents prepared for the international donors' conference held in December
1982. The Government's educational objectives support the 1981-1985 Develop-
ment Plan's emphasis on human resource development and include: (a) equal
access to high quality education; (b) replacement of expatriate teachers in
secondary and higher education by Malian staff; (c) better coordination
between the outputs of the education system and the country's manpower
requirements; and (d) enhancement of the Government's capacities for planning,
including school mapping and educational cost analysis.
1.26     In support of these objectives, the Government has made a number of
key policy decisions, and has already begun to implement a number of related
measures. These decisions include:
(a) tightening scholarship eligibility criteria for secondary and higher
education students (para. 1.15);
(b) strengthening administration of the educational system, through:
(i) the creation of an independent new department in charge of
technical education and vocational training (para. 1.24);
(ii) special training, conducted by IPGP (para. 1.23), for mid-
level administrative personnel;
(iii)  more precise definition of IPN, DEF, DES and DNAFLA
responsibilities; (para. 1.23) and
(iv) redistribution of senior staff among the different departments
(para. 1.23).
(c)  preparing draft legislation reerganizing the DNPES, defining its
objectives and preparing job descriptions for the senior staff (para.
1.11);



- 8 -
(d)  expanding and improving the quality of skilled worker programs,
including training mid-level agricultural and livestock extension
agents (para. 1.08); and
(e)  implementing a basic education quality improvement program by:
(i) improving teacher training programs; and
(ii) experimenting with educational reforms which include the use
of local languages as media of instruction, the introduction
of practical work in the curriculum, and better links between
schools and the environment.  A first attempt to implement
reforms was made in 1977, but was limited ta the introduction
of a new science program and adoption of new curricula in the
second E? cycle. The current reforms are more comprehensive
and concern the whole EF system (para. 1.20).
1.27     It is clear, also, that increased allocations from the recurrent
budget to basic and technical education are necessary to reverse the trend
which has caused the imbalance between the output of the educational system
and the manpower needs of the economy. The Government's financial difficul-
ties, (paras. 1.04-1.05), which are likely to persist through most of the
1980s, make it unlikely, however, that public funding for education can
increase substantially in real terms during the rnid-1980s. Under these
conditions, the Government is implementing measures aimed at a more efficient
use of existing resources. These include a further reduction in budgetary
allocations for scholarships; reducing annual enrollment increases in
secondary and higher education ta, at most, aboul 2.5% (Mali's annual
population growth rate); and allocating money saved on scholarships and
secondary and higher education to basic education (Annex 9).
1.28     To minimize the effects of its policy of' opening new classrooms only
when qualified teachers are available, and to more rapidly increase enroll-
ments in basic education, the Governnent is now considering measures ta:
(a) increase the teacher/student ratio from 1:42.4 to 1:55 in the first cycle;
(b) increase the teacher/student ratio from 1:13 to 1:26 in the second cycle,
thus permitting the transfer of about 1,000 teachers from the second cycle ta
the first cycle; (c) adopt the double-shift system in urban areas; and (d)
expand low-cost adult literacy programs. Implementation of the first two of
these measures alone would allow the primary education enrollment ratio to
increase from 27% to 36%. Preliminary steps, however, would have to be
taken. They would include school mapping and strengthening the teacher
training program, particularly in respect to multigrade teaching. In addi-
tion, the existing IPEG output could be increased by making entrance examina-
tions more selective, thus improving student quality and reducing the number
of dropouts and repeaters.
1.29     Following in-depth discussions, the Government agreed to summarize
its general strategy for the development of the sector and all the measures
mentioned above (paras. 1.25-1.28), in a "statement of intent." A "Technical
Note" was prepared during the appraisal mission and signed by the Minister of
Education on May 11, 1983. The note foeuses on: (a) the reallocation of



-9-
educational resources; (b) the reorganization of educational administration
and planning; and (c) the measures to be taken to increase basic education
enrollments (Annex 9).
Assistance from Outside the Bank Group
1.30     Several donors are providing assistance to Mali's education sector.
Most of the donors support the objectives outlined in para. 1.26, mainly by
training local specialists through fellowships. Some major donors however,
have concentrated their assistance in other areas. USAID is financing the
development of curricula for the training of agricultural extension agents;
UNICEF is providing equipment for the introduction of practical work in basic
education; Canada has financed an important adult education program; and
finally, France, as well as financing fellowships and secondary and higher
education teachers, is assisting in the expansion of technical education and
vocational training through building new facilities for two technical schools,
procuring equipment, and providing technical assistance and operating funds
for local training of technical teachers.
E. The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
Previous Investments
1.31     Both the First Education Project (Cr. 420-MLI, for US$5.0 million,
signed July 11, 1973, and closed August 1, 1980) and the Second Education
Project (Cr. 733-MLI, for US$10.0 million, signed September 30, 1977, and
closed June 30, 1983) have supported the Government's objectives for quality
improvement and expansion of: (a) basic education for children and adults;
(b) science and technology instruction in lower secondary schools; (c) tech-
nical and vocational education; (d) training mid-level extension agents for
agriculture and the raising of livestock; and (e) training and upgrading
managers and planners for priority sectors.
1.32     The Project Performance Audit Report for the First Education Project,
issued March 9, 1982, made a generally positive assessment of the project's
educational outcomes, particularly of the vocational training component. It
also supported strongly the continued assistance under the Second Education
Project for science and technology teaching and basic education. Finally, it
recommended that: (a) more local specialists be trained under the improved
fellowship program; (b) technical assistants be carefully selected and
recruited; and (c) key institutions such as IPN and DNPES be strengthened.
1.33     With the Second Education Project nearing completion, an assessment
of the results of Bank Group assistance through the combined results of the
two education projects te the education sector is now possible. First,
physical implementation of both education projects was quite effective.
However, higher-than-expected inflation during implementation of the second
project has led to cost overruns. These overruns have necessitated a reduc-
tion in project scope by postponing the construction of new facilities for the
Management Institute, (IPGP) where mid-level administrators were to be trained



- 10 -
or upgraded. This component is now financed under the Economic Management and
Training Project (Cr. 1307-MLI).  Second, quality improvements in basic educa-
tion have been effective for adult education, and the experiments now com-
pleted have led to a program that warrants expansion. Third, the training of
mid-level agriculture and livestock extension agents has produced initially
encouraging results.  Careful monitoring of the training program should con-
tinue, however, and expansion should take place only in clearly identîfied
priority areas. Fourth, practical skill-orienlted vocational programs have
been introduced and are operating efficiently. Fifth, the introduction of
science and technology in lower secondary schools has not progressed as
rapidly as expected, and is still at an experimental stage. An evaluation
will not be possible until two or three years from now. Finally, the experi-
mental introduction of new curricula in lower secondary education aimed at
linking teaching programs closely to local environments was not completed.
Reasons for the delays include: (a) a limit on, the scope of the reform to
Grades 7, 8 and 9, instead of trying to develop a comprehensive and gradual
progressive reform of the whole basic education3 system; (b) an implementation
plan that was not prepared in sufficient detail and which was aimed at too-
rapid introduction of drastic changes; (c) unclear lines of responsibility
among officials in charge of the program -- mainly the DEF and IPN directors
-- and a lack of communication between curriculum development specialists and
teachers in charge of the experimentation. A revision of teaching methods
however, remains essential to improving the quality of instruction, and is a
Government priority. Overall, the impact of bath projects on the development
of the education sector has been extremely positive, and the Project Unit,
which managed and monitored both projects' implementation, has been very
effective.
1.34     The project proposed in this report builds on the experience gained
during the implementation of the first two education projects in Mali. Teams
cf Malian educators, established under the First Education Project, were
largely responsible for the sector analyses and project preparation work for
the proposed project. Lessons learned during the implementation of the pilot
phases of the basic education and adult literacy programs have been integrated
in the project design. The proposed project would reap the fruits of past
Bank Group involvement in the education sector which has, over the past
decade, had the same objectives. While continuing to support these objec-
tives, the proposed project is focusing more sharply on the need to assist the
Goverument in its effort ta match the educational system's output more closely
with the manpower requirements of the economy, and to use available resources
more effectively. Specifically, this implies support for the following policy
objectives: (a) developing capacities for planning and administering the
education sector; (b) increasing access to basic education; and (c) improving
the quality of basic education and extension agent training and upgrading
programs.



- il -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.01     The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing
priority programs which are an essential part of the Government's strategy for
the sector (para. 1.26). The four major project objectives would be: (a) to
strengthen the Ministry of Education in the areas of education planning and
financing and administration of technical education and vocational training;
(b) to improve the quality of basic education by experimenting with and
implementing new programs for teachers and students; (c) to increase access to
basic education for children, women, young farmers and adults by training new
teachers and expanding existing non-formal adult education programs; and (d)
to improve the quality of agricultural extension workers and junior livestock
technicians through improved training and upgrading programs.
B. Project Components
2.02     The project would be implemented over a five-year period (1984-1989)
and would include the following components:
Part I - Institutional Development
(a)  Educational Planning:   Reorganizing, expanding and assisting the
DNPES in order ta improve its capacity for regular data collection
and school mapping, prepare educational development programs, analyze
the cost of these programs, and monitor their implementation.
(b) Administration of Technical Education and Vocational Training:
Establishing and assisting a division to organize, manage and
supervise technical education and vocational training programs.
Part II - Development of Basic Education
(a) Experiments in Educational Reform: Revising, experimenting with and
evaluating new curricula for the first EF cycle, and completing
experiments with new curricula for the second basic education cycle.
(b)  Teacher Training:  Expanding the teacher training capacity by 360
student places and revising the existing teacher training program.
(c) Adult Education Programs: Strengthening DNAFLA's capacity to train
new instructors, produce new instructional materials and evaluate new
programs, and to supervise the expansion of adult education programs
for functional literacy, women's education and newly literate young
farmer training.



- 12 -
Part III - Livestock and Agricultural Technicietn Training
(a) Training of Agricultural Extension Agents: Improving the quality of
training of agricultural extension agents and establishing a re-
training program for in-service extension agents.
(b)  Livestock Technician Training:  Starting up and operating training
activities to ensure the retraining of in-service livestock
technicians in the Veterinary Training Insitute (EIV).
Part IV - Project Management
(a) Project Unit: Operating the existing Project Unit (PU), which would
be responsible for the preparation, implementation and supervision of
all MEN investment projects.
(b) Project Preparation: Preparing future investment projects in the
education sector.
C. Project Description
Part I - Institutional Development
Educational Planning
2.03     To strengthen and improve educational planning, the project would
support a complete reorganization of the DNPES (para. 1.22) and help the
DNPES:  (a) prepare plans for educational development based on in-depth
studies of key issues (outlines have already been approved by the Government
and are now included in project files); (b) establish and implement a system
for the continuous collection of educational statistics; (c) prepare a school
location plan; and (d) train junior and senior staff.
2.04     To assist the Government in implementing these objectives, the
project would finance furniture, equipment, construction of expanded facili-
ties, and incremental operating funds as well as 36 manmonths of expert
services for an educational planner and 15 manmonths for consultants for
collecting educational statistics, school mapping and manpower planning. The
Government and IDA have agreed to terms of reference for all the specialists.
Seventeen fellowships, amounting to a total of 128 manmonths would be awarded
to staff employed on a regular basis by the DNPES or IPN. A draft decree
reorganizing the DNPES and presenting the details of the precise tasks of each
DNPES department has been presented to and discussed with IDA.
Administration of technical education and vocational training
2.05     To reorganize and strengthen technical education and vocational
training, (para. 1.24), the project would assist; the Government in setting up
a Division of Technical Education and Vocational Training. Specifically, the
project would finance construction, furniture an,d equipment for the division's



- 13 -
headquarters. Funds to operate the division would also be provided. Once the
division is established, it would consult regularly with private and para-
public sector employers, who would advise the Director, on the basis of
employment possibilities, on program content and on the need for new courses
or expanded programs. France has agreed to provide a substantial technical
assistance program for the administration of the division, to assist in
preparing new programs and new curricula for technical and vocational educa-
tion, and to train technical teachers and instructors. In addition, France
will finance the expansion of the two main technical institutions in Bamako
and has agreed to consider the construction of a vocational school in Gao. A
decree establishing the Division of Technical Education and Vocational Train-
ing has been prepared by the Government and presented to and discussed with
IDA.
Part II - Development of Basic Education
Experiments in Educational Reform
2.06     The project would assist the Government in its efforts to achieve the
objectives of fundamental education reform (para. 1.26(e)) through the pre-
paration of and experimentation with new curricula and syllabi for Grades
1-6. To this end, the project would finance: (a) furniture, equipment and
office supplies for the installation of a team of educational specialists at
Segou; (b) operating costs to apply new programs and curricula (para 1.26 (e))
in 40 schools in the Segou region on a trial basis; (c) local training of 240
teachers who would be in charge of the experiments; (d) furniture, equipment
and materials for the 40 experimental schools; and (e) specialist services to
assist in evaluating the experiment. In addition, the project would also
provide support for revising and experimenting with the curricula started
under Second Project financing for Grades 7, 8 and 9. During negotiations,
the Government agreed that these curricula would be put in effect under a plan
agreed upon through an exchange of letters between the Minister of Education
and the Association.  The Ninister of Education has assigned chief responsi-
bility for this component to the Director of Fundamental Education.
Teacher Training
2.07     The project would assist the Government to improve the quality of the
primary teacher training programs through the revision of the training curri-
cula and to expand the capacity for primary teacher training through the
construction of two new teacher training colleges (IPEGs). Specifically, the
project would finance 18 manmonths of specialist services to assist with the
revision of teacher training curricula to introduce more professional training
in connection with the reform of fundamental education (para. 2.06). In
addition, the project would finance the equivalent of 72 manmonths of fellow-
ships for training and study trips for Malian specialists.
2.08     The project would also finance the construction, furniture, equipment
and 18 months of operating costs for the new IPEGs to be located at Kangaba
and Niono. Each of the new institutes would have an enrollment of 360
students, thus increasing by 180 the number of primary teachers produced
annually. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that a new



- 14 -
process whereby students entering the IPEGs are selected with the objective of
reducing the repetition rate to not more than 5% at the end of the first
training year will be implemented no later than July 1, 1986.
Adult Education
2.09     As stated in para. 1.10, adult education in Mali is well-organized
and currently reaches about 5% of the total illiterate adult population. Good
progress was made under Second Education Project financing, e.g., new instruc-
tors were trained, new programs were started and new textbooks were prepared
for functional literacy and rural youth training. The proposed project
intends to build upon this solid foundation by strengthening the DNAFLA's
capacity to: (a) train new instructors; (b) produce new instructional
materials and radio programs; and (c) evaluate the new programs. The project
would also finance operating costs for three new programs to be implemented by
the DNAFLA:
(a) functional literacy programs for agricultural workers employed by the
"Opérations de Développement" (para. 1.03). This would involve
training about 200 instructors to teach 120,000 adults in 2,000
villages, and include the production of 240,000 educational
brochures;
(b) post-literacy programs for young farmers already holding village-
level responsibilities, such as stocktaking and purchasing,
accounting, and distribution of some medicines. This would involve
training about 300 instructors to teach about 19,000 young farmers in
150 villages, and include production of 50,000 educational brochures;
and
(c) specific home economics programs for women. This would involve
training about 420 instructors to reach 5,000 women in 500 villages
and include production of 15,000 educaltional brochures with self-
explanatory illustrations.
Part III - Livestock and Agricultural Technician Trainîng
Training of Agricultural Extension Agents
2.10     Given Mali's budgetary constraints and the fact that the existing
training capacity for extension agents is adequate (para. 1.13), the project
would assist the Governnent in its efforts to improve the quality of extension
agent training, and better prepare the agents for their work. Specifically,
the project would finance: (a) the improvement of one facility in M'Pessoba
to house the existing Agricultural Training Center (CAA) in better conditions;
(b) a specialized center (para. 1.08) which will annually upgrade about 40
extension agents already employed in cotton production; and (c) the establish-
ment of an upgrading program for in-service extension agents. Besides
construction, furniture and equipment, the project includes provision for 36
manmonths of specialist services to prepare and begin the implementation of
the upgrading program, and 68 manmonths of fellowships for the upgrading of



- 15 -
CAA and CS teachers. During negotiations the Government provided assurances
that during the project implementation period, the current output of the three
existing CAAs (a total of 175 extension agents per year) will be maintained at
present levels.
Livestock Technician Training
2.11     One objective of the project would be to help the Government operate
the new Livestock Technician Training Center (EIV). Starting in October 1983,
training of future livestock technicians was gradually transferred from the
present inadequate facility to the new one built with Second Education Project
financing. The new facility includes laboratories, an experimental farm and
numerous specialized courses which will be taught by a completely new teaching
staff.   The new financing now proposed would provide complementary equipment,
fellowships for training EIV teachers, and incremental operating expenses to
start training activities in the new buildings. In addition, the project
would finance 36 manmonths of technical assistance to prepare and implement an
upgrading program for the livestock technicians already employed.
2.12     The EIV's annual output would be 60 livestock technicians who would
be able to assist veterinarians and advise farmers on improving animal produc-
tion. As EIV graduate profiles would be new, former EIV graduates presently
empleyed in the livestock sector would have to be retrained to match the new
livestock extension agent requirements. Adjacent to the EIV, a Communication
Center (CC) has been built with USAID financing. The CC was also designed to
train livestock agents. Since the EIV would train a sufficient number of
agents to meet Mali's needs, the Government agreed during the appraisal
mission, with USAID's concurrence, to avoid a functional overlap between the
two institutions by limiting the total output of livestock agents to 60 per
year during the life of the project. To further avoid the overlap of func-
tions, the Ministry of Rural Development has united the two institutions under
a single director. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
it will limit extension agent output to 60 per year.
Part IV - Project Management
Project Unit
2.13     The well-managed and efficient Project Unit created within the
Ministry of Education under the First Education Project was strengthened under
the Second Education Project. Additional means, however, are necessary to
monitor the project's important educational components and to compensate for
weaknesses in the accounting unit. To implement the proposed third education
project, the Project Unit would be strengthened with additional local staff,
an experienced, locally recruited expatriate accountant, and include equipment
and provisions for fellowships and operating funds. In addition, the project
would finance six manmonths for an annual audit of project accounting.
Future Project Preparation
2.14     To assist the Government in planning and preparing future education
projects, thé project would also finance 16 manmonths of architectural and
education specialists services.



- 16 -
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Cost of the Project
3.01      The net-of-tax cost of the project is estimated at US$17.3 million
vith a foreign exchange component of US$11.9 million.  The breakdown of costs
by project component is summarized below and shown in detail in Annex 10. The
breakdown by category of expenditure is shown in Annex 11.
PPT coer SUMl
(Fm. Ellion)         (US$ mlilion)
% of
bzeign % of Total
local  Foreig 'Iotal Lecal Foreia Total lâchange Base Casts
A. DEVDPETr iNSliL./iEPV1 . DWEVWPT.
PIANIICATION EDUC./EDUC. PLANING            138.0  637.6  775.6  0.2  0.8    1.0   82.2        7.4
DIV. EI(KGNT, TEHN./HN. TRAING, DIV.       46.2   155.4  201.6  0.1  0.2    0.3   77.1         1.9
S&b-Total DENEWPPE    INTITUTL./IN. TITUlT.
DEVELDFPT.                                  184.3   793.0   977.2  0.3  1.0    1.3   81.1      9.3
B. ELUC. DE BASE/BASIC EDUC.
ENSErGNT. KNn/MDAMTAL EDUC.                 78.4   496.6   575.0  0.1  0.6    0.7   86.4       5.5
RORM. DES MAINGS/1EATRAIN.                1,657.5 3,104.2 4,761.6  2.1  4.0   6.1    65.2    45.3
EDUC. DES ADULTES/ADI EDUC.                221.2   616.4  837.6  0.3  0.8   1.1    73.6        8.0
Sub-Total EDJC. DE BASE/BASIC EDWC.          1,957.1  4,217.2 6,174.2  2.5  5.4   7.9   68.3    58.8
C. FORM. A0-PASL1RAIME/AGRO-PAST. TRAING.
CAA/CS                                     497.8 1,350.8 1,848.6  0.6  1.7   2.3   73.1        17.6
SO1UBA                                     216.8   568.0  784.7  0.3  0.7    1.0   72.4        7.5
Sub-Total FPM. AGO-PASkRALE/AGR0-PAST. TRAING.    714.6 1,918.8 2,633.4  0.9  2.4    3.3   72.9    25.1
D. AIl!. DU PR0M/E0JE    AIM.                  374.8  347.8  722.6  0.5  0.4    0.9   48.1         6.9
Total BASELNE COSTS                          3,230.8 7,276.7 10,507.4  4.2  9.2   13.4   69.3   100.0
Fhysical Contingencies                      163.5  469.5  633.0  0.2  0.6    0.8   74.2        6.0
Prioe Contingencies                        812.2 1,647.0 2,459.1  1.0  2.1    3.1    67.0    23.4
Total PDOJ1CT COSÇS                          4,206.4 9,393.1 13.,599.5  5.4 11.9   17.3   69.1    129.4
The Government would exempt the project from all identifiable taxes and duties
on goods and services, procured for the project.



- 17 -
3.02     The base cost estimates are for September 1983.  The estimates for
civil works are based on costs of available construction contracts for similar
buildings (1981) adjusted to construction cost increases (15%) observed in
Mali since then. The estimated unit cost of new construction (excluding
external works) furniture and equipment to be furnished under the project is
based on Bamako prices. The average construction cost is about US$306 per
square meter. The costs per student place for academic and communal
facilities are US$1,560 for construction, US$110 for furniture, and US$468 for
equipment (Annex 12). These base costs for construction, furniture and
equipment are comparable to those for similar institutions in the region. The
net-of-tax average cost of expatriate technical assistance is estimated at
US$8,000 per manmonth, including salary, allowances, overhead and contingen-
cies, and is based on the Government's recent recruitment experience and on
that of international organizations. The cost of locally recruited
specialists is expected to average about US$1,600 per manmonth. The cost of
fellowships is expected to average about US$2,000 per manmonth.
3.03     The project includes contingency allowances for unforeseen physical
conditions equal to 10% of the base cost for civil works, furniture and equip-
ment. The overall allowance for price escalation is about 23% of base cost
plus physical contingencies. Price contingencies have been applied as
follows: 1983 - 8%; 1984 - 7.5%; 1985 - 7.0%; and 1986-1988 - 6%. Inflation
rates are assumed to be equal for both foreign and local costs because of
compensatory exchange rate adjustments.
3.04     The estimated foreign exchange component of $11.9 million represents
about 69.1% of the total project cost of $17.3 million. As a percentage of
total costs, this has been calculated as follows: civil works, 67%;
furniture, 75%;equipment, 95%; specialist services, 90%; fellowships, 62%;
monitoring of project operations, 46%; and operating costs, 63%.
Financing Plan
3.05     The proposed project would be financed by an IDA credit of SDR 4.44
million (US$4.6 million), by an IDA Special Fund Credit of SDR 4.66 million
(US$4.9 million), and a credit of US$6.9 million equivalent requested by the
Government from the African Development Fund (AfDF). The AfDF credit would
finance the construction, equipment and furniture of the two teacher training
colleges (the IPEGs, para. 2.08). The Government would finance all local
salaries and some operating expenses. IDA and the IDA Special Fund would pro-
vide SDR 9.1 million (US$9.5 million) toward financing the following compon-
ents: (a) institutional development, including planning and administration of
the technical training division; (b) reform of basic education, including
fundamental education and adult literacy components, but excluding the
construction, equipment and furnishing of the teacher training colleges; (c)
livestock and agricultural extension agents training; and (d) project
administration. The IDA Credit would finance 95% of the incremental operating
costs of (a), (b) and (c).



- 18 -
3.06     The financing plan would be as follows:
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million7
Component                        Total Cost  'IDA   IDASF     AfDB      Governnent
I.   Institutional Development
Educational Planning               0.9      0.4    0.4          -           0.1
Administration of Techni-
cal Education                   0.3       (.1    0.2          -            -
II.  Basic Education
Educational Reform                 0.7      0.3    0.4          -
Teacher Training
Specialists, Fellowships,
Operating & Recurrent Costs   6.1        0.2    0.3          -           0.5
Construction, Furniture,
Equipment                       -         -      -          5.1
Adult Education                    1.1      0.6    0.5          -
III. Livestock & Agricultural
Training
Extension Agent Training           2.4      1.2    1.1          -           0.1
Livestock Agent Training           1.0      0.5    0.5          -            _
IV.  Project Administration             0.9      0.4    0.4           -          0.1
Total Base Cost                        13.4      3.8    3.7          5.1         0.8
Physical Contingencies                  0.8        -     0.3         0.5          -
Price Contingencies                     3.1      0.8    0.9          1.3         0.1
Total Project Cost                     17.3      4.6    4.9          6.9         0.9
(Details of this Financing Plan are shown in Annex 13.)
3.07     The proposed IDA and IDA Special Fund Credits would finance about 55%
of the total net-of-tax cost of the project. The credits would finance 100%
of the foreign exchange costs and 26% of the local costs of the components
which IDA and IDASF would finance. Total external financing would cover about
95% of the total net-of-tax cost of the project. The Governnent would provide
US$0.9 million, equal to about 5% of the total net-of-tax cost of the project.
Project Recurrent Costs
3.08     The project-assisted programs, at full operation in 1989, would add
about MF 309 million (US$395,000) per year in 1983 prices to the Government's
annual recurrent budget. The Ministry of Education's 1989 recurrent budget
would have to increase by about MF 90 million (US$115,000), which is 0.4% of



- 19 -
the Ministry's 1983 recurrent budget. The budgets of the Ministries of Rural
Development and Agriculture and of the "Opérations de Développement Rural,"
which will benefit from the Livestock and Agricultural Training component,
would absorb about MF 219 million (Us$280,000) per year, or about 0.4% of
their 1983 recurrent budgets. The breakdown of costs would be as follows:
Annual Cost
US$ ('000)   Malian F ('000)
Project Component
Educational Planning                         7             5,680
Administration of Technical Education        O                 O
Educational Reform                           O                 O
Teacher Training                           107            83,780
Adult Education                              O                 O
Agricultural Extension Agent Training    194             151,940
Livestock Technician Training               86            67,450
Total                                 394           308,850
3.09     The impact of the project on future recurrent expenditures would be
relatively small for several reasons. First, the educational planning and
technical training components would strengthen the administrative capabilities
of these directorates, with only minimal increases in personnel costs.  For
example, most of the additional staff for the Planning Directorate would be
transferred from IPN, where they were used to evaluate programs already
completed. Second, the expansion of the adult literacy program would not
require additional personnel, because the specialists already on the staff of
DNAFLA wou'ld be used for project-related activities after their transfer from
programs already comp'leted.  Finally, the costs of agricultural and livestock
training are relatively small items in the recurrent budgets of the Ministries
of Agriculture and Rural Development and of the "Opérations."
3.10     The project should lead to long-term institutional development,
particularly in educational administration and planning.  The strengthening of
MEN's administrative capacity and the restructuring of the planning directorate
may make for more efficient use of available resources. In addition, expected
EF administrative changes may increase the pupil/teacher ratio, thus increasing
the cost--efficiency of expenditures.
3.11     Given the expected short and long-term impacts of the project on
recurrent expenditures, the Government should be able to provide the recurrent
funds for satisfactory operation of the project-financed institutions. The
Government gave assurances during negotiations that it will provide adequate
recurrent budgets for each institution supported by the IDA and the IDASF
credits. To monitor the inclusion of project-generated operating costs in the
budget, the Governnent will furnish annually to IDA the estimated MEN
budgetary allocation for the next fiscal year prior to approval by the Cabinet
(Draft DCA and SFCA Section 3.04(c)).



- 20 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Preparation
4.01     Educational specifications for all project institutions have been
prepared. Detailed working papers are available for each project component.
Two consulting architects, one local and the other expatriate, were appointed
for the architectural design work. All sketches of project buildings were
reviewed during appraisal; design work was comp:Leted under funds available
from the Second Education Project (Cr. 733-MLI) and from the Project
Preparation Facility. The final architectural designs for project components
were completed prior to negotiations. IDA approved the equipment lists for
all components during appraisal. Bidding documents for the construction and
equipment programs prepared by the Government were reviewed during negotia-
tions.
4.02     To continue project preparation, started with funds under the Second
Education Project (Cr. 733-MLI), and to continue the training of Malian staff,
the Government has requested and obtained an advance of US$1.0 million from
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Construction of all buildings and
installation of equipment is expected to be completed by October 1986. Local
personnel training, specia'list services and operations would continue until
December 1988, when the entire project would be completed. The Closing Date
would be December 31, 1989, to allow all project; accounts to be closed.
Project Management
4.03     The Project Unit, established within the Ministry of Education to
implement the First and the Second Education Projects (Credits 420-MLI and
733-MLI) would be responsible for the administration and supervision of phy-
sical implementation of the third education project as well as procurement and
accounting. The project unit would also assure coordination between IDA and
the three ministries involved in the project. T'he three ministries have
already designated senior officials to serve as subproject managers, i.e., the
directors of DNPES, ES, EF, IPN, DNAFLA, DNFAR and EIV (para. 1.11). These
senior officials would advise and assist the Project Director on issues
relating to the design of educational programs and buildings, equîpment
specifications, selection of specialists and the planning and supervision of
the work for their respective subcomponents, and would prepare annual esti-
mates of the incremental recurrent costs of the institutions supported by the
project. They would also furnish the Project Director with all relevant
information required for reports to IDA. To monitor the project's important
educational content and to compensate for the weakness of the accounting unit,
the Project Unit would be strengthened with an educator who would coordinate
and supervise all educational aspects of the project, and by an
internationally recruited accountant who would assist and train the existing
Malian accounting team (Annex 19, para. 2).



- 21 -
Special Account and Project Account
4.04     Because the Governnent may have difficulty in prefinancing expendi-
tures to be reimbursed under the IDA and the IDASF credits, a Special Account
of US$180,000, corresponding to about four months of expenditures (Annex 14)
would be established for the local purchase of components eligible for
financing by the IDA and the IDASF credits. These would include spare parts,
equipment, local training costs, monitoring and operating costs. The Govern-
ment will open an account for this purpose in a local financial institution
acceptable to IDA, to be operated under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA, and IDA and IDASF will replenish the account upon receipt of evidence of
disbursements from the Special Account for allowable expenditures. Should
there be any payments made from the Special Account that are not acceptable to
IDA, the Government would be responsible for replenishing the fund in the
corresponding amount. The Project Director would be responsible for the
management of the Special Account. As a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
and IDASF credits, the Government should establish a Special Account in a
local financial institution.
Specialist Services and Fellowships
4.05     The project would finance 386.5 manmonths of specialist services, of
which 132 manmonths would be recruited locally (Annex 15). The Government
gave assurances during negotiations that the services of staff specialists and
consultants will be procured in accordance with IDA's guidelines, and that all
specialists and consultants employed under the project have qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of service acceptable to IDA.
4.06     The project would provide 435 manmonths of fellowships for the train-
ing of local staff (Annex 16). During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that: (a) it will appoint to project-related positions officials
who have successfully completed training under the Project; (b) it will
require every person undergoing such training, locally or abroad, to be so
employed, for a period twice the length of training, or a minimum of five
years; and (c) it will discuss with IDA the program for all training and
fellowships included in the Project, including the criteria for the selection
of candidates and of locations.
Sites
4.07     Suitable sites have been provided for the buildings of the Educa-
tional Planning Unit and of the Technical and Vocational Training Division.
Both sites are located in MEN compounds. Acceptable sites, one in Niono and
one in Kangaba, have been selected for the two Primary Teacher Training
Schools and formally assigned to the Mînistry of Education. The Government
has provided evidence of the availability of water on the Kangaba site.



- 22 -
Procurement
4.08     Procurement arrangements are summarized be'Low:
(US$million)
Project Element                   Procurement Methods
Total
ICB     LCB      Other        N.A.       Cost
Civil Works                  --       1.6     5.81!        --         7.4
(--)    (1.6)   (--)        (--        (1.6)
Furniture                    0.1    (--)      0.7 1/       --         0.8
(0.1)   (--)    (--) -        (--)       (0.1)
Equipment including          1.6      --      0.4 1/       --         2.0
Vehicles                 (1.6)            (--)                    (1.6)
Specialist Services          --       --      2.0          --         2.0
(__)    (__)    (2.0)     (-)(2.0)
Traîning                     --       --      0.7 2/       0.5 3/    1.2
(--)    (--)    (0.7)   ~(0.5)-    (1.2)
Operating Costs              --       --      --           2.1        2.1
(--)    (--)    (--)   ~(2.0) 4/  (2.0)
Refinancing of PPF           --       --      --            1.0       1.0
( -)    (--)    (--)   ~(1 .0)   (1 .0)
Recurrent Cost               --       --      --           0.8 5/    0.8
TOTAL                   1.7     1.6      9.6          4.4       17.3
(1.7)   (1.6)   (2.7)         (3.5)      (9.5)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA and
the IDA Special Fund.
1/  To be procured under AfDB guidelines for procurement.
2/ Fellowships for local personnel to be trained abroad.
3/  On-the-job training of local personnel.
4/ 5% financed by the Government except for Project Administration.
5/  Local personnel salaries financed entire'y by the Government.
4.09     Civil works for the alteration and the renovation of the Agricultural
Training Center at M'pessoba, valued at US$1.35 million, and for the two small
office buildings in the Ministry of Education's compound in Bamako, valued



- 23 -
together at US$280,000 and all to be financed by the IDA Special Fund, are not
likely to attract foreign bidders. The works would be procured under LCB
procedures, open to local foreign contractors, acceptable to IDA Special Fund
guidelines and practices. Furniture valued at US$0.1 million, and vehicles
and office and audiovisual equipment valued together at US$0.6 million to be
financed by IDA funds, would be procured in accordance with IDA's guidelines
for ICB. Other items such as laboratory equipment and consumables, tools, and
agricultural machinery and materials valued at US$0.9 million and to be
financed by the IDA Special Fund, will be procured in accordance with the IDA
Special Fund guidelines and ICB practices. For all goods procured under ICB,
qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a bid evaluation preference of
15%, or the import duty, whichever is lower. All goods will be grouped,
whenever possible, in lots of not less than US$50,000. However, miscellaneous
furniture and equipment in packages of less than US$50,000 will be awarded on
the basis of quotations in accordance with acceptable procedures. The total
cost of such packages should not exceed US$400,000 for goods financed by the
IDA credit and US$400,000 for goods financed by the IDA Special Fund.
Expatriate specialists for training or technical assistance will be recruited
from appropriate international organizations or be selected from private firms
in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.10     Civil works, equipment and furniture for the Primary Teacher Training
Schools in Niono and Kangaba, estimated at a total cost of US$6.9 million and
expected to be financed by AfDF funds, would be procured in accordance with
the AfDF's guidelines.
4.11     Contract Review.  For contracts to be financed by funds from both the
IDA credit and the IDA Special Fund: from the four bid packages expected for
civil works, those estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more, and
bidding packages for furniture, equipment and vehicles valued at more than
US$50,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement
documentation. This would result in the review of two out of four bid pack-
ages representing 92% of the total estimated value of civil works contracts,
and about twelve out of thirty-five contracts for goods representing 50% of
the total contract value. This represents a reasonable workload for Bank
staff because of the relatively small size and number of the contracts. The
balance of the contracts would be subject to random review by IDA after being
awarded.
Disbursements
4.12     The proceeds of the credits would be disbursed for the project
components indicated in para. 3.05, as follows:



- 24 -
DA Credit           IDA Special Fund Credit
% of                       % of
Amxunt       Ependibture   kimunt       Expenditure
Category                            US$million   financed       US$million   financed
1. Civil Works                         0.00         100           1.30          100
2. Furniture                           0.12         100           0.00           100
3. Vehicles, office and
audiovisual equipment           0.54          100           0.00          100
4. Agricultural and laboratory equip-
ment, consumables, material and
other equipment                 0.00          100           0.97          100
5. Specialist services                 1.60         100           0.00          100
6. Training of local staff             0.00         100           1.11           100
7. Project monitoring cost
and operating cost for
project administration          0.00          100           0.81          100
8.  Incraemntal operating costs 1/     0.90          95           0.00           95
9. Initial disbursement for the
Special Account                 0.06          100           0.12          100
10. Refinancing of PFF                 1.00         100           -
11. Unalocated                         0.42          -            0.55
TOTAL                              4.64                        4.86
1/ Excluding incraeental saLary expenditures.
4.13      The disbursement schedule (Annex 18) has been estimated on the basis
of the education sector profile for Mali. All d:Lsbursements from the IDA and
IDASF credit accounts would be fully documented except for incremental
operating costs and the local expenditures, which would be disbursed against
certified statements of expenditures (Annex 19). Documentation would not be
submitted to IDA, but held by the Project Director for review by IDA supervi-
sion missions and for auditing project accounts.



- 25 -
Accounts and Audits
4.14     The Project Unit would establish accounts for the project, in accor-
dance with accepted accounting practices, to record all project expenditures.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that: (a) all accounts
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) the project
accounts and the audit report would be submitted to IDA for review and
comments within six months after the close of each fiscal year; and (c) the
accounts and the audit report would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA
should reasonably request, including a review of the operation of the Special
Account and a separate opinion whether the expenditures withdrawn from the two
credits on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided. The IDA Special Fund Credit vould
finance the audit fees.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4A15     The Project Director would submit quarterly progress reports to
IDA. The Government gave assurances during negotiations that the Project
Director will: (a) submit quarterly progress reports to IDA; and (b) submit a
final report on the implementation experience and project achievements within
six months of the Closing Date; (As noted in para. 2.09, evaluation spe-
cialists would be appointed to evaluate the impact of the components which
include experimental elements. The Project Unit educator would gather evalua-
tion data and include them in the quarterly reports.) In addition, the
Government also gave assurances that it will provide annually the information
necessary to monitor progress toward the implementation of the policies
described in the "statement of intent", and undertake an in-depth review with
IDA before December 31, 1986 (para. 5.04).
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01     The proposed project would help the Government to overcome some
serious constraints on the development of the educational system. It would
establish the institutional framework necessary to introduce the structural
reforms necessary to implement the strategy for educational development that
has been set out in the Government's "statement of intent." This statement
emphasizes the need to more closely match the outputs of the educational
system to the economy's requirements for trained manpower, to improve the
quality of, and expand access to basic education for children and adults, and
to improve the allocation of resources to the education sector.
5.02     In the short term, the project would increase access to basic educa-
tion through the training of 360 new teachers each year and the expansion of
adult education programs. Support for skilled worker training in agriculture
and industry would increase the quality and number of skilled workers entering
the labor market. The increased access and improved quality of education that
is likely to result from the proposed project are crucial. Recent educational



- 26 -
research indicates that a direct correlation exists between providing basic
education and an increase in agricultural and industrial productivity and
earnings, acquisition of modern economic behavior, adoption of modern health,
family planning and nutritional practices, and an increase in the degree of
"trainability."
5.03     The institutional development and education reform components are
essential over the longer term. The restructuring of the educational planning
directorate, the strengthening of MEN's administrative capacity, and the
control and guidance of student flows would permit a more effective allocation
of budgetary resources and an increased contribution of the education sector
to the goals of economic development.
Risks
5.04     The availability of recurrent funds for satisfactory operation of the
project-financed institutions is contingent upon efficient use of funds allo-
cated to education. Therefore, a risk for the project is that the Government
would be unable to resist demands from secondary and higher education students
and their families to maintain a disproportionately high expenditure on this
level of education, thus jeopardizing the efficient operation of project
institutions and the development of primary education. Experience through
1982 in reducing scholarships indicates that the Government can be successful
in resisting these pressures and should be able to allocate a larger share of
its education budget to basic education. This reallocation is in line with
the "statement of intent" prepared by the Government to summarize its strategy
for better use of the available resources (see Annex 9). Arrangements for
monitoring progress in implementing this strategy--including annual reports
and a mid-term review--were agreed during negotiations and will involve
mutually agreed indicators and a timetable that will be analyzed in annual
progress reports and in an in-depth mid-term review. In addition, progress
would be monitored in conjunction with the IMF Standby programs, in which
education reform is a major objective. The other risk concerns inadequate
staffing for the project-financed institutions. To limit this risk, the
project provides important allocations for fellowships and technîcal
assistance (Annexes 15 and 16).
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, the Governnent and the Association reached
agreement on the following, which will be confirmed in a letter from the
Minister of Education to the Association:
(a)  the curricula for Grades 7, 8 and 9 will be put into effect according
to a mutually agreed plan (para 2.06).
6.02     During negotiations the Government gave assurances that:
(a)  the criteria by which candidates for the IPEGs are selected will be
set and implemented no later than July 1, 1986 (para. 2.08);



- 27 -
(b) it will provide adequate recurrent budgets for each institution
supported by the IDA credit (para. 3.11);
(c) the current output of the CAAs (a total of 175 extension agents per
year) is maintained at its present level (para. 2.10), and (ii) the
annual output of livestock technicians from the EIV will not exceed
60 technicians (para. 2.12);
(d) the services of internationally recruited staff and consultants will
be procured in accordance with IDA's guidelines, and that all
specialists and consultants employed under the project will have
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of service
acceptable to the Association (para. 4.05);
(e) it will (i) appoint to positions related to project activities those
officials who have successfully completed training under the Project;
and (ii) require every person so trained to be employed in such
positions for a period twice the period of training or a minimum of
five years following completion of the fellowship and (iii) it will
discuss with IDA the program for all training and fellowships in-
cluded in the Project, including the criteria for the selection of
candidates and of locations (para 4.06);
(f) (i) all special accounts will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; (ii) the project accounts and the audit report
will be submitted to IDA for review and comments within six months
after the close of each fiscal year; and (iii) the accounts and audit
report will be of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall reason-
ably request, and will include a review of the operation of the
Special Account and the Project Account and a separate opinion
whether the expenditures withdrawn from the credit on the basis of
certificates of expenditure have been used for the purposes for which
they were provided (para. 4.14); and
(g) the Project Director will (i) submit quarterly reports to IDA; (ii)
submit a final report on project implementation and achievements
within six months of closing; and (iii) annually, submit the informa-
tion necessary to monitor progress toward the implementation of the
policies described in the statement of intent and undertake an in-
depth review with IDA before December 31, 1986 (para. 4.15).
6.03     As conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit, the Government
should establish a Special Account in a local financial institution (para.
4.04).
6.04     Subject to the above conditions and assurances the project consti-
tutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 4.44 million (US$4.6 million)
and a credit from the IDA Special Fund of SDR 4.66 million (US$4.9 million) to
the Governient of Mali.



-28 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                                      Page 1 of 2
PEBRURYA 7, 1984
COP PERAS PERENPND T URO          N      IMESLTROUiT            IAYPRM              PI YPRM                 PROGERESON  SECOODARO  SECONDART SIGNER
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE                  ENROLL. SCNGOL         STUDENTS EDUTCATION  PRINARY TO  ENROLL.   STUDENTS  ENROLL.
TSAR MILS. <05S$)   DEIVOTED TO  GOVERNHENT            PRI  SEC  RT       <Z)    RATIO   CYCLE           PER       AS PERCENT SECONDAR!   RATIO            PER         RATIO
<1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE                 (1)        (1976)    (%)          (Z)      TEACNER  GNP/CAPITA          <t)         (T)       TRAGNEN       (t)
<1)      <2)         <5)             <4>            <5)            (6)       <7)        <9)         <9)         (1O)         <'11)         <12)        <13)      <14)
DEVELOPSD COUNTIES
AUSTRALIA            go     14.6b  8,870         6.3'         14.6         --          …      …      … -- 103'      100          21        ---             99           73         13        20.90
CANADA               81     23.7b  9,8306        7.78         18.s'y       3Q8? 34'? 23'?    g9b         108'      100           21        19.8'?         100           92'        18       22.60'
GERMANT F.R.         79     61.2  12,200         4.6           9.9'…----               ç--      gb        89'       100'         ---       ---            100'          94'        ---       12.10'
SETIERLANUS          79     14.0  10,490         7.9           5.1         20   35   25        996?       96         95          18        15.3            99           82         13        12.40
SESW ZEALAND         80       3.2b  6,0816       5,5V         13.4         37   31   28        99b       100        100          34        11.6           100           82         15        25.60"-
SWEDEN               79       8.3  12,230        9.0          18.2         31   10   10        996        99'      130           18'       19.9           100           79'        10'5'     36.508y
FASTERN APRICA
BOTSWANA             80       0.8b     720b      6.3P         19.3         48   28   15        356        94         74          32        22.0            33*'         20         18         1.50
BURUNDI              81      4.2       235       2.86w        19.0         43   28   27        23         29'        35          37        20.2            12            3'        17         1.00
COMROS               81      0.4b      260       6.5'         25.4         40   28b  14        --         99'        65          45         16.0           58           21'        30         1.40
DJ7IBOUTI     -       1       0.3      460       3.4          10.6         60   40    ...      10         32          --        -41        ---             60            8         19         0.50
ETHIOPIA             81     32.8b      1406'    2.9P          38.7         45   25   20        53         42         12'         63        40.0            93'          14         44         0.45
KENTA                79     15.3       390       5.9'         18.06        71   15    14       43         92         74          40         15.8           41           19         28         1.00
LESOTHO              82       1.46     4356      5.5          16.9         38   32   26        536       116'        41          48          9.8           46           21         21         1.30
MADAGACAXM           77       9.5      330       4.0'         24.0         53   28   19        50         94b.       33          55          8.0           38           14         23         5.1661
MALAWI               81       6.16     2306      3.5          11.4         38    14   25       254        62         23          65          3.8           12            4         21         0.40
MAURITIUS            80       Q*96  1,o80b       6.0          11.5         39   40      7      80         87         78          226        17.1           79           45'        21         0.40
RUANGA               80       s.o6     2006      3.2          21.3~        62   17   Il        236        57'        43          40         14.0            6            4'        13         0.40
SEYCHELLES           78      0.6    1,770       5.9           22.4'        34'  33'  IO'    ---           ---       --           25        ---             ---          ---        --        --
ISOULTA              81      4.3       280       1.5          10.3         50b  444   46       5U6        776        sob         796         9.o6          8o6          126        22         1.00
IODAN?               80     19.26      3so6      3.0          ---          66   39    ...    32           51".       68          34          1.4           44           16         16         .
SWAZILAND            80      0.6       760       7.9          18.8         41   34    15       65b        79         50          34         11.2           98           374        18         2.30
TANZANIA             80     18.5       260       5.9          17.7         47    10    16      796        996       87          43         11.0            i9b           3         20'        0.30
UbANDA               90     12.66      3006      --           16.1'        736  376  206       48         54'        61          34        ---             17            5         23         0.60
ZAIRE                78     27.5       210'      6.0'         22.0         49   26   25        15         841        44          42'       ---             41           13'        27         1.10o5'
ZANRIA               80      5,7b      5666      4.SP         11.1         48   23   22        446        95         90          48        12.9            19           16         22         1.50
ZIMBABWE             91       7.76     7oo6      5.1          19.5         62   32      6      446        90         55          39        20.0            85           15         23        0.50
WNSTERN APRICA
RENIS                79       3.46     3756      6.5'         35.0         43   21      5    Ilb          42         30         46         14.0            30           il         43         î.0o1
CAMEROON             78       8.2      590       2.95'        16.07'       33'  43'  20'   --             741        45'         50        11.8'           20'          141        26         1.305'
C.A.R.               79       2.2      280       3.5'Y        20.6'>       --'… -                --       --          -         65'y       ---             ---          ---        ---       0.70'!
cmA                  76       4.4      120       2.4b.3i      21.76…- ---- 15                             255'       ---         77        ---             ---           3'!       21         0.2155
CONGO                78       1.3      670       9.0"5'       27.7'>       --'-          -- --            --          -          564y       --30                        ---        434!       4.00'5'
bARON                77      0.6    3,420        3:761         9.41        --       -     -    -           -          -          4561      ---             ---          ---        î9by       2.80a1
GAI9BIA              77       0.6      220       3.3"         6,.5b        46   25'    6'   1b4           40b5'      90'         2761       44.7'          40           12h'>'     17         --
CRÂNA                76      11.3      400       4.0y         15.5b        -…îî- -- -'5'bx                           ---         277b1     -               ---          36b"y      21         --
GUINEA               79       5.3      290P      4.6'P        ---          2581  28'  28'    20           34         36          38        20.0'P          65           16         29         7.00'
IV/ORY COAST         81      8.76  1,0706    10.0             45.0         33   46   13    30b            60         86          43        26.0            47           15"!       26         1.go'1
LIBERIA              80       1.9      520       4.6          19.8         43   23   24       30          52         32          35        20.0            76           22         20         2.90
MALI                 -81      7.06     190       4.28         21.7'        38   21   Il       10          20         60          44         15.7           66            1         il         0.90'5'
?1AURITANIA          78       1.6k     3206      5.5          16.9         33   43   25       îib         32         60          44        52.0            30            9         25         0.37
NIGER                79       5.2      300       4.3a1        16.6'1       52'  43'    5a      9          17         56'         41'       38.7'           40            2         746        0.201
NIGERIA              77     82.6       910       4.1I'         9.6…------ --                              ---        -,--        --        ---             ---          10'!       25         0.171
SENEGAL              77       5.5   .450         5.0          33.0         46   34   20       10          34685'     --          4361       --             20           10         21       272Q67
SIEIUA L.EONE        77      3.4       250       4.06        16.O6           -   - -… - 1s6               37'         -          35        25.0b'          94           15'        22        06b
TOGO                 78       2.4      '400      6.59'        26.5q        30'  28'  21'    19            74         47          5461      39.0            52           32b-3    496          1.6061
UPPER VOLTA          78       5.6      180       3.0"*        19.3ay'      31   16   32       ---         15by'     2.3          5361      52.57           19            3b.y      25         0.021
LATIN AMERICA ANDO TEE CARIRBEAN
ARGENTINA            78     27.3   2,210         2.7          10.9         43'  31'  le'   934            89         52          17        ---             87           31          9       23.00
BRAKAAS              79      0.2    2,770        5.7          19.1         36   36    il      934         99         97          24        ---             97           75         19        --
BARBADOS             78      0.2   2,680         8.5">'       22.1'        43'  31'  16'    996          îoo5'       99'        271        19.8'           99'          791        205'      --
BOLIVIA              80      5.4       550      4.1'5Y        30.3'…-   -                 -- 63           741         -          207'      ---             ---          15>'       ---      12.601
BRAZIL               79   116.5    1,770         3.8           6.2         51   ---  14       76          73'>'      2- 3ey                 4.5b           61'          15'1       14'5'    12.62b
GRILE                76     10.9    1,890        3.26by       13.06…--1--9--'--                          l           -b -        3465        ----                       556'!      20b1     11.9o61
COLONRIA             80     26.76   î,îso6       3.3          25.0         35   20   20    8î6            78        36          32          6.6            ---          47         20       10.02'>Y
CONTZA RICA          80       2.26  18,810       8.4          31.1         40    27   33      90          93         77          33          5.5           77           40         27       14.00
CURA                 78      9.8       --       8.0           11.0…         …      … …--    -- 96        1126'!     98          18by       --              98           7Tb'y      15       19.026y
DOMINICAN RUP.       80   -5.3    1,030          2.9          13.0         39    21   22      968         80         31.         59          3.2           94           30         33       16.00
ECUADOR              NO       8.66  1,110        6.0P         36.7         45   31   16       81         105          -          36         12.6           86           67         16       29.00
EL SALVADOR          77       4.4      640       3.4b1        23.16y       64     S   27      62          926'!      32          39        ---             41           26by!    7761         7.9oby
GUATEMALA            78      6.8    1,010        1.7'7'       12.66…-             -        -- --          696'!                 3561                       69           156'!      19b7'      5.50!
GUYANA               76      0.8       630       s.î61        13.8y        --   --996'!--                  .b                    32l7'     --                           596'!      --        3.00b>'
RAITI                80      5.ob      230       3.4v          7.8ay       65     9     6     23b         50         20          41        19.0            62'           4'        27         0.80
NONDURAS             78       3.6      520       3,361        14.361       62'  15'  19'    60            89by!    30'           4161       12.9'          68'          7T1Y       19         8.oo>'
JAMAICA              80       2.1    1,110       6.5          13.7         37   43   20       90          98         98          40          2.3           95           81         22         9.00
mEZîGo               80     65.5    1,880        4.7          17.0'        46    39   15      92          98         53          44          9.5           86           56         17        10.30
NICARAGUA            79       2.66    6106       3.0bv>       14.Ob        --…906-- go                    8568       24          376       ---             --           2668       ao6      --
PANAMA               78       1.s6  î,ssob       5.5b1y       21.8by       42'  13'  13       926         9567         ..-       7561      11.6            85'          so6s'       7767     20.4061
PARACUAT             79      3.0   1,140         1.4'         14.2         42    17   20      84          83        32           28-         3,1r          76           22         12         0.70
PERUT                90     16.6    1,000        3.6          04.3         53   15   19       NO          83         56          39          9.8           89           39         22       14.407'
TRINIOAD & TOR.   77         1.1   3,910        4,967          8.b         48   32    20      95          98        91           30        10.5?           49           62         24       --
URUGUAY              78       2.9   2,500        2.5           9,4b6          -    - -… -   94           îos6'       ---    ~ 24b          --              --           6468       --        17.80a1
VENEZUELA            78    1.4.4    3,440        5,î>'        18.g6        -82                           106b.       --          78         --9-                        368P       17       21.10y



- 29-
Annex 1
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                           Page 2 of 2
FEBRUARY 7, 1984
CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITUNE   EDUCATION                         COMPLETION           RECURRENT
ON EDUCATION  RECURRENT       ADULT             RATE FOR             UNIT COST  PROGRESSION
GNP PER  .           AS PERCENT    EXPENDITURES  LITERACT PRIMARY FRIMAR         PRIMAIRY  PRIMAY    RATE PROM   SECONDARY SECONDARY RICHER
bASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE          ENROLL. SCROOL      STODENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  ENROLL.   STUDENTS  ENROtL.
YEAR MILLS. (US$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    PRI  SEC  HI    (X)    RATIO   CYCLE            PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO       PER        RATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE           (Z)        (1976)   (Z)        (Z)     TEACHER  GNPtCAPITA       (t)         (Z)    TEACHER       (Z)
(1)     (2)        (3)           (4)           (5)          (6)      (7)       (8)        (9)       (10)         (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
EAST ASlA AND TRE PACIPIC
CHINA              81   996.0b    300b    3.6           8.3        34   39   27       69b      80        63         23        7.0          72          39        17       3.70
INDONESIA          Nl   150.5b    520       2.1         9.3        70   24    6      32b       98        61        37        11.0          74          27        26       3.70
KOREA              82    39,3b  1,636b    7,75         20.8        34   34   31       96       99        98         43       19.0          98          84        38      21.80
MALAYSIA           81    14.2b  1,788b    5.2          22.0        32V  37v  15v    60b        96"x    97           22       12.2V         87          65*       19       3.70*
PAPUA N.G.         79      2.9     760      5.4"       16.4… ---  ---  ---    ---              62b6      73         31        1.1 i--                  12bx      23       ---
PHILIPPINES        79    4893b    690b    2.85         14.0        64   36***___   7,5         84        65         31        7.1          89          55        36      21.00
SINGAFORE          80      2.4   4,420      2.7         6.7        39   40   16      83        92        82         31        8.8          96          55        22       8.00
SOLOMON ISL.       80      0.2     460      4.2P"       10.0*      41   34   20      ---       60        80         26       ---           35          18        ---     ---
THAILAND           80    47,3b    723b    3.4          20.9        59   15   13       86b      96        ---        17        9.3          59          29        22       4.00
SOUTE ASIA
BANGLADESH         79    92.3b      90      1.1P        10.1'Y    51   17   20       22b       63P       ---        53        5.6          ---         14        23       1.43
INDIA              77   659.6      210      2.9Y        9.9gvy      ---  ---  --    36         79'       ---        41       --            ---         28'      ---       8.30'Y
NEPAL              82    15.0b    150b    1.4         --           ---  ---  ---    19         70        --        38        ---           ---         21        23       3.70'
PAKISTAN           79    79.7      270      2.OQy        5.1Y      39   26   27       24       56f       80t        48        6.5          51          20'       17       6.00
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AMD NORTH APRICA
AFGHANISTAN-    77    15.5         ---      1.7          3.7       47   19   15       12       3jby      69         37b      --            62           8        22by     1.00Y
ALGERIA            79    18.3   1,770       3.8"       12.3        34'  26a  21a    35         83X       45a        37        7.0?         55a         29Y      26        3.70Y
EGYPT              81    43.0b    580b    3.1aw         4,5        31a  35*  26a    44         84'       80'        34        q,8a         83*         43        19      15.00'
GREECE             76      9.3   4,140      2.6"        10.6b      37   26   21      ---       97by      ---        29b       6.2?         --          79bx      27by    17.80bY
IRAN               79    36.9      --       5.7'y      14.1'y      ---  ---  ---    50        1o01"      ---       32'       ---           ---         44*x     24'       4.90aY
IRAQ               79    12.6   2,710       4.3'y       6.9'Y                                            ---Y ---  28        ---           ---         45'Y     29'       9.30'Y
IRELAND            81     3,4b  4 480       6.3'y      1.1         ---  ---  -- _    98        93        94        29        ---           98          81        14      11.00
JORDAN             81    .2.2b  1,420b    4.9g          10.2       19   44   18       70b     108X       85         32        7.2          91          82'       25      19.00
LERANON            79     2.3      ---      ---        18,6…8Y    ---  ---  ---    ---         96'       --        19                                           --- ---  46x  ---  27.80*Y
MOROCCO            80    19.5      740      6.3"'       17.5'      36   44   20       28       56ay      35         39       19.7          40          25'       21       4.50
OMAN               82      0.9b  5,620b    2.5"'       12.7'       ---  --   --     30b?       71'       65        25        --            86          il        14      ...
PORTUGAL           79      9.8b  2,060      3.6        22.2        50   28   il      78        97        20         19'      12.8          88         45'       17'      8.30'
ROMANIA            78    22.1   2,100       3.9by       6.2Y       ---  ---  ---    98        106b6      ---       23b        ---          98          84bx      22b     10.60bY
SPAIN              76    37.0   4,920       2.1Y       16.8Y       ---  ---  ---    ---        98by      ---       29b       ---           ---         67by     ---      24.10by
SYRIA              78     8.6   1,170       4,4P       10.3        39   25   26      58        87by      80        35b       ---           68          41by     21b      12.60
TUNISIA            79      6.4   1,130      7.0P       19.0        42   39   18      62b      10ox       80        39b       12.8          30          30*       30       6.00
TURKEY             81      4,7b  1,460b    3.1         26.2        ---  ---  ---    73b       118x       goa       28         7.9          51          38        20       6.70
YEMEN A.R.         80      6.8     420      5.0P"       12.0       94    7    7      21b       37        12'        389      67.0          85           3        20       1.10
YERIN P.D.R.       82      2.0b    420b    7.6           9.7       63'  14'   81    53         61        34         25       22.0'         46          17        20       2.50
SUffMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIER;
Nuber of C.untrles:                     84              94       70   69   67      76        88       64         94        62            72          91       86       85
Range.                                   (1.4-          3.7-  (19-  (7-  (5-    (8-        (15-     (12-        (17-      (1.1-         (6-         (2-      (8-      (0.01-
10.0)         45.0)  94)   46)  36)    99)        119)     99)         77)       67.0)         99)         84)      48)      29.0)
QuartIles: Upper:                        5.6           20.8      52   35   21      80        96        79        42        20            85          45       25       10.6
Nedian:                       4.0           15.5     43   27   18       52       83        60        35        12            61          25        21       3.7
Lover:                        3.0           10.5     37   18   13      24        56        35        27         7            40          13       18        1.0
Qusrtile DOvl*tinn:                      1.1             5.1    7.5  9.0  4.0   23.0       20.5     22.5        7.5       6.4          22.5        15.5      8.5        4.8
Mean:                                     4.5           16.1     46   28   18      53        75        60        36        16            60          31       21        6.9
St,nd*rd Devsiti.n:                      1.9            7.4      13   10    7      30        26       25         il        13            27         23         7        7.4
Median:                                   4.0           15.5     43   28   19       53       83        61        35        12            61          25       22        3.7
SYMBOLS:                                                      FOOTNOTES:
---  DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                          A - DATUN PRIOR TO BASE YEAR                         S - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
... MAGNITUDE NIL OR NECLfGIBLE                                B - DATUf MORE RECENT TR RAN  SE YEAR                 T - MOE AND STATE GOPERNMENT ONLY
?  DATUM QUESTIONABLE                                         N - CUREENT PRICES                                   W - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
*  INCLUDES FART-TINE STUDENTS                                P - GDP                                              E - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
T - UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCES:
Columns 1 and 2;  Norld Bank Atlas or IBRD missions.
Colinna 3 to 14:  IBRD mlsslons, Governeent sources and/or Unesco Statistical Yearbook.
Comparative Edncatien Data are usaful ln th, evaluaaion of varions educatlon systema an analyeli of. relative stage. of educatioal developnent betveen varioas
onuntries.  Hovever, mn the bhats of the prese.t data, cross-national comparison sheold be approached vith grest cantion.  Data presested in the *b-ve table have
been collected largel  by 1Bank sisstons fres goverement sources; ch, ret ainder are staff estisates or data fros Unesco.  Effort, have been m8de te st*sdsrdi.e
definittons and, vithin lilts, to check the accuracy of the data.  Nevertheless, snch data are still isperfect in several respects and the Bank ls vorkisg to
i.prove thea progres.ively on the occasion nf its operattonal vqrk.  In the use of these d.ta, cIe h. lleviag qualifications chould be kept 1i  mmd;
(1) 'Educatine' as dsfieed in the table inclîdes all education and training, both formal and non-formal.
(2)  -Prtiary' education refers ta education at the firet level and 'secondary' education refers to a11 educatino  at the secondary level reg.rdles* of type
(e.g., Seneral, technical, agrieultural).
(3)  'Literacy ratas  (col. 6) are often obtained fres conatry cena.eso.  In many countries they are only approxlmtions and it la doebtful that any on!fore
deflnition of 'literate' has been follmved consistently.
(4) 'Public expenditure in education' (cols. 4 and 5) refers t0 aIl capital and recurrent expenditures devoted to education by public and quasi-public
agenclesi.
(5)   Enrollent ratios' (cols. 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and are th. percentage of eligible,children enrolled full-tise in the appropriate school,
publiî aud primats by levsl. They are often subject to a vide margin of error in the developing countries ovieg to variations ie the sccuracy ef basic
data (i.e., ags-pscific population and enrollsents). Enrollneet figures frequently are higher than the number of students actually in echool. Ocer-aged
students vbhse inclusion tin ldicated by footantes aise can inflate the ratios.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page I of 3
MALI
Third Education Project/Troisième Projet Education
Population, Labor Force and Employment Estimates, 1979/
Population, Population Active et Estimation d'Emploi, 1979
('000)
Total
Population                                           7,045
Labor Force (15-60 years)/
Population Active (15-60 ans)                        3,600
Agriculture                                          3,240
Modern Private Sector/
Secteur Privé                                           15
Government/Gouvernement                                 66
(Parastatals)                                        (22)
&
(Civil Service/Fonction Publique)                    (44)
Source: Ministry of Plan/Ministère du Plan. Projections are based on
data trend of 1975-1978 and 1975-1979/Estimation selon les
tendances de 1975-1978 et 1975-1979.



REPUBLTC OF hMALS
THIRD EDECATION PROJECT/TROSIEME PROJET EDUCATION
TREND BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY OF DIRECTLY PRODUCTIVE MANPOWER IN MODERN SECTOR ACTIVITlES/
ESJLUTION PAR CATEGORIE PROFESSIONNELLE, DES EPFECTIFS DES SECTEURS MODERNES  'ACTIVITES DIRECTEMENT PRODUCTIFS
(1975 & 1979)
Energy & tnd-stry'         Trsnsportarton & CommunEcutions& Cons rrction R Public Work.1                    Other Sorvic.s.
Co-erce                            Energlv et industrie          Tr6nsports et teleBoasuniutions           RAtitent et travaux publics          Autres services                      Total
Privste/                            Private/                          Private7                                  Prsvute7                          Prtvots7                      Private/
Privé     Pubice   Tota1            Privé        Publie     Tso.l    Prive       PabiS        Total             Privt       Public      Tota1     Prive      Public    Total   Privé       Public    Total
PrePeauiosaî stuiiîîodees                 62        255         317             127          330       457         55       577          632                46          17          63         Rt       101        112      301    1,280        9,581
TeuRnltians & etidRe l61euS ex-            73       424          497             220         697        917       110        249         359                76           S          84          20      174        194      499    1,552        2,051
ployeeu7Tethniceîss et agents de
est t< sa
E.ployee.  & ekilled aorkevs/EployJs    414         896        1,310          2,115        2,268      4,383       710      1,060       1,770               682          10         692          90      525        615    4,011    4,759        8,770
et oavrie-s qsslifies
SemSi-.killd sorknrafeaie-d'oesvte        296       413          709           1,460       6,317      7,777       848      2,471       3,319                391         93         484         102       174       276    3,097    9,468       12,565
op4ctaisiéee
Un-killed eorbees/euie-douuvro            205     1,012        1,217           1,878       1,888      3,066       277        943        1,220               605         72         677          77       126       203    3,042    3,341        6,383
non apéciai..ee 
Tota1                                  l1n5o      3,000        4,050          5,800       10,800    16,600      2,000      5,300        7,300             1,80          200      2,000         300    1,100      1,400   10,950   20,400       31,350
Profes.io.al . tiff/Cadre-                 78       407          485             190         450        640         60       683          743                52          18         70          15       135       150       395    1,693       2,088
TecRhsciA,.. & eiddle--evel OR-            81       490          571             418         774      1,192        117       255          372                82          10         92          29       209       238       727    1,738       2,465
p1oyee-/Techi.tie.- et agasts de
E.ployees & skil1ed .-otke-/Reployé.    750         983        1,733          3,073        2,436      5,509       850      1,082       1,132             1,008          il      1,019         146       565       711    5,827    5,077       10,904
et Ouvriers qutlifié6
S.mi-.kill.d sorkers/oais-d seavre        574       520        1,094          3,066        6,744      9,810     1,102      2,452        3,554               339         100        439         152       230       382    5,233   10,046       15,279
t pecisiée
UDskitled larbers/saie-d'oeue             217     1,100        1,317           1,753       1,196      2,949        371       978        1,349               519          71        590         108       111       219    2,968    3,456        6,424
non apéciat ebe
T.tal                                   1,/00     3,500        5,200           8,500     .J1,600    20,100      2,500      5,450     f 7,950              2,000         210      2,210         450    1,250       1,700   15,150   22,010      37,160
Source:  1981 Edu..tio S ector Review Repoe5/"S'Sdataton es MAli - ProbIè-.e, Per-pectives et Prti-itée
ae,



REPUBLIC OF MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
TREND IN CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYMENT/
EVOLUTION DES EFFECTIFS DE LA FONCTION PUBLIQUE
(1975-1979)
Undetermined/              Employment Indicator/Indice des
Categories/Catégories                              A        B        C       D        E      Indéterminés    Total    Effectifs (1975 - 100)
1. Personnel outside National Education/
Effectifs hors Education Nationale
Civil Servants/Fonctionnaires                1.291   2,488   3,872   1,587         70         261         9,569             100
Contract Personnel/Conventionnaires             36      948   3,848   4,083   2,391           665        11,971             100
Subtotal/Sous-total                          1,327   3,436   7,720   5,670   2,461            926        21,540             100
2. National Education Personnel/Effectifs
Education Nationale
oo       Civil Servants/Fonctionnaires                  437   2,551   5,164         26      296          35         8,509             100
Contract Personnel/Conventionnaires              6      213     341      543      491         140          1,734            100
Subtotal/Sous-total                            443   2,764   5,505       569      787         175        10,243             100
TOTAL (I + 2)                                    1,770   6,200  13,225   6,239   3,248          1,101         31,783             100
Structure (°h)                                   5.57%  19.51%  41.61%  19.63%  10.22%          3.46%           100%
1.  Personnel outside National Education/
Effectifs hors Education Nationale                                                                                                                             ,.
Civil Servants/Fonctionnaires                2,122   3,674   5,138   1,502         46          -         12,482             130
Contract Personnel/Conventionnaires             10   1,220   3,801   4,363   2,666          1,923        13,992             117
Subtotal/Sous-total                          2,132   4,903   8,939   5,865   2,712          1,923        26,474             123
2.  National Education Personnel/Effectifs
w    Education Nationale
Civil Servants/Fonctionnaires                  978   5,734   4,701       -         94          -         11,507             135
Contract Personnel/Conventionnaires              2      176     352      596      546         340         2,012             116
Subtotal/Sous-total                            980   5,910   5,053       596      640         340        13,519             132
TOTAL (1 + 2)                                    3,112  10,813  13,992   6,461   3,352          2,263         39,993             126
Structure (7%)                                   7.78%  27.04%  34.99%  16.15%   8.38%           5.6%          100%
1.  Personnel outside National Education/
Effectifs hors Education Nationale
Civil Servants/Fonctionnaires                2,663   4,610   6,000   1,603         46          -         14,922             150
Contract Personnel/Conventionnaires             Il   1,344   4,159   4,774   2,917          2,104        15,309             128
Subtotal/Sous-total                          2,674   5,954  10,159   6,377   2,963          2,104        30,231             140
2.  National Education Personnel/Effectifs
Edu cation Nationale                                                                                                                                       a 0x
Civil Servants/Fonctionnaires                1,380   6,487   4,596       -         82          -         12,545             147
Contract Personnel/Conventionnaires              2      193     385      652      598         372         2,202             127                        t,,
Subtotal/Sous-total                          1,382   6,680   4,981       652      680         372        14,747             144
TOTAL (I + 2)                                    4,056  12,634  15,140   7,029   3,643          2,476         44,978             142
Structure (%)                                    9.02%  28.09%  33.63%  15.63%   8.1%            5.57          100%



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION SYSTEM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14   A  1 &a  1 a16   1\    16    1; ;rt, ;1 
13 
INS
CAA      Agricultural Technician Training Center
EIV      (Livestock/Training Center)
CFP      Vocational Training Center                                                                      INA
ENPT    Post/Telecommunications School
ENSEC   Lower Secondary Teacher Training College                                                         >ENETF                                             CPS
ENTF    Domestic Science College
INA      Nationai Art Institute                                                                         ENSEC
IPEG     Primary Teacher Training College                                                                                                 EN. SuP.
IPRT     IPRT (Rural Polytechnique Institute (Technicians)
ECICA   Central School for Industry, Commerce and Administration                  _     >     IPEG-
ESS      Nursing School
LT       Technical High School
Upper Secondary
Secondaire               I    Higher Education          Post-university
Technical High School
IPGP    National Management Institute
CPS      Institute of Education                                                                           ESS
ENS      Higher Teacher Training College                                                                                                       ENM
ENA      National School of Administration                                                             ECICA
ENM   National Medical School                                                               >                                             ENA
ENI      National School of Engineers                                          CAA' aO_IP                                                                  GP
IPRI    Rural Polytechnical Institute (Engineers)                                                               -ENI
ENPT/C  Post/Telecommunications School-Supervisors
ISPRA   Institute of Applied Rural Education                                                            IPR/T
EHEP    Institute for Business and Commercial Studies                                                                                      IPR/I
INS      National Sports Institute                                                                                                                ISPRA
ENP/G   National School of Police (Security Officers)                                        ENPT/                        ENPT/Supervisors
ENP/1   National School of Police (Inspectorsi                                                Préposés
03-E>ENP/G                     -M5_w ENP/I
LUD- MCFP                            _EHEP
E3 LowerAevel Technical and Vocational Education        Higher and Post-university Education
"Middie-level Technical and Vocationai Education        Secondary Education
General Education (Teacher Training)                   Possibility of examination after 3 years
Gene-ai Education <Teacher                     of service
Worid Bank-23085
'Project-supported Institutions



- 34 -
MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION                                          ANNEXE 4
MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE
REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE
MINISTRE
Commisionn    NtoaeCABINET                                                                                      SecrétriatGéné raI
Malienne pour l'Unesco
Cellule Administrative          Institut Pédagogique                Direction Nationale de la               Bureau des Projets
et Financière (CAF)             National et Enseignement      _     Planification et Equipement             Education (BPE)
et Financière (CAF)Normal (IPN-EN)                          Scolaire (DNPES)
_            .  Direction Nationale  iAlation Nationale de  Direction Nationale de             Direction Nationale des
Direction  Nationale              F'Alphabétisation e'Enseignement Secondaire                           Enseignements Supérieurs
de l'Enseignement                 Fonctionnelle et de la            Général Technique et                et de la Recherche
Fondamental (DNEF)                Linguistique Appliquée           Professionnel (DNESGTP)              Scientifique (DNESRS)
(30) INSPECTIONS                   7(6) DIRECTIONS    établissements   établissements                        établissements
REGIONALES
établissements
World Bank-23083



MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Status of the Education System in 1981-1982/
Situation d'Ensemble du Système Scolaire en 1981-1982
1978/79                      1981/82             Total 1981/82
of which girls/              of which girls/  Education Personnel/
Basic Education/Enseignement fondamental              Total   dont filles (%)   Total    dont filles (M)  Personnel Enseignant
of which primary/dont ler cycle        Public      279,573        34.8         279,735                              7,118
Private/
Privé     12,672          1.6         21,001                                 230
Total      292,245        36.4         300,736           35.0                7,348
of which lower secondary/dont 2ème
cycle                                Public       53,061        26.0          49,753                              2,534
Private/
Privé      4,552         3.4            3,689                                146
Total       57,613        29.4          53,442                               2,680
General Secondary/Enseignement secondaire
général                                Public        9,369        20.0           n.a.
Private/
Privé      3,643        20.0           n.a.
Total        13,012        20.0          13,465          23.0                  995
Secondary Technical Education/Lycée Technique            741         9.6             887           10.7                   52
Teacher Training/Enseignement Normal                   2,499        19.3           4,398                                n.a.
of which primary/dont IPEG                           1,492        17.6           2,055
of which lower secondary/dont Ecoles                   787          -            2,343
Normales Secondaires
of which domestic science/dont ENETF                   220       100.0           n.a.
Higher Education/Enseignement Supérieur                4,789        11.7           4,497                                 n.a.
Note:  n.a. =  not available /non-disponible



MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Breakdown of Operating Costs by Level and Type of Education/
Répartition des Dépenses de Fonctionnement par Niveau et Nature d'Enseignement
1978          (FM '000)                                              1982
Material/       Fellowships/                                     Material/        Fellowships
Levels/Niveaux                                      Personnel        Matériel        Bourses            Total        Personnel         MatEriel        Bourses             Total
Basic Education/Enseignement Fondamental
Ministry of National Education/Ministère de
l'Education Nationale                                3,829,891          119,968              -         3,949,859      7,672,209           614,574            -           8,286,783
Secondary Education/Enseignement Secondaire
(General Secondary and Technical and Voca-
tional Training)/(Enseignement secondaire            1,155,785           65,795         1,917,142      3,138,722      2,218,165            84,556         1,369,471       3,672,192
général,technique et professionnelle)
Teacher Training/Enseignement Normal                     454,583            76,721           427,130        958,434        791,745           86,114            837,358      2,506,962
Higher Education/Enseignement Supérieur                  634,805           69,232          1,740,125      2,444,162      1,144,753           79,790          1,990,486      3,215,029
Other/Autres/1-                                          979,153           161,988         2,334,635      3,475,776      1,370,743          192,609          1,104,266      2,667,618
TOTAL                                              7,054,217          493,704         6,419,032    13,966,953    13,197,615           1,057,643         5,301,581    20,348,584
Percentage/Pourcentage                                50.5              3.5              45.9          100.0           64.8               5.2              26.0           100.0
/1   Included are allocations for the MEN Cabinet, Planning Directorate, Administrative and Financial
Division, and foreign fellowships/Comprend le Cabinet, DNPES, CAF, et bourses à l'etranger.



MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
COMPARISON OF RECURRENT COSTS PER STUDENT IN SELECTED WEST AFRICAN COUNTRIES/
COMPARAISON DES DEPENSES RECURRENTES PAR ELEVE DANS QUELQUES PAYS DE L'AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST
Annual Recurrent Cost per Studenti
Dépenses Récurrentes Annuelles par Elève
as % of GNP per capita/
in US Dollars/en dollars E.U.               en % du PNB per capita
GNP per    Primary           Secondary General        Primary           Secondary General
capita/    Education/        Education/Enseigne-    Education/          Education/Enseigne-
Country/Pays       Year/       PNB per    Enseignement    ment Général Secon-    Enseignement    ment Général Secon-
Année       capita      Primaire         daire                    Primaire          daire
Mali                1981         180           30                    395                 15.7                   207.8
C.A.R.              1981         298           55                    117                 18.4                    39
Sierra Leone        1980         270           68                    216                 25 1/                   80 1/
Mauritania          1978         270          142                    797                 52                     295
Ivory Coast         1976         610          120                  1,040                 20                     170
Senegal             1976         420          117                    260                 28                      62
Benin               1977         200           41                     92                 20                      46
Upper Volta         1977         118           62                    440                 52                     373
Source: World Bank Missions
1/ Estimates/Estimations



Mal!
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
1980-1981 Enroilment Pyramid by Grade/Effectids par Niveau
(Public and Private Schools)/(Ecoles Publiques et Privés)
TOTAL BY LEVEL/
LEVEL/NIVEAU                              BOYS/GARCONS                                                              GIRLS/FILLES                            TOTAL PAR NNEAU
12                                                                           967    273
11                                                                        1451       409                                                                      6,201
10                                                                       2418        682
SECOND CYCLE/
SECOND CYCLE
9                                                   14,198                                   5.611
8                                                         10,668                         4,796                                                               55,245
7                                                    13,690                                  6.282                                                                                        1
FIRST CYCLE/
PREMIER CYCLE                                                                                                                                                                                   o
6                                          1988 2                                                  9,776
5                                    23,984                                                             12.692
4                          30,222                                                                              16.653
291.159
3                    33,995                                                                                        19,411
2              37,633                                                                                                  22,288
1          40,328                     .. 2..s95
...... .....123.168 (Total Girls/Fillles  34%)
50             40               30             20              10              0               10              20              30              40              50
THOUSANDS/MILLIERS
Source: Dîrectorate for Fundamental Educotlon, MlnIstry of Education/                                                                                        Wofld Bank-25264
Dlrection Nationale de l'Enseignernent Fondarmental, MlnIstère de l'Education Nationale



- 39 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 7
MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Statement of Intent
TECHNICAL NOTE ON PROGRESS MADE WITH
THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
IN EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOLLOWING
THE EDUCATION SECTOR STUDY
1.        CURRENT KNOWLEDGE OF THE EDUCATION-TRAINING SECTOR
An in-depth study of the education-training sector was conducted by
a team of Malian specialists, with assistance from UNESCO, between December
1980 and April 1981. It gives a comprehensive view of the main problems faced
in the areas of education and training in Mali and the constraints on their
development, and in doing so identifies both management and education problems.
a) Management problems
- In the area of education expenditures, the share of the budget
allocated to general secondary and higher education and to scholarships for
study abroad has increased considerably in recent years at the expense of
fundamental education and the adult literacy program. For a better
perspective of the situation, however, proper account should be taken of the
contribution made by Parents Associations to the development of fundamental
education. They bear the full cost of building and furnishing fundamental
education schools -- and in fact now also do their fair share in secondary
education.
- Administration of the education system is regarded as too
centralized.



- 40 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 7
b)   Education problems
- Fundamental education reaches only a minority of the population:
20% at first-cycle level and 4% at second-cycle level; furthermore, the
programs followed are not really appropriate. There are two possible ways,
however, in which the fundamental education school could be better adapted to
Malian conditions: (1) by experimenting with the use of national languages
and (2) by ruralization efforts.
- The problem at the general secondary education level is the very
rapid increase in student enrollments. High schools are becoming increasingly
short of teaching materials, laboratories and classrooms in relation to
numbers of students.
- In teacher training, a shortage of premises results in
overcrowding, while the number of teachers produced falls short of
requirements.
- In higher education, the growth in enrollments has resulted in
more graduates than are needed in certain fields and a serious shortage of
qualified permanent teaching staff.
- Technical and vocational education suffers from a lack of any
means to ensure systematic and ongoing identification of training needs.
The study suggests certain measures to help overcome the problems
identified.
The Government of Mali has approved all these measures and is in the
process of implementing them. While implementation of some is already well
under way, others are either gradually being talken or are the subject of
additional studies to facilitate their implementation in the medium term.



- 41 -
ANNEX 9
2.        MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN                                    Page 3 of 7
a)   Reduction of budget appropriations for scholarships to secondary and
higher education students
The share of the education budget allocated to scholarships
decreased from 45.2% to 29% between 1978 and 1982. This was due to two
important measures:
- The elimination of scholarships that were systematically granted
to all secondary students. Scholarships are still awarded at this level but
no longer on an individual basis.
- The elimination of scholarships formerly granted to higher
education students continuing their stûdies abroad. The Governnent asked the
host countries, who accepted, to bear the cost of these scholarship-holders.
For example, since October 1981, FAC has been responsible for expenses in
respect of 120 scholarship-holders sent to France by the Government of Mali in
addition to the 450 others regularly financed by France.
b)   Distribution of appropriations among the various levels of education
Appropriations to the various levels of education have changed as
follows:
- Fundamental education: the appropriation increased from 27.8% of
the education budget in 1978 to 38.4% in 1982;
- Secondary education: the appropriation decreased from 24.6% in
1978 to 19.0% in 1982;
- Higher education: the appropriation decreased from 17.2% in 1978
to 14.9% in 1982;
- During the same period, the budget for teacher training remained
stationary.



- 42 -                       ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 7
These figures demonstrate our willinglness to give priority to
fundamental education which, furthermore, is the recipient of substantial
investment funds provided by Parent Associations, which are responsible for
building and furnishing fundamental education schools.  It is also important
to emphasize that the construction of new schools by parents is closely
supervised by this Ministry and that any expansion takes place in accordance
with plans developed by the Direction Nationale de la Planification et de
l'Equipement Scolaire (National Directorate of School Planning and Equipment).
c)   Establishment of Regional Directorates of Education
Regional Directorates of Education, each with a Planning Unit, have
been established in all the provincial capitals and in the District of
Bamako. They have been in operation since the start of the 1981-82 academic
year in October 1981.
d)   Designation of agency responsible for the reform of fundamental
education
Responsibility for this reform was entrusted to the Direction
Nationale de l'Enseignement Fondamental (National Directorate for Fundamental
Education) by Decision No. 0294/MEN-CAB of March 22, 1983.
This will be an in-depth reform including ruralization, the
introduction of national languages in education and the quest for an
experimental strategy.
Fundamental education will depend on the l'Institut Pédagogique
National (National Pedagogical Institute) for the preparation and testing of
programs and on the Direction Nationale de l'AlphaLbétisation Fonctionnelle et
de la Linguistique Appliquée (National Directorate for Functional Literacy and
Applied Linguistics) for experiments in the use of the national languages.



- 43 -                        ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 7
3.        MEASURES TO BE TAKEN OR MADE THE SUBJECT OF ADDITIONAL STUDIES
a)   Improving the enrollment rate
Mali's efforts to curb the advance of illiteracy are well known.
The Government intends to continue and improve them.
The recent decline in the enrollment rate in fundamental education
from 29.1% in 1979-80 to 27.6% in 1980-81 is attributable to several factors.
First, current legislation restricting grade repetitions and barring pupils
from school after two successive repetitions has been more strictly enforced.
Secondly, a very large number of Arabic language schools (medersas) have
opened, attracting many students previously enrolled in public schools.
Statistics on developments in this area are to be reported to me, and the
children enrolled in the medersas are to be included in the general
statistics. Finally, the reform of fundamental education programs and teacher
training now under way should enhance the effectiveness of the education
process.
Two measures that have been discussed by staff of this Ministry with
the World Bank mission will be studied and implemented whenever possible:
- Increasing the teacher/pupil ratio from 1:42.4 to 1:55 in the
first cycle of fundamental education, which would increase the enrollment rate
from 27.6% to 35.8% without altering the number of teachers or the number of
classes;
- Restoring the 1979 teacher/pupil ratio of 1:26 in the second cycle
of fundamental education. This would free 936 second-cycle teachers for
assignment to the first cycle, permitting the enrollment of about 5,150
additional students and bringing the enrollment rate up to 36.3%.



- 44 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 7
b)   Education planning
The absence of a school map that reflects the population
concentration pattern, population movements and regional economic development
projects is proving a hindrance to implementation of effective measures to
reduce education costs and provide guidance for the location of new schools.
This is why a substantial effort is required under the Third Education Project
to train personnel, finance studies and establish efficient school
data-collection and mapping services.
This Ministry is determined to take whatever steps are needed to
ensure a concerted education-planning effort.
c)   Reorganization of higher education
The education sector study has recommended limiting the number of
higher education graduates to levels more in keeping with the employment
prospects afforded by the Malian economy.
As a preliminary to implementing this recommendation, the Government
of Mali will soon launch an in-depth study on higher education, to be carried
out by a team of Malian specialists and UNESCO experts. It will focus on a
reorganization of Malian higher education into a system of grandes écoles,
facultés and instituts, and will be designed to generate the data needed to
define the functions of each of these three types of institution and the
nature of the contractual arrangements to be made between the State and their
future graduates.
The conclusions of this study will also focus on putting an end to
the automatic recruitment of higher education graduates by the civil service.
Instead of the present too rapid and indiscriminate expansion of the civil
service,recruitment will in future be a matter of actual vacancies and the
Overnmentts financial position.



- 45 -                      ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 7
d)   Establishment of a Technical Education Division
Preparation of legislation establishing and organizing the Direction
Nationale de l'Enseignement Secondaire Général, Technique et Professionnel
(National Directorate of General Secondary, Technical and Vocational
Education) is under way.
The draft documents propose the establishment of a Technical
Education Division within that Directorate. The Division will have its own
human and physical resources and will play an increasingly important role in
the years to come in meeting the country's economic and social needs. It will
also gradually correct the distortions in the Malian education system by
orienting it toward the preparation of-young people to play an active role in
the life of the country.
The approved texts will be submitted to you at the time of
negotiations for the Third Project.
4.        CONCLUSION
The measures enumerated in this technical note are designed to be
implemented in the short term. They form the basis of the Malian Government's
education and training policy, and in my capacity as Minister of Education, I
will see to it that they are applied diligently and efficiently.
/s/ Colonel Sékou LY
Chevalier de l'Ordre National
MINISTER OF EDUCATION



MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Summary Account by Project Component/
Détails du compte-rendu sommaire par éléments du projet
(Fm. Million)
DEVELOPPEIIENT
INSTITUTL./INSTITUT. DEVELOPT.           EDUC. DE BASE/BASIC EDUC.                       FORH.
------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------- AGRO-PASTORALE/AGRO-PAST.                              Phusical
PLANIFICATION  DIV. ENSEIONT.   ENSEIONT.         FORH. DES       EDUC. DES            TRAING.              ADM. DU               Continsencies
EDUC./EDUC.  TECHN./TECHN. FOND/FUNDAMENTAL MAITRES/TEACHFR ADULTES/ADULT ------------------------- PROJET/PROJECT               -------------
PLANNING      TRAING. DIV.       EDUC.           TRAING.          EDUC.           CAA/CS       SOTUBA       ADI.       Total           Amount
I. INVESTlENT COSTS
A. GENIE CIVIL / CIVIL WORKS                          65.0            112.6                -         3p368.9              -         785,8           -            11.0  4.343.3  10.0  434.3
B. MOBILIER I FURNITURE                               10J7             14,7             54,2           392,8              -          16.4           -            15.4    504.1  10.0   50.4
C. EDUIPElENT / EOUIPHENT                             59,5             48.2            338.7           268.9          454.9         185.3        86.0            40.7  1,482.2  10.0   148.2
D. SERV. DE SPECIALISTES / SPEC. SERVICES            296.8                -             90.8           206.6          135.8         240.4       203.2           164.0  1y337.6   0.0      0.0
E. FORH. PERS. LUC. / LOC. PERS. TRAINS.             223.3                -             53.3            30.0          164.2         224.7       164.6            24.0    884.2   0.0      0.0
F. SUIVI / MONITORING                                 46.4              8.5             38.0               -          57.7              -        82.5            12.0    245.1   0.0      0.0
G. FONCTIONNEHENT/OPER. COSTS                         22.4             17.7                -           108,0          25.0          396.0       221,0           352.9  1W143.1   0.0      0.0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                  724,2            201.6            575.0         4,375,2          837.6       19848.6       757.4           620.0  9,939.6   6.4  633.0
Il. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SAL, ET INDEH. / SAL. AND COHPENS.                51.5                -                -           386.4              -             -        27.4           102.6    567.8  0.0       0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                    51.5                -                -           386.4              -             -        27.4           102.6    567.8   0.0      0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     775,6            201.6            575,0         4v761.6          837.6       18948.6       784.7           722.6 10,507,4   6.0   633.0
Phusical Contingencies                                  13.5            17.5             39.3           403.1           45.5          98.B         8.6             6,7    633.0   0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                                   134.9             34,4            133.8         1.194.3          201.1         415.9       158.8           186.0  2p459.1   5.6   137.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      924.0            253.6            748.1         6,359.0        1,084.2       2?363.3       952.1           915.3 13p599.5   5.7   770.1
Foreisn Exchange                                       754.1           194.7            648.0         49129.9          809.1       1,726.9       681.8           448.6  9.393.1   6.1   571.2
November 16. 1983 10:19
>4
o,



- 47 -
ANNEX 1 1
MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Project Component by Time!
Coûts estimatifs par catégorie de dépenses
(Fm. Million)
Total
Totals Includins Contingencies           -----------------
-------------------------------------     -----              (USS
1983   1984    1985    1986    1987   1988    Fa.    Million)
A. DEVELOPPEMENT INSTITUTL./INSTITUT. DEVELOPT.
PLANIFICATION EDUWCW/EDUC, PLANNING                            94.4   352.8   270.2   157.0   34,9   14.8    924.0           1.2
DIV. ENSEIGNT. TECHN./TECHN. TRAING. DIV.                      29.8    81.4   133.1       6.5    1.4    1.5    253.6         0.3
Sub-Total DEVELOPPEMENT INSTITUIL./INSTITUT. DEVELOPT.           124.2   434.3   403.2   163.4   36.3   16.3  1,177.6            1.5
P. EDUC. DE BASE/BASIC EDUC.
ENSEIGNT. FOND/FUNDAMENTAL EDUC,                               12.6    87.0   429.9   153.6   36.7   28.3    748.1           1.0
FORM. DES MAITRES/TEACHER TRAING.                              71.6   509.2 3,122.4 2u160.4  238.7  256.5  6r359.0           8.1
EDUC. DES ADULTES/ADULT EDUC,                                 160.5   117.4   185.4   245.0  259.7   86.1  1,084.2           164
Sub-Total EDUC. DE BASE/PBSIC EDUC.                              244.7   743.6 3,737.8 2y559.0  535.1  371.0  8,191.3          10.4
C. FORM. AGRO-PASTORALE/AGRO-PAST. TRAING.
CAA/CS                                                        226.9   276.8   891.0   713.3  135,3  120.0  2,363.3           3.0
SOTUBA                                                        138.3   230.8   242.6   117,5  134.4   88.6    952.1           1.2
Sub-Total FORM. A&RO-PASTORALE/AGRO-PAST. TRAINS.                365.2   507.6 1,133.6   830.8  269.7  208,6  3,315.4            4*2
D. ADM. D  PROJET/PROJECT ADM.                                   149.5    74.1   152.5   140.3  130.3  268,6    915.3           1.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                883.6 1,759.6 5,427.1 3,693.6  971.3  864.4 13i599.5           17.3
November 16, 1983 10:18



- 48 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALI/
REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/
TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Detailed Breakdown of Estimated Unit Costs/
Répartition détaillée des coûts u.nitaires estimés
Unit Construction Costs (Average)
Coûts unitaires de construction (moyenne)
US$/m2
$EU/m2
Teacher Training College (IPEG)/
Institut Pédagogique d'Enseignement
Général (IPEG)
(Based on Bamako prices of September 1983)/
(Basé sur les prix de Bamako de septembre
1983)
-    Classrooms, library/
Salles de classe, bibliothèque                                304
-    Laboratory/Laboratoire                                        322
-    Workshop/Atelier                                              267
-    Offices/Bureaux                                               308
-    Boarding facilities/Internat                                  305
External works are estimated at 18% of construction costs.  Regional adjust-
ments are as follows:/Les travaux externes sont estimés à 18% des coûts de
construction. Les ajustements régionaux sont les suivants:
Kangaba                                    1.1
Niono                                      1.15



- 49 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
Area and Cost per Student and Boarding Place
(based on Bamako prices)T
Surface et Coût par Etudiant et Place d'Internat
(basés sur les prix de Bamako)
Gross area/                    Furniture/  Equip./
Surface brute  Construction-  Mobilier    Equipe.  Total
(m2)             US$ per student place/
$EU par place d'étudiant
Teaching-communal/
Enseignement-communal        5.1         1,560           110         423    2,093
BoardinglInternat            5.9          1,806          402          17    2,225
1/ Excluding external works/Travaux externes exclus.



- 50 -
ANNEX 13/
ANNEXE 13
MALI - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
FINANCING PLAN/PLAN FINANCIER
(US$ 000)
Total Cost/      IDA/
Coût totaF       AID    SF/FS    AfDF/FAD    Govt/Gouvt
I.   Institutional Development/Développement institutionnel
Civil Works/Génie civil                                            227           -         227          -            _
Furniture/Mobilier                                                  32            32       -            -            -
Equipment/Equipement                                               137           117        20          -            -
Specialist Services/Services de spécialistes                       379           379       -            -           -
Local personnel training/Formation du personnel                    285            65       220         -            -
Monitoring/Suivi                                                    70            20        50          -           -
Operating Costs/Frais de fonctionnement                             51            49       -           -              2
Recurrent Costs/Salaires et indemnités                              66           -         -            -           66
Base Cost/Coat.de base                                        1,247           662       517         -            68
Physical contingencies/Imprévus                                  40            15        25         -            -
Price contingencies/Inflation                                   216           115       89          -            12
Total Cost/Coût total                                         1,503           792       631         -            80
II.  Development of Basic Education/Education de Base
Civil Works/Génie civil                                          4,297           -         -        4,297           -
Furniture/Mobilier                                                 570            69       -          501           -
Equipment/Equipement                                             1,355           171       841        343           -
Specialist Services/Services de spécialistes                       553           553       -           -            -
Local personnel training/Formation du personnel                    316            50       266         -            -
Monitoring/Suivi                                                   122            40        82         -            -
Operating Costs/Frais de fonctionnement                            170           161       -           -             9
Recurrent Costs/Salaires et indemnités                             493           -         -           -           493
Base Cost/CoÛt de base                                        7,876         1,044    1,189       5,141          502
Physical contingencies/Imprévus                                 622            24       84         514           -
Price contingencies/Inflation                                 1,951           200       354      1,273          124
Total Cost/CoÛt total                                        10,449         1,268    1,627       6,928          626
III. Livestock and Agricultural Technician Training/
Formation des Agents d'Elevage et Agricole
Civil Works/Génie civil                                          1,002           -       1,002         -            -
Furniture/Mobilier                                                  21            21       -            -           _
Equipment/Equipement                                               346           200       146          -            -
Specialist Services/Services de spécialistes                       566           566       -           -            -
Local personnel training/Formation du personnel                    496            90       406          -           -
Monitoring/Suivi                                                   105            30        75          -           -
Operating Costs/Frais de fonctionnement                            787           747       -           -            40
Recurrent Costs/Salaires et indemnités                              35           -         -            -           35
Base Cost/Coût de base                                        3,358         1,654    1,629          -            75
Physical contingencies/Imprévus                                 137            22       115         -            -
Price contingencies/Inflation                                   733           361       356         -            16
Total Cost/Coit total                                         4,228         2,037    2,100          -            91
IV.  Project Administration/Administration du Projet
Civil Works/Génie civil                                             14            14       -           -            -
Furniture/Mobilier                                                  20            20       -            -           -
Equipment/Equipement                                                52            52       -            -           -
Specialist Services/Services de spécialistes                       209           209       -           -            -
Local personnel training/Formation du personnel                     31           -          31          -           -
Monitoring/Suivi                                                    15           -          15          -           -
Operating Costs/Frais de fonctionnement                            450           100       350          -           -
Recurrent Costs/Salaires et indemnités                             131                     -            -          131
Base Cost/Coût de base                                          922           350       396         -           131
Physical contingencies/Imprévus                                   8             7         1          -           -
Price contingencies/Inflation                                   237           100       101         -            36
Total Cost/CoÛt total                                         1,167           502       498         -           167
Total Base Cost/Coût de Base Total                           13,403         3,755    3,731       5,141          776
Physical contingencies/Imprévus                                 807            68       225        514           -
Price contingencies/Inflation                                 3,137           776       900      1,273          188
TOTAL PROJECT COST/COUT TOTAL DU PROJET                      17,347         4,599    4,856       6,928          964
January 20, 1984



- 51 -
ANNEX 14
REPUBLIC OF MALI/
REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/
TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Estimated Amount to be Disbursed against
Certified Statement of Expenditures/
Décaissements contre Relevés de Comptes
US$ '000/
$EU '000
- Locally purchased equipment/
Equipement acheté sur place (para. 4.09)                -             500
- Local training of personnel/
Formation sur place du personnel                       690
- Monitoring/Suivi                                       310
- Operating Costs/Frais de fonctionnement (95%)          955
- Operating Costs (PIU)/Frais de fonction-
nement (BPE)                                         450
-          Base Cost/Coût de base:                     2,405            500
- Physical contingencies/Imprévus                          -              50
- Price contingencies/Inflation (23.7%)                  590             130
-          Total Cost/Coût total:                  (a) 2,970        (b) 680
Quarterly expenditure (rounded)/
Dépense trimestrielle (arrondie)
(a) 2,970 - 22 = 135
(b)    680 : 15 =   45
Expenditure for 4
months/Dépenses pour
4 mois:                180



- 52 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
MAL I
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Summary of Specialist Services/Résumé des services de spécialistes
Position                                     Man/Months            Starting Date
1.  Planning and Administration
- Specialist in Planning and Education
Financing                                     36           Oct. 84 - Oct. 87
- Specialist in Education Statistics               3          Oct.84(2)/Oct.85(1)
- School Map Specialist                            6          Oct.84(2)/Oct.86(4)
- Specialist in Linkage of Training
and Employment                                 6          Oct.84 (2)/Oct.85(2)
51          Oct. 86 (2)
2. Technical Education
- Specialist in Technical Education
(financed by F.A.C.)                          18              October 1983
18
3. Fundamental Education
- Specialist in Evaluation                         6           Oct.86(2)/Oct.87(2)
- Specialist in Methodology of                                 Oct. 88 (2)
Ruralized Teaching for Primary
Level                                          6           Mar.85(3)/Mar.86(3)
- Specialist in Integration of Prac-
tical Work into General Education              3           Mar. 85 (3)
15
4. Teacher Training
- Specialist in Primary Teacher
Training                                      36           Oct. 83/Oct. 86
36
5. Adult Literacy
- Specialist in Evaluation (Function-
al Literacy)                                   6           Oct.86(2)/Oct.87(2)
- Specialist in Evaluation (Training                           Oct. 88 (2)
Rural Youth)                                   6                  * 
- Specialist in Evaluation (Training
of Women)                                      6
- Professor/Consultant                             1.25        Oct. 83-87 (1/4)
- Professor/Consultant                             1.25



- 53 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 2
Position                                       Man/Months          Starting Date
6.  Agricultural Training                                         f
- Specialist in Initial and In-Service                        Jul. 83-Jun. 86 (36)
Training of Agricultural Extension                        Oct. 86 - Oct. 88 (2
Agents                                       42
42
7. Livestock Technician Training
- Specialist in Initial and In-Service                        Jul. 83-Jun. 86 (36)
Training of Livestock Technicians            36
36
8. Project Administration
- Procurement Specialist                          2
- Specialist in Evaluation (Interim
& Final)                                      4            Oct.86(2)/Oct.88(2)
- Audit                                            6           Jan.84 - Jan.89 (1)
- Preparation of Possible Fourth
Project                                      24            Oct.87 - Oct.88 (24
- Architect                                       66           Jul.83 - Dec.89
- Accountant -                                   66            Jul.83 - Dec.89
168
TOTAL                                     386.5
1/ Locally recruited.



- 54 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Summary of Fellowships/Résumé des Bourses
Field of Study and Fellowship       Man/         Place of Training         Starting
Number                            Months                                Date
1. Planning and Administration
- Education Services                21         Canada/USA             Oct. 83
- Planning                           9         IIEP, Paris            Oct. 83
- Planning                           9          ''                    Oct. 83
- School Map                         9          Tt                    Oct. 83
- Project Identification             4          ..                    Oct. 83
_l *   .4                       ..                    Oct. 83
4                                Oct. 83
4         ..                     Oct. 83
_4                               Oct. 83
- Education Administration          21         Canada/USA             Oct. 83
- Development Planning               9         ISA/IEDES, Paris       Oct. 83
- School Map/Statistics              4          BREDA, Dakar          Oct. 83
- School Map/Statistics              4            't'    '            Oct. 83
- Demography                         9        Cameroon                Oct. 83
- Demography                         9            If                  Oct. 83
- Study Trips                        4     Togo/Senegal/Cameroon/    Oct. 84
128       France
2. Technical Education
- Administration & Management       12       Local training           Oct. 83
- Administration, Management
& Evaluation                     9       Dakar & France            ''  t'
_  E     t?      t?             9                 Il              1   t
_  ,       t?         l           9          t ?    t?t ?  t?w
_ t?       *t      ft             9          t?      *t             Dt!  t?
_l il t? 9 t? t? st t?
_    1?     t?      t             9          ? t     t; 1t  1 t 
_t? t? t? 9 t? t? Et? t?
(co-financed by FAC)                                        fi
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3. Reform of Basic Education
- Study Trips                        3      various African         Oct. 83
_ Pt   tFt                       3        countries
3
15



- 55 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 2
Field of Study and Fellowship        Man/          Place of Training         Starting
Number                             Months                                  Date
4.  Teacher Training                               various countries in   Oct. 84 -
- Study Trips                         -       Africa and Latin            Jun. 85
Armerica                _
5.  Adult Literacy                                                          Oct. 83 -
- Study Trips                        50       Local                       Jun. 88
6.  Agricultural Training                                                   Oct.84(10x4)
- Teacher Training                   68       Training techniques       Oct.85(7 x 4)
(France)
7.  Livestock Technician Training                 Training techniques       ct.84 (5x6)/
- Teacher Training                   54             (France)            ct.85 (4x6)
- Technician Training                24       Technical training        ct.84 (3x4)/
(France)           ct.85 (3x4)
8.  Project Administration                        Study trips and parti-
- Seminars or Study Trips            12       cipation in seminars    Oct.83-Oct.88
- Accountant                          9       France or Senegal
TOTAL                   435



- 56 -
ANNEX 17
MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ImplementaHton Schedule
1983              1984              1985               1986              1987              1988               1989               1990
_    23    4                                                        4 -2  _                  1  2   3   A    1    2    3    4    1   2   3    4
PREPARATION CML WORKS a     EQUIPMENT  _
Blddlng Docurnerrts-DA AppçjrrvI
rd EvC IoO MMI                                                                                                           _
IDA ApprOvdilofA.CrdsI
Conlrocts Sgrature
PROJECT IMRLEMEMA11ONi
TS<etCcIstSerces                          I    i                    .tÊ    -    -        ; -                            _ i.4...:
Opection                                           r                                                                                         E _I
ifECHNICAL EDUCATiON                             i|i                          -     -                                i                         r        
_IC ErUCAION                                                                                                                                                                  a
fSI"Sw>.cDA) ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a                                                                                                  o 
nnmrture-Equipmen?
SpoclcinW IeAe                                             c   1E 2 F I i s F                                 F        #                     
T8ACH8P T8ANING                                                                               I
Construcoron (A| F)                         i
Furniture-Equipment (AJDF)      ~          
Speacidlist Seerces (IDA)M- - -
Trnir(IDA) Y                                                                                        -                    -                :
Oecon (IDA)                                                      
AD(JLT ED4JCATION                                                       -   -              mJmiki  -   .ii.mi...H -
Equlprmt~~E                                                                                                 -       - 
Specialist Semces ~ ~    ~          ~           ~         ~          I 
~rIIr,iig                                                M     :      :           ~                                                  
Oper&Ion~--                                                               - 
Training
Operatro                          _     _                                 
Wodld Bank-25267



- 57 -
ANNEX 18/
ANNEXE 18
MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
Schedule of Diabursements/Calendrier des Décaissements
(US$ Million/Millions de Dollars E.U.)
(Cumulatives
YliiZector
Quarter                                                    Profile/       Regic -Sector
Calendar                    IDA Special                    Profil Sec-    Profile/Profil
Riscal Year/     Date/                       Fund Credit/                   toriel du      Sectoriel-
Anne Fiqcale     Trimestre-   IDA Credit/    Crlit Forns                    Maili          Régna.1 /4
IDA/AID          Date          Ciédit AID    Spécial AID     Total     %        %               %
1985       1     (Sept. 84)       0.41 /2        0.44 /2      0.85      9
2     (Dec. 84)        0.46           0.49         0.95     10
3     (Mar. 85)        0.51           0-53         1.04     il
4     (Jun. 85)        0.56           0.58         1.14     12       10              3
19B6       1     (Sept. 85)       0.60           0.63         1.23     13
2     (Dec. 85)        0.70           0.73         1.43     15
3     (Mar. 86)        0.79           0.83         1.57     17
4     (Jin. 86)        0.93           0.97         1.90     20       22              12
19B7      1      (Sept. 86)       1.07           1.12         2.19     23
2     (Dec. 86)        1.21           1.26         2.47     26
3     (Mar. 87)        1.35           1.41         2.76     29
4     (Jun. 87)        1.48           1.56         3.03     32       37             26
1988       1     (Sept. 87)       1.67           1.75         3.42     36
2     (Dec. 87)        1.86           1.94         3.80     40
3     (Mar. 88)        2.04           2.14         4.18     44
4     (Jun. 88)        2.23           2.33         4.56     48       52             41
1989       1     (sept. 88)       2.46           2.56         5.02     53
2     (Dec. oe) /3     2.60           2.72         5.32     56
3     (Mar. 89)        2.92           3.06         5.98     63
4     (Jun. 89)        3.02           3.30         6.32     68       75             61
1990       1     (Sept. 89)       3.43           3-60         7.03     74
2     (Dec. 89)        3.67           3.84         7.51     79
3     (Mar. 90)        3.89           4.08         7.97     84
4     (Jun. 90)        4.22           4.42         8.64     91       87             74
1991       1     (Sept. 90)       4.64           4.86         9.50  1CO.0   i1o.0
Closing Date/Date de Clôture: Septaber 30, 1990/30 septembre 1990
/1  Fiscal Year: July 1 - Jue 30/Année fiscale: 1er juillet - 30 juin
/2  Reimb=rsemnt of PPF (US$1 million) /Remiboufsement de l'avance (1 ufillicn de dollars E.U.)
/3 Expected date of project cornpletioeVntte prévue de l'achèvement du projet
/4  Ecoept: Cameroon II, Nigeria I + II, Chad III/Exoepté: Cameroun II, Nigeria I + II, Tcbad III



- 58 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 2
MALI - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursements Against Statements of Expenditure
1.        IDA would disburse against certified statements of expenditure
submitted by the Government in the case of local purchase of spare parts
and small equipment items, and operating expenditures financed by the IDA
and IDASF Credits (para. 3.07 of the Staff Appraisal Report). A review of
the conformance of these expenditures with the Credit Agreements would be
made by the Government and IDA during the disbursement process as indicated
below.
(a) Subproject managers would prepared annual budget estimates for
the operating costs, excluding salaries, of the DNPES, the
Department-of Technical Education and Vocational Training, the
IPEGs at Niono and Kangaba, the DNAF'LA and of the Project Unit
for inclusion in the Ministry of Education's budget;
(b) subproject managers would prepared annual budget estimates for
the operating costs, excluding salary expenditures, of the CAA
and CS supported by the project and of the EIV, for inclusion
in the Ministry of Rural Development's budget;
(c) the Project Director would submit annually to IDA a budget for
project expenditures including the estimates referred to under
(a) and (b). This budget would present expected project expen-
ditures for a 12-month period, using the expenditure categories
of the cost tables included in the Staff Appraisal Report. The
statements of expenditure would refer to the items included in
the annual budget. The Project Director would attach to the
budget a statement showing the total expenditures incurred pre-
viously for each category;
(d) expenditures reimbursable against statements of expenditure
would be prefinanced by the project's Special Account (para.
4.04 of the Staff Appraisal Report);
(e) justification for the operating expenditures (vouchers, invoices
and receipts) would be prepared by the responsible subproject
managers of the relevant project components (para. 4.03 of the
Staff Appraisal Report) and submitted to the project office;
(f) justification for expenditures (vouchers, invoices, receipts)
would be kept in the project office files and would be available
for inspection by IDA supervision missions and for project auditing; and
(g) reimbursement of operating costs of I)NPES and the Department of
Technical Education and Vocational Training will be terminated
on December 31, 1986.



- 59 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
2.        Although improvements have occurred lately, accounting has been an
area of concern during implementation of the Second Education Project (Cr.
733-IMLI).  The appraisal mission has reviewed the existing project accounts
and agreed with the Government on the following measures which are expected
to lead to a significant improvement in project accounting:
(a)  Annual audits by an independent firm of auditors that would also.
provide assistance with the setting up of project accounts and
on-the-job training of project accounting staff (para. 4.14); and
(b) strengthening of the project office and more efficient project
accounting by the recruitment of an expatriate accounting spe-
cialist, who would assist and train the existing Malian accounting
team (para. 4.03 of the Staff Appraisal Report) for the duration
of the project implementation.



- 60 -
ANNEX 20/
ANNEXE 20
REPUBLIC OF MALI/REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT/TROISIEME PROJET EDUCATION
List of Related Documents and Data Available in Project File/
Liste des Documents et des Dossiers Classés dans le Dossier du Projet
I.   Documents directly linked with Project Implementation/Documents ayant un
lien direct avec la mise en oeuvre du Projet:
1.   Republic of Màli:  Education in Mali - Issues, Trends and Priorities -
UNESCO/Government, May 1981/République du Mali: L'Education au Mali -
Problèmes, Perspectives et Priorités - UNESCO/Gouvernement, Mai 1981.
2.   Sector Memorandum - IBRD/Mémorandum sur le Secteur Education - BIRD.
3.   Detailed Working Papers on each project component - IBRD, February 1983/
Documents de. travail détaillés pour chaque élément du projet - BIRD,
Février 1983.
4.   Threshold for Contract Review - IBRD, April 1983/
BIRD, Avril 1983.
5.   Statement of Intent - Letter from Minister of Education, May 1983/
Déclaration d'Intention - Lettre du M4inistre de l'Education,
Mai 1983.
II. Useful documents/Documents utiles à consulter:
1.   Basic Education:  Wnat Education for Wha,t Development? - Government,
March 1978/Education de Base: Quelle éducation pour quel dévelop-
pement? - Gouvernement, Mars 1978.
2.   Functional Literacy - Final Report on Functional Literacy at OACV -
Government, June 1976/Alphabétisation Fonctionelle - Rapport final
de l'expérience OACV - Gouvernement, Juin 1976.



IBRD  I 7 1 90
.~~~~ ~ ~     ~                ~~~                                                                                                                  ~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _'                                00 /40W0I Y D
MAHL                                                                                                                                                                          N
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                  N -
TRO/SIEME PROJETD'EDcAT/ON 7                                                                                                                                                                                                            AL
NST NUTIDNAL AENELEPMA L GERA
OFFFTOFFFOhT  /r/TAONFF                                                                                                                                                      -                                  NO
DlhEFTIORN ATORLAA LA PLAN/F/CAF/OOOFDLOLEOSO/FARRENR NAt/COL  /00E0D00S                                                                                                                                     *           N   
tIVIS oN 0T FFO.ICAL EDUCAT oN AND tOOOR ONAL TPAIN NG                               |                                        ,                                                                                                --/ 
A/TV/Ofl Lt LRAOFRO EN   00l 0/000N TCNORE    O D LA FORMlAT/ON FOOaFAO/ORONNLO Le~ i                                                                            ,TS9I                                                     0           , 
Itot..OPMENRAT O NOIN O [LATTATON                                                     -j 
000000Fl  0F F ENSEIGNOEMENT FDNDAUENA00L                                              i
I                  T~~~~~~FoNoLO ROTIN NG                                                                  ;                                    ,000                                                                                                                  CtAq»MO 
I                                                                                                                                              NO-O---~~~~~~q7-- -
100000CR 0 AND OAGRICULTIIRAL TETHN T ON F00IN NO                      N       A
FOROo F/AN AO AtNTS DL VLGAfllEA T/O/t 000/0040 C F/  FtFvAAOF                                                                    __\ 
FRA N/N IUG   00F  /,CITUA/0  r FAON CIANS                                              ,k                                                                   
Ft 00 R/O/t oct 400RND  VUL6AfllATIDRA/NADfllCDLE/CAA. CS00,.                                                                                                                                                       8CA
OTIN NOG OR L FT/SRRFTFECHNIC ANE G0I
AKO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
A~~~~~
NAVIAAALE R VER lJJLW  r/tcEMB-6lo  f/V/L fL N4v/G4ELL IJUILLET DECEMFflE)   !                                                   ,                                                                  f                             Ni        E
G FU     0R00/ N 00(0 / TA/ND 1                                                                                                              Y
_~S ._  IN1 FRNT0TION- BOL ONTARIES   NO/I/-NO-- AR/I/J/NflES  Ah ttROT/ 00A ,NFE0000/ / 0/ AR/FR 0ORFA    ON
R-  ORE IAL 5AUNDARIEE /RAt/TESU tO #                                                                                              TOEOCTU-oT/AFh,W                                        \      
| P~~~~~oAVF R000S [NO> HTCN5TRUCTIDN ,OOflDUA0TESOO   flVOLSSU ONATfROCF/ON .<dl i0 
/000/ ROTFF0F/OFFTOF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                              VT                  NU 
'  FRO '//0/                                                                                     i                                                                                          +N                                                                              r      ,  N ,
MAURI  TANIA                                                                                 ,f  NODrd1h ,~ ,  " \}                                 C         a*_    X    o 
>    r-_   _  s  D, b   ` ~~~~~"''a`! (  -      t    u       b      a '  \XS               M          '          <                                                                                                                I )          _ tt\ AOO.t  
~~~~~~~~~~~001                                                                0v0                                    R^d 6Otl K rAoCé                            UvPPERf //!>J`                                  _tO    VOLTA    r 1N  RA
IC ~~~~~~~~/oo dbusaX Sa,P{Qor d-rL}fserzt  rst.s ts:qbJV
(  e  IVORY COAST    \    BW                           h                                           _O j                   ouINEA  »_az,&   IraHANAwPoplE  /                          ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-O0
'f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~St NO/                             004416                                               



