Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3717-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
0F SDR 4.44 MILLION FROM IDA
AND SDR 4.66 MILLION FROM THE IDA SPECIAL FUND
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
February 2, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  Malian Franc (MF)
US$1.00           =  MF 784
MF 1 million      =  US$1,275
US$1.00           =  SDR 0.955153
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATION
AfDF      African Development Fund
DNPES     Directorate for Planning and School Equipment
EIV       Junior Livestock Technicians Training Center
FAC       French Fund for Aid and Cooperation
MEN       Ministry of Education
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Governnent of Mali
IDA Credit Amount:   SDR 4.44 million (US$4.6 million)
IDA Special Fund
Credit Amount:     SDR 4.66 million (US$4.9 million)
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:       The proposed Project would:  (a) develop the institu-
tional capability of the Ministry of Education in the
areas of educational planning and financing, and admin-
istration of technical education and vocational training;
(b) improve the quality of basic education; (c) increase
access to basic education for children and adults
(particularly women and young farmers) by expanding
primary teacher training and non-formal adult education
programs; and (d) improve the skills of agricultural
extension workers and livestock technicians.
Benefits and Risks:  The strengthening of educational planning and admin-
istration is essential and is expected to result in a
more effective control and guidance of student flows, a
more efficient allocation of budgetary resources, and a
closer match between the output of the education system
and the requirements of the economy.  Increased access to
basic education should increase the quality and number of
skilled workers entering the labor market.  The major
risk is that pressures to maintain expenditures and
scholarships for secondary and higher education will pre-
vent the Government from reallocating education expendi-
tures. The Government, however, has confirmed its
commitment to this budgeting reallocation in a statement
of intent, and past reductions in scholarships indicate
that it is making a concerted effort to reallocate its
education budget in favor of basic education. An agreed
set of indicators would be used to measure Government
performance in educational policy reform. Progress would
be monitored and discussed annually, with an in-depth
midterm review and assessment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ji -
Estimated Project Cost: 1/
Local   Foreign   Total
-------US$ million------
I.   Institutional Development
Educational Planning                 0.2       0.8      1.0
Administration of Technical          0.1       0.2      0.3
Education
II.   Development of Basic Education
Educational Reform                   0.1       0.6      0.7
Teacher Training                     2.1       4.0      6.1
Adult Education                      0.3       0.8      1.1
IEII.   Agricultural and Livestock
Technician Training
Agricultural Agents Training         0.6        1.7     2.3
Livestock Technicians Training       0.3       0.7      1.0
IV.   Project Management                   0.5        0.4     0.9
Base Costs                           4.2       9.2    13.4
Contingencies: Physical              0.2       0.6      0.8
Price                  1.0        2.1     3.1
Total Project Costs             5.4      11.9    17.3 2/
Financing Plan: 3/
Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ million ------
IDA                                  1.2       3.4      4.6
IDA Special Fund                     1.3       3.6      4.9
AfDF                                 2.0       4.9      6.9
Government of Mali                   0.9         -      0.9
Total                            5.4      11.9    17.3
1/  The project will be exempt from taxes and duties, except for taxes on fuel
which are expected to be negligible.
:2/ Includes US$1.0 million PPF advance.
3/  The proportion of IDA financing and the establishment of a revolving fund
(the Special Account) form part of the Special Action Program in Mali.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
FY   1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
----------------------US$ million------------------------
Annual
IDA                   0.5      0.4      0.6     0.7      0.8      1.2     0.4
IDA Special Fund      0.6      0.4      0.5     0.9      0.9      1.1     0.5
Cumulative
IDA                   0.5      0.9      1.5     2.2      3.0      4.2     4.6
IDA Special Fund      0.6      1.0      1.5     2.4      3.3      4.4     4.9
Total             1.1      1.9     3.0      4.6      6.3     8.6      9.5
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4542-MLI, dated January 30, 1984.
Map: IBRD 17190






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENIYATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
AND SPECIAL FUND CREDITS TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 4.44 million (US$4.6 million) and a proposed IDA
Special Fund Credit of SDR 4.66 million (US$4.9 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed Third
Education Project. The African Development Fund (AfDF) will contribute about
US$6.9 million equivalent. The AfDF Credit is expected to be on terms of 0.75
percent interest per year, with repayment over 50 years, following a 10 year
grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.       Two reports entitled "Economic Memorandum on Mali" (3200-MLI) and
"Mali-Special Economic Study--Planning Institutions and the 1974-78 Plan"
(3333-MLI) were distributed to the Executive Directors on June 30, 1981. The
following paragraphs are based on these reports and the findings of recent
World Bank and IMF economic missions. Annex I gives country data.
Economic Resources and Constraints
3.       Mali has a population of over 7 million inhabitants, in an area of
1.24 million square kilometers in the middle of sub-Saharan West Africa. In
1982, GNP per capita was only US$180. By almost any measure, Mali is one of
the least developed countries in the world, with a subsistence-oriented econ-
omy (85 percent of the population depends on the primary sector), dependence
on a few commodity exports, an extremely low rate of domestic savings (minus
2.7 percent of GDP in 1982), a high population growth rate (2.8 percent), a
low level of education (less than 10 percent adult literacy and a 27 percent
primary enrollment rate), and difficult living conditions that give a life
expectancy at birth of only 45 years.
4.       Poor physical and underdeveloped human resources, as well as inade-
quate economic and social infrastructure, constrain economic growth in Mali in
the short and medium term. Potential for agricultural production is limited
by uncertain rainfall, fragile soils prone to exhaustion and erosion, and low-
yielding, traditional crop and livestock technologies with little scope for
intensification. Mineral and energy resources are limited and difficult to
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as those contained in the
President's Report for the Second Mali Sud Rural Development Project
(P-3645-MLI) which was approved by the Executive Directors on October 11,
1983.



exploit. Human resources are underdeveloped, in part because access to basic
amenities like clean water, better health care, and educational opportunities
remains quite limited. There are shortages of skilled workers and experienced
managers. Transportation and communication are extremely expensive by world
standards, because Mali is landlocked and internal distances are vast. The
above factors result in low incomes, small domestic markets, and limited
potential for industrial development. Finally, Mali is a small open economy,
with trade concentrated in a few commodities. Imports and exports together
amount to more than half of GDP. Cotton and livestock comprise four-fifths of
exports, and petroleum and foodstuffs, one-third of imports. Thus, the
country is extremely vulnerable to changes in world prices and declining terms
of trade.
5.       Although economic development will be difficult in the short and
medium term, Mali has economic potential that can be developed over the long
term. Malian farmers are among the most proficient in West Africa. Rainfed
maize production could be significantly expanded in the south. Mali has more
irrigated rice land than any other Sahelian country, as well as the largest
physical scope for expanding irrigation. Hydroelectric generating potential
cn the Niger and Senegal rivers is significant. Although mineral resources
remain largely unexplored and unexploited (except for gold and phosphates),
they may offer longer-term opportunities.
Economic Performance 1960-82
6.       The Malian Government has attempted since independence to promote
economic growth while trying to improve social equity and raise consumption
f`rom very low levels. During 1960-82, annual growth of GNP per capita
averaged 1.1 percent in constant prices, although annual variations were large.
Tlhe economic structure has shifted as the agricultural sector has become less
important while the services sector has become more so. Although this tend-
ency is normal for developing economies, in Mali it also reflects the effect
of policies that have shifted resources to the urban sector and to public
consumption. At the same time, the industrial sector has stagnated despite
government efforts to create a modern industrial base. Because of drought and
dLeclining terms of trade, as well as continuing mistakes in economic manage-
ment and poor allocation of public resources, there have been since indepen-
dlence consistently large and worsening imbalances in public finances and on
foreign accounts, with declining domestic savings and growing foreign indebt-
edness. While economic and social objectives have been partially achieved,
the process has led to severe financial and economic disequilibria that have
been sustained only by dependence on foreign borrowing and the accumulation of
arrears.
7,7      Mali's economic history can be divided into four periods (1960-67,
1967-74, 1974-80, and 1980-82) based roughly on changes in economic and poli-
tical conditions. The changes in economic and financial structure during
1;hese four periods are indicated in the following tabulation:



-3-
1960    1967    1974    1980    1982 (est)
GDP (US$ millions, current)             273      241      414   1 ,325   1 ,028
Agriculture (percent GDP)             55       50       35      42       43
Industry (percent GDP)                10       13       16      10       10
Services (percent GDP)                35       37      49       48       47
Terms of trade index                     100      73       58      64       57
Gross domestic savings (percent GDP)  9.5        1.3   -19.2    -3.6    -2.7
Budget deficit (percent GDP)              ..     5.3      3.5     4.0      1.5
Resource gap (percent GDP)                -4     -16      -33     -20      -20
Net foreign assets (US$ millions)          2 1/  -56    -139    -279    -235
Long-term foreign debt (US$ millions)  ..        269      441     853   1,260
Constant GNP growth rate
(percent p.a.) 2/                      ..      3.4     2.5      8.2     0.4
These figures (as well as the economic indicators in Annex I) illustrate some
of the major trends in the Malian economy.
8.       Post-independence, 1960-67.  The first post-colonial government
undertook a major program of modernization that included an independent mone-
tary system, an ambitious five-year development plan, a program of industria-
lization based on state enterprises, and a welfare orientation intended to
keep prices down and to assure consumers an adequate supply of basic commodi-
ties. During this period, GDP growth was high in part because of favorable
climatic conditions, but public pricing and investment policies created finan-
cial imbalances that could not be sustained. Government budgetary deficits
often exceeded 5 percent of GDP. By 1967 the resource gap had quadrupled (as
a percent of GDP), net foreign assets had turned negative, and the debt
service ratio had risen to 19 percent. The economic crisis led to the signa-
ture of monetary accords with France in early 1967, followed by a 50 percent
devaluation in mid-1967 and reintegration with the franc zone in early 1968.
At that time, the French Treasury opened an Operations Account for Mali to
provide overdraft facilities to support the convertibility of the Mali franc.
9.       Economic Reform, the Sahelian Drought, and the Energy Crisis,
1967-74. In late 1968, a new government launched an ambitious but pragmatic
reform program that proposed to increase official commodity prices and liber-
alize private trade--especially in cereals. But the shock of the severe
Sahelian drought (1968-73), followed by a quintupling of petroleum prices
during 1972-74, caused economic performance during 1967-74 to be poor, leading
to a decline in the primary sector output and real per capita income. These
shocks also prevented the new government from carrying out reforms, and
economic policies remained inadequate. For example, low official prices and
restrictive marketing regulations discouraged agricultural production and led
to increased food imports. Recourse to bank credit to finance the mounting
1/   1962.
2/   Rate is for the period that preceeds the year under which the figure
is given.



- 4 -
losses of state enterprises led to increased external debt. By 1974, the
economic imbalances--already severe 7 years earlier--had either deteriorated
or not improved.  Domestic dissaving was greater, net foreign assets had
fallen by over 100 percent, and public external debt more than doubled. The
resource gap was also larger although this reflects partly the large inflow of
foreign aid to sustain consumption after the 1968-73 drought.
1{.      Uneven recovery, 1974-80.  Compared to the drought years, the sub-
sequent period was favored by generally better weather and more foreign aid.
There was more rapid growth of GDP, led by agriculture recovering from the
drought. But the severe disequilibria in public finances and external ac-
counts inherited from earlier periods were not corrected. Inflation increased.
Domestic dissavings and the resource gap remained high. The need to finance
increasingly large Government Treasury deficits and growing losses in state
enterprises caused short-term foreign liabilities to double. Borrowings to
finance the 1974-78 Development Plan caused external long-term public debt to
double as well. Despite a few abortive efforts late in the period, the Gover-
mient did not develop and carry out reforms. Continuing external shocks, like
a second jump in petroleum prices, hampered reform efforts, but the availabil-
ity of substantial foreign resources also made the imbalances more manageable
and relieved some of the pressures to change policies.
11.      New orientations, 1980-82.  Faced with both worsening financial
disequilibria and a more restrictive central bank credit policy, the Malian
Government at the end of 1980 requested technical and financial assistance
from both the Bank and the IMF to help it formulate and carry out a program of
economic reform and adjustment. IDA responded to this request with a US$10.4
million Economic Management and Training project (Credit No. 1307-MLI). The
first assistance was in the field by mid-1981 under Project Preparation
Facility financing, and the project was approved in December 1982. The IMF
prepared a one-year Standby Program, which was approved for SDR 30.4 million
in May 1982, and a second, 18-month Standby Program was approved in December
1983. In conjunction with this assistance, the Governnent has carried out
numerous reforms in the areas of public finances, government employment,
education, agriculture, and state enterprises.
12.      In public finances, Government has more than halved the budget
deficit, while also significantly reducing arrears, by increasing receipts
faster than expenditures. Regarding public employment, Government has reduced
recruitments and stopped automatic hiring of graduates. The education budget
has been reallocated in favor of basic education. In agriculture, Government
has both liberalized markets for coarse grains and groundnuts and substantial-
ly increased official producer prices. Distortions in retail grains markets
have been reduced, as have the financial losses of the state marketing board.
The record for state enterprises is less positive, in part because of diffi-
culties in reducing excess employment, but the Government is exploring major
restructuring options. Finally, there is now agreement that Mali be allowed
to rejoin the West Africa Monetary Union, a move which should help strengthen
its banking system and consolidate public sector debt.



-5
Development Policies
13.      1981-85 Development Plan.  This Plan continues to give priority: to
water development for the rural population, livestock, and irrigation; to
agricultural and livestock production for achieving food self-sufficiency, for
supplying an expanded agro-industrial sector, and for increasing commodity
exports; to energy development; and to conservation of natural resources--
especially forests and pastures. More importantly, the new Plan emphasizes
for the first time the need for policy reforms to re-establish fundamental
financial and economic equilibria, notably by balancing the government budget,
reducing the balance of payments deficit, reducing the losses of the state
enterprises, reorienting education, controlling recruitment for the Civil
Service, and increasing local private participation in investments. Develop-
ment expenditures proposed by the new Plan are estimated at US$2.2 billion of
which US$1.7 billion would be required during the five-year planning period.
Foreign sources will be expected to provide over 85 percent of the financing.
At the end of 1982, the Government hosted, with UNDP assistance, a Donors
Roundtable Conference to solicit firm donor commitments for Plan financing.
Although unsuccessful as a pledging session, the Conference gave the Govern-
ment a forum to demonstrate its new receptivity to greater aid coordination
and to reiterate its request for non-incremental recurrent cost financing,
estimated at about US$300 million per year to help support policy reforms.
14.      Although the stated objectives of the Plan foeus fairly well on the
major constraints to economic development in Mali, the link between investment
and objectives is weak. The document is essentially a cataloging of projects
rather than allocation plan for scarce domestic and foreign resources. As a
result, planned investments often appear to be too capital-intensive, unduly
foeused on the secondary sector, and oriented towards new projects rather than
rehabilitation of existing assets. The Plan is also overly ambitious; the
implied annual investment level is about 50 percent greater than the planned
level for the 1974-80 period, which was itself only half realized. Implemen-
tation already appears to be far behind schedule. As in the past, the poor
performance and delays are caused by insufficient project preparation, poor
project management, inadequate Government counterpart financing, and poor
supporting policies, as well as unrealistic expectations. These problems are
likely to persist, although the Government is increasingly open to a dialogue
with IDA and the IMF on improved resource allocation and investment budgeting.
15.      Foreign Aid.  Foreign aid finances practically all public investment
in Mali and is therefore critical for promoting future growth. More than half
of this aid is in the form of grants, and almost all the rest is loaned on
highly concessional terms by official aid agencies. Multilateral agencies
provide about two-fifths of long-term loans. IDA is by far the largest multi-
lateral lender, accounting for over half the multilateral loans and for
19 percent of total debt committed and outstanding at the end of 1982. Long-
term external public debt (about three-fourths of which is disbursed) has in-
creased substantially over the last 10 years, although debt levels per capita
and as a share of GDP have declined, reflecting the increase in official grant
aid and continued recourse to short-term liabilities drawn on the Operations
Account. Actual debt service payments on long-term debt have been quite
modest in the past, and in 1980-81 the debt-service ratio was lower than in



-6-
the late 1960s and the early 1970s. The debt-service ratio could rise signi-
ficantly in the mid to late 1980s, but the Government is in the process of
rescheduling several loans. It is expected that this and other measures
(converting loans to grants and obtaining special balance of payment
financing) will keep the debt-service ratio within manageable proportions.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
16.      The proposed credit would be the Association's thirty-second credit
extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which would bring
total commitments of IDA funds to US$318.4 million equivalent (including IDA
Special Funds totalling US$11.2 million equivalent). Of the thirty-one
operations already approved, twelve have been for agriculture and related
industries, eight for transport, two for education, two for telecommunica-
tions, two for energy, one each for small-scale industries, urban development,
power and water supply, technical assistance, rural water supply and health.
Transportation and agriculture represent the largest share of past commit-
ments, each accounting for 31 percent of total commitments. In addition, the
International Finance Corporation has made two investments for a total of
US$3.2 million, one in a company manufacturing bleach and plastic products and
the other in a company processing sheanut butter for export.
17.      Project implementation in Mali is satisfactory.  Despite difficulties
and delays caused by the shortage of Government counterpart financing, the
disbursement profile through 1981 was slightly more rapid for Mali than for
other West Africa countries and all IDA recipients. More importantly, project
performance appears to be improving in recent years, pari passu with increased
Government commitment to economic dialogue and policy reform.
18.      Taking account of Mali's constraints and potential, the Bank Group's
objectives in Mali are to help improve the country's economic policies, to
finance productive investments, and to help develop institutions that can
implement policies and projects effectively. The strategy for achieving these
objectives has evolved from merely financing investments, to linking invest-
ments with related policy reforms, to focusing more directly on policies and
institutions.  The scope and pace of IDA's program depends in part on an on-
going assessment of the Government's economic management, particularly the
willingness and ability of the Government to address policy issues and to
change policies as needed. IDA can assist by helping design and implement
policy reforms and by providing non-incremental recurrent financing to help
compensate for possible budgetary losses caused by these reforms. Concurrent
with policy reforms, IDA can help finance sound productive investments,
including a high percentage of local cost expenditures to improve project
implementation.
19.      Given Mali's improving image of economic management, IDA lending is
increasingly foeused on policy and institutional reform, both in free-standing
projects and in conjunction with productive investments. If results continue
to be positive, it may be possible to consider future program-type lending at
the sector or national level. In the meantime, the dialogue will be sustained



through the traditional channel of projects, through the Economic Management
and Training Project, through the IMF programs, and through intensified
economic and sector work.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Background
20.      The low level of human resource development is a major constraint on
Mali's economic development prospects. Both the adult literacy rate (10
percent) and primary school attendance (28 percent) remain extremely low.
The demand for education services, fueled by the young age structure of the
population, is strong, but delivery of these services is made difficult by the
widely dispersed population and weaknesses in the management and administra-
tion of the education system. Providing adequate education services is a
severe burden on the already constrained Governnent budget, and budgetary
problems have been exacerbated by inefficiencies in the allocation of avail-
able resources. As a result, access to education is limited and quality is
poor. Continued failure to develop a broadly literate population capable of
adopting new technologies could severly hamper Government efforts to develop
the agricultural and livestock sector, which is both the base of the present
economy and the most promising source of potential expansion. In particular,
increased emphasis on basic education for women is crucial to the success of
efforts to improve productivity through introduction of modern health, family
planning, and nutrition practices.
The Education System
21.      The structure and organization of the education and training system
are similar to those of other former French colonies in West Africa. Educa-
tion is compulsory through Grade 9. This nine-year course, called Basic
Education (Enseignement Fondamental) is divided into a first cycle (EFI,
Grades 1 through 6, corresponding to primary education) and a second cycle
(EF2, Grades 7 through 9, corresponding to lower secondary education). A
competitive examination allows students to proceed either to general secondary
education (Enseignement Secondaire, a three year course leading to the bacca-
laureate), or to technical schools. Mali has not established a university,
but has created instead several specialized institutions which offer profes-
sional training. The Government has adopted an innovative approach to improve
the quality of and access to basic education through work-oriented literacy
programs for adults. Results have been encouraging: teams of researchers and
specialists have been created, educational materials in eight local languages
have been written and distributed, over 70,000 farmers have received func-
tional literacy training since 1968, and a monthly newspaper in the Bambara
language is widely distributed. The Government frequently delivers literacy
campaigns through the regionally based rural development agencies ("Opérations
de Développement Rural").



- 8 -
Organization and Management of Education
22.      The Ministry of Education (MEN) is responsible for all non-agricul-
tural education and training programs including functional literacy. The
Ministry of Rural Development is responsible for training mid-level agricul-
tural and livestock technicians; for this purpose, it has three Agricultural
Training Centers, three Specialized Agriculture Training facilities and a
Veterinary Training Institute. MEN decision-making is centralized in Bamako
and administered by the heads of eight departments, three of which are
responsible for overall management of the system. Four others administer
specific levels of education, and one supervises education projects.
Education and Manpower Needs
23.      The development of the education system during the past decade has
not kept pace with the requirements of economic development. The number of
graduates from higher education increased rapidly while growth of modern
sector employment outside the civil service stagnated. Conversely, a low
growth in enrollments in primary and secondary education has exacerbated the
existing shortages of literate skilled and semi-skilled workérs. The
unrestrained growth of higher education poses serious problems for both the
education sector and the whole economy, since it has drained resources from
other levels of education and created pressure to hire graduates of higher
education into the civil service. Though sensitive to this pressure, the
Governnent is also aware of the deleterious impact of this inflated civil
service and has recently announced its intention to restrain civil service
recruitment and to tighten scholarship eligibility requirements for secondary
and higher education.
Education Cost and Financing
24.      For 1983, the Government has budgeted expenditures for education at
about 25 per cent of the Government's recurrent budget (about 3 per cent of
GOP). The allocation for equipment and materials is only 7 percent of the
entire education budget, while salaries account for about 60 percent and
scholarships for the rest. The per-student cost for primary education (US$30
in 1981) is low by West African standards. However, the per-student costs for
secondary and higher education (US$395 and US$731 respectively) are among the
highest in the region, largely because of a generous scholarship policy.
Basic education, which enrolled more than 90 per cent of all students,
accounted for only 38.6 per cent of the budget in 1981, while secondary and
higher education, which together enrolled only about 5 per cent of the
students, absorbed more than a third of the same budget.  The Government's
f`inancial difficulties, which are likely to persist, mean that education's
share of the budget will probably not increase substantially. Therefore,
improvements in the quality of primary education will have to be financed by
reallocating resources from higher to lower levels of education, by implement-
ing measures to use available resources more efficiently, and by recourse to
f'oreign aid. Specifically, the Government's strategy includes further de-
creases in budgetary allocations for scholarships and reductions in increases
in secondary and higher education enrollments (see paras. 32 and 33).



- 9-
Quality of Education
25.      The quality of instruction in Malian schools, and consequently of
pupil achievement, is low. Every year over one-quarter of the pupils in pri-
mary school (Grades 1-6) repeat, and about 8 per cent drop out. As a result,
less than half of the students entering Grade 1 reach Grade 7. The main rea-
sons for this situation are: curricula with limited relevance to the Malian
environment, poor teaching practices (despite a two year teacher training
course), inadequate school facilities and a shortage of teaching materials.
Improving the quality of instruction and increasing the emphasis of teacher
training programs on professional training rather than general education are
essential prerequisites for the implementation of quality improvement measures
in primary schools.
26.      While quality indicators for nonformal basic education are not
readily available, the overall impression is positive. Measures to further
improve the quality of instruction include the expanded production of pedago-
gial materials in local languages and training programs for youth who have
completed the basic functional literacy program.
Access to Basic Education
27.      The Malian education system has a narrow base.  Only 27 percent of
school age children are enrolled, and girls representing only 34 percent of
the total. This low enrollment is due mainly to the shortage of qualified
teachers: the Government permits the opening of new classes only if trained
teachers are available to staff them. Because the teacher training capacity
will remain limited, the Government intends to increase access to basic
education in several ways. By instituting more selective entry criteria to
teacher training schools, it will raise both the efficiency of teacher
training and the quality of the teachers. By raising the pupil/teacher ratio
in rural areas, where classes are small, it will make better use of education
resources and allow a higher primary enrollment rate. By expanding adult
literacy, a higher proportion of the population will have access to basic
education.
Institutional Weaknesses
28.      Development of a coherent strategy to tackle the issues described
above is seriously hindered by the present lack of data, statistics, and cost
information, as well as weaknesses in the department responsible for overall
education planning, the Directorate for Planning and School Equipment (DNPES).
Without a strong planning institution to provide the basic data and analyses
necessary for efficient decision-making, the Ministry of Education is severely
handicapped. To be able to collect essential data and prepare coherent plans
for education development, DNPES is in need both of reorganization and
strengthening of staff expertise.
29.      The majority of MEN's administrative personnel are former teachers
who have no formal training in management or administration. The resulting
administrative weaknesses are exacerbated by unclear lines of responsibility
among the eight MEN departments. This has affected project implementation in



- 10 -
the past. As a first step towards improving this situation, responsibilities
of' the various departments need to be clarified and redistributed, tasks which
'will be undertaken during project implementation.
kavernment Strategy for Educational Development
30.      The Government is well aware of the many problems and issues facing
the education system. It articulated its sectoral objectives at national
3onferences in 1962 and 1978 and stated them in documents prepared for the
December 1982 international donors' conference. These documents emphasize:
(a) equal access to high quality education; (b) replacement of expatriate
teachers in secondary and higher education by local staff; (c) better balance
between the country's manpower requirements and vocational training and
technical and higher education; and (d) development of the Government's
-apacities for planning, school mapping and education cost analysis. The
(overnment recognizes that to achieve these objectives it will need to make
better use of the resources available for education, by reducing costs per
student in secondary and higher education, controlling enrollment growth at
these levels and shifting resources to basic education and skilled worker
training programs.
31.      The Government has already begun to move in this direction, through
the implementation of a variety of measures. To improve the quality of basic
aducation, the Government is experimenting with the use of local languages as
media of instruction, the introduction of practical work into the curriculum
to increase the relevance of the teaching program to the environment, and
measures to improve teacher training programs. In addition, the Government
has undertaken measures to expand and improve the quality of skilled worker
programs, including training of mid-level agricultural and livestock extension
agents. The scholarship eligibility criteria for students in secondary and
higher education have been tightened, the share of budgetary resources
alLocated to both secondary and higher education reduced moderately, and the
allocation to basic education increased significantly. The Government has
also announced measures to control the growth of civil service employment,
which would end the automatic recruitment of higher education graduates into
the civil service.
32.      Additional measures are required, however.  To consolidate the
progress achieved so far and insure successful execution of the strategy
above, the Government needs to prepare detailed implementation plans including
specific targets and financial measures aimed at reallocation, and more effi-
cient use, of resources. The Government's sectoral policy options have been
confirmed in a statement of intent ("Note Technique") submitted to IDA by the
Minister of Education following broad-ranging policy dialogue during prepara-
tion and appraisal of the proposed project. The statement of intent focuses
Mn: (a) the reallocation of educational resources from secondary and higher



education to basic education; 1/ (b) the reorganization of educational
administration, with particular emphasis on strengthening the education plan-
ning capacity of the Ministry of Education; and (c) the measures to be taken
to increase basic education enrollments including increasing the pupil/teacher
ratio in rural areas where enrollments are low, which would allow an increase
in the enrollment rate without altering the quality of education and the
number of teachers or classes. Information necessary to monitor progress
toward the implementation of these sector policies will be submitted annually
to IDA by the Government, and an in-depth review with IDA will be undertaken
before December 31, 1986 (draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and Special
Fund Credit Agreement (SFCA) Sections 3.04(c)).
External Assistance to Education
33.      Several donors provide assistance to education in Mali, with much of
the external aid being in the form of fellowships. In close coordination with
Bank-supported efforts at sectoral policy development, the major donors have
provided assistance in other areas as well: (a) USAID is financing curriculum
development for the training of agricultural extension agents; (b) UNICEF is
providing equipment for the introduction of practical work in basic education;
(c) France, in addition to financing fellowships and salaries for secondary
and higher education teachers, is assisting with the improvement of technical
education and vocational training through the construction of facilities for
two technical schools in Bamako, procurement of equipment, and provision of
technical assistance and operating funds for local training of technical
teachers. Donors are now paying for foreign scholarships, thereby freeing
Government funds to be used in higher priority areas.
The Bank Group's Role in Education Development
34.      The First Education Project (Cr. 420-MLI, for US$5.0 million, signed
July 11, 1973 and closed August 1, 1980) and the Second Education Project
(Cr. 733-MLI, for US$10.0 million, signed September 30, 1977 and closed
June 30, 1983) had similar objectives and supported the Government's efforts
to improve the quality of and expand (a) basic education for children and
adults; (b) science and technology teaching in lower secondary schools;
(c) technical and vocational education; (d) training of mid-level extension
agents for agriculture and livestock; and (e) training and upgrading of
managers and planners for priority sectors. The Project Performance Audit
Report for the First Education Project issued March 9, 1982, made a generally
positive assessment of the project's educational outcomes, with regard to the
vocational training component in particular. The report recommended that more
local specialists be trained under improved fellowship programs, that tech-
nical assistance be carefully and promptly recruited and that key MEN institu-
tions be strengthened. The report also strongly supported continued
assistance under the Second Education Project for science and technology
teaching and basic education.
1/   This would continue an already established trend; for example, basic
education's share of the education budget increased from 27.8 percent in
1978 to 38.4 percent in 1982, while the allocation to secondary education
decreased from 24.6 percent to 19.0 percent during the same period.



- 12 -
335.     Thus, with the recent completion of the Second Education Project, an
assessment of a decade of Bank assistance to the sector is now possible.
]?irst, physical implementation of both projects was generally effective, in
spite of the cost overruns of about 30 per cent in the First Education Project
because of higher-than-expected inflation in the late 1970s. Second, quality
:improvement of basic education for adults has been effective, and the trial
period now completed has resulted in a program that fully justifies expan-
sion. Progress in improving basic education for children has been somewhat
disappointing. Reform efforts concentrated on the last three grades (Grades
7, 8 and 9) where major program and curricula changes were to be introduced
rapidly, rather than on development of a comprehensive and gradual reform of
the entire basic education system which, with hindsight, would have been
preferable.  Third, the introduction of science and technology in lower
secondary schools is still at an experimental stage and an evaluation will not
be possible until two or three years from now. Fourth, technical education,
vocational training and training of mid-level extension agents for agriculture
and livestock have the potential to become increasingly effective, but expan-
sion of these new activities should only be selectively supported. Finally,
the cost overruns of about 10 per cent experienced by the Second Project
necessitated a reduction in project scope through postponing the construction
oDf new facilities for the training of mid-level managers and administrators.
This component is now financed under the recent Economic Management and
Training Project (Cr. 1307-MLI).
36.      The design and the preparation of the proposed third education
project reflects the lessons learned during the implementation of the first
two projects. Teams of Malian educators, established under the previous
projects, were to a large extent responsible for the sector analyses and
preparation work undertaken for the project proposed in this report. Experi-
ence gained during the experimental phases of the basic education and adult
literacy programs has been integrated in the project design. The proposed
project thus benefits from a Bank Group involvement in the education sector
that has, over the past decade, consistently aimed at manpower development and
expansion of basic education. While continuing to support these objectives,
the proposed project would focus more sharply on the need to assist the
Government in its efforts to match the outputs of the education system more
closely with the economy's manpower requirements, while rigorously controlling
the cost of the system.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.      The proposed project was identified following discussions between IDA
and senior government officials in July 1981 which reviewed the main issues in
the sector. Educational and preliminary architectural specifications for all
project components were prepared by Government prior to project appraisal in
December, 1982, with assistance provided by the UNESCO/Bank Cooperative Pro-
gram. Final architectural designs and bidding documents for the project
components were completed prior to negotiations and approved during negotia-
tions. Project preparation and startup activities, begun under the Second
Education Project (Cr. 733-MLI), are being carried on under US$1.0 million



- 13 -
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) financing. These activities, implementa-
tion of which is proceeding on schedule, include: (a) strengthening of
education planning and administration through training of future staff of the
Education Planning and Technical and Vocational Training Directorates;
(b) installation of a team to prepare basic education curriculum for experi-
mentation under project financing; (c) preparation of an accounting system for
project administration; (d) teacher training seminars and production of
teaching materials for basic education; and (e) training of agricultural
extension agents and livestock technicians. Negotiations were held in
Washington between January 9 and January 12, 1984, with a Government delega-
tion led by S.E. Col. Sekou Ly, Minister of Education. The Staff Appraisal
Report, (No. 4542-MLI) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
Project Objectives and Description
38.      The major objectives of the project, to be implemented between 1984
and 1989, would be: (a) to develop the institutional capability of the
Ministry of Education in education planning and financing, and administration
of technical education and vocational training; (b) to improve the quality of
basic education by improving the quality of teacher training and introducing
new curricula; (c) to increase access to basic education for both children and
adults (with special emphasis on women and young farmers) by expanding primary
teacher training and non-formal adult education programs; and (d) to improve
the skills of agricultural extension workers and junior livestock technicians
through improved training and upgrading programs.
A. Institutional Development
39.      Education Planning.  The project would support a complete reorgani-
zation of the Planning Directorate for the preparation of a comprehensive
development plan for education, a system for collection of educational
statistics, and a school location plan. It would finance the construction of
expanded facilities, furniture, equipment, and incremental operating costs,
specialist services and fellowships. An outline of the proposed reorgani-
zation and assignments for each department of the Planning Directorate has
been discussed with IDA and the Governnent has formally authorized these
changes.
40.      Administration of Technical Education and Vocational Training.  The
Government has decided to create a separate division to improve planning and
management for technical education and vocational training, and the French
Fund for Aid and Cooperation (FAC) will provide an important technical assis-
tance program. The project would finance construction, furniture, equipment
and operating funds for new offices. The new division has been officially
established by the Government.



- 14 -
B. Development of Basic Education
41.      Experimentation with the Education Reform.  The project would support
the development, by a team of Malian specialists, of new Basic Education
curricula and syllabi adapted to the Malian environment; experimentation with
these new programs in 40 schools in the Segou region; local training of 240
teachers who will be in charge of the experiments; furniture, equipment and
education materials; and specialist services for an evaluation of the experi-
ment.  In addition, the project would also finance the introduction in the
project schools, of the new Grade 7-9 curricula prepared under the Second
Project.
42.      Teacher Training.  The project would finance construction, furniture
and equipment for two primary teacher training,colleges in Niono and Kangaba
with annual outputs of 180 students each. The project would finance 18 man-
months of services for a consultant specialist in teacher training and the
equivalent of 72 manmonths of fellowships for Malian professionals. Students
entering the teacher training colleges will be selected according to mutually
agreed admissions criteria to be applied no later than July 1, 1986 (draft DCA
and SFCA Section 3.09).
43.      Adult Education Programs.  The project would build on the experience
of the Second Education Project (Cr. 733-MLI) to expand basic functional edu-
cation programs for farmers by supporting: (i) work-oriented literacy pro-
grams for agricultural workers employed by the "Opérations de Développement
Rural;" (ii) post-literacy programs for young farmers already holding respons-
ibilities at the village level, i.e. stocktaking and purchasing, accounting,
bookkeeping and pharmaceutical distribution; and (iii) home economics programs
for women. The project would finance the production of instructional
materials and radio programs, the training of new instructors, and 18 man-
months of consultant services to evaluate the three programs.
C. Livestock and Agricultural Technician Training
44.      Training of Agricultural Extension Agents.  The project would finance
improvement of the facilities of the Agricultural Training Center at M'Pessoba;
the establishment of a new Specialized Agricultural Training Facility at the
Center responsible for the training of 120 extension agents per year in cotton
production; and the establishment of an upgrading program for in-service
extension agents to be implemented at all three Agricultural Training Centers.
In addition, the project also provides for 36 manmonths of specialist services
to prepare and begin the implementation of the upgrading program, and 68 man-
months of fellowships to improve the teaching capabilities of teachers at all
agricultural training institutions. The Government will undertake measures
cLuring project implementation to guarantee that the output of the Agricultural
Tlraining Centers does not exceed its present level (total of 175 new extension
agents per year), (draft DCA and SFCA Section 3.10).



- 15 -
45.      Livestock Technician Training.  The project would provide financing
for equipment, teacher training and operating costs for the Veterinary Train-
ing Institute (EIV) constructed under the Second Education Project at Sotuba
for training new junior livestock technicians. It will also provide 36 man-
months of technical assistance to prepare and implement an upgrading program
for livestock technicians already employed in the sector. This upgrading
program would be housed in adjacent buildings constructed with USAID
assistance. The Government provided assurances acceptable to IDA that it will
limit the output of new livestock extension agents to 60 per year during the
life of the project (draft DCA and SFCA Section 3.10).
D. Project Management
46.      Project Unit.  The well-managed and efficient Project Unit created
within the Ministry of Education under the First Education Project was
strengthened under the Second Project. Additional means, however, are
necessary to monitor the project's important educational content and to
compensate for the weakness of the accounting unit. Under the proposed third
education project, the Project Unit would be strengthened with additional
local staff, a locally recruited expatriate accountant, equipment, consultant
services for monitoring and evaluation, and operating funds.
Project Implementation
47.      The Project Unit would, as in the two previous projects, have the
overall responsibility for administering and supervising educational and
physical implementation of the third project, as well as procurement,
accounting, auditing and reporting. It would also assure the coordination
between IDA and the Ministries of Education and Rural Development. Senior
officials of these ministries have already been designated sub-project
managers to assist the Project Director with the planning and supervision of
their components.
Project Cost and Financing
48.      The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at US$17.3 million, with foreign costs of about US$11.9 million (about 69
percent). The project would be exempt from local taxes and duties. Cost
estimates for civil works are based on unit prices for construction materials,
transportation and labor derived from available contracts for comparable works
awarded in Mali in 1981 and adjusted to construction cost increases of 15
percent which have occurred in Mali since then.  The cost per average manmonth
of internationally recruited technical assistance is estimated at US$8,000
equivalent (including salaries, allowances, overheads and contingencies). The
cost of locally recruited specialists would average about US$1,600 per man-
month, including contingencies. Base cost estimates are for September 1983.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 10 percent of base costs for civil
works, furniture and equipment. Price contingencies have been applied as
follows:  1983: 8 percent; 1984: 7.5 percent; 1985: 7 percent; 1986-88:



- 16 -
6 percent. Inflation rates are assumed to be equal for both foreign and local
costs because of compensating exchange rate adjustments. Total contingencies
are estimated at US$3.9 million equivalent (about 29 percent of base costs).
49.      The proposed project would be financed by an IDA credit of SDR 4.4
million (US$4.6 million), by an IDA Special Fund credit of SDR 4.66 million
(US$4.9 million), and a credit of about US$6.9 million from the African
Development Fund. The AfDF credit would finance the construction and equip-
ping of the two teacher training colleges under a parallel financing arrange-
ment. The proposed IDA and IDA Special Fund credits would finance about
55 percent of total project costs (100 percent of total foreign costs and
about 26 percent of local costs of the components which IDA and IDASF would
finance). Altogether, external financing would cover about 95 percent of
total project costs. The Government would contribute the remaining local
costs of about US$0.9 million, of which about US$800,000 would be for local
salaries and the rest for part of the costs of operating expenses. The
project-assisted programs, at full operation in 1989, would add about
US$400,000 per year in 1983 prices to the Government's annual recurrent
budget, less than 0.5 percent of total recurrent expenditures. To monitor the
inclusion of project-generated operating costs in the budget, the Government
will furnish annually to IDA the estimated budgetary allocation for the next
fiscal year prior to approval by the Cabinet (draft DCA and SFCA Section
3.04(c))-
Special Account
,0.      Because the Government may have difficulty in prefinancing expendi-
tures to be reimbursed under the IDA and IDA Special Fund credits, a Special
Account of US$180,000, corresponding to about four months of expenditures
financed by the IDA and the IDASF credits, would be established for the local
purchase of building materials, spare parts, equipment and project operating
costs eligible for financing by the IDA credits. The Government would open an
account for this purpose in a local financial institution acceptable to IDA,
to be operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Establishment of
this account would be a condition of credit effectiveness (draft DCA and SFCA
Sections 6.01(a)).
Procurement
5l.      Civil works, equipment and furniture for the two primary teacher
training colleges in Niono and Kangaba (US$6.9 million) would be financed by
the AfDF and procured in accordance with its guidelines. Civil works for
a:Lteration and renovation of the Agricultural Training Center at M'pessoba,
valued at US$1.35 million, and for the two small office buildings in the
MiÈnistry of Education's compound in Bamako, valued together at US$280,000 and
a:ll to be financed by the IDA Special Fund, are not likely to attract foreign
b-"dders. The works would be procured under LCB procedures, open to local
foreign contractors, acceptable to IDA Special Fund guidelines and practices.
Furniture valued at US$0.1 million, and vehicles and office and audiovisual
equipment valued together at US$0.6 million to be financed by IDA funds, would
be procured in accordance with IDA's guidelines for ICB. Other items such as
laboratory equipment and consumables, tools, and agricultural machinery and



- 17 -
materials valued at US$0.9 million to be financed by the IDA Special Fund,
will be procured in accordance with the IDA Special Fund guidelines and ICB
practices. For all goods procured under ICB, qualifying domestic manufac-
turers would receive a bid evaluation preference of 15%, or the import duty,
whichever is lower. All goods will be grouped, whenever possible, in lots of
not less than US$50,000. However, miscellaneous furniture and equipment in
packages of less than US$50,000 will be awarded on the basis of quotations in
accordance with acceptable procedures. Total cost of such packages should not
exceed US$400,000 for goods financed by the IDA credit, US$400,000 for goods
financed by the IDA Special Fund. Expatriate specialists for training or
technical assistance will be recruited from relevant international organiza-
tions or selected from private firms in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Civil works bid packages estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent,
and bidding packages for goods valued at more than US$50,000 equivalent, would
be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documentation. This would
result in the review of about 92 percent of the total estimated value of civil
works and about 50 percent of the value of contracts for goods. The other
contracts would be subject to review by IDA after being awarded.
52.      The project would finance 386.5 manmonths of specialist services of
vhich 132 manmonths would be recruited locally. The services of internation-
ally recruited staff and consultants would be procured in accordance with
IDA's guidelines. All specialists and consultants employed under the project
vould have qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of service
acceptable to IDA. The project would provide 435 manmonths of fellowships for
the training of local staff. The Government has agreed that the recipients of
such fellowships be employed in project-related positions for a period of
twice the training period or a minimum of five years following completion of
the fellowship. The program of training and fellowships as well as selection
criteria will be deveioped with, and satisfactory to, the Association (Draft
DCA and SFCA Sections 3.07 and 3.08).
Disbursements
53.      The proceeds of the IDA and IDA Special Fund credits would be
disbursed to cover expenditures as follows:



- 18 -
IDA Credit          IDA Special Fund Credit
%of                       % of
Amount    Expenditure    Amount    Expenditure
Category                     US$million   Financed    US$million   Financed
I.  Civil Works                   0.00         100           1.30          100
2.  Furniture                      0.12         100          0.00          100
3. Vehicles, office and
audio-visual equipment      0.54         100           0.00          100
4. Agricultural and laboratory
equipment, consumables,
material and other
equipment                   0.00         100           0.97          100
5.  Specialist services            1.60        100           0.00          100
6.  Training of local staff        0.00         100          1.11          100
7. Project monitoring costs
and operating costs for
project administration      0.00         100           0.81          100
8. Incremental operating
costs 1/                    0.90          95           0.00           95
9. Initial disbursement for
the Special Account         0.06         100           0.12          100
10. Refinancing of PPF             1.00        100              -            -
11. Unallocated                   0.42                       0.55
TOTAL                        4.64                       4.86
1/  Excluding incremental salary expenditures.
All disbursements from the IDA and IDASF credits would be fully documented
except for operating costs on the categories 7 and 8 which would be disbursed
against certified statements of expenditures for which documentation would be
held by the Project Director for review by the IDA supervision missions and
for audits of project accounts.
Project Benefits and Risks
54.      The proposed project would assist the Government in establishing the
institutional framework necessary to implement its strategy for educational
development. In the short term, the project would increase access to basic
education through the training of 360 new teachers each year, which would
permit the enrollment of approximately 15,000 new students annually, and the
expansion of adult education programs. Support for training skilled workers
in agriculture and industry would increase the quality and number of skilled
workers entering the labor market. The institutional development and educa-
tion reform components would become visible mainly over the long term.  The
restructuring of the educational planning directorate, the strengthening of
the MEN's administrative capacity, and the control and guidance of student
flows would permit a more effective allocation of budgetary resources and an



- 19 -
increased contribution of the education sector to the goals of national econo-
mic development. The increased access to and improved quality of education
that is likely to result from the proposed project are crucial in this
respect.
55.      The first risk for the project is that the Government would be unable
to resist demands from secondary and higher education students and their
families to maintain a disproportionately high expenditure on this level of
education thus jeopardizing the efficient operation of project institutions
and the development of primary education. Experience through 1982 in this
respect has been encouraging and indicates the Government's determination to
implement the strategy set out in the statement of intent. Progress will be
monitored during project implementation using mutually agreed indicators and
analyzed in annual progress reports and in an in-depth midterm review. The
other risk concerns possible shortages of adequately trained staff for
project-financed institutions. To reduce this risk, the project provides
important budgetary allocations for fellowships to train staff and technical
assistance to reinforce it.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.      The draft Development and Special Fund Credit Agreements between the
Republic of Mali and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A condition of effectiveness would be the opening of a Special
Account (para. 50).
58.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development and Special Fund Credits
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Devel-
opment and Special Fund Credits.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D. C.
February 2, 1984



- 20 -
T A B L s  3A                                         PAGE I
MALI                     - SUCIAL INUICATORS DATA SdEET
MALI                                   REFERENCL GROUPS (WE[GItCUr  AVERAGES) /a
ilOST                      (iiOSI RSCENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b  RECENT  /b           LOW INCOME              t.IUULO INCOUL
1960-/-b    1970/-b .ESTIMATE-      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA      AFRlCA S. OF SAHiARA
AEEA (TBOUSAND SQ. 9<)
TOTAL                               1240.0       1240.0      1240.0
AGRICULTURAL                         317.6        317.5       320.5
GIP PER CAPITA (US$)                      50.0        80.0        190.u              254.6                      1147.9
ENERGY oeUSUNFTION FER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUlVALENT)        10.0         23.0        31.0                79.8                      724.2
POPULATIOU AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (TIIOUSANDS)    4040.0       5162.0      6881.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)         11.0         14.9        18.o                19.5                       28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               12.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                                 44.4
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                               2155
POPULArION DESSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          3.3          4.2         5.4                29.5                       50.5
PSR Sq. KM. AGRI. LAND              12.7         16.3        20.9                94.1                      131.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                           43.7         44.7        46.7                45.0                       45.9
15-64 YRS                           53.7         52.6        50.6                52.1                       51.2
65 AND ABOVE                         2.6          2.7         2.7                 2.9                        2.8
POPULATION GROWTLi RAIE (Z)
TOTAL                                2.1          2.5         2.6                 2.8                        2.8
UREAN                                5.Z          5.4         4.6                 6.2                        5.3
CRUDE BlRH RATE (PER THOUS)           49.8         49.1        48.5                47.9                       47.6
CRUDE DEATr RATE (FER TIIOUS)         26.8         23.8        21.4                19.2                       15.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.3          3.2         3.2                 3.2                        3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TiOUS)             ..
USERS (Z OF RARRIEI WOMEN)            ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        103.0        100.0        90.0                87.8                       95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)        91.0         89.0        85.0                88.0                       97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            59.0         57.0        S5.0                51.2                       5b.0
OF WHICH ANIUAL AND PULSE          16.0         16.0        14.0/c              18.1                       17.2
CUILD (AGES 1-4) DEArd RATE           45.8         39.8        33.2                25.7                       2j.6
fEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTIH (YEARS)        37.2         40.3        44.6                47.4                       51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (FER TROUS)        194.7        174.5       152.1               126.5                      117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         9.0/d              24.7                       25.4
URBAN                                 ..         29.0        42.O7à              56.8                       70.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..         3.0/8d             18.3                       12.3
à:CzSS TO EXCIZTA DISPOUL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          8.0          ..                28.1
URBAN                                 ..         63.0          ..                65.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..          ..                21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           64130.0     42660.0      22130.0/e           27420.6                    12181.6
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON             4710.0/f.R  2740.0       2380.07W            3456.2                     2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1390.0/h    1420.0/h    1760.0/c,h           1183.2                     1075.4
URBAN                              350.07 K  1260.07W       570.0/c,h           380.6                      402.3
RURAL                             2520.0.    1540.07h          ..              3177.5                     3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        27.3        30.5/c
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         4.8/d
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF FERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __--------- ---- -_ - _



- 21 -
T A B L E  3A                                          PAGE 2
MALI                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MARI                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGIITED AVERAGES) /a
NOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTINIATE) lb
1/b   /b  RECENT  /6         LOW INCOME               KIDDLE INCOME
1960-~.      1970-~. ESTIMATI;-       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. 01 SAHARA
LltCATION
AWJUSTED ENROLLIENT RATIOS
PRI.KARY:  TOTAL                     10.0         23.0         28.0/e              63.9                        97.2
MALE                      14.0        30.0         35.o7é               73.6                      103.1
FE'ALE                    6.0          16.0        20.o7ê               51.6                       88.5
SECUNDARY: TOTAL                      1.0          5.0          9.0/e              12.5                        17.2
MALE                       1.0         8.0         13.o7;j              16.7                       23.5
FEMALE                    0.3          2.0           5.0;/e              8.1                        14.2
VOCATIONAL (I OF SECONDARY)            14.6/         9.8          9.0/i                7.3                         5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              45.0         40.0         41.0                46.4                        42.9
SECONDARY                            17.0         15.0           ,,                25.1                        23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                 2.2           ..         10.0/c              36.5                        37.1
coPsTuioN
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             0.6          1.7          2.1/i               3.3                        18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSANUD POP           2.0         11.6         13.4                45.3                        97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..          ..           .                  2.2                        18.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                0.2          0.6/k         ..                 4.7                        18.2
CIIiEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        1.9          0.57î         ..                 1.0                         0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LA8OR FORCE (THOUS)            2324.U       2853.0       3584.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     48.1         47.9         48.4                34.5                        36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                94.0         91.0         72.6                76.9                        56.8
INUUSTgY (PERCENT)                    3.0          4.0         11.7                 9.8                        17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                57.5         55.3         52.1                40.9                        37.0
NALE                                 60.6         58.6         55.6                53.0                        47.1
FEIALE                               54.5         52.0         48.8                28.9                        27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9          0.9                 1.2                         1.3
INCOME DISTRIWTIOl
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
iiIGIEST 5S  OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..
HIGNSST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..
LOWEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..
POVERTI TARGET GBRIPS
ESTIHATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         98.0/c             165.9                       534.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..         60.071              87.4                       255.9
ESTIKATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URfAN                                  ..           ..         61.0/c             100.8                       491.5
RURAL                                   ..          ..         37.O7r              64.6                       188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         27.0/i              39.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         48. 07              69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifore.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, -Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1978; /f 1962; IR Government personnel; /h Government hospital establishments; /i 1975; 1j Not
including private vocational schoola; /k 1972; /l 1968.
May 1983



- 22-
pa«. 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL !NICIAT70
Mats: Althacgh thé.aaar dre.rtscte   sea.    odr   ieaé  ctoéa  n  and rs,ltal,  ta éinold aléa hé oe  tinta aine  -ay oaé té.  .tnn.rnacttally
coparable hacaaé 0f th. 1ack af sadadaddftttn  anA ooaepo  atdb   ifaetcaar                                    la alleninn  thé dat.         daaar,couthléelae ntit
déortibe trière cf saaca,tdicéta trI.nda, and  oh otr -a etain éotdifferancea batccancoco.r.ea.
Ttc aeecanc  groaa ors1l17  ioc      otnhgnpaItcahet  nnr   n hll  aactaytgcoop  ath anoahnin  higheranaaga inc-   é1hca thé ao...t,y geap af étée
sobjconcocar;  cacpo  or  tigi  Inarn' Ci taartté'gacp lvnr   Stdia  toc   oé  Afr Ica aad Madle ica" te chouan b..aa.a of atogrc acléarI.
ARA(iloun  éq.iUt .ttha.)h                                                                      po. li pulaIc  par Phl V'a1cta    Ilpvpciarao  dtcf  t;i. eamée  et. prcactctye
fo   rné  patrt*aaié   n loptéoten coadanIl     o  tad Ilia c-   a  1961,ntogcvitar.
c97l anA 1980 data.                                                                              Poplaio  Oea F ..       lcc      oci cba  tdcaa   Pvphteé  étl
hNP Pit CAPITA (fi;  -tPprOpita eéiaataa an  ccea Icrt prioce,                                          anilchlc  I iv  cilto ed prancte getalad tpeoIa.sI.d tésptt   d
byalnd     éé    tonric     .ethod aac d Occk Atlat 11979-il bactel;                           rinhbilictlot oetera   Ilvpit.1. arIetaaa             pata   -suaaal t     atc
1960, 1870, and 198t dat,6.nlae00  h'liv    aaléiéespcttapaeaet.atia
care are con avtded.  acao  csaa1        s h  éveiner.--   tilclie hltéhît ced
E91ERGY CONSlfMlfION fît CAPITA - Ancal cpatonocéopntc of ocvroa                                         edîcaf  Ict   fto   -emneap.affcd by a ph;atctaa (bot té; a éfiaa1
pccr;acg   onlaa   agte,ptrtcé    atrt a   od  lfdo,ncer                                        atto,vcc,cdta    t.   itto  vOter to-pattet conosdattaa ted
cnd geochérco   elneonl anI  iors f onal eqooctan   par caPitet                                       prooIde a ltaOnadanafotil fénlneé.for étettattl aceaose
1960, 1970,..ad f880 dats.                                                                           cr=thospltcla itolode  ospioplgorlicpaî. WHO.pcacé
hospîtlsl, looco1I na -roral  Pinplle  Mo éedioal ad materit;  tt
P7PcLATION AND VITAl. STcTISTICS                                                                        npaotaaieed hpinoptl  are a_oclndd ont; cader total.
cTal.  oac.latioa    t-ea   noecd)-O  ofJoly 1; 1960, f970, aad 1991                               odlct Ptpar Hcapioa  t   - Tota1l ocahé  cftaa o . t  or disnhac8.
da.t                                                                                               fto  h.aptalé d ioidd b;  h   aiarc   eé
Othb- Palapl,ti   (perovt of cota)   R.ftto of-Ilta  to avtl popolation;
dtfécceon defloiice  If orinaccra -a ocnflaonooapaaabilin;  of dat                             cOUSING
Il. ocnta716, 1970, anA tff dota.                                                       Aaetae Otet1 offCaaihld (prce         Ia tcdaahnad(   carat. acbca. .ed cara
Pocolanton Projeottoot                                                      - Atcatdoottafcgrpcf to,davtaal  ah. shir  IticgII  aatarncr
ranca.  Ptjaontoa  ananctarafor  ornl ttp .I. .ans .copica cf abrea                  dntaacber cf pacé.e..  .t coattIltc.al  aa   eraeeué
_apan   ooelce,adfa     110e c-pannoonp  tnainîlfcan  on 77.5                                    dellna,r               1yninl.  DeaIlaegae .lade oa-eéaa  urtoe    t
;eat.lio  arnecr  fo  failin   an  a fnace thtea.,         Oca-                             coonna pied patta
ael.mIgdalaOnfaltpnodngpn  lcoe  étl  ndpanEald;                                                ccaeoilctacorIprcn  of dela "el-,tnal oca..atcaa
ooobh.toaico  cf e-onît, 'yad férnalin;ytreda for projactico PIroea.c  tonal, cInon, anA rural deellitoa  reepenainel;
Stcnocppttic..oy-Ina   atattc...ry popo1anton thare 1. .c gr-ah
t"Inca nI te  tlh   tan  te eqo1 an tint decthn cato, ccd alec nhe aa                       EDUCATION
tno _crtnacccannt.Thté té ahintVcd oct;  fit-  fertilttY caeAdjoatd Entnlmo-o Rtatto
declin  anII    cpoaaolee   fci   e   erncno   oo   fr                                           ficary achool - tonal, saté .cd faaa..       tca   toal  aile éad feucle
eahge..ratîo oS..n..  ralcaaat-f etunlo.  Th. e-ain...ry                                        enoloc   f           gas At thnc primar; lacel       P a ..arcctgé  c  tasatc
poptclocOaacc  aavednv  in  bst  o  na  roécedcinraoa-                                 atan  cinalac  popa1latona; vcuall  ian1ade  obtldrea  gai 6-11
ténîna of tha pnpc.tlannO  tio  aac -    lt   t   ha rane   fdalIc  cf                             pavre hon adjaetedfr  affean          ..ehaté  né prtéat  einaticc; fat
fertal cp rate a  ratatoonlell.                                                                    cnnrlatt  nnra   docatio.n.. eaclnné- a.;  ocd 108  pac-st
'tact étooin...rY Pooc1otion ta tecihed -The ;ca  ohm.  ftccinvarp                                   atone con poptila aé belve or che thé officta1 ecéal  Sg..
popottinaaneoahi  étached.                                                                hoodrrclol    oa, cale acd fes..la - Coupeac  -  atéa; amoadary
Par te. km. - inf-poat popclctioo pet-      ut  kl.loene  1107 inact.rea) of                         poonaattanral  noatcc.o  teatsetitgiataaié   for
,tonl ac;1960, 1970, and 1980 data.                                                                "ppitac-cly cf Il t. 17 ;e-ac cf cga; crepn n    vre   a
fert.tn.cntctrg                cd- Coop'nad aa  bon- for ogIicultoral fondtocoiccudd
nol;; 1960, 1970 and tifS Auna.                                                                 ccnoaertnon(catcf éencddcry) - V ...ttonal teatitetiat
Poocîcton,        -- Stcnn   PI tacat>  -l CilAron (0-14 pocr 1, oclckinAacI  (15-                   loclada  ahia,idarc,o   ther .pragaa  stéhicth  p.r.t. Iadafed-
64 peatél, cd rettred 165 pearo an doo) e_        ercncga  f nid-pear                            en     l;  rc .depatont  cf  a         yodr  tstttcttIn.
pplnc;1960  f970,1 Ied f901 dct.                                                          P~ptl-neacha  tan   - rrtiarnn  anA aencdarn  - Totl  cdet  e-ralte  tc
Popalatic  Occonintata I pcant) -ton! - cencal gtath ratea of total rod-                   past   r   eodo;lcl   aie  b   obt   ftacér   atécr
Y",r popolatinLo  190-0  196-70  cc   909.Aaapdvf aJi
Popolcto- Orocth fian  (percent>   Ifchc  - caol-  tt1     n  rant-o cfbot.c                       An t Ilcay acéI-         rea    LltaerIl adtté fain1.tac  cea  ced eîte) a
pnpcla ti... for 1957-b:. 1960-70,.ad 0970-81.                                                     cprocfcf otal. cdcla popolatin  gted OS Y-cr  ced  er
Crode Bitthi tata (Pat Ihoc....d) - -nc_a  li_e bîr-h  par thnoccnd of od-
yea. ;oo Ilt.; f960, 1970, anA 1981 Acta.                                                      CIONSPMPTION
OrdeOrth can  (par thoccund) - Accool Adaho pct thoccad cf eld-ypaP.. faeagaa  aC.I  pth ....cad popltatine..                                  Peeae  caetvarnsoe
poptacoc  0960, 1970, .od 1981 data.                                                               -aIlcnn   Orné ,l,cc tbnpco;ecleaétaec, héarseas,td
Its   et oi-t Rla c-Anaca  aht  fdc'trccsa    a: nc 1il                                      ntlitta;_hI.tcla.
har ooca.    tpodctn   petIcd ifhin  rpertaano- pro-co  aaa-cpatftc                              RadinOca r  (Par tfn-cacn  pInp,ciae  -All types cf  -anevr   c- t.dit.
f...ian  tne; léc yt  ftna-pay    cargn  an    O  1967, 1970, and                         btoadc..st  tncage...    pnblt  paIionv   F ~papatana; eaaesan
Fouit; Pl"""in-Accpcorc, Aca  tocn    AcoucI cashe  offaccptoro                                      ao a    On  ffet; Acta for rc....t Ye.. n;aa  étarhé   tc.u
cfbrc-nnrldantcet ondarcI pov   nf nal Oc -a fat;pla_n                                             ccvctcaniianh   leed           a
ptoîrca.                                                                ~~~~~~~TV Onaicr  <o  thacean2d pclt>-TVrcent  fat hvedn...t ta
,a.,,r P,avtc-..       c Ocacat  f narted ..onan) - Iltvtc   cfIl           rnIl                     ganra  poiO   Pet           Idcec   popalatton; ectaescaiceud TVceneteer
aceencf cnOlAineancgca  (1-44 yo-,) oh. cc   ln-vco   atraotnonlncd in faut  ahaorotntton  Tn nate aca ta rfent.
ah  ncrOn  anan O  conlag  grocp.                                                         Socpil,arncao   "ptl "hedPoplat""n, -ihoa  tinacoarace
toccu cf foof P-cdocttnr pet Copfa Il1969-71-1077  -  nd-n cf peiacaphcutndnndpict1t  ctctAa8cativc     na   oodéed
annol prdcc Ioncf  Il, fond  ocea dtnlé.  poActcn lccdntaed anA                              to ha 0dcily" If atéppearsat Oe..en foo  tante a neéb.
cca- cn   anta   f  oalcho   r  edttaIcd cnn1tocndent  leo.                                          l.....aA   oro    ttc ;car, t pl,dc   adte-        otc  dr- ce-to nieca
hed cn cacina .. aetaga pcdocrprOte _ceiginc; 196-6,  97,  cnd1 I IfSS
donc;i.                                                                                       LA,OO f0011
fer c_taetl   fclre   rroto   cnieacl-bcoa   aaOclChtfore.,                                                               cacé   - tcaE oc.iccl;ct11,         esoé  acic1di    rs
eaon,ed thnclnenl    a   vplacold   osifc,aaé                                                  aparabla; 1960, 1970'end 1980 dcc
Oaqottaennaercaatsace   6; PO hacd  Oc pt;éIlcgcl  cdafrgoee                              citoIlfte (pItcl -t btc  fot-e aa faciog, fernear;, bcatceg at
actinîty ccd tacîhnt.. n itderocti tonetc  bepnaoa,hd  atght,,                                       fnhtig c  prcctcf noat tatrb frce  196f, a97o aod a98a data.
accc~jcnc di_nrtontn  f  opoai-             an l allootg If pareo  foc  té                         Induént; (pI pereca  - tbot fort  il  ttg   oocain   aaaac
antontl h      acc; 19_61-     1970cc 1980 dats.                                                      -ndeIlontrcia;, aa-erccd gau  peottc              f tata1 Iain- fcenea  t96f.
Per -arma ecrtl; cf protcin lgrava par d'y) - PrtIncotent cfp-t copias                                   977 anA 198f Acté
coé lcf fod pet doy.  Oct -opplf cf fccd ta dafined aéatn.                               Parnficcintoo  tan   <peocn 7- cti  ae.cdttl  - Partnéaite
ffcqotcacc..    Oct ail coonle  octohbl      d t; 1h00A pt-cide fot ottuicactftci.a..ceda  ét talc  ce  tale tbe  fornea
allo.....s cf 6   rt   f tonat pronec. par At; anA  20 aran  nf aniai oad                          pacnaceo  tonal,' sala anI oai   pepacta  af ait  tes ce.ticraeé;;
polca pttevc  chiot 10 RI... chocIh'I            ta  pcao.Ine                                      1960, 1970, cod 1981 data'j.dTeear   éc  ae IfLD'e p-cttapaict nates
1....d raloe   ihan tiho- cf 75ctscftoa  ptotetn an  27d-  Ffoan                           raf lccnogaa-    oto-t-re cftht            P   tplania, ccd Io.at,e  é    créai.  A
nf animal pItott.ei      eaetg   o  ttc cotld, ptopoc-d by FAOC  nnna ilnicthcarafron otioo... ccec
morld corld Fond S-yce; 1961-65, 1970 avd 1987 data.                                             Ocnet  teedecoy R.tto - tat  cf pepatcatov ccder f5 aci 69 avd ocer c
Pea copt' proncn vtty ftc  cami,, ad ric-trooco  -oppî  f    fon                                     ch. tcOa1 lahcb frce
detined froctcoIcole~ -nd pcOt_ Oc Arcc M,r day; 196n1-65, 0977 aad 0977
FtAldac  1-4) Deani lace (Pet aton~ado    - dAnull-   dtine pet nhnocnd 0v                        _IPerata   fPiaa   aoe<égnt   ci  edbc)-Joicdb   ahc
ago 5tcc  t-k pe ta,1  chinIdron II th. cg. froc; Oc  -ino  d_nccpivg                        P'to Int  thobet 70 percent, p--ee  20 perceet, arA  pcctect A0 P.,rve.t cf
n nesdata denined Caca lofa tahlté; 1960, f577 ccd 098f Acta.                                 h-cahod.
lTe_pnec  a    in   peo   - Onotfag cooor cf pecr  cf lifs tconn                                   iof1v ~et taa.cr   ,pprocOute éeascf P-.-Yra  1enal, ccd
Ic birtih; 1960, 197fad  90  aa                                                                    otonîf h-Ochcrpd   ted aath ro..aderatl  aatf
y-o  c~f IFe pet t~hoon   tnhina;1967, 1970 ucd 1981 dt.                                            Ihaloepnr;ica  tiivhéicsaeeténebtncsaui
Nater cf people Itotc1, otba, an îrrc) on  re              -btOaccot   ct                           fnrcn
vnrpply icl    -etct-nd coracoacrIo  anretd hon                                             E.ttIcted  elria   oen  I-p'Ocl 9$prnrîa      rna  e   oa
-b-a Ilreacpcblic   nnnao  r tadpot   Icatd  o  cota th.. 200 sacte-                               lo-a  scttadjocnoan  Oct hIAtt .os. ot f iiete  ta cehcara
froc a norafh nh-c.d. rcbOc haco  nanthia,eéc l  anre 1c,lan                                     Eanicted PoPolation celc_AbSéltePnte  noe  at   psoé)     ca
cenhara of tine hinnninld do  o -tano no épcd c dOaptoportOoncta pc-  cf                           P.
thin  dcp Oc fnnfnhi, the fmily'. a cne  necine
Ac.... Oc E-rt   ioeo   ptaocfppltnt -u.ctat1, orbco, cod
rcrcl-Nb-aoinrfpclr<totO,ctan, drcooll act-adhpby_tc
Atopn..cl ca per.e.ntgca cf ainet lr.cpetine popolaticco.  Ecrnc-          dpoc
-y ncld   te. ocirtO          n  dOopoto.l,  iath ot oth-ontrton_at, nf                                                                 DccacaAOca   éaiflicton
taaccraacAaaoeote   ;  anrhoteaétc                 ho tn  ose  f pin                                                          .. Ocnnl acapi  cc d Projccttoec DepaIttua
prcietan  tillar in tellctNno.ya f983



-23 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAI PRODUCT IN 1982 /1/                                             ANNUAL COMPOUND RATE OF GROWTH (t constant prices) /2,
US$ Mln.       S                              1960-67    1967-74  1974-80  1980-82
GNP at Market Prices                  1045.9      100.0                               3.4       2.5         8.2        0.4
Gross Domestic Investnment              171.6       16.4                              6.1       -2.1        8.7       -3.8
Cross National Saving                  -25.8        -2.5                             -2.3          /3/
Current Account Balance /4/           -198.7      -19.0                            -15.5        -6.6       -1.2       22.6 /5/
Exports of Goods, NFS                  188.7        18.0                             12.0      -2.8        11.6     -14.9 /5/
Imports of Goods, NFS                  389.7       37.3                              13.7        4.9        6.2       -6.5 /5/
OUTPIJT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982 /6/
Value Added            Labor Force      V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                  Mln.       S         US$         S
Agriculture                            445.6        42.6        2.7      73.0       165.0       56.8
Industry                               107.7        10.3        0.4       12.0     269.3        92.7
Services                               492.6        47.1        0.5       15.0      985.2      339.1
Total/Average                    1045.9      100.0        3.6      100.0      290.5      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE /7/
Genera] Government               Central Government
(MF Bln.)       % of GDP /8/  (MF Bln.)          % of GDP
1982       1982    1979-81       1982       1982    1979-81
Curtent Receipts                       101.1        15.0       14.8      78.4        11.6       11.4
Current Expenditures                   11i.0        16.4       18.8       88.3       13.1       14.6
Current Surplus                         -9.9       -1.5       -4.1       -9.9       -1.5       -3.2
Capital Expenditures                      ..         ..         ..        6.8         1.0
External Assistance (net) /9/             ..         ..         ..       142.5      21.1        16.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES /10/            1978       1979       1980       1981       1982                  1982       1983
(Bln MF Outstanding end-period)                         January   January
Money and Quasi-Money                   103.0      120.2      125.6     129.4       144.6                 134.3      151.7
Bank Credit to Government              101.8      110.1      111.9      123.1      151.8                  124.4      154.1
Bank Credit to Economy                 131.6      152.2      164.0      174.8      190.0                  178.8      197.0
(of which State Enterprises)           (71.9)     (89.2)   (104.6)   (110.7)   (116.8)                  (107.1)   (120.1)
Money and Quasi-Money (% GDP)           24.3       23.1       22.4       21.3       21.4
Generai Price Index /11/               100.0      110.8      121.0      134.3       146.1
Annual percentage change in
Generai Price Index                       9.7       10.8        9.2       11.0        8.8
Bank< Credit to Government               7.8         8.2        1.6       10.0      23.3
Bank Credit to Economy                  22.8        15.7        7.8        6.6        8.7
(of which State Enterprises)         (11.6)    (24.1)    (17.3)        (5.3)      (5.5)
NOTES:  All conversions to US$ are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the.period covered.
Not available indicated by '..'
/1/  GNP estimate for 1982 based on current growth rates from IMF and 1980 GNP value from EPD National
Accounts data. All other components are estimates from IMF Staff Report, August 1983.
/2/  GNP growth rate calculated by the least-squares method, all other growth rates using end points.
/3/  Gross National Saving turned negative in 1974, making calculation of a growth rate impossible.
/4/  Growth rate calculated from Resource Gap, not Current Balance.  A negative sign indicates a growing deficit.
/5/  Growth rates calculated on the basis of constant SDR s.
/6/  Labor Force from World Development Report 1983; these figures actually represent the 1980 labor force.
Bank estimates of value added by sector are not yet available. These figures were calculated by assuming
that between 1981 and 1982 the sectors changed (relatively to one another) as noted in the IMF Staff Report.
These relative changes were applied to 1981 Bank's sectoral breakdown and scaled to sum to GNP.
/7/  From IMF RED, Auguist, 1983, and Capital Expenditure from the Malian Budget, 1982.
/8/  1982 GDP estimate from IMF Staff Report, August, 1983.
/9/  Provisional estimates of net foreign borrowing from DRS and of grants from IMF RED, August, 1983.
Grants include food aid, project aid and budgetary aid.
/10/  All data from IMF International Financial Statistics Yearbook.
/11/  GDP deflator.  This is a composite series using deflators from EPD National Accounts data until 1980
and thereafter calculating the index by using percentage changes from IMF Staff Report to make the
deflators compatible with national accounts figures used.
August 29, 1983



- 24 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, FOB (AVERAGE 1980-82) /5/
1980       1981       1982                                                    US$ Mln         f
Millions US$
Cotton and Products                    74.4       44.5
Exports of goods, NFS /1/             262.4      200.4      188.7                Livestock and Products                  55.9       33.5
Imports of goods, NFS /1/             579.0      447.0      389.7                Groundnuts and Products                  5.3        3.2
Resourcer gap (deficit=-)           -316.6    -246.6    -201.0                   Fish (dried and smoked)                  2.3        1.4
All other commodities                  29.2       17.5
Factor Fayments (net) /1/             -16.3      -29.3      -26.5
Private Transfers (net) /1/            33.1       29.6       28.8                Total                                  167.1      100.0
Balance on Current Account           -299.8    -246.3    -198.7                  EXTERNAL DEBT, Dec. 31, 1982 /6/
US$ Mln.
Government Transfers (net) /1/        146.0      129.7       93.1
MLT Capital (net) /2/                 121.2       92.9          ..               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                    1260.3
Receipts                         128.7      106.1          ..                (of which disbursed)                            (825.2)
(of which public debt)          (117.1)     (94.9)
Payments                          10.9        10.5         ..                DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1982 /6/                      1
(of which public debt)            (6.4)      (7.3)
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed                      5.2
Other Items                           -31.2    '-16.5
Increase in Reserves /2/               -1.4       -7.2
IBRD/IDA LENDING 1982 (Million US$) /6/
Gross Reserves /3/                     25.6       24.9
Net Reserves /3/                       25.6       24.9          *                                                  IBRD             IDA
Deficit on Operations
Account /4/                    -279.2    -238.5           ..                Outstanding and Disbursed        0.0             153.8
Undisbursed                      0.0              91.7
Imports of Petroleum /5/               82.8       73.2       69.4                Outstanding and Undisbursed   0.0                 245.5
Imports of Foodstuffs /5/              78.8       83.7       61.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE /3/
US$ 1.00 = MF                         422.6    543.46    657.24
MF   100 = US$                         0.24       0.18       0.15
(As of' May 1983: US$ 1.00   MF   743.01
MF 100 = US$        0.13)
NOTES:  For Balance of Payments, consistent, reliable estimates for 1982 are not currently available.
/1/  From IMF RED, August 1983.
/2/  From IMF Balance of Payments Yearbooks.  'MLT Capital Net' is not equal to the difference between
Receipts and Payments because Net Use of Fund Credit is included in the net figure but is not included
in the gross figures. Net Use of Fund Credit is excluded from Total Changes in Reserves.
/3/  -rom IMF International Financial Statistics.
/4/  From CEM, June, 1981, and IMF Staff Report, August 16, 1983.
/5/  From IMF RED, November 9, 1981, and IMF RED, August, 1983.  Imports of Foodstuffs does not include
Food Aid.
/6/  From DRS Table 2, provisional for 1982. Debt service ratio is the ratio of debt service to exports
of goods and non-factor services.
August 29, 1983



- 25 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as of September 30, 1983
Borrower: Republic of Mali
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                         Amount
Number     Year       Purpose                               IDA       Undisbursed
-----US$ million-----
Twelve Credits fully disbursed                               79.9
538-MLI    1975   Livestock                                  13.3          0.83
669-MLI    1977   Mali-Sud Agricultural                      15.5          1.88
713-MLI    1977   Railway III                                 10.5         0.60
733-MLI    1978   Education II                               10.0          0.88
753-MLI    1978   Mopti Rice II                               15.0         0.54
854-MLI    1979   Technical Assistance                        4.5          0.28
883-MLI    1979   Forestry                                    4.5          1.84
943-MLI    1979   Urban Development                          12.0          4.47
986-MLI    1980   Industrial Sector Development               8.0          6.66
1104-MLI   1981   Road Maintenance                           14.1 1/       9.86 1/
1134-MLI   1981   Petroleum Exploration Promotion             3.3 17       1.67 1/
1174-MLI   1982   ODIPAC Technical Assistance                 5.8 1/       4.15 1/
1200-MLI   1982   Second Telecommunications                  12.5 T/      12.24 1/
1282-MLI   1983   Water/Power                                21.5 1/      20.83 1/
1307-MLI   1983   Economic Management and Training           10.2 1/       9.24 1/
1403-MLI   1984   Biomass Alcohol and Energy Efficiency    7.5 2/          7.50
248.1        83.47
of which has been repaid                  1.3
Total now held by IDA*                                      246.8
Total undisbursed                                                         83.47
*    Prior to exchange adjustment.
1/   SDR exchange rate at July 31, 1983.
2/   Not yet effective



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1983
Ioan                                                 Amount
Nuraber   Year  Borrower                Purpose      of Loan  Equity  Undisbursed
--US$ million-------
403-MLI  1978  Societe Mamadou
Sada Diallo et Fils      Bleach and
Plastic
Products         0.6              0.0
612-MLI  1982  Societe Industrielle    Sheanut butter
de Karite du Mali, S.A. for export        1.9      0.5     0.6



- 27 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 1
MALI
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(A)  Project Preparation Missions:  1982
(B)  Appraisal Mission:  December, 1982
(C)  Post-Appraisal Missions:  February and May, 1983
(D)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:  January 12, 1984
(E)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  July, 1984
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i) A Special Account has been opened (para. 50).
B.   Other Conditions:
(i)  information necessary to monitor progress toward implementation
of sector policies will be submitted annually to IDA and an in-
depth review will be undertaken before December 31, 1986
(para. 32);
(ii) students will be selected for admission to teacher training
colleges in accordance with mutually agreed admissions criteria
(para. 42);
(iii)  the Government will take all necessary steps to limit the
training of new extension agents to 175 per year and of new
livestock extension agents to 60 per year (paras. 44 and 45);
(iv)  MEN's estimated budgetary allocation will be furnished to IDA
annually, prior to approval by Cabinet (para. 49); and
(v)  the Government will require every person undergoing training
under the project to be employed in a project-related position
for a period twice the training period or a minimum of five
years after completion of the fellowships. The program of
training and fellowships, including the criteria for the
selection of candidates and locations, shall be approved by the
Association prior to its confirmation by the Government
(para. 52).






MALI                                                                                                                                    NES
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                            N
TRO/S/544E PROJET D'EDIC-A T/ON                                                                                                                             yN                                     L EI
I     TO  AUL FOUEUNRLUTA
TU EEU  OPE AO  O00sTALFUT  0.U
I  ElIÊI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
F~~aUUU   ALEMAUUWR  UTTAYNj1-
-  ALEUTTEUESEUANULUUOAEV -   -,- -   - -E- -     - ----i
-j~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 
- U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                                                       J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H N                                     PE
05500'  OECE O A -U.EU' . 6..S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TP           s-                                                        IOTA       I
y c Q                                                                                        GUI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



