CR      1,   c,    Mu,.,
OFFICIAL        SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-10 MLI
DOCN     TS
Special Fund Credit Agreement
(Third Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
International Development Association
Dated       &     4A- CfA  tg    , 1984


﻿SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-10 MLI
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       Ax 0',dLfR   (Sr          , 1984, bet-
ween REPUBLIC OF MALI (the Borrower or Mali) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Fund
established with funds contributed by 'certain members of the
International Development Association.
WHEREAS (A) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on Octo-
ber 26, 1982, of the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) there has been
established by IDA a Special Fund constituted by the funds which
shall be contributed by certain members of IDA and administered
by IDA, acting as Administrator of such Special Fund, for the
purpose of, and in accordance with, the provisions of said
Resolution;
(B)    the Borrower has requested    the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Fund in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Administrator has determined that such
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Resolution referred to above;
(C) the Borrower has requested IDA to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to four million four hundred forty thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,440,000) (hereinafter called the
IDA Credit);
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (hereinafter called the Fund) a loan (herein-
after called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to about six
million nine hundred thousand dollars ($6,900,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Fund; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Special Fund Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;


﻿- 2 -
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated June 30, 1980, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)   The term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means   the  International  Development  Associatiotn.
acting as the Administrator of the Special Fund referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement.
(b)  The terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "Special Fund Credit Agreement", "Special Fund
Credit" and "Special Fund Credit Account", respectively.
(c) The second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted.
(d) In Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Special Fund Resolution" means Resolution No. IDA 82-6
of the Executive Directors of IDA which, inter alia, establishes
the Special Fund.
(b)   "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Fund referred
to in the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c)   "Part I member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part I of Schedule A to those Articles.
(d) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA which is
not a Part I member of IDA.
(e)    "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement
between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose of the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of IDA, dated June 30, 1980, as made applicable to
such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Development
Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(f)    "Project Preparation   Advance"   means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
ptkrsuant to an exchange of letters dated February 2, 1982 and
June 23, 1983 between the Borrower and the Association.
(g)    "Mali Franc" and    "MF" mean   the  currency  of  the
Borrower.
(h)   "Project Unit" means the unit established under the
Development Credit Agreement (Education Project) for Credit No.
420 MLI, dated July 11, 1973, between the Borrower and the
Association and maintained under the Development Credit Agreement
(Second Education Project) for Credit No. 733 MLI, dated
September 30, 1977, between the Borrower and the Association.
(i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
(j)   "DNAFLA" means the Borrower's Direction Nationale de
l'Alphab6tisation Fonctionnelle et de la Linguistique.
(k) "DNPES" means the Borrower's Direction Nationale de la
Planification et de l'Equipement Scolaires.
(1)   "MEN" means the Borrower's Ministere de l'Education
Nationale.


﻿-4-
(m) "Basic Education" means the Borrower's Enseignement
Fondamental.
(n)  "EIV" means the Borrower's Ecole d'Infirmiers Vt6ri-
naires.
(o)  "IPEG" means any of the Borrower's Instituts Pedagogi-
ques d'Enseignement G6n9ral.
(p) "CAA" means any of the Borrower's Centres d'Apprentis-
sage Agricole.
(q)   "Agency" means any entity participating in the execu-
tion of the Project, including, but not limited to ministries,
departments and agencies of the Borrower.
(r) "Incremental Operating Costs" means the aggregate sup-
plemental operating expenditures (excluding expenditures for the
salaries of civil servants) incurred by each of the entities
referred to in Parts A, B and C of the Project to the extent such
expenditures were generated by the activities implemented by each
of such entities under the Project.
(s) "Note Technique" means the Note Technique issued by the
Minister in charge of MEN on May 11, 1983, dealing with the 6tat
d'avancement des mesures A prendre en matigre d'9ducation et de
formation suite a l'4tude du secteur de 1'8ducation.
ARTICLE II
The Special Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Fund Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to four million six hundred sixty thousand Spe-
cial Drawing Rights (SDR 4,660,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Special Fund Credit may
be withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project


﻿-5-
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.
(b)  Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of (A) any Part II member of IDA; (B) any Part I
member of IDA which fulfills the conditions set forth in para-
graph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund Resolution on the date of
this Agreement, as determined by the Administrator.
(c)   The Borrower shall, for the purpose of the Project,
open and, thereafter, maintain in MF a Special Account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1990,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrato-.- shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Special Fund Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit Account or
shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge


﻿- 6 -
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
yeare
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the Special Fund Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15,
1994 and ending February 15, 2034, each installment to and
including the installment payable on February 15, 2004, to be
one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
both the objective of the educational sector as set out in the
Note Technique and the objective of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 hereto, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, educational, technical and
economic practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall, without limitation to the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of this Section, take all such measures
necessary, including budgetary allocations, to cover the operat-
ing and monitoring costs of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall, as and when needed, employ
consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Administrator, such consultants and experts to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the


﻿-7-
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insu-
rance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Admin-
istrator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Administrator's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Special
Fund Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Administrator quarterly reports containing all
such information as the Administrator shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) by October 15 of each year
furnish to the Administrator all information concerning the
indicators for the educational sector agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Administrator, as well as all information con-
cerning the estimated MEN budgetary allocations for the next
fiscal year, in order to show the progress being made towards the


﻿-8-
objective set for such sector; and (ii) by December 31, 1986,
review with the Administrator the progress hitherto made towards
such objective.
(d)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit, the Administrator may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(e)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Administrator of their respective obligations under
the Special Fund Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Special Fund Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Administrator that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall maintain the Project Unit
with powers, responsibility, personnel and resources satisfactory
to the Administrator.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Admin-
istrator for its review and comments a program of all training
activities included in the Project; and (b) award fellowships for
such training program to suitably qualified candidates in accord-
ance with criteria satisfactory to the Association for the selec-
tion of said candidates, for the award of such fellowships and
for the designation of institutions for such training.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall appoint officials who have
successfully completed training under the Project to appropriate


﻿9
Project related positions for a period at least equal to twice
the period of training and, in any event, for no less than five
(5) years.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, not later than July 1,
1986, establish and, thereafter, apply admission requirements for
IPEGs to be satisfactory to the Administrator.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all such measures as
shall be necessary to ensure that the annual output of agricultu-
ral extension agents at all CAAs and livestock technicians at
EIV, shall not exceed a total of one hundred seventy-five of such
agents and sixty of such technicians, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Special Fund Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Special Fund
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and
(iii) enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such
records.
(c)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the Special Account, and
the separate accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) furnish to
the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of such


﻿- 10 -
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have reason-
ably requested, including without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit withdrawn from
the Special Fund Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other
information concerning said accounts, records and expenditures
and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. 'The Borrower shall adequately maintain, or
cause to be maintained, the installations and facilities cn-
structed, improved, equipped or otherwise assisted under the
Project in accordance with appropriate administrative, technical
and educational practices, and provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Sectiori:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant, loan or credit (including the IDA
Credit or the Fund Loan) made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor; or
(ii) any such loan or credit (including the IDA Credit
or the Fund Loan) shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the


﻿- 11 -
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a)  the Special Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) hereof; and
(b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date   S     ^^b4A 4C   u       , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of Sections 4.02 and 5.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Special Fund Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
Section 6.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator of
the Special Fund pursuant to paragraph 17 of the Special Fund
Resolution, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
designate another party which, on the date specified in such
notice, shall assume part or all of the rights and obligations of


﻿- 12 -
the Administrator under this Agreement in accordance with the
Special Fund Resolution and such decision of the Executive
Directors, as specified in such notice.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Either the Minister in charge of Finances, or
the Minister- in charge of Foreign Affairs, of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministare des Finances
Bamako
Rgpublique du Mali
Cable address:                   Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        972559
Bamako
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Fund
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By/S [i5                    '
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the International
Development Association
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Fund Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Special Fund
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works               1,250,000         100%
(excluding items
under Part B.3
of the Project)
(2) Furniture (ex-                0             100%
cluding items
under Part B.3
of the Project)
(3) Audio-visual                  0             100%
and office
equipment and
vehicles (ex-
cluding items
under Part B.3
of the Project)
(4) Agriculture and             930,000        100%
laboratory equip-
ment, consumables,
materials and other
equipment (excluding
items under Part B.3
of the Project)


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Special Fund
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Consultants' and              0              100%
experts' services
(6) Training and              1,060,000         100%
fellowships
(7) Operating and               770,000          100%
monitoring costs
(excluding ex-
penditures for
the salaries of
civil servants)
under Part D
of the Project
(8) Incremental                   0             95%
Operating
Costs under
Parts A, B
and C of
the Project
(9)  Initial Deposit            120,000         100%
in Special
Account
(10) Unallocated                530,000
TOTAL               4,660,000


﻿- 16 -
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit shall not be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any Category
decreases or increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such Category as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Administrator.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Fund Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Fund Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Fund Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
5.    If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit, and the Administrator may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Administrator under the Special Fund Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Special Fund
Credit as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
In order to assist the Borrower in supporting and consoli-
dating the reforms currently under way in the educational sector,
the objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in streng-
thening the MEN's organizational structure, improving the quality
of Basic Education and increasing access to such education for
children, women, young farmers and adults, and to improve the
skills   of   agricultural  extension   workers   and  livestock
technicians.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Institutional Development
1.   Reorganization, expansion and operation of DNPES through the
construction of office facilities, acquisition thereafter and
utilization thereby of office equipment and furniture, and the
provision of operating funds, technical assistance and fellow-
ships thereto.
2.   Strengthening of the Borrower's capacity in technical educa-
tion and vocational training through the establishment and the
operation of a Division for Technical Education and Vocational
Training within MEN, construction of office facilities, acquisi-
tion of office furniture and equipment and utilization thereof,
and the provision of operating funds thereto.
Part B:   Development of Basic Education
1.    Revision, testing and evaluation of curricula and syllabi
for the first cycle of the Basic Education and completion of
testing of curricula for the second cycle of the Basic Education
developed under the Second Education Project (Credit No. 733 MLI)
through  the  acquisition   and  utilization  of  furniture  and
equipment required for the functioning of a team of education
specialists in Segou, furniture, equipment and materials for
about 40 experimental schools and the provision of operating
costs thereto, training of about 240 teachers who shall be in
charge of the application of the revised curricula and syllabi,
and the provision of technical assistance.
2.   Revising the existing teacher training curricula through the
provision of technical assistance and fellowships.


﻿- 18 -
3.     Construction, furnishing and equipping of two IPEGs in
Kangaba and Niono and the provision of operating funds thereto.
4.   Strengthening of DNAFLA's capacity to train new instructors
and produce new instructional materials and radio programs, and
evaluate new programs through training seminars, production and
distribution of functional literacy materials, and the provision
of operating funds thereto.
Part C:   Livestock and Agricultural Technician Training
1.   Strengthening of training of agricultural extension agents
through technical assistance and fellowships, as well as the
upgrading and refurbishing of the CAA at M'Pessoba, including the
creation within such CAA of a Specialized Agricultural Training
Facility which will train, per year, approximately 40 extension
agents specialized in cotton production.
2.   Strengthening of EIV's training program for livestock tech-
nicians through fellowships, technical assistance and equipment,
and the provision of operating funds thereto.
Part D:   Project Management and Monitoring
1.   Strengthening of the Project Unit through the provision of
staff, equipment and operating funds thereto.
2.    Monitoring of the Project through the provision of funds
therefor.
3.   Preparation of future education projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restricti:ons set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement and except as provided in Part C
hereof, goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (July 1980
edition) (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines. The above-mentioned eligibility restrictions shall be
stated in the tender or prequalification documents for the pro-
curement of such goods and civil works.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Administrator shall reasonably request; the Administrator
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to pro-
vide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
*the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in lots of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000)
equivalent each.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods ,to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.'i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and


﻿- 20 -
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Mali
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Mali
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Administrator
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Mali equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3


﻿-21-
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid, shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works under Parts A.1, A.2 and C.1 of
the Project may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to the Administrator.
2.     Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent, but in the aggregate not
to exceed two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) equivalent may
be procured through negotiated purchases from established and
reliable suppliers, provided, however, that quotations from at
least three of such suppliers are obtained.
D.   Reviei of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or
more and to contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and    the' specifications and   other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding


﻿- 22 -
documents shall require the Administrator's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)  After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule;
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)  The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Special Fund Credit Account in
respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Special Fund Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the
Administrator, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Special Fund Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Administrator
shall reasonably request. The Administrator shall, if it deter-
mines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by


﻿- 23 -
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿-24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special
Fund Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through
(8) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) the term "Initial Deposit" means an amount in MF equiv-
alent to the amount allocated to Category (9) and to be withdrawn
from the Special Fund Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.    The Administrator shall, at the request of the Forrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account the Initial
Deposit. Thereafter and on the basis of requests by the Borrower
furnished to the Administrator at such intervals as the Admini-
strator shall specify, the Association shall further so withdraw
from the Special Fund Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
Special Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures, but only to the extent
that the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
the Initial Deposit. Except as the Administrator may otherwise
agree, each such deposit after the Initial Deposit shall be with-
drawn by the Administrator from the Credit Account under the
respective Categories (1) through (8), and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 25 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account after the
Initial Deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator
in respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Spe-
cial  Account   such  documents   and  other  evidence   as  the
Administrator shall reasonably request, showing that such payment
was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, any request of a further deposit into the Special Account
may be derived by the Administrator (a) when the Administrator
shall have determined at any time that all further withdrawals
can be made directly by the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b) unless otherwise agreed by
the Administrator, when the total unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to Categories (1) through (8), minus the amount
of any outstanding qualified agreement to reimburse entered into
by the Administrator and of any outstanding special commitment
made by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Initial Deposit, whichever
shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Special Fund Credit Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Special Fund Credit
allocated to Categories (1) through (8) shall follow such
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and shall, except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, be made only after and to the extent the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   If the Admipistrator shall have determined at any time that:
(a)  any pa     : out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for any expenditure .r in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Administrator, prior to any
further deposit into the Special Account by the Administrator,
deposit into the Special Account or, if the Administrator shall
so request, refund to the Administrator an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified; or


﻿- 26 -
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Administrator, refund to the
Administrator such amount then outstanding in the Special
Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198..
FOR SECRETARY


