Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 26207
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CREDIT 22850, TF 21619)
COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT
(CREDIT 26010, TF 26605)
SECOND RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS COOPERATIVES REHABILITATION
PROJECT
(CREDIT 25290)
June 20, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit: CFA Franc
1991           US$1.00        CFAF 282.1
1992           US$1.00        CFAF 264.7
1993           US$1.00        CFAF 283.2
1994           US$1.00        CFAF 555.2
1995           US$1.00        CFAF 499.2
1996           US$1.00        CFAF 511.6
1997           US$1.00        CFAF 583.7
1998           US$1.00        CFAF 590.0
1999           US$1.00        CFAF 615.7
2000           US$1.00        CFAF 712.0
2001           US$1.00        CFAF 733.0
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACN            Agent communautaire de nutrition (Community nutrition worker)
AFD            Agence francaise de developpement (French Development Agency)
AgeFIB         Agence de financement des initiatives de base (Agency for the Financing of
Community-Based Initiatives)
AIC            Association interprofessionnelle du coton (Interprofessional Cotton Association)
APEB           Association professionnelle des 6greneurs du Benin (Professional Association of
Ginners of Benin)
APV            Agent polyvalent de vulgarisation (Polyvalent extension agent)
BOAD           Banque Ouest-Africaine pour le developpement (West African Development Bank)
CA             Conseil d'administration (Board of Directors)
CAA            Caisse autonome d'amortissement (Autonomous Amortization Fund)
CAGIA          Coop6rative d'approvisionnement et de gestion des intrants agricoles du Benin
(Agricultural Inputs Supply and Management Cooperative of Benin)
CARDER         Centre d'action regionale pour le developpement rural (Regional Action and Rural
Development Center)
CC             Comite de credit (Credit committee)
CED            Cooperation exterieure au developpement (External Cooperation for Development)
CFD            Caisse francais de developpement (French Development Fund)
CGAP           Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest
CLCAM          Caisse locale de credit agricole mutuel (Local rural savings and loans cooperative)
CPU            Central Project Unit
CRCAM          Caisse regionale de credit agricole mutuel (Regional rural savings and loans
cooperative)
CS             Comite de surveillance (Monitoring committee)
CSPR           Centrale de securisation des paiements et de recouvrement (Payments and Debt
Collection Unit)
CVN            Comite villageois de nutrition (Village Nutrition Committee)
DANA           Direction de l'alimentation et de la nutrition appliquee (Food and Applied
Nutrition Directorate)
DANIDA         Danish International Development Agency
DC             Directeur du Cabinet (Executive Assistant to the Minister)
DG             Directeur g6n6ral (Director-General)



DGPP           Direction g6nerale de la programmation et de la prospective (Directorate-General
for Programming and Forecasting)
DID            Developpement international Desjardins (Desjardins International Development)
DIFOV          Direction de la formation operationnelle de la vulgarisation (Directorate for
Operational Training and Agricultural Extension)
EEC            European Economic Community
FAC            Fonds d'aide et de coopdration (French Fund for Aid and Cooperation)
FECECAM        Fed6ration des caisses d'epargne et de credit agricole mutuel (Federation of Rural
Savings and Loans Cooperatives)
FED            Fonds europeen de developpement (European Development Fund, EDF)
FOV            Formation opdrationnelle et vulgarisation agricole (Operational training and
agricultural extension)
FUPRO          Federation des unions de producteurs (Federation of Producers' Unions)
GTZ            German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAEP           Ministere de l'agriculture, de l'elevage et de la peche (Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock, and Fisheries)
MDRAC          Ministere du ddveloppement rural et de I'action cooperative (Ministry of Rural
Development and Cooperative Action)
MECCAG - PD Ministere d'etat charg6 de la coordination de l'action gouvernementale - Plan et
Developpement (Ministry of State for Coordination of Government Action -
Planning and Development)
MFE            Ministere des finances et de l'economie (Ministry of Finance and Economy)
MP             Micro-project
NGO            Nongovernmental organization
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
ONASA          Office national d'appui A la sdcuritd alimentaire (National Bureau for Food
Security Support)
PADME          Association pour la Promotion et l'Appui au Developpement de Micro Enterprises
(Association to Promote and Support the Development of Micro-Enterprises)
PAMR           Projet d'appui au milieu rural (Rural Community Support Program)
PCN            Programme communautaire de la nutrition (Community Nutrition Program)
PILSA          Projet d'interventions locales pour la securite alimentaire (Community-Based Food
Security Project)
PPAR           Project Performance Assessment Report
PPSA           Projet pilote de s6curite alimentaire (Pilot Food Security Project)
PRSA           Projet de restructuration des services agricoles (Agricultural Service Restructuring
Project)
Rural Credit II  Second Rural Savings and Loans Cooperatives Project (Deuxieme projet de
r6habilitation des caisses locales de credit agricole mutuelles)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDC            Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SDR            Special Drawing Right
SONAPRA        Societe nationale pour la promotion agricole (National Agricultural Promotion
Company)
SONICOG        Societe nationale pour l'industrie des corps gras (National Company for the Fats
Industry)
UDP            Union departementale des producteurs (Departmental Producers' Union)



UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
URCLCAM         Union regionale des CLCAM (Regional Union of CLCAMs)
USPP            Union sous-prefectorale des producteurs (Subprefectoral Producers' Union)
WFP             World Food Programme
Fiscal Year
Government        April 1 - March 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation               Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department (Acting)   Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation               Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                          Mr. Chris Gerrard



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and Independence In evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of
lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending
operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovabve, large, or complex;
those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank
management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The projects, topics,
and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
(a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
onsHte discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the
information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent
to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oedleta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectfves: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
(expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational
Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustalnability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performnance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................v
Key Staff Responsible ................................................................v
Preface ............................................................... VII
Summary ...............................................................                                                              ix
1.    Background, Methodology, and Overall Outcomes .............................................................1
Background ................................................................I
Assessment Methodology ................................................................2
Overall Outcomes ................................................................3
2.    Project Objectives and            Components .....................                 ...........................................4
3.    Project Implementation ................................................................5
4.    Ratings: Overall Outcome ................................................................6
Relevance: Were the projects ' objectives right in the light of current priorities? .............                          6
Efficacy: Did the projects achieve their stated objectives? ................................................7
PRSA ................................................................7
PILSA ................................................................9
Rural Credit II ...............................................................                               10
Efficiency: Were the projects cost-effective? ...............................................................             12
5.    Ratings: Institutional Development Impact and                         Sustainability ........................................ 14
Institutional Development Impact ......................                       ......................................... 14
PRSA ...............................................................                                          14
PILSA ...............................................................                                         15
Rural Credit II ...............................................................                               15
Sustainability ...............................................................                                           16
PRSA ...............................................................                                          16
PILSA ...............................................................                                         17
Rural Credit II ...............................................................                               17
6.    Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................... 19
Bank Performance ...............................................................                                         19
PRSA ...............................................................                                          19
PILSA ...............................................................                                         19
Rural Credit 1I ............................................................... 20
Borrower Performance ............................................................... 20



iv
PRSA ........                                                  20
PILSA ........                                                 21
Rural Credit II ........                                       21
7. Lessons ........ 22
Annex A: Basic Data Sheets .23
Benin: Agricultural Services Restructuring Project (Credit 22850, TF 21619) .23
Benin: Community-Based Food Security Project (Credit 26010, TF 26605).  25
Benin: Second Rural Savings and Loans Cooperatives Rehabilitation Project (Credit 25290)
...........................................................I........................................................................ 27
Annex B: Programme De La Mission Au Benin .29



v
Principal Ratings
Outcome          Institutional    Sustainability   Bank             Borrower
Development                       Performance      Performance
Impact
Agricultural Services Restructuring Project (PRSA)
ICR                   Unsatisfactory   Modest           Unlikely         Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
OED Review            Marginally       Modest           Uncerlain        Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
Unsatisfactory   Modest           Unlektay          Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
PPAR                  Moderately       Modest           Unlikely         Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
Unsatisfactory
Community-Based Food Security Project (PILSA)
ICR                   Satisfactory     Substantial      Unlikely         Satisfactory     Satisfactory
OED Review            Satisfactory     Substantial      Unlikely         Satisfactory     Satisfactory
PPAR                  Satisfactory     Substantial      Likely           Satisfactory     Satisfactory
Second Rural Savings and Loans Cooperatives Rehabilitation Project
ICR                   Satisfactory     Substantial      Likely           Satisfactory     Satisfactory
OED Review            Satisfactory     Substantial      Non-evaluable    Satisfactory     Satisfactory
PPAR                  Unsatisfactory   Substantial      Unlikely         Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
Permitted Ratings
Outcome                       Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                Highly Likely, Likely, Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable
Institutional Development Impact  High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible
Bank Performance              Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance          Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory
Key Staff Responsible
Team Leader                Sector Manager             Country Manager
Agricultural Services Restructuring Project (PRSA)
Appraisal                  Maurice Asseyo             Kevin Cleaver              Olivier Lafourcade
Completion                 Noel Rene Chabeuf          Joseph Baah-Dwomoh        Theodore Ahlers
Community-Based Food Security Project (PILSA)
Appraisal                  Adolfo Brizzi              Theodore Nkodo             Olivier Lafourcade
Completion                 Nicolas Ahouissoussi       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh         AntoineKte Sayeh
Second Rural Savings and Loans Cooperatives Rehabilitation Project
Appraisal                  Abdul Haji                 Theodore Nkodo             Olivier Lafourcade
Completion                 Michel Aklamavo            Joseph Baah-Dwomoh        Antoinette Sayeh






vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on three projects financed by the
International Development Association (IDA) in the Republic of Benin: the Agriculture Services
Restructuring Project (PRSA; Credit 22850 and TF 21619), the Community-Based Food Security
Project (PELSA; Credit 26010 and TF 26605), and the Second Rural Savings and Loans Cooperatives
Rehabilitation Project (Rural Credit II; Credit 25290).
The Board of the World Bank approved PRSA on June 27, 1991, for a credit of SDR 9.3 million
(US$12.3 million equivalent). The credit became effective on November 25, 1992, and closed on
September 30, 1999, more than four years after the original closing date of June 30, 1995. Seven
other donors - the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), the European Fund for
Development (FED), the French Development Agency (AFD), the German Technical Cooperation
Agency (GTZ), IFAD, UNDP, and the West African Development Bank (BOAD) - provided
cofinancng of US$ 11.6 million. The total cost of the project was US$ 27.8 million compared to the
estimate of US$29.6 million at appraisal.
PILSA was approved by the Board on April 12, 1994, became effective on January 31, 1995, and
closed on September 30, 2000, compared to the original closing date of December 31, 1999. The
credit was for SDR 7.1 million (US$9.7 million equivalent), which was fully disbursed. DANIDA
provided cofinancing of US$4.9 million and the World Food Programme (WFP) a grant in foodstuffs
and tools equivalent to US$700,000. The total cost of the project was US$ 14.9 million compared to
US$ 16.1 million at appraisal.
Rural Credit II was approved on June 29, 1993, became effective December 20, 1994, and closed on
December 31, 2000, compared to the original closing date of June 30, 1999. The credit was for
SDR 2.8 million (IJS$3.8 million equivalent), which was fully disbursed. AFD, the Swiss Agency for
Development and Cooperation (SDC), the French Assistance and Cooperation Agency (FAC), and
IFAD provided cofinancing of US$ 5.1 million. The total cost of the project (excluding the
contributions of the Government of Benin and local beneficiaries) was US$ 8.9 million compared to
US$ 10.0 at appraisal.
OED decided to conduct the assessment of these three projects in Benin because OED has assessed
the outcomes of comparatively few projects in francophone Africa in recent years, and because OED
is currently conducting a major thematic study of community-driven development projects in Africa.
Of the three projects being assessed, PILSA was community-driven and, according to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), achieved good results in part because it was community-
driven.
This report was prepared by Robert Romain and Hartley Furtan (consultants) under the supervision of
Chris Gerrard (OED task manager). It is based upon the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
prepared by the Africa Region for each project, the Staff Appraisal Reports, credit documents, project
files, discussions with World Bank staff and a mission to Benin. Both consultants visited Benin from
July 1 to 19, 2002. This mission included interviews with government officials, implementing
agencies, and project beneficiaries, project site visits, and, on the last day of the mission, a
presentation-discussion of the preliminary conclusions to the Cabinet Directors of two ministries: the
Ministry of State for Coordination of Government Action (MECCAG) and the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock, and Fisheries (MAEP). OED gratefully acknowledges the full cooperation of
all government officials visited and consulted during the mission.



viii
The mission used the services of Mr. Benjamin Soude as a consultant in Benin. Mr. Soude was the
Director of the PILSA project from 1994 to 2000, and before that, the Coordinator of the pilot Food
Security Project (PPSA) from 1993 to 1994. The mission clearly explained to Mr. Soud6 the
objectives that had to be reached in order for him to organize visits and facilitate field trips. The
mission was free to select and speak with any participant, individual and/or organization that it chose.
Mr. Soude had an extensive knowledge of the country and his collaboration was helpful and
appreciated.
Following standard OED practice, the draft assessment report was sent to the Borrower for review
and comment before it was finalized. The Borrower had no comments on the report.



ix
Summary
The Board approved a credit of SDR 9.3 million (US$12.3 million equivalent) for the Agricultural
Services Restructuring Project (PRSA) on June 27, 1991. The credit became effective on November 25,
1992, and closed on September 30, 1999, more than four years after the original closing date of June 30,
1995. Seven other donors - the Danish Intemational Development Agency (DANIDA), the European
Fund for Development (FED), the French Development Agency (AFD), the German Technical
Cooperation Agency (GTZ), lFAD, UNDP, and the West African Development Bank (BOAD) - provided
cofinancng of US$ 11.6 million. The total cost of the project was US$ 27.8 million compared to the
estimate of US$29.6 million at appraisal.
The Board approved a credit of SDR 7.1 million (US$9.7 million equivalent) for the Community-
Based Food Security Project (PILSA) on April 12, 1994. The credit became effective on January 31, 1995,
and closed on September 30, 2000, compared to the original closing date of December 31, 1999.
DANIDA provided cofmancing of US$4.9 million, and the World Food Programme (WFP) a grant in
foodstuffs and tools equivalent to US$700,000. The total cost of the project was US$ 14.9 million
compared to US$ 16.1 million at appraisal.
The Board approved a credit of SDR 2.8 million (US$3.8 million equivalent) for the Second Rural
Savings and Loans Cooperatives Project (Rural Credit 11) on June 29, 1993. The credit became effective
on December 20, 1994, and closed on December 31, 2000, compared to the original closing date of June
30,1999. AFD, the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), the French Assistance and
Cooperation Agency (FAC), and IFAD provided cofinancing of US$ 5.1 million. The total cost of the
project (excluding the contributions of the Government of Benin and local beneficiaries) was US$ 8.9
million compared to US$ 10.0 at appraisal.
PRSA was aimed at restructuring the country's agricultural institutions in order to give the Beninese
government better control over rural development activities. It was also aimed at improving the quality
and sustainability of agricultural services and creating employment opportunities in the private sector that
would result from the privatization of several government-owned enterprises. PILSA aimed to alleviate
poverty, improve food security, and raise nutrition standards in 21 districts (sous-pr6fectures) that were
deemed "areas at risk." Rural Credit II aimed to rehabilitate and strengthen the network of rural savings
and loans cooperatives, which had been supported under the First Rural Savings and Loans Rehabilitation
Project.
This assessment rates the overall outcome of PRSA as moderately unsatisfactory. Some of
objectives of PRSA were achieved, such as a reduction in staff, privatization of some income-generating
activities, liberalization of some activities that used to be exclusive to the government, rehabilitation of
buildings, and acquisition of vehicles and office equipment. But other objectives were either not achieved
or only partially achieved, such as strengthening the capacity of the district technical staff to assist
producers, training of the remaining personnel, contributing to the transfer of knowledge to and building
the capacity of farmers' groups and organizations, and helping redundant personnel to find new
employment.
This assessment rates the overall outcome of PILSA as satisfactory. This rating recognizes the
significant contribution of PILSA to reducing poverty and to increasing nutrition standards in the target
villages, the valuable contribution of the delivery agencies (international and local NGOs), and the
overwhelming satisfaction of the local communities with respect to the project.



x
This assessment rates the overall outcome of Rural Credit H as unsatisfactory. The project was
undermined by the severe problems with the Federation of Rural Savings and Loans Cooperative
(FECECAM). Training provided by the project was insufficient at the local level. Due diligence when
making loans was often deficient, so that a number of loans went into default. Staff were also unaware of
the need to keep very current records on repayment schedules. Many staff viewed the credit agencies as an
extension or part of government activities, which reduced the urgency of dealing with repayment
concerns. These observations imply that FECECAM did not achieve its goals during the life of the project.
Experience with this project confirms a number of OED lessons:
(1) A feasible plan (bothfunctional andfinancial) that can befully implemented is essential when
changing the institutional structure of a major government organization such as the Ministry of
Agriculture. The plan must beflexible and capable of being changed as it is being implemented,
andperiodically monitored so that management can learn what is working and what parts need to
be altered during the implementation phase. Appropriately trained staff, especially for key positions,
are necessary to manage the transition because they set the performance standard for newly recruited
staff. A rigorous monitoring and evaluation system is imperative to ensure that all intermediate targets
are met. Monitoring is necessary to provide management with ongoing information as to what parts of
the plan are working and what parts need to be altered. The PRSA project was less successful than it
could have been because the Government of Benin did not follow through. The result is a poorly
operating extension system, and a private sector that is less developed and efficient than desirable.
(2) A decentralized and demand-driven system is a viable approach to the successful delivery offood
security and nutrition prograns. The PILSA project was successful because each community was
able to tailor the specific program delivery to its own needs, and because of the expertise of both
international and local NGOs to conduct the elaboration of the micro-projects and deliver the nutrition
programs. Local NGOs were able to identify with local populations. This occurred as a result of the
decentralized implementation of PILSA coupled with the strong leadership of the implementing
agencies and their firm commitment to the success of the project.
(3) The sustainable provision of rural credit requires appropriate instiutional development and
training. Managing and directing a financial institution requires specialized skills, which many rural
people who are elected to the local boards of directors of the CLCAMs and charged with the
governance of financial institutions do not possess. A more rigorous and thorough monitoring and
evaluation system for the making of loans must now be implemented within the CLCAMs. If a good
monitoring and evaluation system had been present in the FECECAM network and more attention
given to appropriate training, FECECAM would not be facing such an acute problem with arrears.
More emphasis also needs to be placed on the development of the provision of private financial
services, such as accountants, auditors, and possibly a deposit insurance market.
Gregory Ingram
Director-General
Operations Evaluation



1. Background, Methodology, and Overall Outcomes
BACKGROUND
1.1    Benin had a population of approximately 6.4 million in 2001 that was growing at an annual
rate of 2.6 percent. About 36 percent of gross domestic product comes from agriculture and
approximately 65 percent of the population lives in rural areas, where there are periodic food
shortages. The agricultural production potential of Benin is constrained due to problems with soil
fertility, and the population is moving to urban centers, particularly in the Atlantique region.
1.2   Benin achieved her independence from France in 1960. Economic growth in Benin stagnated
in the 1 980s, partly as a result of the mismanagement of the productive sectors dominated by the
state. Agriculture was the most important productive sector affected by the state, and cotton - the
most important cash crop and major foreign exchange earner for the nation - was under the control of
a state trading enterprise. The government's support for agriculture through research and extension
was misdirected and expensive. These among other national imperatives led to the government's
decision in the early 1990s to move toward a market-driven economy with less government
intervention. In spite of positive economic growth per capita of more than 2 percent per annum in the
1990s (compared to -1.0 percent in the 1980s), poverty has not been reduced measurably.
1.3    This OED report assesses three projects, which were part of the move to a more open
economy and to deal with the continued poverty concerns of the country. The Agricultural Services
Restructuring Project (PRSA) was aimed at restructuring the country's agricultural institutions in
order to give the Beninese government better control over rural development activities. It was also
aimed at improving the quality and sustainability of agricultural services and creating employment
opportunities in the private sector that would result from the privatization of several government-
owned enterprises. The Community-Based Food Security Project (PILSA) aimed to alleviate
poverty, improve food security, and raise nutrition standards in 21 districts (sous-prefectures) that
were deemed "areas at risk." The Second Rural Savings and Loans Cooperatives Project (Rural
Credit II) aimed to rehabilitate and strengthen the network of rural savings and loans cooperatives,
which had been supported under the First Rural Savings and Loans Rehabilitation Project.
1.4   In 1989, the Government of Benin changed its economic policy from being centrally planned
and controlled to being more market-driven with private ownership. In the agricultural sector this
required at least two major changes, which were supported by IDA. The Agricultural Services
Restructuring Project (PRSA) was one vehicle used to bring about some of the desired changes. First,
the state trading enterprises were to be removed and private sector enterprises to be supported to carry
out such functions as the marketing of agricultural products, e.g. cotton, and to supply inputs to
farmers, e.g. fertilizer. This change required the development of and support to the private sector and
producer-owned and controlled businesses. Second, the government changed the emphasis of the
research and extension function. Up to 1989 the principal activity of research and extension was to
support the cotton sector. The decision was made to place greater emphasis on other sectors, such as
maize, livestock, and vegetables. There was also the need to reduce the size of the bureaucracy in
order to reduce government expenditures. Benin was not self-sufficient in food production, and
imported some food commodities, such as wheat, and had seasonal food shortages in some regions.
Lack of credit for farmers was seen as a constraint in the drive to expand agricultural production and
exports, such as cotton.
1.5    Food security and nutritional standards were a concern for the Government of Benin. Women
and children (under the age of five) were at risk in some regions. Possibly 18% of Benin's population



2
are thought to suffer from one form or another of food insecurity. The health status of the population
of Benin is among the poorest in Africa. Death rates are high, especially among women and children
(infant mortality was 113 per thousand in 1990 against an average of 106 for Sub-Saharan Africa).
Because poverty reduction and increased health status are closely correlated, IDA agreed to fund a
Community-Based Food Security Project. The Community-Based Food Security Project (PILSA) was
to directly monitor the growth of about 48,000 children up to age 5, and about 20,000 lactating and
pregnant women.' By helping women understand what goes into a good health status in terms of
nutrition, this project hoped to meet its objective of aiding in poverty reduction. PILSA also linked
the use of micro-finance to poverty reduction. Micro-finance was provided to some women's groups
for increased food production, food storage, and transportation.
1.6   The rural savings and loans cooperative movement in Benin consists of a network of local
rural savings and loans cooperatives (CLCAMs) and regional rural savings and loans cooperatives
(CRCAMs). The Government of Benin sees rural credit as a major constraint to the agricultural
development of the nation. In many towns and villages there are no formalized financial services
other than the CLCAMs. The network broke down in 1987 due to mismanagement and insufficient
due diligence on who received loans (loans were too often not repaid). The network was restructured
in 1988 and, in January 1990, IDA agreed to make a loan to further train the staff and improve the
information and monitoring systems of the CLCAMs and CRCAMs. However, no part of the IDA
credit was to be used for financing lines of credit to borrowers.
1.7   PILSA and Rural Credit II both involved some aspects of micro-financing, and there was
some complementarity intended between the two projects. One component of PILSA involved
financing micro-projects to support local development and income-generating initiatives.
Beneficiaries of a loan under PILSA were required to open an account at the local CLCAM and to
make regular payments to that account. Such activities would not have been financed by the
CLCAMs because of the high risks associated with them and because most beneficiaries had never
received a loan before and did not have a borrowing history. By making regular payments on their
loans, beneficiaries could build a reputation as good borrowers, which was observed by the CLCAM,
and which would help them to borrow more money in the future. Beneficiaries could not withdraw
funds, which were returned to PILSA. However, the repayment mechanism helped them to
familiarize themselves with the use of credit so they could eventually use the services provided by the
CLCAMs when needed.
ASSESSMENT METHODOLOGY
1.8   The first two weeks of assessment were spent in Washington, D.C., and in Cotonou, Benin,
respectively. In both places, the assessment team gathered relevant data and interviewed people who
were familiar with the projects. In Cotonou the mission met with people from the government, the
National Agricultural Promotion Company (SONAPRA), the Federation of Rural Savings and Loans
Cooperatives FECECAM, and NGOs. Plans were made for a field trip to visit with the Regional
Action and Rural Development Centers (CARDERs), Local rural savings and loans cooperatives
(CLCAMs), Regional Unions of CLCAMs (URCLCAMs), and cotton plants as well as several
project sites and producers' groups in rural areas and villages. The second two weeks were spent in
the field. Visits were made to four of the six CARDER regions: Borgou, Zou, Mono, and Atlantique,
and discussions were held with representatives on how. the process of privatization and restructuring
the ministry was carried out.
1. Staff Appraisal Report, Report No. 12253, p. vii.



3
1.9    The mission visited with several producers groups who were affected by the decrease in the
number of extension agents (APVs) since the beginning of PRSA, and discussed the change in
services brought about by the PRSA project. The mission saw several micro-projects financed by
PILSA, many of them being conducted by woman's groups, and collected information and data on
how the micro-finance and nutrition programs operated. In all meetings with farm groups,
information was gathered on how the rural credit restructuring affected their savings and borrowing
behavior.. The details of the mission's working agenda are presented in Annex I while the list of the
persons consulted is in Annex 2.
OVERALL OUTCOMES
1.10   The overall outcome of PRSA is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The structural adjustment
objectives of PRSA remain relevant to current priorities of both the Government of Benin and the
Bank, as expressed in the most recent Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), dated June
2000, and in the Interim Country Assistance Strategy (I-CAS) that was completed in March 2001.
Some of objectives of PRSA were achieved, such as a reduction in staff, privatization of some
income-generating activities, liberalization of some activities that used to be exclusive to the
government, rehabilitation of buildings, and acquisition of vehicles and office equipment. But other
objectives were either not achieved or only partially achieved, such as strengthening the capacity of
the district technical staff to assist producers, training of the remaining personnel, contributing to the
transfer of knowledge to and building the capacity of farmers' groups and organizations, and helping
redundant personnel to find new employment.
1.11   The civil service had to absorb simultaneously both losses of income-generating activities
and severe reductions in personnel, without extra government support. This explains why the civil
servants interviewed by the mission generally regarded the outcome of PRSA as unsuccessful. Part of
the funds to pay for civil service expenditures used to come from income-generating activities, which
were privatized under PRSA. The situation deteriorated further over the years because of the hiring
freeze, which was still in effect in July 2002. Even though this outcome was not due to PRSA, it is
perceived this way.
1.12   Producers' organizations have a more positive view of the outcome, even though they
recognize that the length of time in which they had to assume their new responsibilities was too short
for many of them. They remain generally satisfied with their new responsibilities and relative
bargaining power, and they are confident that they are in a better position than before to improve their
own economic condition and well-being.
1.13   The overall outcome of PILSA is rated satisfactory. This rating recognizes the significant
contribution of PILSA to reducing poverty and to increasing nutrition standards in the target villages,
the valuable contribution of the delivery agencies (international and local NGOs), and the
overwhelming satisfaction of the local communities with respect to the project.
1.14   According to the most recent I-PRSP and I-CAS, the objectives of PILSA were highly
relevant. A major contributing factor in their achievement was that local NGOs delivered the project.
The villagers knew the agents, which greatly facilitated the acceptance of new ideas and new
techniques by the communities. The advantage of the decentralized approach to delivering an
information-intensive program like PILSA was that it allowed each micro-project to be tailored to the
needs and constraints of the local situation. Having local people delivering micro-projects also helped
to increase the local expertise for managing and monitoring micro-projects. Several NGO agents were
trained to deliver different programs, and most of this expertise has stayed in the communities, which
has helped to increase the long-term benefits of PILSA.



4
1.15   The overall outcome of Rural Credit II is rated unsatisfactory. The project was undermined
by the severe problems with FECECAM. Training provided by the project was insufficient at the
local level. Due diligence when making loans was often deficient, so that a number of loans went into
default. Staff were also unaware of the need to keep very current records on repayment schedules.
Many staff viewed the credit agencies as an extension or part of government activities, which reduced
the urgency of dealing with repayment concerns. These observations imply that FECECAM did not
achieve its goals during the life of the project.
1.16   The local CLCAMs were under the direct control of locally elected board members, this
being a key characteristic of a cooperative. Many of the elected board members were unfamiliar with
the workings of a financial institution. While there was training for new board members, it was not
sufficient to provide them with the managerial skills required to be capable of providing successful
oversight. An additional problem with board members was their ability to obtain loans, which, the
mission was told on several occasions, they did not intend to repay. This demonstrates an additional
serious weakness in governance.
1.17   The lack of an adequate audit system is a major reason for FECECAM's problems in 1998.
All well functioning credit systems in market economies have a rigorous audit system, and the
development of such a system for Benin is seen as one of the pieces of the long-term solution to the
management of the credit system. Finally, while FECECAM grew significantly in terms of
membership, total savings, and total loans outstanding, it outstripped the capacity of the system to
operate effectively.
2. Project Objectives and Components
2.1    The objectives of PRSA were to restructure the extension service of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock, and Fisheries (MAEP) and to give it a clear focus on the emerging sectors,
such as livestock and to reduce its focus on the cotton sector. The restructuring was to achieve this
objective by reducing the number of staff and by privatizing the commercial activities carried out by
the ministry. A second objective was to re-invest in the extension service so that it could focus on
different sectors, and to strengthen the capacity of the district technical staff to assist farmers,
including training, improved vehicles, and upgrading the CARDERs' buildings. The main
components were:
*  Restructuring of the ejtension service: The MAEP was to be restructured to give the local
CARDERs more flexibility in the planning and delivery of services. The focus of the
extension service was to shift from cotton production to other food crops and livestock. This
was to be done in conjunction with a major reduction (62 percent) in the number of staff. The
MAEP was to abandon activities that could be better performed by the private sector: seed
production, veterinary services, activities related to input procurement and distribution
(mainly fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides), output processing (cotton), transport, and
credit management.
*  Training and investments: The extension system was to move from the training and visit
model (T&V) to a "bottom-up" approach. The personnel at the CARDERs were to be given
training and vehicles. More attention was to be paid to the needs of women and the most
disadvantaged rural communities.
2.2    The objective of PILSA was poverty reduction through helping the government to improve
the food security and nutrition standards of the most vulnerable population groups in 21 districts of
the country - pregnant and lactating women and children under 5. The project would support simple



S
agricultural, commercial, fisheries, and peri-urban activities aimed at improving the income base of
these groups through new employment opportunities and regular access to food in the more risky
areas. The project had three major components:
*  Micro-projects and local community support for development initiatives and income-
generating activities, including small agricultural projects and livestock raising techniques,
food processing and marketing, storage and food conservation facilities, and improvement of
small infrastructure.
*  Nutrition activities through local community nutrition agents supported by NGOs for the
improvement of the nutritional status of women and children in the target populations, and
the realization of a Beneficiary Assessment.
*  Institution building, including preparation of a national nutrition policy, strengthening of the
food security planning and monitoring capacity, updating information systems and the database
on vulnerable populations; and coordination of field activities, including project management,
monitoring and evaluation, technical and administrative support, and training.
2.3    The objective of Rural Credit II was to further strengthen the mutual rural financial
intermediation system in Benin and its institutions. The project consisted of three components:
*  Establishment of the Federation and conversion of the central project unit (CPU) into the
Technical Secretariat in order to provide overall management, guidance, monitoring, and
financial control services to the Federation.
*  Establishment of the URCLCAMs and strengthening of their capacity to provide
development services to the CLCAMs with respect to accounting and financial management,
training of staff, and promotion of the network.
*  Establishment and strengthening of the CLCAMs into cooperatives, which would have
sustainable locally elected governance and which would meet the demand for rural credit.
3. Project Implementation
3.1   Implementation of PRSA was the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock,
and Fisheries (MAEP), although some components needed the approval of other ministries, such as
the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MFE). A steering committee made up of the donors and the
government was to oversee the project and evaluate the progress on an annual basis.
3.2    The restructuring of the MAEP and the six CARDERs was carried out under the direct
supervision of the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock, and Fisheries. The Minister first appointed the
senior MAEP and CARDER personnel. Then the personnel that were to remain with MAEP and the
CARDERs were selected by seven committees: one for MAEP and one for each CARDER. These
consisted of all the directors of the institution in question who reported to the executive assistant to
the Minister. The administration of the newly appointed personnel and the provision of assistance to
the departing staff was the responsibility of temporary administration units in each CARDER and in
MAEP.
3.3    The central oversight of PILSA lay with MAEP through the National Bureau for Food
Security Support (ONASA). Given the information intensive nature of the project (i.e. need to deal
with a large number of individual women and children) and the number of donors involved, a
Coordination Committee was established as a condition of credit effectiveness.



6
3.4    Field operations were demand-driven and implemented by rural groups and village
communities with the assistance of selected NGOs and development associations acting as sponsors
of the grassroots development initiatives and micro-project proposals. Coordination and support of
the NGOs' operations, project management, accounting, etc. was entrusted to a Management and
Monitoring Unit within ONASA.
3.5    Rural Credit II was implemented by the various levels and units of the Savings & Loans
Cooperative Network under the monitoring of the Comite de Concertation. This Committee included
representatives of FECECAM, the Government, and donors, since the Government had a legitimate
interest in closely following the network's development and management. It was to meet at least
twice a year to review project implementation, provide guidance, and monitor the Network's
activities and financial situation. The cooperative movement in Benin was expected to rely on
external financial assistance beyond the end of the proposed project.
3.6    One similarity among all three projects was that they were funded by a number of agencies.
Cofinancing came from bilateral donors (Denmark, France, Germany, Switzerland), international
agencies (IFAD, UNDP, WFP) and the West African Development Bank. The support did not always
come in the form of funds, but also in the form of technical assistance. The multitude of donors and
types of support made implementation of the projects challenging because of the need for donor
coordination.
4. Ratings: Overall Outcome
RELEVANCE: WERE THE PROJECTS' OBJECTIVES RIGHT IN THE LIGHT OF CURRENT PRIORITIES?
4.1    The relevance of PRSA and PILSA are rated high, in relation to the government's
development strategy, the Bank's country assistance strategy, and the Bank's current rural sector
strategy. The relevance of Rural Credit II is rated modest.
4.2    The objectives of PRSA and PILSA relate to several points in the most recent Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), dated June 2000, and in the Interim Country Assistance
Strategy (I-CAS) that was completed in March 2001. They are also omnipresent in the Bank's current
rural sector strategy, "Reaching the Rural Poor" (RRP).2
4.3    With respect to PRSA, the Government of Benin says that it will pursue economic
liberalization (I-PRSP, point 39), complete the privatization of the cotton sector (I-PRSP, point 40),
liberalize and promote competition (I-PRSP, points 42 and 43), continue to reform the public service,
increase the pace of decentralization (I-PRSP, point 45), and strengthen the capacity of producers'
organizations (I-PRSP, point 58). The Bank will support further liberalization of the cotton sector (I-
CAS, point 48) and, in general, will support the country's overall vision for poverty reduction to be
set out in the full PRSP (I-CAS, point 50). This is in relation with the longer-term strategy of the
Bank of consolidated programmatic lending as the most efficient way to finance the government
strategy (I-CAS, point 51). Moreover, the Bank's rural sector strategy explicitly promotes more trade
liberalization, the upgrading of local administrative capacity, the involvement of the private sector in
provision of public services, and the strengthening of producers' organizations (RRP, pp. xi, xiii, 56,
and 57).
2. World Bank, 2002, Reaching the Rural Poor, Washington, D.C., October.



7
4.4    With respect to PILSA, the I-PRSP outlines several strategies that relate to education and
health (I-PRSP, points 49-51) as well as malnutrition (I-PRSP, points 52, 63), which strategies will be
supported by the Bank (I-CAS point 51). The Bank sees improving nutrition practices, health and
education as of utmost importance in alleviating and mitigating poverty (RRP, pp. 62-63).
4.5    With respect to Rural Credit II, the I-PRSP has few references to improving credit
accessibility and availability to producers. In fact, it mentions developing local financing for
agriculture only once, as one component of the rural development strategy to improve living
standards of the rural population (point 58). However, credit institutions are an essential pillar to
sustain rural development and a reliable credit system, present in all regions of the country, is
necessary to accompany most strategies elaborated in the I-PRSP that aim at alleviating poverty and
sustaining economic growth. Since Rural Credit II aimed to reinforce the credit network in all
regions of Benin, its objectives can be considered development priorities for the Government of
Benin even though they do not seem to be the most critical concerns for the upcoming years. The
Bank considers that developing effective rural financial services is an important pillar in alleviating
poverty and views this as high priority in its current rural sector strategy (RRP, pp. 36-39).
4.6    Having said this, there were significant flaws associated with this project, which are
explained in detail in the next section. For example, the mission was told on several occasions that the
term structure of the loans was inadequate since it did not properly account for the cycles associated
with the revenues for which the loans were made. Also, loans were often not approved in time for
producers to be able to secure the purchase of required inputs such as fertilizers. These shortcomings
in the evaluation of the quality at entry of the project affect its relevance. Moreover, external donors
are unlikely to become further involved in consolidating the Federation of Rural Savings and Loans
Cooperatives (FECECAM). The ICR notes that none of the three major funding agencies will
consider further involvement because "the period of their assistance has been long enough to permit
FECECAM become self-sufficient" (p. 20). One donor representative provided the same assessment
to the OED mission.
EFFICACY: DID THE PROJECTS ACHIEVE THEIR STATED OBJECTIVES?
PRSA
4.7    The major objectives of PRSA regarding the restructuring of extension services and
strengthening the capacity of the district technical staff to assist farmers were only partially achieved,
not due to the project's design, but primarily because of weaknesses and shortcomings in its
implementation.
4.8    The design of PRSA called for a change in the structure of the MAEP as well as in the
CARDERs. Some changes in the institutions did occur, but they were relatively minor. One reason
was that institutional changes had already started in the mid-l 980s with the implementation of the
structural adjustment program. Under PRSA, positions have been redefined and renamed, and a
slightly different hierarchy has been put in place. However, the same staff has been re-assigned to
similar or higher-level positions because of a general hiring freeze imposed by the government.
4.9    Civil servants complained that the restructuring committees did not take into account the
suggestions made by the CARDERs. While civil servants in the CARDERs were consulted, their
comments and suggestions were not included in the report, but instead relegated to an annex.



8
4.10   PRSA called for a significant decrease in the number of staff, especially those with low-level
qualifications, which was achieved. However, PRSA also called for highly qualified staff to assume
several key positions in the modified organizational structure, which was not achieved because such
personnel were not available within the ministry and because of the hiring freeze in place. For
example, the work of the selection committees at the beginning of PRSA found that, after
restructuring, 1,550 employees with specific qualifications would be needed in the six CARDERs.
But at the end of the process, only 131 persons with the required qualifications were assigned.
4.11   The hiring freeze (still in effect in July 2002), as well as a salary freeze that resulted in the
exodus of some qualified staff, have had a tremendous impact on the quality and the quantity of
services offered by the CARDERs, and on the morale of the remaining staff. For example, the PRSA
recommendations called for 766 extension agents (APVs), but only 200 were still employed by the
government as of mid-2002. Hence, a majority of villages no longer benefit from the services of an
extension agent.3 Such a drastic reduction in personnel was not expected, according to government
officials, because PRSA was supposed to be followed by other projects that would help keep the
number of staff at an acceptable level, but these follow-up projects never materialized.
4.12   The mission visited with several producers' groups and discussed PRSA with several APVs.
The "bottom-up" approach taken by PRSA is supported by both farmers and APVs. Farmers
appreciated being asked to identify their problems, and receiving information and training on solving
them. APVs also appreciated this approach since they were now able to concentrate on the real
problems faced by farmers rather than having to convince them that the topics they were addressing
were important. In addition, the new approach, which consisted of meeting contact groups of 8 to 12
farmers with similar problems, was judged to be more efficient than meeting farmers individually.
4.13   Government disengagement from activities, which are better performed by the private sector,
was partially achieved. The privatization of several income-generating activities was effectively
achieved and the role of several producers' organizations was strongly reinforced. Moreover, several
producers' organizations were created. In the cotton regions, the Subprefectoral Producers' Unions
(USPPs) were satisfied with their increased role and powers, and argued that all producers benefited
significantly from the disengagement of the government. In the other regions the USPPs said that
their organizations were not able to fully play a role because they did not have sufficient means to
collect the funds they needed to be operational, and they lacked expertise because the training they
had received was not sufficient for the task.
4.14   The transfer of knowledge, which would have allowed producers' organizations to better
perform their commercial activities, was not adequately achieved. Both the government and
producers' organizations agreed that only a few producers' organizations were actually ready to take
over their new role at the beginning of PRSA, while the majority were not yet organized and had to
be created. Even today, according to Federation of Producers' Unions (FUPRO) representatives, only
about 40 percent of the USPPs were operating satisfactorily, and they were almost exclusively located
in the cotton producing regions. However, FUPRO expected this percentage to double within the next
two years.
4.15   In conclusion, PRSA did not fully meet its objectives because it was not accompanied nor
followed by the appropriate means that would have contributed to its success, notwithstanding the
extended time given to implement the project. The government imposed a hiring freeze to comply
with its previous engagements in the structural adjustment program; the transfer of income-generating
3. Except for the hiring of 261 APVs by the Interprofessional Cotton Association (AIC) to provide technical support to
cotton producers, and who also provide some services to non-cotton producers.



9
activities to the private sectors left the CARDERs in financial difficulties because no extra funds were
allocated to them; and the period of time necessary to ensure that farmers' organizations could
efficiently perform their new roles was too short. On the other hand, the size of the government
budget has decreased, the private sector is now performing activities for which it is better suited, and
the role and autonomy of village groups and producers' organizations has increased significantly.
This is much appreciated by farmers who feel more included and responsible for improving their
general economic conditions and well-being. Therefore, the overall efficacy of PRSA is rated as
modest since its major objectives were only partially achieved.
PILSA
4.16   The main objectives of PILSA - to alleviate poverty and to improve food security and
nutrition standards in 21 food-deficit districts - were fully achieved. This is validated by the excellent
performance indicators reported in the ICR and in the Completion Report of the Government of
Benin.4 Most project targets set at appraisal were met and, in many cases, significantly exceeded. For
example, 1564 revenue generating micro-projects, 348 socio-economic micro-projects and 175 small-
scale community infrastructure projects were implemented compared to the targets were 1500, 140
and 45, respectively. There were 42,658 children who benefited from the services of 473 community
nutrition workers (ACN) in 432 villages compared to the target numbers were 40,000, 400, and 400
respectively. However, only 12,852 pregnant and lactating women were followed by ACNs,
compared to the target of 20,000 women.
4.17   The mission visited several small-scale infrastructures, including several storage stores, two
roads, several wells, three bridges, one community garden, and one community hall. These were still
in excellent condition. Village committees had been created to insure their maintenance and these
committees were still fully operational and keen to maintain the infrastructures in good working
condition. The mission was told on several occasions both by the beneficiaries and NGO
representatives in the communities that the small-scale infrastructures financed by PILSA contributed
significantly to alleviate poverty and improve living conditions in rural areas, although reliable
numbers were not available.
4.18   Some micro-projects included literacy and numeracy programs, which were much
appreciated by the beneficiaries. For example, a group in Dagbeyon (consisting of 14 woman and 11
men) benefited from several micro-projects, one of which was the literacy and.numeracy program
which lasted five months. Before the program, the mission was told by several participants and the
NGO representative that none of the beneficiaries were literate. Now, most could read in their native
language and count - enough to keep minutes of their meetings, do their own bookkeeping, keep
track of their credit, etc.
4.19   Among the groups involved in the community nutrition program, all but one that were visited
by the mission are continuing with the program. The village nutrition committees are still operational
and, in several cases, the community nutrition agent (ACN) was still monitoring the weights of the
children and providing advice on adequate diets for pregnant and lactating women. The ACNs
observed by the mission had acquired considerable knowledge and were still using that knowledge in
their day-to-day activities. The task of the ACNs was becoming more and more difficult, however,
without any accompanying support.
4. Contribution du gouvernement du Benin a I 'liaboration du rapport d 'achevement du projet d 'interventions locales pour
la securite alimentaire (Credit IDA 2601 BEN), II pages, undated.



10
4.20   In both the micro-projects and the community nutrition components, there appeared to be
excellent collaboration between men and women. Village committees in charge of maintaining the
micro-infrastructures often consisted of both men and women, even though committees made up
exclusively of men or of woman also existed. Village nutrition committees (CVN) were always made
up of both men and woman. Having a mixed CVN was thought to be essential in order to encourage
all community members to participate in the nutrition program and to show that nutrition was not
only a matter of importance to women and children. All CVNs visited by the mission were working
well and most of them were headed by a woman as chairperson.
4.21   For both components of PILSA, beneficiaries greatly appreciated the work of the NGOs. In
fact, the participation of NGOs in the implementation of the project was often cited as a major factor
in the success of the project, both by beneficiaries and other observers, as well as by government
officials. Even though donor funding of their activities has ended, several NGOs have continued
working with village committees to maintain the confidence of the communities in the expectation of
a follow-up project. The communities, for their part, continue to need the services that NGOs can now
provide, thanks to the training they have received from the project.
4.22   The mission requested to meet with groups and visit micro-projects that did not work out
properly, but was unsuccessful with one exception. Although visits were planned, the beneficiaries
did not show up when the mission arrived on the sites. On one occasion, the beneficiaries left
messages that they had to leave unexpectedly and could not meet. The exception was the visit to an
unfinished road. Although PILSA had invested 140 million CFAF in its construction, compared to the
estimate of 50 million CFAF, the road was still unfinished due to severe and unexpected problems.
The road was being built between two villages separated by water, and the engineers had not
anticipated running into a swamp. The village committee was actively looking for other sources of
funds to complete the project, but had not yet succeeded.
4.23   PILSA was appreciated not only by beneficiaries in the communities but also by the
government's Food and Applied Nutrition Directorate (DANA). DANA was able to implement or
reinforce several nutrition controls, conduct surveys on the nutritional status of the population, and
provide training and advice to NGO participants in the project, which increased the local capacity of
the agents to assist in the communities.
4.24   In conclusion, the overall efficacy of PILSA is rated substantial. The major objectives of the
project were met even though minor shortcomings were identified.
Rural Credit II
4.25   The objective of Rural Credit II - to support the establishment of an efficient institutional
structure for the rural finance network - was partly achieved. An apex body, the Federation of Rural
Savings and Loans Cooperatives (FECECAM), was created and the Regional rural savings and loans
cooperatives (CRCAMs) were replaced by the Regional Unions of CLCAMs (URCLCAMs), which
no longer compete with the local rural savings and loans cooperatives (CLCAMs) in making loans
and attracting savings. The role of the URCLCAMs consists mainly in providing technical advice and
support to the local units, as well as ensuring that the maximum loans-to-savings ratio is respected at
the regional level. The Board of Directors of FECECAM mentioned to the mission that, over the life
of Rural Credit II, training was effectively provided to the staff at all levels. However, the mission
was told during field trips that the training was offered particularly to URCLAMs and FECECAM
staff. No data on the number of training sessions per category of staff were available.



I1
4.26   The FECECAM network experienced significant growth in terms of the number of CLCAMs,
membership, total savings, and total loans outstanding. The number of CLCAMs doubled between
1993 and 2002, from 48 to 96, while membership grew from 51,000 to 330,000. Total savings
increased from 4.19 to 18.9 billion CFAF between 1993 and 1998, while total credit outstanding
increased from 1.53 to 16.58 billion CFAF. However, the situation deteriorated significantly when
severe problems occurred in the network in 1998. The most recent numbers (2002) indicate that total
savings have increased slightly to 21.4 billion CFAF, but total outstanding loans have decreased to
9.95 billion CFAF. Most important, loans in arrears increased from 0.02 billion CFAF in 1993 to 0.99
billion in 1997, and to 4.32 billion CFAF in 1999. Loans in arrears are at 4.12 billion CFAF in 2001.5
4.27   The mission was told on several occasions that the major cause underlying the problems
faced by FECECAM since 1998 was that several elected officials on the boards of the CLCAMs
borrowed significant amounts of money without having any intention of repaying the loans. This
reflected the lack of an appropriate monitoring and evaluation system, and implies that the objective
of providing an overall control on the network's operations has not been reached. The consequence of
these unpaid loans was that several CLCAMs were prohibited from making new loans, and some of
them were still under this restriction in 2002. This has seriously penalized local producers who no
longer have access to credit. Efforts being made on the legal front to recuperate the funds have so far
proved unsuccessful. While the CLCAM officials knew who had not repaid and had informed the
appropriate authorities, nothing had been done to bring the offending people to court. The lack of
enforcement of the financial contract, by not requiring full repayment, greatly increases the cost to
and reduces the viability of the CLCAM.
4.28   At a CLCAM in Aguegues, the manager was now the only remaining staff member and he
had not made a loan for two years. While he has received several applications, his CLCAM is
prohibited from making any new loans until it has recovered 15 percent of the outstanding arrears.
The manager was working closely with local mayors to convince people to repay their loans so the
CLCAM could get back in business, but he told the mission that most people with loans in arrears
were reluctant to repay them because they feared that they would not be allowed to borrow again even
if they repaid their loans.
4.29   Another cause of FECECAM's difficulties is the inadequate term structure of its financial
products.6 Loans must generally be repaid in one single lump sum at the end of the loan horizon,
without regard to the agricultural production cycle for which these were taken out. Therefore, if a
loan is due before the crop is harvested, then the loan falls into arrears. If a loan is due too long after
the crop is harvested, then the income has already been spent on other things. Also, the mission was
also told on several occasions that farmers could not obtain credit for the timely purchase of inputs
(mainly fertilizers and improved seeds). When farmers finally obtained the credit, they used it for
other purposes, but crop yields were not sufficient to generate enough income to repay the loan.
Therefore, the objective that FECECAM provide adequate policy guidance has not been achieved.
4.30   Finally, the rapid expansion of the network has also created problems. The new governance
and management structure, requiring elected representatives, appeared to have been implemented
before those representatives could be adequately trained to assume the responsibilities of managing a
growing savings and loans institution.
5. Numbers before 2002 were obtained from the ICR and Francois Doligez, Financement de I 'agriculture et microfinance
au Bdnin, conference presentation at "Le financement de l'agriculture familiale dans le contexte de la liberalisation. Quelle
contribution de la microfinance?" Dakar, Senegal, January 21-24, 2002. The most recent numbers are from the Cooperative
Programme Service, Investment Center Division.
6. Doligez, op. cit., also points out the problem of inadequate financial products available from FECECAM.



12
4.31   FECECAM was expected to be financially viable at the end of the Rural Credit II, but this did
not occur. The degree of autonomy has been about 60 percent during the last few years (2000-2002).
FECECAM board members emphasized to the OED mission that governance has been greatly
improved over the past few years and they are optimistic that they will reach 100 percent autonomy
within two years.
4.32   Other shortcomings of the Rural Credit II project include: only 26 out of a total of 96
CLCAMs made an operational profit in 1999, and a loan recovery rate of 70 percent in September
2000 compared to the target recovery rate of97 percent. In conclusion, the overall efficacy of Rural
Credit II is rated as modest, since the objectives were only partially achieved.
EFFICIENCY: WERE THE PROJECTS COST-EFFECTIVE?
4.33   The overall efficiency of PRSA cannot be assessed using cost-benefit analysis because it was
primarily an institutional reform and institution-building project, and data are not available for the
majority of civil works it supported. However, the length of the project was twice that originally
planned, and it is probable that these delays increased costs. In addition, the mission found that the
transfer of knowledge was poorly done, producers' organizations did not receive enough help and
training to adequately and efficiently perform their new roles, training was inadequate for the
conversion of the remaining staff, and the financial help that was supposed to be provided to
redundant personnel never materialized. Funds, which were targeted to help develop new programs
and training, were actually spent, in part, on civil works. For example, almost all of the originally
unallocated project funds (13.5 percent) as well as the funds planned for personnel conversion (5.7
percent) were used to increase expenditures on civil works from a planned 16.3 percent to 33.1
percent of total costs. Funds for training increased only slightly from a planned 11.4 percent to a
realized 15.7 percent.
4.34   PRSA did not fully achieve its purpose of reorganizing MAEP and of changing the mandate
and direction of MAEP, and the changes which have occurred were not well managed. Therefore, the
efficiency of PRSA is rated modest.
4.35   Rural Credit II was primarily an institution-building project for which traditional cost-
benefit analysis cannot be performed. Most of the IDA funds (82 percent) were aimed at the
FECECAM component of the project. While FECECAM was created, the overall'objectives of the
project, as discussed above, were only partially achieved. There are many lingering problems with the
services provided by the CLCAMs, such as high interest rates, long delays for obtaining credit, and
loan terms that are not adapted to producers' needs.' Hence, good practice standards for services,
which are a qualitative indicator for efficiency, were not met.
4.36   As of 2002 the cooperative credit system is very much in a state of flux. The expenditure of
funds on training and upgrading of management of the CLCAMs has not solved the problems which
the Rural Credit II project was to address. The project is rated modest with respect to efficiency.
4.37   The overall efficiency of PILSA cannot be measured using cost-benefit analysis since such
analysis cannot be performed for the community nutrition component. While cost-benefit analyses
could be performed for the small-scale infrastructures financed by the project, such data are not
available. However, profit margins for selected income-generating micro-projects are reported in the
7. Several other shortcomings perceived by producers are reported in Olivier Renard, Sous quelles les systemes financiers
decentralises parviennent-ils A financer l'investissement agricole? Memoire de fin d'etudes, diplome d'agronomie
Approfondie, ENSA, Rennes, France, 1999.



13
ICR and the ratio of profits over investment ranges from 9 to 52 percent - equal to or well above
current market returns.
4.38   PILSA was efficient in reaching its target group. It achieved "large participation by women
(60-70% of the project beneficiaries, by PPU estimation), partly because of the nature of the projects,
but also because they are being included in project planning, even in male-oriented projects (barns,
grain storage facilities, etc.)."8
4.39   An important aspect that affects the efficiency of an investment is the sustainability of the
output. For example, if the infrastructures are well maintained and can continue to yield benefits in
the long run, then the cost-effectiveness is likely to be high. Similarly, revenue-generating projects,
such as land improvement for collective use, must remain operational after project completion. As
previously mentioned, the large majority of the infrastructures and revenue generating projects visited
by the mission were still in good working condition, and were well managed by village committees.
Unfortunately, no data were available on the proportion of successful to unsuccessful projects, and a
comprehensive study would have to be performed to rigorously evaluate the situation.
4.40   Village nutrition committees were still operational and most ACNs were still providing the
services for which they were trained in the communities visited by the mission. Moreover, several
NGOs were still involved in helping and training local communities in better nutrition. This implied
that the funds invested in training local people on better nutrition issues were still bringing benefits to
the communities.
4.41   Some NGOs were suspended by the project director when did not perform well. However,
their lack of performance was not related to the quality of the professional services they were
providing to the communities. Rather, these NGOs were late in submitting adequate and appropriate
expense and activity reports9 and half of them were reinstated when they submitted acceptable
reports. While this probably increased the costs of the project, it is also a sign of attentive project
management.
4.42   There is an efficiency-cost issue when a project like PILSA utilizes NGOs to deliver the
project to the "poorest of the poor." This necessarily raises implementation costs, since each NGO
works with fewer groups when delivering programs to the "poorest of the poor" than is the norm on
other World Bank projects.20
4.43   The mission visited some micro-projects that did not seem to be the highest priority. In one
community the mission found that a micro-project had been used to build short concrete bridges (30-
40 feet) to replace wooden bridges. However, local representatives said their current top priority had
been a marketplace. They had chosen to build the bridges rather than a marketplace because the
bridges would make it easier to get to the marketplace. The mayor told the mission that the
community had been expecting to benefit from another micro-project to build the marketplace when,
unfortunately, PILSA was terminated. Therefore, it is likely that some micro-projects did not
contribute as much as others to alleviate poverty, while other micro-projects could have been more
appropriate. The mission could not, however, do an extensive assessment of all micro-projects with
respect to their a priori impact on alleviating poverty.
8. Dinah McLeod, "Review of World Bank-Financed Community Development Projects," no date, p. 8.
9. Conversation with Mr. Soude, forrner director of PILSA.
10. As noted by McLeod, op. cit., the cost of NGOs for PILSA was extremely high - "60%, trying to cut down to 40% of
project costs."



14
4.44   On the other hand, other World Bank reports support the view that PILSA was efficient in
promoting microprojects. PILSA "far outperformed its subproject implementation objectives,
financing over 1500 microprojects instead of the 400 expected in 5 years. The Nutrition Committees
and Nutrition Workers have been well trained and are helping to ensure nutritional standards are
met."' " Taking all the above into consideration, the efficiency of PILSA is rated as substantial.
5. Ratings: Institutional Development Impact and Sustainability
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT IMPACT
PRSA
5.1    Privatizing several activities has helped to develop new producers' organizations and
institutions. Now all subprefectures have a Subprefectoral Producers' Union (USPP), which is
represented by the Departmental Producers' Union (UDP) at the regional level, and by the Federation
of Producers' Unions (FUPRO) at the national level. However, only about 40 percent of the USPPs
are operating satisfactorily. Generally speaking, those, which existed before the project and are
located in the cotton producing regions are operational, while those which did not exist before the
project and are located in other regions are less operational. However, as time passes, farmers report
that the situation is improving.
5.2   Input procurement and marketing, which was previously the responsibility of the National
Agricultural Promotion Company (SONAPRA), is now the responsibility of a producers' cooperative
- the Agricultural Inputs Supply and Management Cooperative of Benin (CAGIA-Benin). This
institution is very young (created in August 1998) and is not yet performing all the roles it was
originally assigned. Nonetheless, producers expressed confidence that the institution will allow them
to better control the quality and price of their inputs, and will better represent their interests and
increase their well-being.
5.3    Other institutions have seen their roles substantially modified, especially the Payments and
Debt Collection Unit (CSPR) and the Interprofessional Cotton Association (AIC) in the cotton
industry. The CSPR, which is made up of producers, distributors, and ginners, plays an important role
in guaranteeing the credit of the input distributors selected by the CAGIA, overseeing the transport of
cotton from the villages to the ginning plants, collecting payments from the plants, and redistributing
the funds to USPPs, who pay individual producers. The AIC, which is made up of representatives of
FUPRO and the Professional Association of Ginners of Benin (APEB), is the interface between
government and industry. Among its responsibilities, the AIC fixes the price of cotton. These
institutional changes and developments have helped start a private cotton market in Benin.
5.4    PRSA has changed the culture of extension at the village level. Producers who are aware of
the new "bottom-up" and "demand-driven" system clearly prefer it to the previous system. Extension
workers are now seen to be helping farmers solve problems rather than coming to them with a
specific message. This new approach will likely be better appreciated if and when the hiring freeze is
removed and more APVs become available to service more producers' groups and villages.
5.5   In summary, PRSA has contributed to institutional development. In the cotton regions, at the
regional level, and at the national level in particular, institutional development has been notable. The
11. Ibid, p. 8.



15
MAEP and the CARDERs have been restructured, their role has been redefined, and their new
statutes have been adopted. The project effected a reduction in the human resource base as planned.
Unfortunately, this coincided with a hiring freeze that weakened the remaining human resource base
(though not as a consequence of the project). In the non-cotton regions, local institutions (at the
subprefecture level) have been created, although some of them are not yet operational. FUPRO
representatives expected improved performance within the next few years due to continuing training
of local representatives. The OED mission, however, does not fully share the optimism because new
ways of ensuring adequate input supply and of the necessary accompanying credit lines are still to be
developed. Overall, the institutional development impact of PRSA is rated modest.
PILSA
5.6    While some groups were in place in the villages before PILSA, the project also established
several new groups, such as the village nutrition committees and other committees to manage and
maintain small-scale infrastructures. Most of these have continued to function after the project
finished.
5.7    One of the strongest indicators of institutional development which occurred under PILSA was
the development of social capital among the women in the villages. When visiting the villages, the
mission saw and spoke with women who were keeping records on the nutritional intake and weight
gain of their children. Some of the women were clearly the leaders in their villages, were aware of the
benefits of keeping records, and were assisting other women to do so. This interaction between the
women was creating a support system in the village for other women less familiar with the benefits of
maintaining records.
5.8    PILSA significantly helped DANA to carry out its redefined mandate by providing vehicles,
computer facilities and other office equipment. It also bad a major impact on building the monitoring
and evaluation capacity that is necessary to assess nutritional needs in rural areas. Two surveys were
conducted in the target villages and the results were used in defining development policies and
nutritional interventions.
5.9    ONASA was strongly reinforced by the project through the implementation of a departmental
observatory (in Zou region) to monitor markets and prices, the updating of the national food security
map, the acquisition of computer facilities as well as office equipment and supplies.
5.10   The link between the community management of development projects through the use of
NGOs has continued. This suggests that institutional arrangements have been developed that will
continue to ease the problems of food security and nutrition in those areas. Some NGOs have
continued to deliver services, even though they are no longer funded by the project. This is a positive
development for the regions because it sustains the capacity that has been developed by the project
through training to provide services. Of course, NGOs are hopeful that another similar project will be
implemented in the near future, and that they will have the capacity to be fully operational at that time
and to be associated with the project. The overall institutional development impact of PILSA is rated
substantial.
Rural Credit II
5.11   Rural Credit II was successful in establishing the Federation, which remains in place in
2002. The URCLCAMs have been created to replace the CRCAMs. Their role being to supervise and
provide training to the CLCAMS, they no longer compete with them to attract savings and make



16
loans. The elected directors of the CLCAMs, URCLCAMs and FECECAM are now totally
independent of government. These are substantial institutional changes.
5.12   Internal audit missions have been conducted to help accountants in the regions to improve the
accounting, monitoring and reliability of the system. Computerization has been implemented in the
whole network, which has greatly improved speed in obtaining relevant information as well as its
quality.
5.13   The number of CLCAMs, the number of beneficiaries, and the amount of credit outstanding
have increased significantly (previous section). Moreover, the geographic area covered by the
network has expanded significantly; the network is now present in all regions of the country.
Therefore, the institutional development impact of Rural Credit II is also rated substantial.
SUSTAINABILITY
PRSA
5.14   The privatization that occurred under PRSA is not likely to be reversed. Indeed, more
privatization is imminent because the processing plants still owned by SONAPRA are to be sold to
the private sector by mid-2003.
5.15   The move to put the cotton industry in the hands of farmers and the private sector is
irreversible and sustainable. The development of industry and producers' organizations (such as
CAGIA, FUPRO, and USPPs) has been substantial and most of them are becoming increasingly
operational. The CARDERs are unlikely to return to overseeing and managing the cotton industry.
5.16   In the non-cotton regions, some producers' organizations (USPPs) are unlikely to survive
because they lack the means to collect the funds they need to sustain their development, and lack the
human capital (expertise) they need to become fully operational. Without significant help from the
national organization (FUPRO), some USPPs will never become operational. However, even though
FUPRO representatives are eager to see their organization grow and become stronger, and can be
expected to provide some support to the weakest components, it is unlikely that USPPs in the non-
cotton regions will flourish in a significant way.
5.17   The mandate of MAEP and the CARDERS is not sustainable in its present form. The
government currently faces a dilemma - either increase the number of staff to a minimum level in
order to keep offering the services that it wants to offer, or change the mandate of MAEP and the
CARDERS and officially reduce the services offered to farmers. Under the first scenario, the
structural changes in MAEP and the CARDERs would be sustainable and their present mandate could
be fulfilled. Under the second scenario, the structural changes that have taken place in these
organizations would last, but their role and mission would have to be redefined.
5.18   In conclusion, the OED mission rates the sustainability of PRSA as unlikely. The mission is
convinced that several achievements of PRSA will last, such as all the privatizations that have
occurred and the new institutions that have been created. However, the mandates of MAEP and the
CARDERS will have to be redefined if no more human resources are provided to them, since they
cannot perform their present mandates with the current staff. Since hiring more human resources is
unlikely due to current economic conditions of the country, part of the objective of PRSA, which was
to restructure the extension service of MAEP and to reduce its focus on the cotton sector, is unlikely
to be realized.



17
PILSA
5.19   The community nutrition component of PILSA, which consisted of teaching women about the
need to provide young children with adequate and quality food, has been maintained in most of the
villages visited by the mission. Many of the micro-projects are still in operation. Roads and stores that
were built under PILSA are being maintained and are highly valued by the villagers. These structures
are likely to last several years.
5.20   Some of the PILSA micro-projects are not being sustained, however. Some were never
completed, and others were affected by cost over-runs. The scale of these problems could not be
verified by the mission, but was reported to be small.
5.21   One objective of PILSA was to create social capital among "the poorest of the poor," namely,
to help women understand the benefits of an organized local effort to deal with an issue like poverty.
It is just as important to sustain this social capital as it is to maintain physical capital. When the
mission visited the villages which had a PILSA project, this social capital was very evident. Women
had formed groups to promote nutrition that were continuing to operate. Obviously, in the case of
those groups which no longer continued after the end of the project, such social capital was not being
sustained.
5.22   The OED mission concurs with the ICR that three factors favor the sustainability of PILSA:
(1) the village pharmacies are on their way to becoming self-sufficient; (2) foreign NGOs and
development agencies greatly appreciated the outcome of PILSA, and (3) new programs are likely to
use the same agencies and facilities in the future (p. 9). Moreover, several NGOs and community
nutrition groups are still operational, and the objectives of PILSA are still of high priority in the I-
PRSP, which is likely to contribute to attracting funds from international donors. The sustainability of
these benefits of PILSA is therefore rated as likely.
Rural Credit II
5.23   The OED mission is not optimistic that FECECAM is sustainable in its present form. Several
CLCAMs will not be able to change their financial prospects in the short term to become profitable,
which implies that they will have to cease their activity. Moreover, the financial structure of
FECECAM is presently shaky and solutions will have to be found to ensure its survival. While some
solutions are presently being considered, their implementation is lagging.
5.24   In November 2000, an operational
Table 1. Structure of loans in arrear in the  business plan was elaborated with Desjardins
FECECAM network, 2001                   International Development (DID) to recuperate
and-transform the FECECAM network following
Time penod     Arrears                its severe financial difficulties. FECECAM
0-3 months     0.9 million CFAF       requested the help from DID because this mutual
3-6 months     24.6 million CFAF      type institution possesses internationally renowned
6-9 months     54.7 million CFAF      expertise in implementing cooperative credit
9-12 months    163.6 million CFAF     institutions in several developing countries. The
>12 months     3,787 million CFAF     recuperation phase of the plan contained 14
Source: Data obtained from Michael Marx, FAO.  actions. After 17 months (in March 2002), most of
the 14 actions had been initiated, although several
of them were not yet completed and had to be



18
given an extension. The transformation phase, however, had not started yet at the time of the mission
in July 2002.12
5.25   Even though its performance has improved slightly over the past few years, FECECAM still
had 4 billion CFAF of loans (41 percent of total loans) in arrears (Table 1).13 Short-term loans (less
than one year) amounted to 7.5 billion CFAF, excluding 0.45 billion held by women on 3-6 month
loans. Loans of 13-24 months duration amounted to 0.925 billion CFAF, and loans of 24-36 months
duration amounted to 1.05 billion CFAF. This situation is not sustainable and constitutes the main
problem affecting the sustainability of the FECECAM network.
5.26   Some CLCAMs were not able to provide new loans because of poor performance of debt
collection. Some of this occurred because of poor training and monitoring, and some occurred
because of the access of CLCAMs to credit lines from donors, which resulted in bad loans. Therefore,
some of these CLCAMs are not sustainable.
5.27   According to the ICR, external donors are unlikely to contribute to the repayment of these
loans. Therefore, to ensure sustainability of the network means that a new partner will have to be
found to recover these arrears, which seems to be a very difficult task. Another possibility would be
to find new ways to increase profitability. The development of new financial products to better serve
the needs of the rural community might be an option. To our knowledge however, no new product
development, except the very small loans program offered exclusively to women, has occurred since
the creation of FECECAM.
5.28   A major difficulty in Benin is the lack of available professional financial services, such as
accountants who work in the private sector, deposit insurance services, and auditing services. If the
cooperative structure is to be maintained in the financial sector, then a parallel professional
monitoring system would be required to ensure that the auditing is completed in a timely fashion.
This type of service could be supplied by the development of a parallel deposit insurance system
under the direction of the Central Bank, which would be a useful addition to the current governance
structure of the CLCAMs. This would help provide the local governance structure of the CLCAMs
with on going assistance in managing their loans and deposit portfolios.
5.29   The cooperative structure of rural savings and loans could be made sustainable in rural Benin
if corrective action suggested by DID is followed and implemented. On the other hand, if the arrears
problem as well as the transformation phase of the operational business plan proposed by DID are not
handled expeditiously, the whole system could collapse. Taking all these things into consideration,
the sustainability of the benefits of Rural Credit n is rated as unlikely.
12. FECECAM-Benin, 2002, "Point d'execution du plan d'affaires operationnel pour le redressement et la transformation de
la FECECAM," May.
13. See also Francois Doligez, 2001, "Financement de I'Agriculture et Microfinance au Benin," Institut de recherche dt
d'applications des methodes de developpement, Semninaire International, 21-24 Janvier 2002, Dakar, Senegal.



19
6. Bank and Borrower Performance
BANK PERFORMANCE
PRSA
6.1    Bank performance was weak in the early stages of PRSA project design. It failed to foresee that
institutional changes of the magnitude as those proposed by the project would require change in
personnel at the most senior levels of government, since a reduction in the overall staff is not sufficient
to change the culture of organizations like MAEP and CARDERs.
6.2    At the beginning of PRSA, committees had to select the personnel that were to remain with the
ministry and the CARDERs, using predetermined criteria. At the time, there were already 234 unfilled
positions due to a lack of appropriately trained staff within the ministry. Due to the hiring freeze, new
human resources could not be attracted from outside the government and these positions were
eventually filled with the available staff (for example, technicians with high school diplomas were
promoted to positions designed for professionals with university degrees). Therefore, the Bank should
have foreseen that it was likely that the restructuring would suffer from inadequate staffing and should
have proposed solutions that would have increased the probability that PRSA achieve its objectives.
6.3    Considering the numerous complaints heard by the mission regarding the insufficient transfer of
knowledge and training, which was of primary importance for the project to be successful, the Bank
could have exerted pressure so that the reallocated funds be directed to training rather than to civil
works.
6.4    No monitoring system was implemented. This, combined with a frequent turnover in the staff
(task managers, division leaders) contributed significantly to the relatively poor performance of the
project, and especially to the very poor perception of PRSA among civil servants. Taking all these
things into account, Bank performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
PILSA
6.5    The Bank financed a pilot project similar to PILSA before starting the larger project, which
appears to have given the Bank and donors the required knowledge to design a successful program. The
Bank allowed the linking of poverty reduction and income generation through micro-finance. Groups
could borrow funds to finance micro-projects and had to repay their loans through an account at the
local CLCAM. This experiment appears to have been successful. The Bank also encouraged the
decentralization of the delivery of PILSA through collaboration with local NGOs, which proved to be
very successful. The project had a significant outcome and all participants (government, NGOs, and
especially the beneficiaries) perceive it very highly.
6.6    The number of supervision missions and the disbursement of the funds were adequate. There
were two shortcomings. First, there was a high staff turnover: four task managers had responsibility for
the project over the five-year project period. While this occasionally caused friction with the borrower,
it did not have a negative impact on project implementation. Second, more appropriate performance
indicators to monitor outcomes and impacts should have been developed at entry. For example, the
number of micro-projects that were financed is not a relevant indicator if the projects were not
sustainable or if they contributed only marginally to alleviate poverty. Nevertheless, considering the
nature of the project, its recognized success, and the general flexibility of the Bank to approve



20
modifications that contributed to the success of the project, the Bank performance is rated as
satisfactory.
Rural Credit II
6.7    The potential difficulties and complexities associated with a rapidly expanding financial
network were not fully appreciated by the Bank at the start of Rural Credit II, for the Bank did not
anticipate such rapid growth in the network. The Bank did not foresee the need for a timely and rigorous
auditing of FECECAM. Considering the rapid growth of the network, which was accompanied by
hiring several new employees and by electing inexperienced boards of directors, more attention could
have been devoted to ensuring adequate monitoring and auditing. Toward the end of the project,
supervisory missions did alert FECECAM and the government to the deteriorating situation, but by this
time was already too late.
6.8    The Bank did not foresee the possible pressure placed on the cooperative system by additional
donors, which resulted in a number of bad loans and financial difficulties for some CLCAMs.
6.9    According to the ICR, the number of supervisory missions was adequate, but the skill mix and
expertise of the mission members could have been better selected. There could have been more
specialists in micro-credit and organizational structure, for example.
6.10   The OED mission recognizes that the problems faced by FECECAM were difficult to
anticipate. However, considering that the Bank did not have much experience in similar projects
(rehabilitation of rural finance institutions), extra attention should have been conferred on the project,
especially on the monitoring at the early stage, with help of highly qualified personnel. All things
considered, the performance of the Bank is rated unsatisfactory.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
PRSA
6.11   The Borrower performance with respect to PRSA is rated unsatisfactory. The government
demonstrated a complete lack of commitment to the project and never delivered the funds that were
promised at the time of signing, which contributed to significant delays in project implementation. The
goals and objectives of the extension services were never clearly defined, and were generally too
ambitious. In addition, no clear performance targets were set against which the staff could be held
accountable.
6.12   The borrower failed to implement a system to adequately follow through the restructuring of
MAEP and CARDERs, and did not ensure that the privatization of the activities of the CARDERs were
feasible within the financial constraints that it must have been anticipating. Moreover, MAEP did not
oversee the privatization process sufficiently. As a result, some activities were privatized too quickly,
without appropriate training and transfer of knowledge. Finally, most of the deficiencies attributed to the
borrower could have been identified early had a rigorous monitoring and evaluation system been
implemented at the beginning of PRSA.



21
PILSA
6.13   The Borrower performance with respect to PILSA is rated satisfactory. While the performance
of the government was questionable during implementation, that of the implementing agency was
excellent.
6.14   The borrower participated actively in the preparation and the design of PILSA. Although there
were delays in ratifying the Credit agreement, these were less severe than for the other two projects. As
specified in the Credit agreement, the government created a coordination committee, but this committee
was not fully operational. Even though the financial participation of the government was limited (US$
600,000), the disbursements of the funds were late and its total contribution reached only 62.5 percent
of its initial commitment.
6.15   On the other hand, the performance of the implementing agency was noteworthy. It
demonstrated leadership and commitment to the success of the project, even though delays occurred in
the recruitment of staff and in initiating components of the projects at the beginning of the project. Some
of the delays were almost inevitable since they were attributable to difficulties in assembling village
nutrition committees and in convincing local community members of the potential benefits associated
with better nutrition habits. NGOs that were not submitting required reports on time were suspended.
Incremental training was provided to NGOs and those who adequately corrected their situation were
later readmitted. This reflects, however, a lack of adequate filtering criteria in retaining the services of
the NGOs.
Rural Credit II
6.16   The Borrower performance with respect to Rural Credit II is rated as unsatisfactory. The
government, although not directly involved in the implementation of Rural Credit {, had been actively
involved in the preparation of the project because of the need to provide rural credit. Hence, although it
had a legitimate interest in closely following the Network's development and management, it failed in
this respect.
6.17   The Government kept its agreement not to interfere in the rural finance sector and did not
interfere with the development of the cooperative financial system. The appropriate legislation is now in
place, but it was slow in coming.
6.18   Considering the rapid growth of the credit network as well as the lack of experience of the new
employees and the boards of directors, the borrower shares the responsibility of not ensuring adequate
monitoring and not implementing rigorous and timely auditing systems, which could have prevented the
severe financial difficulties now faced by FECECAM.
6.19   The micro-finance division of the Ministry of Finance is currently working closely with
FECECAM to help implement the operational business plan elaborated with Desjardins International
Development. Moreover, they monitor closely the evolution of FECECAM's actions in implementing
the plan to make sure the institution will recover and be able to keep supplying its services in all
regions. The implementation of the plan and the necessary accompanying transformation in the system
are, however, being delayed.



22
7. Lessons
7.1    Experience with these three projects confirms a number of OED lessons:
(1) A feasible plan (both functional andfi nancial) that can be fully implemented is essential when
changing the institutional structure of a major government organization such as the Ministry
ofAgriculture. The plan must beflexible and capable of being changed as it is being
implemented, and periodically monitored so that management can learn what is working and
what parts need to be altered during the implementation phase. Appropriately trained staff,
especially for key positions, are necessary to manage the transition because they set the
performance standard for newly recruited staff. A rigorous monitoring and evaluation system is
imperative to ensure that all intermediate targets are met. Monitoring is necessary to provide
management with ongoing information as to what parts of the plan are working and what parts
need to be altered. The PRSA project was less successful than it could have been because the
Government of Benin did not follow through. The result is a poorly operating extension system,
and a private sector that is less developed and efficient than desirable.
(2) A decentralized and demand-driven system is a viable approach to the successful delivery of
food security and nutrition programs. The PILSA project was successful because each
community was able to tailor the specific program delivery to its own needs, and because of the
expertise of both international and local NGOs to conduct the elaboration of the micro-projects
and deliver the nutrition programs. Local NGOs were able to identify with local populations. This
occurred as a result of the decentralized implementation of PILSA coupled with the strong
leadership of the implementing agencies and their firm commitment to the success of the project.
(3) The sustainable provision of rural credit requires appropriate institutional development and
training. If the growth in the micro-credit institution is substantial and if the institution is of a
mutual type, special attention must be devoted to adequate training of both the staff and the
members of the boards of directors. Managing and directing a financial institution requires
specialized skills. Many rural people who are elected to the local boards of directors of the
CLCAMs and charged with the governance of financial institutions do not possess these skills. A
more rigorous and thorough monitoring and evaluation system for the making of loans must now
be implemented within the CLCAMs. If a good monitoring and evaluation system had been
present in the FECECAM network and more attention given to appropriate training, FECECAM
would not be facing such an acute problem with arrears. More emphasis also needs to be placed
on the development of the provision of private financial services, such as accountants, auditors,
and possibly a deposit insurance market.



23                                       Annex A
Annex A: Basic Data Sheets
BENIN: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (CREDIT 22850, TF 21619)
Key Project Data (US$ millions)
Appraisal                Actual or             Actual as % of
estimate             current estimate       appraisal estimate
IDA Credit                       12.3                     12.8                     104
Cofinancing                      12.4                     11.6                     94
Government                        4.9                      3.4                     69
Total Project Costs              29.6                     27.8                     94
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ millions)
FY91    FY92   FY93    FY94   FY95    FY96   FY97    FY98   FY99    FYOO
Appraisal estimate       0     0.9     4.1    7.7    10.9    12.3    12.3   12.3    12.3   12.3
Actual                   0      0      1.0    3.0     5.6    7.5     8.7    10.1    11.9   12.8
Actual as % of estimate  0      0      24      39     51      61     71      82     96      104
Project Timetable
Original                         Actual
Identification/Preparation                                               November 1998
Appraisal                                                               September 25, 1990
Approval                                                                  June 27, 1991
Effectiveness                           October 15, 1991               November 25, 1992
Mid-term review                          June 30, 1992                   October 10, 1993
Credit closing                            June 30, 1995                 September 30, 1999
Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
Actual weeks                    Actual USS000
Through appraisal                           111.2                             136.3
Negotiations to Board                        66.1                             179.1
Supervision                                331.5                              874.2
Completion                                    9.3                              25.1
Total                                       518.1                            1214.7



24                                         Annex A
Mission Data
Date        NO. Of                                       Performance rating
(month/year)  persons      Specializations represented  Implementation Development
status      objectives
Identification/    November 1988     6        SE, IS, LS, HFSE, EW&FSE
Preparation          April 1989      5             SE, LS, E, IS, AG
November 1989     7       SAGN, SE, IMS, LS, ARS, HRS
February 1990     6     SE, AE, IS, FAO, MDRAC, E&RDS
Appraisal/           July, 1990       1                  SLP
Negotiation         October 1990     9      SE, E&RDS, IS, AE, AG, TS, AT,
FA
February 1991     1                  SLS
April 1991      2                SE, SEAC
May 1991       11      MDRAC2, MDRAC3, MDRAC4,
CARDER, FREP, EDF, UNDP, SE,
PLA, LA, DS
Supervision I       August 1991      1                   SE                      S             S
Supervision 2      February 1992     1                   SE                      S             S
Supervision 3        March 1992      1                   SE                      U             S
Supervision 4         July 1992      2                 SE, AE                    S             S
Supervision 5      November 1992     3              AGN, AE, PO                  U             S
Supervision 6        March 1993      2                AE, AGN                    S             S
Supervision 7       October 1993     3             AE, AGN, CSRS                 S             S
Supervision 8        April 1994      3              AE AGN, FA                   S             S
(Mid-term review)
Supervision 9       August 1994      3              AE, AGN, FA                  S             S
Supervision 10       May, 1995        1                 AGN                      S             S
Supervision 11        July 1995      3                AGN, AE                    S             S
Supervision 12      October 1995     2                AGN, ASS                   S             S
Supervision 13     December 1996     4              AGN, AE, 00                  S             S
Supervision 14       March 1997      4               E, AOO, ASP                 S             S
Supervision 15     November 1997     6       SE, AGN, ASP, AOO, SLS, FA          S             S
Supervision 16     September 1998    4            ASS, AOO, SLS, FA              U             S
Supervision 17      February 1999    3             ASS, AOO, SLS                 S             S
ICR                 February 1999     1                  SLS                     S             S
February 2000     1                 ANRS                                   S
Specializations represented: AE: Ag. Economist; AG: Agriculturalist; ARS: Ag. Research Specialist; ASS: Ag, Services
Specialist; AOO: Ag. Operations Officer; AGN: Agronomist; ANRS: Ag./Natural Resource Specialist; AT: Architect;
CARDER: Director General, CARDER Atlantique; CSRS: Civil Service Reform Specialist; DS: Disbursement Specialist;
EC: Economist; EDF: Representative of European Development Fund; E&RDS: Extension and Research/Development
Specialist; EW&FSE: Early Warning and Food Storage Expert; FA: Financial Analyst; FAO: FAO Rep; FREP:
Representative of French Assistance; HFSE: Household Food Security Expert; HRS: Human Resources Specialist; IMS:
Institutions and Management Specialist; IS: Institutions Specialist; LS: Livestock Specialist; LA: Legal Adviser; MDRAC;
Director of Planning at MDRAC; MDRAC2: Minister, MDRAC; MDRAC3: Charge de mission, MDRAC; MDRAC4: Chef
de Cabinet, MDRAC; 00: Operations Officer;. PLA: Principal Livestock Adviser; PO: Project Officer; SAGN: Senior
Agronomist; SE: Senior Economist, SEAC: Senior External Affairs Counselor; SLS: Senior Livestock Specialist; TS:
Training Specialist; UNDP: Representative of UNDP
Performance ratings: HS: Highly satisfactory; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; N/R: Not Rated.



25                                      Annex A
BENIN: COMMUNITY-BASED FOOD SECURITY PROJECT (CREDIT 26010, TF 26605)
Key Project Data (US$ millions)
Appraisal              Actual or           Actual as % of
estimate           current estimate      appraisal estimate
IDA Credit                            9.7                   9.9                   102
Cofinancing                          4.9                    4.7                    96
Government                            1.5                   0.3                    20
Total Project Costs                  16.1                   14.9                   93
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (USS millions)
FY94     FY95     FY96     FY97     FY98     FY99     FYOO      FYO0
Appraisal estimate        0.4      2.7      4.2      6.0      7.8      9.2      9.7       9.7
Actual                     0       1.7      2.7      4.0      5.4      7.4      9.6       9.9
Actual as % of estimate    0       62       64       66       69       80        98      102
Project Timetable
Original                         Actual
Identification/Preparation                                              November 1993
Appraisal                                  May 1993                      April 21, 1993
Approval                                                                 April 12, 1994
Effectiveness                            August 4, 1994                 January 31, 1995
Mid-term review                           April 1998                       April 1998
Credit closing                         December 31, 1999               September 30, 2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual weeks                   Actual US$000
Identification/Preparation                   20.2                            171.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                       141.5                            282.0
Supervision                                 141.9                            378.3
ICR                                          10.0                             22.9
Total                                       413.6                            254.3



26                                      Annex A
Mission Data
Date       No. Of                                  Performance rating
(monthyear)  persons   Specializations represented  Implementation Development
status      objectives
Identification/  November 1992     4         ML, AG, EC, MES
Preparation        April 1993      1               RDS
Appraisal/          June 1993      8       AE, FSS, CDS, EC, EC-
Negotiation                                    DANIDA, AG
Supervision I     Mar/Apr 1995     1                FSS                  HS             S
Supervision 2    September 1995    3            AE, FSS, EC               S             S
Supervision 3      June 1996       3        MCS, AE, FSS, MCS             S             S
Supervision 4    December 1996     4         EC, AE, FSS, MCS             S             S
Supervision 5       July 1997      5       EC, AE, FSS, MCS, ASS          S             S
Supervision 6      April 1998      8     EC, FSS, CDS, AE, ASS, IS,       S             S
(Mid termn review)                          OA, WIAS-DANIDA
Supervision 7      April 1999      5       AE, ASS, FA, DS, ANT-          S             S
DANIDA
Supervision 8     February 2000    6     AE, RDS, FA, DS, TTA, EC-        S             S
DANIDA
Supervision 9       June 2000      3            EC, AE, FA                S             S
ICR               October 2000     4         AE, RDS, FA, TTA             S             S
Specializations represented: AG= Agriculturalist; AE=Agricultural Economist; ANT=Anthropologist; ASS=Agricultural
Services Specialist; CF=Cofinancier representatives; DS=Disbursement Specialist; EC=Economist; FA=Financial Analyst;
FSS=Food Security Specialist; IS=Implementation Specialist; MCS=Micro-Credit Specialist; MES=Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist; OA=Operations Analyst; PS=Procurement Specialist; MES=Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist;
RDS=Rural Development Specialist; TrA=Task Team Assistant; WIAS=Gender Specialist.
Performance ratings: HS: Highly satisfactory; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; N/R: Not Rated.



27                                     Annex A
BENIN: SECOND RURAL SAVINGS AND LOANS COOPERATIVES REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 25290)
Key Project Data (US$ millions)
Appraisal               Actual or            Actual as % of
estimate            current estimate       appraisal estimate
IDA Credit                      3.8                     3.8                    100
Cofinancing                     6.2                     5.1                     82
Government                       0                      0
Total Project Costs             10.0                    8.9                     89
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FYOO    FYO0
Appraisal estimate      0       0.9     1.6    2.2     2.7      3.2     3.8     3.8     3.8
Actual                  0       0       0.2     0.6    0.8      1.5     2.1     2.6     3.8
Actual as % of estimate  0      0       12      27      29      46      55      68      100
Project Timetable
Original                        Actual
Identification/Preparation                                               May 1992
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                    June 1992
Approval                                                               June 29, 1993
Effectiveness                         December 20, 1994              December 20, 1994
Mid-term review                           June 1998                      June 1998
Credit closing                          June 30, 1999                December 31, 2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Weeks                   Actual US$OOO
Identification/Preparation                  5.9                            18.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                      30.9                            90.8
Supervision                               111.1                           258.9
ICR                                        10.5                            30.0
Total                                     158.4                           425.5



28                                        Annex A
Mission Data
Performance rating
Date       No. of       Specialization represented      Pentotion Dvlpnt
(month/year)  persons                                  Implementation  Development
status      objectives
Identification/    May 1992
Preparation
AppraisaV          May 1992       6     FA, RFS (2), EC, AG (representing
Negotiation                             IDA, IFAD, and Swiss and French
agencies)
June 1992       1                  FA
Supervision 1   December 1994     1                   AE                       S            HS
Supervision 2   November 1995     2       EA, FA (and representatives of      HS            HS
Swiss, French and CFD)
Supervision 3      May 1996       3     FA, 00, AG (and representatives of    HS            HS
French and MICAC)
Supervision 4     March 1997      5          TEM, AG, FA, 00, AE              HS            HS
Supervision 5     April 1997      2      (French CFD mission: AC, RFS)        HS            HS
Supervision 6    February 1998    4             FA, AE, 00, AG                HS            HS
Supervision 7      May 1998       5       FA, RFS, AE, ASS, 00 (with          HS            HS
(MTR)                  participation of cofinanciers)
Supervision 8      June 1999      2                 FA, AG                    HS             S
Supervision 9    February 2000    5    ASS, RDS, MFS, FA, DS (and Swiss       HS             U
representative)
ICR             December 2000     3              ASS, FA, RDS                  S             S
Specializations represented: AG= Agriculturalist; AE=Agricultural Economist; ASS-Agricultural Services Specialist;
CFD=Cofinancier representatives; DS=Disbursement Specialist; EC=Economist; RDS=Rural Development Specialist;
TEM=Technical Manager; FA= Financial Analyst; RFS= Rural Finance Specialist; 00 Operations Officer; AC=
Accountant; MFS= Micro-finance Specialist.
In addition, numerous representatives of the cofinancing agencies have participated part-time or in the meetings in Cotonou.
Performnance ratings: HS: Highly satisfactory; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; N/R: Not Rated.



29                              Annex B
Annex B: Programme De La Mission Au Benin
MISSION D'E VALUATION RETROSPECTIVE DES PROJETS
Restructuration des Services Agricoles (2285 BEN)
Rehabilitation des Caisses Locales de Credit Agricole (2529 BEN)
Securite Alimentaire (2601 BEN)
(Du 01 au 19 juillet 2002)
Lundi 01 juillet 2002:  Prise de contact et seances de travail avec la Mission residente de la
Banque Mondiale
Mardi 02 juillet 2002:  Seances de travail a la Mission residente de la Banque Mondiale et
pr6paration du programme de travail
Mercredi 03 juillet 2002: COTONOU
1 OhOO: Directeur du Cabinet du MECCAG -PD
I5h00 : Directeur General AgeFIB
16hOO: Directeur de Cabinet du MFE
Jeudi 04 juillet 2002: COTONOU
09hOO : Direction G6nerale CAA
I Ih30 : Secretaire Permanent et CA, FECECAM
16h30: Directeur du Cabinet du MAEP
17hOO: Direction FOV
18hOO: Direction PADME
Vendredi 05 juillet 2002: COTONOU
08hOO: DGPP/MAEP
09hOO: Cellule micro-finance MFE
1 OhOO: Direction Generale SONAPRA
1 lhOO: Direction Generale ONASA
I Ih30: Cadres PILSA et representants ONG impliquees au PILSA



30                              Annex B
VISITES DE TERRAIN
(Revisions are in bold characters)
Dimanche 07 juillet 2002: D6part pour PARAKOU (13h30)
Nuit A Parakou
Lundi 08 juillet 2002: PARAKOU
09hO0: Seance de travail A la Direction Generale du CARDER - BORGOU
10h30: Seance de travail A l'UDP - BORGOU
1 5hO0: Seance de travail A l'UR - CLCAM BORGOU
1 7h00 Seance de travail A la Direction du PAMR - BORGOU
Nuit A Parakou
Mardi 09 juillet 2002: SECTEUR KALALE
07hO0  Depart pour Derassi
I OhOO Visite realisations PILSA (MP et PCN) et discussions avec beneficiaires
I lh30: S6ance de travail au Secteur CARDER
1 3hO0: Seance de travail au CLCAM Kalale
14h30 Visites de deux groupes de producteurs (6leveurs et coton)
I 6hO0: Depart pour Kandi
Nuit A Kandi
Mercredi 10 juillet 2002: KANDI - BANIKOARA
08hO0: Visite USPP Kandi (Unite de production de semences de mais)
(not been informed, postponed until 09h30)
- Visite USPP Banikoara et discussion avec producteurs
(not been informed, cancelled)
- Visite CLCAM Banikoara / Seance de travail avec CA, CC et CS
(not been informed, cancelled)
12h00 - Visite d'une Usine SONAPRA d'egrenage
1 4hO0  Depart pour Parakou
1 8h00 Veterinaires prives (not been informed, cancelled)
Nuit A Parakou
Jeudi 11 juillet 2002: AVOGBANA - BOHICON
7hO0: Depart pour Avogbana
1 hOO Visite d'une Usine privee d'egrenage A AVOGBANA
1 5hO0: Seance de travail A la Direction Generale du CARDER ZOU
1 6h30: Seance de travail a la FUPRO (misunderstanding about the time, reported)
Nuit A Bohicon
Vendredi 12 juillet 2002: COVE - BOHICON - DOGBO - LOKOSSA
08h30: Visite realisations PILSA (MP et PCN) et discussions avec beneficiaires (COVE)
(road closed due to excess rain, cancelled)
- Visite de I'Huilerie de Bohicon (cancelled)
- Visite d'une Usine SITEX A LOKOSSA (cancelled)



31                               Annex B
11 hOO Visite de producteurs (PRSA)
14h00 Visite de producteurs (MP-PILSA)
I5h00 Visite de producteurs (PCN-PILSA)
1 7hO0  Visite de producteurs (MP-PILSA)
1 8h30 - Seance de travail a la Direction Gen6rale du CARDER MONO
19h30: Depart pour Possotome
Nuit A Possotome
Samedi 13 juillet 2002: BOPA ou COME
09h30: Visite de producteurs (PRSA) (BOPA)
1 I h30: Rencontres avec APV et ONG (responsables des ACN) (BOPA)
12h30: Depart pour Cotonou
Lundi 15 juillet 2002: AGUEGUES - SEME PODJI
09hO0  Seance de travail A la DANA (not been informed, cancelled)
1OhOO Visite r6alisations PILSA (MP et PCN) et discussion avec b6neficiaires (AGUEGUES)
I Ih30: Visite CLCAM Aguegues / Seance de travail avec CA, CC et CS
1 5h30: Visite realisations PILSA (MP) et discussions avec beneficiaires (SEME PODJI)
l 7h30: Visite r6alisations PILSA (MP) et discussions avec beneficiaires (SEME PODJI)
-Visite CLCAM SEME PODJI (not been informed, cancelled)
1 8h30 Visite realisations PILSA (PCN) et discussions avec beneficiaires (SEME PODJI)
Mardi 16 juillet 2002: ABOMEY - CALAVI - ALLADA
I OhOO: S6ance de travail a la Direction Generale du CARDER ATLANTIQUE
- Seance de travail A l'UR - CLCAM ATLANTIQUE (not been informed, cancelled)
Mercredi 17 juillet 2002 :COTONOU
11 hOO S6ance de travail A la CSPR
12hO0: Seance de travail A l'AIC
15hO0  Seance de travail a la CAGIA
Jeudi 18 juillet 2002: COTONOU
09h30: S6ance de travail avec des representants de la FUPRO (Cotonou)
Vendredi 19 juillet 2002 Pr6sentation des conclusions
15h30: Directeur du Cabinet du MECCAG -PD et Cadres DGCED et DGPP
16h30: Directeur du Cabinet du MFE et Cadres CAA et Cellule Microfinance (cancelled)
17h30: Directeur du Cabinet du MAEP et Cadres DGPP, DEFOV, DANA et ONASA



