Docunment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9442-BEN
A: J; d, ( ,  f./ X: >4 .  9'  ,' * I  12 /  / /JA )G 1 ;
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
JUNE 3, 1991
Agriculture Operations
Occidental and Central Africa Department
I  his document has a reted dIstbutIoa   may he used by recdpints only in the perfonmance of
theik officid duoes Its contents ny not odhervie be disoed whot Wodd Bank auth,rizatIon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (FAF)
US$1 - CFAF 253*
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABEDA          Arab Bank for Economic Dovelopment In Africa
AfDB           African Development Bank
APV            Agent polyvalent do vulgerisation
Polyvalent extension agent
ATDR           Agent toechnique de doveloppement rural
Technical agent for rural development
BOAD           Banque ouest-africalne pour Is d6veloppoment
West African Dovelopment Bank
CARDER         Centre d'action r6gionale pour Is doveloppoment rural
Reglonal Action and Rural Development Center
CCCE           Caie.s centrale do coop6ration 6conomiqu- (France)
Central Economic Cooperation Fund (France)
CENAP          Centre national d'agro-p6dologie
National Agro-Podology Center
CLCAM          Caisse locale do cr6dit agricole mutuel
Local Agricultural Savings Cooporative
CPE            Centre permanent d'exp6rimentation
Permanent experimentation centor
CR             Collul- do restructuration
Restructuring unit
CRCAM          Caisse r6glonale do cr6dit agricole mutuol
Regional Agricultural Savings Cooperativo
DRA            Direction do Is rechorche agronomique
Agrlcultural Research Diroctorate
EDF            European Development Fund
FAC            Fonds d'lide A Ia coop6ration (France)
Fronch Economic Cooperation Agency
FAO            Food and Agriculturo Organization of the United Nations
3TZ            Oermen Technical Cooperation Agency
3V             Groupement villageole
Village Group
ICa            International Competitive Bidding
IFAD           International Fund for Agriculture Development
LCB            Local Compettive Bidding
LPDR           Lettr  do politique do d6v-loppement rural
Rural Developmont Policy Letter
MDRAC          Minist&re du d6veloppement rural et de l'aoction coop6rative
Ministry of Rursl Developmont and Cooperative Action
NGO            Nongovernmental organization
ONC            Office national dos c6r6alee
National Cereals Offico
PCS            Permanent Civil Servant
PHARNAVET      Pharmacie nationale v6t6rinalre
National Veterinary Pharmacy
RAUR           Recherche agricole en milieu riol
Agricultural researeh In the real *nvironment
R-D            Research and development
SEMP           Sttes dexp6rimentation on milieu paysan
Experimentation Sites in Farmer Environment
SVS            Subjoect Matter Specialist (Toechnicion specialls)
SONAPRA        Soci6t6 nationale pour la promotion agriColo
National Agricultural Promotion Company
UNDP           United Nations Dovelopment Program
a/     Exchange rate of January 1991.   The parity of the CFAF with the French
franc is fixed at 50/1.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   ..iii
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMHARY .   ............ .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  v
I.    INTRODUCTION  . . .  .  .....................  ...................  .................   I
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR . . . . .         . . . . ......... . .         2
Natural resources . . . . . .   . .         - v . - v - . .  . .   2
Land management and land tenire . . ........ .......   3
Crops   .   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ...........    3
Livestock production  .. ..................                       4
Food  security   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...    .   5
Women in agriculture  ......... . . ..  .........  6
III.  AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Farmer institutions . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . ..   6
Governmental institutions  . . . . . .  .   . . . ..  . .....  7
Institutional studies already undertaken  . . . . . . . . . . .  12
IDA's role and experience in rural development in Benin . . . .l12
IV.   THE  PROJECT  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .    .    .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .    12
Objectives    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    12
Strategy    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
Justification of IDA's participation in the financing of the
project   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
Project  area    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
Project components  . ........... ..........   18
Detailed description  . ...................  .   19
1. Agricultural policy components  . . . . . . . . . . .  19
2.  Investment components . . . . . . . . . ..21
This report is based on the conclusions of the appraisal mission carried in
October 1990 by a team consisting of Messrs. M. Asseo (mission leader), A. Ben
Mayor (extension and research/development), T. Nadir (public administration),
A. Srizzi (economist), M. Navot (agricultural technology), S. Bakayoko
(financial analyst), H. Revol (training), and M. Ibrahim (architect) and Mrs.
B. Hanan (financial analyst). Secretarial support was provided by Ms. A.
Vasquez. The project advisor has been Mr. V. Venkatesan of the Africa
Technical Department. Messrs. M. J. Gillette and ... Baah-Dwomoh are Department
Director and Acting Sector Division Chief, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.   PROJECT EXECUTION .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  25
Institutional restructuring. . ...............  .    26
Management of project activities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
On-lending of reinsertion loans  ...       ...     . . . . ... . .4 o.  27
Management of training activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Coordination with regional projects . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  28
Monitoring, evaluation and supervisiou  . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
VI.   COST s D   F i maN N  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
Financing . . .  o .  .......  .......  .......  .  o ..  .    o...........  ..... .  32
Financing of severance payments . . . ...... .. . . . . . .. .   33
Conditions for on-lending of reinsertion loans. . . . . . . . . . 33
Procurement.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   33
Disbursement  .....o   .. o         ...  . . .    . ....  .  34
Accounts and audits. ...... .         .  . . . . . . . . . . .   35
Impact on the MDRAC budget                    ................. .  36
VII.  JUSTIFICATIN AN     DRIS . ................... .   36
Justification                    . . . . . . . .            .  36
Environmental impact  ...............................  36
Risks .  . . . . .       *. ... ... .......  . ..... .........  .   .  37
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION...o ........                            37
Organization chart of MDRAC
organization chart of the CARDERs
ANNEXES
1_   Letter of Rural Development Policy
2.   Proposed Evolution of Agricultural Services
3.   Restructuring of the Ministry (MDRAC) and the CARDERs
4.   Agricultural Extension
5.   Research and Development
6.   Support for the Seed Sub-sector
7.   Livestock Component
8.   Implementation Schedule and Supervision Plan
9.   Project Cost Summary
10.   Summary Account Cost Summary
11.  Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
12.  Disbursement Estimate
MAP OF BENIN



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILES
A.    STAP? WORKING PAPERS
'Composante Formation* -- Marc Revol
Line of Credit -- Siaka Bakayoko
Evaluation of Agricultural Technology -- Navot Matan
B.    DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
'Benin, Projet de services agricoles, Rapport provisoire de
prdparation,* 2 vol., March 19, 1990 -- A. Kawalec, et.al.,
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
'Restructuration et R*organisation des CARDER, Rapport gdn6ral,'
December 1989 -- T. Nadir, et. al., FAOIUNDP
idem, 'Plan de mise en oeuvre,' May 1990
idem, 'Synthfse des plans de mise en oeuvre,* December 1990
"Etude de restructuration des services centraux du MDRAC, Plan de
mise en oeuvre," August 1990 -- T. Nadir, et. al., FAO/UNDP
*Appui & la restructuration des institutions de ddveloppement
rural, Document d'assistance prdparatoire,* January 1991,
T. Nadir, et. al., UNDP/FAO
'Renforcement de la recherche agronomique au B6nJn, Rapport
pr6liminaire,* August 1990 -- P. T. Perrault, ISHLAR
*Synthbse des travaux du seminaire sur la strat6gie de
ddveloppement du secteur rural de Juillet 1990,' Consultants
Projet de document de politique de dtveloppement rural, Version
provisoire,' December 1990 -- Lefebre, et. al., MDRACIADE
*Loi no. 86-013 portant Statut general des agents permanents de
l'Etat," February 26, 1986, Presidence de la Rdpublique;
Modification approved on April 29, 1989
"Young Farmers Program in Atacora,' January 22, 1990, D. Drayton
'La politique semencibre en R.P.B.,' December 20, 1988, Conseil
Ex6cutif National
*The Benin Experience," Lilongwe Workshop on Agricultural
Extension, February 1991, Adolfo Brizzi
*Projet de Lettre de Politique de Developpement Rural,' May 16,
1991



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Benin
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC)
Amounts            SDR 9.3 million (US$12.3 million)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
On-lending Terms: Pravailing market rates
Proiect
description:       The project would improve the provision of agricultural
services in Benin by restructuring the country's
agricultural institutions, including the central services of
MDRAC, research and development (R-D) and seed production
stations, and the six Regional Action and Rural Development
Centers (CARDER), while focusing their operations or those
normally undertaken by the public administration.
The reorganization would entail a reduction of some 622 in
the number of current CARDER and MDRAC employees, mainly
among the two lowest staff grades. Compensation would be
paid for these redundancies from   nds outside the project.
The project would include polic) -. investment components.
The policy measures, spelled out in a Letter of Rural
Development Policy, would consist of the (a) adoption of new
statutes for MDRAC and the CARDERs; (b) dismissal of some
3,500 MDRAC and CARDER employees; (c) introduction of
personnel management regulations for MDRAC and CARDER staff
which would ensure the preservation of institutional memory
and justify the expenditure on training financed by the
project; (d) updating of legislation governing cooperatives,
in line with the ongoing liberalization; (e) privatization
of seed farms; (f) privatization of the State enterprise
responsible for veterinary pharmaceutical imports; (g)
appropriate taxation of imported meats; and (h) preparation
of an action plan for animal health services, resulting in
the adoption of a code for veterinarians.
The proiect would finance the (a) provision and equipment of
offices and replacement of vehicles for MDRAC; (b) equipping
of a number of CARDERs to complement the assets already
acquired under various projects; (c) internal training of
MDRAC and CARDER personnel; (d) establishment and equipping



- vi -
of a number of R-D units and supporting laboratories; (e)
additional equipment to produce selected seed; (f) support
for the reinsertion of former civil servants, in the form of
training and credit lines; (g) assistance for project
management; and (h) various studies.
Estimated Project Costs
Percent
Local Foreign   Total   of Base
(US$ million)----    Cost
Restructuring of MDRAC           1.1    2.0     3.1       11.7
Restructuring of the CARDERs   4.4    4.0       8.4       32.4
Training                         1.6    0.4     2.0        7.7
Research/development             2.0    1.4     3.4       12.8
Seed production                 1.3    0.1      1.4        5.4
Livestock services               1.2    0.7     1.9        7.4
Reinsertion of personnel         2.8    0.3     3.1       12.0
Mandgement support               0.2    2.0      2.2       8.4
Studies                         0.2    0.4      0.6        2.3
Total Base Cost              14.8   11.3    26.1       100.0
Physical contingencies           1.2    1.0     2.2        8.4
Price contingencies              0.6    0.7     1.3        4.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST           16.6   13.0    29.6       113.3
Financing Plan
tcs million    X
IDA                         12.3        41.5
French assistance            3.2        10.8
EDF                          2.9         9.8
GTZ                          0.9         3.0
IFAD                         4.0        13.5
UNDP                         1.5         5.1
Government                   4.9        16.5
TOTAL                       29.6       100.0



- vii -
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year
92         93          9S        95        96
-----------------(SDR million)---------------
Annual                     0.7          2.4         2.8      2.4       1.0
Cumulative                 0.7          3.1         5.9      8.3       9.3
Benefits and Risks
The project would yield two kinds of benefits: (a) for farmers
and herders, Ci) the introduction of services better targeted at their real
needs in terms of R-D, extension activities, literacy and support for the
management of their farms, herds or cooperatives; and (ii) the development of
private initiatives to provide, first, inputs, equipment maintenance and
marketing and, later, a number of other services more effectively than public
sector agencies; and (b) for the State, (i) a significant reduction in budget
costs; and (ii) better control over its activities in the rural areas, and
over monitoring and indicative planning in the agriculture sector.  The social
justification of the project lies in the emphasis it places on food crops to
enhance the country's food security and on the poorest farmers, women and
young people.
The principal risks are: (a) the difficulties that may be
encountered in the reinsertion of civil servants; (b) a temporary negative
impact on agricultural production, particularly cotton, during the transfer of
certain services to the private sector; (c) management of the civil service
that does not meet project criteria for technical and financial effectiveness5
and (d) the limited capacity of trainin- centers to ensure timely execution of
the numerous training programs planned. The measures designed to reduce these
risks include training programs and credit lines for a large number of the
civil servants to be made redundant, the temporary retention of certain
activities under the CARDERs and the medium-term capacity of SONAPRA and
village groups to take on the task of providing essential services to cotton
producers, the introduction of new personnel regulations and the possibility
of extending the project if necessary to enable training programs to be
completed. A more general risk, of the project suffering from wider
inadequate economic or social policies would be reduced by the close linkage
sought between this project and the structural adjustment program of Benin.
Internal rate of returns not applicable
Mg: No. IBRD 22909



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Berin's per capita GNP in 1988 was of the order of US$340, despite
its potential in terms of human and physical resources and its favorable climate.
In view of the severe financial crisis affecting the country, and its public
sector in particular, Benin is undertaking a five-year structural and financial
restructuring program within a liberal and democratic framework. The program
would aim at restoring a viable fiscal position, containing price and cost
increases and achieving an economic growth rate superior to that of the
population.   Priority would be given to restoring the budgetary balance,
restructuring public enterprises and the banking system, improving the
institutional framework and implementing an e.nergency social program. The State
has been gradually withdrawing from production and marketing activities and
effecting large cuts in the numbers of staff remunerated out of the national
budget.   Measures have already been taken to allow market forces free play in
determining price levels, the cost of money, and the choice of objectives and
production methods. Changes in the legal framework will also be necessary to
protect farmer and trade organizations from unwarranted government intervention
in their establishment and the setting of their objectives, choice of their
leaders and performance of their activities.
1.02        The strategic options adopted by the Ministry of Rural Development
and Cooperative tition (MDRAC) and upheld by its staff at the seminar on the
future of the rural sector (Cotonou, July 1990) are in accord with those
objectives.  Nonetheless, a fundamental change in civil servant mentality is
essential, as are chauges in the technical and management training they receive
and in their awareness of the needs and problems of the villagers they are to
assist.
1.03        The proposed project is seen as one which will go a long way to
streamline and reduce public sector involvement in a large number of rural
services and seek a common approach between the Government, the Bank and other
donors for the provision of such services.  The project has gone through an
extensive preparation and appraisal process of more than two years. First, a
project implemented by the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) of the United
Nations with United Nations Development Program (UNDP) funds has assisted the
Government in the definition of the restructuring needs of MDRAC and its regional
agencies. Then the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP), in close
collaboration with Government and Bank project staff, ensured the preparation of
the feasibility study.   F:nally,  numerous coordination meetings were held
throughout preparation and appraisal with the Gover.-rnt. and major donors to (a)
adjust the features of the project to a rural sector a:'iistance program combining
a national approach to institution-building with tae regional approaches of
various donors to investment in rural development; and (b) define the process and
mileposts leading to a gradual transfer of public sector extension services to
private operators (paras 5.09 through 5.16).



-2-
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2.01        The country's economic performance is to a large extent determined
by the performance of its agricultural sector.   The primary sector (crops,
livestock, fisheries and forestry) accounted for 40Z of GDP, over 802 of export
earnings of domestic origin, i.e., excluding re-exports, and about 752 of
employment in 1988. The Beninese Government is confident that agriculture can
provide a basis for the country's general development.   Food production,
consisting almost exclusively of rainfed crops, iq relatively diversified and
capable of meeting the country's food requirAments.   Since there is such a
variety of climates and soils, even greater crop diversi.?ication should be
possible once the potential markets are identified.
Natural Resources
2.02        By comparison with its Sahelian neighbors to the north, Benin in
general enjoys a good climate; overall, its natural resources are sufficient to
meet immediate food requirements despite the limits imposed by current
agricultural technology.  Rainfall is abundant but irregular in the southern
regions, of the Guinean type, and is generally adequate (700-1300 mm) in the
northern, Sudanese-type regions. Inadequate rainfall, 30-50Z below the norm, is
observed on average one year out of five in the country as a whole, and seasonal
irregularities, combined with increasing soil infertility, are having a negative
impact on agricultural output. Water resources are plentiful but under-utilized:
most of the water comes from the Niger, which runs through a region where good
land is very scarce.   Attempts, some 20 years ago, to develop rice-growing
operations on the banks of the Oueme and Mono were unsuccessful. Little is known
about the country's groundwater resources.
2.03        With a population on the order of 4.7 million (against 2 million a.
the time of independence in 1960), unevenly distributed over an area of
approximately 112,600 km2 and consisting of nine major ethnic groups, Benin
suffers from overpopulation in the small ddpartements (formerly provinces) of the
south, where 632 of the population is concentrated or 12Z of the land. This is
particularly true of the ddpartement of Ouem6, which has the highest population
density and the most serious soil deterioration problem, and which has so far
received little development assistance.   Population density is lower in the
north, but the soils are poorer and weaker. Despite irregularities of climate,
rudimentary production methods, and a literacy rate of only 152 for women and
around 352 for men, crop farmers have so far managed to adapt their production,
of food crops in particular, to price signals and effective demand.   Rapid
increases in the initially modest amounts of food imports of Benin since 1980
principally reflect increasing transit trade and the changing tastes of urban
populations in favor of wheat flour and rice. Prolonged populatlon growth at the
present rate of over 3? is to be feared since half of the population is below the
age of 15 and contraceptive practice is limited. That plus continuing depletion
of natural resources could disrupt the prevailing equilibrium between food supply
and demand. The ddpartement of Oueme and, to a lesser extent, that of Atlantique,
are already unable to meet their population's food requirements using traditional
technologies or even, in the case of Oueme, semi-intensive technology. However,



- 3 -
the introduction of simple soil improvement methods would allow the varieties
recommended by agricultural research to yield their full genetic potential.
Land Management and Land Tenure
2.04        The predominant form of land tenure in Benin is the small holding.
Sales of land are rare, although they are on the increase in the south.  Average
farm size is about 1.7 ha for an average 7-person family; sizes vary, with a few
rare exceptions, between 0.4 and 12.7 ha.  Only 5? of the farms in the south and
202 in the north are bigger than 5 ha and, nationwide, 342 are smaller than 1 ha.
Access to land is becoming i increasingly difficult proposition in the south.
Farms, already very sm.ll, are getting smaller as they are divided up under the
laws of inheritance. Following is becoming less and less common and in certain
areas of the south has died out altogether. In regions where land is scarce,
individual land allocations can no longer be revoked by the community.
2.05        The absence of legislation, or even of a rural land register, means
that the land tenure system does not generate security, and, in the absence of
a transparent market, does not make for optimum use of the land. The previous
constitution (1ol fondamentale) provided for three types of land ownership:
private, cooperative and public. The Government unofficially recognizes both
traditional ownership and individual private ownership. In the past, however,
in the absence of clear legislation in this field, the Government had no problem
in expropriating lands with a view, for example, to creating State farms, or in
requiring farmers to join cooperatives.85'The insecurity of the land-tenure
system, combined with the absence of cultivation practices designed to make the
most profitable use of the land, has caused the farmers to lose interest in
maintaining and developing their properties. A pilot land registration operation
is being prepared in Benin within the framework of a natural resources management
project. If successful, this experiment would in the long run make it possible
to establish modern land legislation rooted in traditional rights. Steps should
also be taken to regulate territorial rights and rights of usufruct for inland
fisheries.
Crops
2.06        Approximately 502 of the cultivated land is devoted exclusively to
food crops, one third to food and cash crops on an alternating basis, and 13?,
mainly in the north, to cash crops only. Cash crops accounted for 272 of GDP in
1988. Benin's principal export crops are cotton and palm oil. The cotton sub-
sector is highly organized, guaranteeing a floor price to producers, supplying
inputs on credit, and facilitating processing and marketing of the finished
product. The results are highly satisfactory. The total area planted to cotton,
presently close to 100,000 ha, is steadily expanding tc ard the desired maximum
of 120,000 ha. Cotton and its byproducts currently account for some 802 of the
exports out of Cotonou port. Palm oil accounted for 702 of the country's foreign
exchange earnings before independence.   Since then production has steadily
declined, greatly handicapped over the last 20 years by unwarranted government
intervention in plantation management and by low yields resulting from a chronic
water shortage, which prevented competition with the principal world producers.
Nevertheless, there is a domestic demand for palm oil, rich in Vitamin A, which



-4-
could justify restructuring its production around improved artisen pzocessing
units.   The other cach crops, such as coffee, cocoa and tobacco, have not
succeeded in establishing a place for themselves in national production.
2.07        One eighth of the country's total area is cultivated each year. and
over one half is available (but not always usable for lack of water resources)
for stock raising. The country's major food crops are maize, carsava and yams.
The rapid growth of cotton production 'n tne northern ddpartements has led to a
substantial increase in the production of maize, which is often grown in the same
fields as cotton and thus benefits from modern factors of production made
available for cotton-growing. Maize covers an area varying between 380,000 ha
and 480,000 ha, depending on the year, sorghum 133,000 ha, cassava 113,000 ha,
yams 88,000 ha, snow peas 86,000 ha, and groundnut 100,000 ha. Millet and niebe
beans are also extensively grown. Some areas in the south have a yet untapped
potential for vegetable production.  As maize production has increased, rice
production has considerably declined (12,000-16,000 ha planted per year), while
rice consumption is steadily rising and has to be supplied from abroad.
Difficulties occasionally arise with a supply in traditional cereals higher than
prevailing  demand.    Tuber  and  groundnut  production  has  stagnated  since
independence.   The use of fertilizers has been extremely low outside the
cotton/maize areas. This is attributed in part to their high farmgate price,
possibly due to substantial marketing margins levied bv the State agencies.
2.08        Animal traction has spread very rapidly in the cotton/maize areas,
and has led to a spectacular increase in the areas under cultivation, perhaps at
the expense of rational management of natural resources. Elsewhere, only simple
traditional tools are utilized. Cultivated areas have encroached upon some 25S
of forests and woodlands over the past 20 years.   In general, there is no
appreciable increase in yield per unit of farm labor or of area for crops other
than cotton.   This stagnation reflects a shor%age in effective demand or in
perceived opportunities on external markets, as well as production constraints
due to the deterioration in soil fertility.
Livestock Production
2.09        Livestock production represents some 42 of GDP or about 92 of the
primary sector's production.  There are some 1 million head of cattle in the
country (against a potential of approximately 2.5 million if water were easily
accessible). About 852 of the total herd is held by around 19,000 Peuhl herder
families in Borgou and Atacora. Each family has an average of 50 animals. The
herds in the central and southern regions are smaller, generally belonging to
sedentary villagers who entrust them to the Peuhl shepherds. The latter have
little interest in adopting new methods, especially if this would cost them
money. There are also some 2 million sheep and goats, principally in Atacora and
Borgou, over 400,000 hogs, and some 7 million free-range poultry. Around 30,000
pairs of oxen are used for animal traction over some 100,000 ha, i.e., 102 of the
cultivated lands. Four State ranches, located on land unsuited to such a use,
are in a very critical adminiscrative and financial situation. They are being
reconverted into extension and supply centers for surrounding herders. Their
land has largely been reoccupied. The main constraints upon stock raising are
the shortage of easily accessible water in most of the country and the absence



- 5 -
of a pastoral organization to ensure proper rangeland management. Other factors
are poor integration of herders and farmers, a lack of appropriate health,
research and extension services, failure to process agro-industrial (cotton and
palm oil) waste into animal feed, and dumping of meat by some exporting
countries.
2.10        Efforts are under way to operate and manage surface water in the
north, where three fourths of the country's cattle are to be found. Small stock
raisers, who are mainly located in the center and south of the country and who
raise sheep and goats, are constrained chiefly by mental blocks against cattle
raising,  the result of a lack of training.   Any attempts to remove those
constraints would succeed only among the younger farmers. A further problem is
the lack of preventive care for sheep and goats.
2.11        Meat production is around 30,000 tons a year.  To this can be added
some 40,000 tons of milk -- in the north, the herdsmen's main dietary staple and
the principal item bartered with the villagers -- 200 million eggs, and 20,000
tons of game. Meat exports to Nigeria, whose market has enormous potential but
is presently unfavorable because of the devaluation of the naira against the
CFAF, are offset by imports of deep-frozen meat from Europe (around 2,500 tons
a year) and, during Ramadan, of sheep and goats from the Sahel. Some 2,000 tons
of powdered milk are also imported for the urban centers in the south.
Consumption of locally raised meat is low (6-7 kg per inhabitant), due partly to
low income levels.
2.12        Fish provides between one third and one half of the animal protein
consumed in Benin. However, the fisheries sector represents only 2? of GDP or
5? of primary sector production, which demonstrates how the fishery sector's
potential is undervalued.  Fish is generally sold very close to the fishing
grounds, and the some 52,000 fishermen are among the poorest groups of the
population. Around 602 of the fish is caught in the coastal lakes and lagoons.
The rest comes from the continental shelf running along the 120 km of coastline,
which has limited potential, and from the rivers. The lakes and lagoons are
suffering from changes to their ecosystems caused by over-fishing, water hyacinth
infestations, and an irreversible process of silting as the banks erode. Fish
catches (less than 10,000 tons in the sea and some 30,000 tons in other areas)
are more or less the same as they were 30 years ago, following a sharp decline
around 1980.   This means a halving of per capita consumption over the same
period.
Food Security
2.13        Certain  studies estimate  that close  to one  fifth of Benin's
population suffers from one form or another of food insecurity, often seasonal
rather than permanent. The locaLj.ns affected differ from one year to the next.
The local doctors describe the malnutrition they observe as "moderate." While
available statistlcs show that the growth of food production has more or less
matched population growth over the past few years, it is nonetheless true that
supply is irregular, providing a barely adequate calorie intake, and that
shortages of protein, which is particularly important for pregnant women and
children, are still high.  The food situation in the cities, originally less
precarious than in the countryside, has been aggravated by inflows of migrants



- 6 -
and rising levels of unemployment. During the years of drought, production in
the southern region is more severely affected than in the north.   Food aid
accounts for only a minuscule part of Benin's food imports.
Women in Agriculture
2.14        Women, often outnumber men in the rural areas.   They play an
important role in food crop production and in primary and intermediate trade.
However, most agricultural sarvices are not oriented toward women, and they have
less access to credit than men. The status of women varies from one ethnic group
to another but is always lower than that of men. Generally speaking, they may
not inherit rural lands. Despite their low literacy levels, the many menial
tasks they have to perform and the increasing difficulty of fetching water or
firewood, the women of Benin have often demonstrated an entrepreneurial spirit.
They have of their own accord formed groups to handle the processing and
marketing of their production. A small number of women's associations receive
some degree of literacy, technical or marketing training. Although a few women
do hold senior government positions, work needs to be done to make middle-level
civil servants aware of the importance of women at all levels of society. There
are few women providing agricultural services, and the need to have women
extension agents reaching women farmers is a subject of debate.
III. AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS
Farmer Institutions
3.01        Vtllaie groups.  A first attempt, in 1965, at grouping villagers
around comme.cial and service activities, in which the farmers were intended to
share the means for and results of production has failed. The village groups
(GV) established later in the cotton growing areas have been more active. The
success of the cotton-growers' groups, !n the north, is explained by three
factors. First, in the north these groups represent a transposition of social
structures to economic relations.   Next, these are commercial rather than
production groups.   Third, the economic advantages of collaborating for the
marketing of cotton are clear.   In the south, the nuclear family is more
important than the village community or lineage; relationships are increasingly
based  on  trade  rather  than  tradition.    The  government-promoted  farmer
cooperatives have also fallen into discredit in the south, owing to the failure
of the big palm plantations that were nationalized under the aegis of the
cooperative movement.
3.02        Aaricultural credit.  The financial system of Benin is undergoing
rapid change which was supported by the Bank under the structural adjustment
program. The three State-owned banks were liquidated and four private banks have
been established recently. Regional financial policies of BCEAO were improved
over the last two years. including the rationalization of the interest rate
structures and improvements in supervision of banking activities. The provision
and administration of agricultural credit still encounter serious difficulties.
The National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) having been liquidated, various
donors, including IDA, have helped rehabilitate the Local Agricultural Savings
Cooperatives (CLCAM) and Regional Agricultural Savings Cooperatives (CRCAM)



through the Rural Savings and Loan Rehabilitation Project (2086-BEN). In the
immediate future, these cooperatives are unlikely to have the capacity or any
interest to serve as distribution channels for external credit resources to the
mutualist system. The four private banks have so far focused exclusively on the
urban markets and have not yet assumed the kind of risks inherent in rural
credit.
3.03        Nongovernmental orRanizations.  A certain number of nongovernmental
organizations (NGO) are involved in the promotion of voluntarily established
village groups and in development of the poorest rural communities. Impressive
results have been obtained in Atacora in the north. These NGOs are all foreign,
such as organizations of volunteers from various countries or religious
charities. Beninese NGOs are in an embryonic stage and are not yet capable of
playing a significant role in agricultural development. Five pilot food security
operations financed by IDA are, after a slow start, being run by organizations
of foreign volunteers who have agreed to help bring local NGOs into being and
assist with their training.
Governmental Institutions
3.04        Agricultural Policy.  Benin has not, up till recent date, had an
explicit agricultural policy or objectives aside from some declarations that have
rarely been put into practice. The previous government attempted to pursue a
marxist-leninist policy.  The first two development plans did not go beyond
general ideological considerations and were short on economic analysis. Neither
the second nor the third plan was published. A first structural adjustment
program, comprising changes in agricultural policy, was started in June 1989.
The second tranche of the relevant credit was disbursed in June 1990 and a second
program to proceed simultaneously with this project.
3.05        In order to better define Benin's future agricultural policy, a
detailed diagnostic study of the rural sector was made by consultants in 1989.
The sector objectives deriving from this study and the structural adjustment
objectives were the subject of a seminar on development strategy for the rural
sector held in Cotonou in July 1990, which enjoyed a wide attendance.   The
seminar discussed the sector's main objectives, the future role of the State and
of rural development projects in a market economy with a view to enhanced food
security and better natural resource management, and the resultant financial
implications.  Since then, the Caisse centrals de coopEration Economlque (CCCE), in
agreement with the Bank, has financed the preparation of a report on rural
development policies, which was issued in December 1990.
3.06        Administration of aariculture.  The main government institutions
dealing with agricultural development and assistance to farmers and herders are
MDRAC and six Regional Action and Rural Development Centers (CARDER).  A number
of State corporations, organizations and agencies are overseen by MDRAC, such as
the National Agricultural Production Company (SONAPRA) and the National Cereals
Office (ONC).
3.07        MDRAC's present structure is characterized by a multiplicity of
directorates (13), departments (88) and divisions (220).  The links between



departments are very weak, their activities are fragmented and duplications are
frequent.    The  directorates  do  not  have  clearly  defined  objectives  or
responsibilities, and authority is too concentrated at the top. The monitoring
system is badly organized and the sheer number of reports produced each year
(about 1,500 by the old Studies and Plannxlg Directorate alone) makes them
difficult to use.   Work methods and discipline need to be improved.   The
geographic dispersal of the directorates in 10 different locations in Cotonou and
Porto Novo adds to costs and delays and aggravates communications difficulties.
MDRAC's operating costs were of the order of CFAF 1.4 billion in 1988. MDRAC
employs nearly 1,960 persons, of whom 750 work in the Agricultural Research
Directorate (DRA). About 20? of total MDRAC employees is contract staff; the
others have permanent civil servant (PCS) status. Senior staff make up 18? of
the total, and middle-level professionals 171.  Nearly three quarters of the
staff have a very low level of training.   Staff profiles do not match the
positions and there are not enough professionals trained in organization and
programming. Staff are frequently moved from one position to another, which
prevents them building up practical knowledge. In general, and as in the rest
of the public administration, there are no clear career development, appointment,
evaluation, training or motivation policies. The Livestock Directorate of MDRAC
employs 398 professionals, 84 of them senior staff, who receive little
supervision and are poorly trained and too numerous in relation to the country's
livestock population. Veterinary care is provided almost exclusively by public
services despite the fact that the country has a score of young graduate
veterinarians who are unemployed.  Some of them are reported to be providing
uncontrolled services in the north of the country.
3.08        The CARDERs were  set up in 1975.   They are integrated rural
development organizations covering all sectors as sole suppliers of services to
rural producers, with the exception of the marketing of foodstuffs, which is
handled by private operators. There is one CARDER in each of the country's six
ddpartements (Atacora and Borgou in the north; Zou in the center; Mono, Atlantique
and Ou6md in the south). The CARDERs were designed, in principle, to provide
advice concerning production and to train producer organizations, to act directly
in the commercial and financial sectors, to carry out or arrange for the
execution of works of public interest, and to perform administrative and
regulatory tasks in the agriculture sector. Several of these services involve
contradictory responsibilities.   Because of their financial resources,  the
CARDERs have also been drawn into playing a political role.
3.09        The CARDERs quickly expanded their activities into too many areas,
and their present organization suffers from blockages in information flows,
jurisdictional conflicts and difficulties in organizing t1e work in the field.
The commercial or production activities of the CARDERs divert them from their
primary purpose of assisting and providing technical support to producers.
Neither have these activities been consistent with economic or financial
criteria.    The  only permanent  contact with  the  farmers  is  through  the
agricultural extension agent, who therefore has to turn his hand to everything.
About 75Z of the personnel do not possess the required qualifications.  This
problem is particularly serious in the case of the extension agents, who do not
generally have the necessary level of training ("Agent Technique de Ddveloppement
Rural," ATDR, equivalent to two years of post-baccalaureate studies) to be able



to dialogue effectively with the farmers. The total personnel of the six CARDERs
numbers around 4,910 (602 technical and 40? administrative). Only a tenth are
professionals with university degrees.    However,  the  latter have  little
experience. Of the total number, 142 are contract staff and 86? are permanent
employees.  Half of the contract staff claim entitlement to permanent status
(Annex 1, Attachment).
3.10        Operating costs of the CARDERs were CFPF 5.6 billion in 1988, 25Z of
which was covered by commercial receipts while the rest was funded in more or
less equal proportions by the national budget (which pays, in principle, the
salaries of CARDER staff) and foreign donors who use the CARDERs to manage
projects they support. The mandate of the CARDERs should be narrowed, their
personnel reduced and their financial management improved.
3.11        Regional development proiects.  Each of the ddpartements is covered
more or less effectively by an integrated development project benefiting from
external assistance that finances the major investments involved and the CARDERs'
non-wage costs (the CARDERs also perform some other activities not financed by
those projects). The projects financed by external assistance, and consequently
the CARDERs, enjoy considerable operational and planning autonomy compared with
the MDRAC central services, partly on account of the latter's intrinsic weakness.
3.12        The  International Development Association  (IDA)  is  financing:
(a) the Zou project, in conjunction with the CCCE and the Fonds d'Ade d la
Coopdratlon (FAC); and (b) the Borgou project, with the CCCE, the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the West African Development Bank
(BOAD); it is supervising the Atacora project which is financed by IFAD and the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). The Atlantique departement
had for some time been receiving technical assistance and funds from the German
technical cooperation agency (GTZ). GTZ is proposing to introduce fundamental
changes into its future assistance in the ddpartement. The European Development
Fund (EDF) has provided the Mono CARDER with grant funds under the Lome
Convention, supplemented by a credit from the AfriLan Development Bank (AfDB).
The Islamic Development Bank, the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
(ABEDA) and AfDB have recently initiated a project for the Oueme ddpartement. In
the past, AfDB has concentrated the bulk of its agricultural assistance in Benin
in the livestock sector, especially the state ranches. Other projects concerning
pastoral water resources are being financed by GTZ, EDF, FAC and PAO/UNDP. The
sustainability of these operations and their possible impact on the environment
remain to be assessed. The design of the regional projects has often reflected
the ideas and intentions of each donor rather than a national planning approach.
3.13        SONAPRA.  The CARDERs' industrial responsibilities were transferred
to specialized operators in 1987. Cotton credit, marketing, ginning and exports
are now handled by SONAPRA, an enterprise under MDRAC supervision. SONAPRA was
recently strengthened and reorganized under the Borgou II project. The CARDERs
still perform certain collection and input transport services under contract for
SONAPRA.
3.14        Agricultural research, conducted up till 1977 by French experts and
taken over thereafter by Beninese researchers, has been placed under the DRA



- 10 -
since 1984. In addition, each CARDER has a division, employing a university-
trained agriculturalist, responsible for liaison with research and development
(R-D).   The School of Agronomy and the Beninese Center for Scientific and
Technical Research, both under the Ministry of NatiGnal Education, also perform
agricultural research activities. A National Agricultwral Research Committee,
with secretarial services provided by DRA, has had respLusibility, since 1963,
for guiding and programming research and ensuring dissemination of the findings.
This committee has not met since 1986. About 312 of Benin's budget for crop
research has been covered by foreign donors. The food technology laboratory has
had no funds available for some considerable time. The dispersion and small size
of the research units has meant that foreign financing has placed great pressure
on the research priorities of various units without any overall coordination
being possible. Outside the cotton sector, agricultural research has come up
with a few promising proposals but has had little if any impact yet on yields.
3.15        DRA has four research stations:  Niaouli, in the ddpartement of
Atlantique, and Ina, in Borgou, for food crops; Pobe, in Oueme, for palm oil; and
Seme-Podji, also in Ou6m4, for coconut palms. Other research units cover cotton
and fibers, coffee/cocoa, forestry, stock breeding and veterinary research.
There are also four support laboratories, including the National Agro-Pedology
Center (CENAP) in Agonkamey. The cotton/fiber research unit does not have a
station but does have a network of permanent experimentation centerui. Three R-D
projects have already been or are being implemented. The one in Zou, financed
by the FAC, was completed in 1990. The one in Borgou, financed by IFAD. has just
started under the supervision of the Ina research station. The one in Mono, or
Agricultural Research in Real Environment (RAMR) project, has been ongoing since
1986, with assistance from the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
(IITA) and Dutch financing, and is expected to continue until 1994.   The
project's aim is to better identify, set-up, adapt and transfer technologies
appropriate for the local farmers.
3.16        The weak points of agricultural research in Benin are:  (a) the lack
of national planning and of global priorities consistent with the economic
importance of the activity (yams, cassava and livestock are relatively neglected
and no research at all is being conducted on the alarming natural resource
degradation, while the rice, coffee and cocoa programs no longer correspond to
any priority); (b) a poor spatial distribution of research, with more than half
the researchers in Cotonou or Porto Novo, staff dispersed over too many small
stations, and programs and units that are insufficiently integrated and are
pursuing differing and geographically limited objectives; (c) with a few
exceptions, a failure to identify topics and messages meeting the actual needs
of the sector and ready for dissemThation, especially in areas of low fertility;
(d) ill defined R-D responsibilities; and (e) a low level of training, and
assignment of heavy administrative responsibilities to the most experienced
researchers.
3.17        Seed production.   Up till recently, there was a seed farm and
packaging equipment in each CARDER as well as two other seed farms run by the
national seed service. Despite these facilities, the coverage rate for certified
improved seed is only 1U, production costs are three to five times higher than
if the seed were produced by the farmers, and many buy seeds from neighbors who



- 11 -
have achieved good yields on their own or from across the border. The seed farms
have lacked varieties suited to the needs of the southern farmers, who prefer
greater income security, less work and better organoleptic qualities over higher
yields. The farms were, for the most part, located in poor soils and there was
no national coordination. The number of farms has since been reduced to two,
Alafiarou in Borgou and Agbotagon in Atlantique, in accordance with
recommendations made in an FAO study. Pre-basa seed is produced in the Niaouli
and Ina research centers. Multiplication of base seed will be entrusted to
selected farmers, and the seed will then be processed and packed by the seed
farm. The land belonging to the remaining six farms would be redistributed, with
the best land possibly being allocated to those selected to perform seed
multiplication. The equipment of the two farms retained has been supplemented
by that from the others, mainly cold-storage chambers. Current plans call for
seed stores to be financed by UNDP. A study on the traditional cultivars of the
main food crops has already been completed by FAO. Wo-' .ng capital for base seed
production will be needed in Atlantique, but is already available for Borgou.
Working capital and some equipment will be needed for pre-base seed production.
3.18        Agricultural extension is the exclusive responsibility of the CARDER.
In general, the systems in place are based on the training and visit method, with
variable results. While noteworthy results have been obtained for cotton, the
impact on food crops has been well below what was expected.   The technical
messages proposed have not meshed with the declining soil fertility, the markets
for agricultural products or the availability of agricultural credit, which has
led to a dearth of messages suited to the farmers' needs. This situation is due
to:   (a) failure on the part of extension and research staff to listen to
farmers, coupled with the intrinsic weakness of research; (b) inadequate training
of extension agents; (c) poor use of extension tools and methods; (d) separation
of plant and livestock extension; (e) failure to observe extension schedules,
because staff spend disproportionate time with influential farmers or are tied
down with administrative work; (f) over-staffing, with a hierarchic structure
that is too weighty; (g) failure of the training system; and (h) purely
administrative monitoring of the results.
3.19        National Cereals Office CONC). Established in 1985, ONC is a semi-
independent agency attached to MDRAC whose initial objectives were to buy, store
and market cereals, regulate the market for them, carry out industrial processing
and manage food aid. ONC has silos with a total capacity of about 37,500 tons
which have never really been used for their original purpose. It also owns a
maize mill at Bohicon which has never operated. ONC's personnel consists of
seven professionals and seven or eight auxiliaries.   The agency no longer
performs commercial functions, but is planned to be entrusted with managing the
early warning system, plus providing information concerning production and
markets, advising on food policy and providing logistic support for village
storage, as well as, possibly, the management of a modest central emergency stock
(7,000 ton maximum). A study to this effect is being carried out with German
assistance. In 1989, ONC's personnel did not have the profile needed for its new
functions. ONC would be reorganized to properly fulfill these functions. Its
future status remains to be agreed upon.
3.20        National Veterinary Pharmacy (PHARNAVET). Importation of veterinary
pharmaceutical products has recently been assigned to PHARNAVET, a para-public



- 12 -
enterprise which has just started operations using German financing. Half of the
relevant import credit has already been released, and the other half will be
disbursed around mid-1991. Future privatization of PHARNAVET is envisaged by the
German project. It would be desirable for this to occur as early as possible,
the more so since distribution of veterinary products will no longer be handled
by the CARDERs.   If importation of veterinary products were to remain the
preserve of a public enterprise, the absence of an assured regular supply could
seriously imperil the income security of private veterinarians and pharmacists.
Institutional Studies Already Undertaken
3.21        MDRAC and the CARDERs have already been the subject of a number of
studies.    The  first,  made by FAO with UNDP  financing,  related to the
restructuring and institutional reform of the CARDERs. The second, made by the
same team with Borgou II project financing, considered the reform of MDRAC's
central services. The third, ma%i by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program,
made use of the proposals of the preceding studies and has led to a preparation
report on the basis of which this agricultural services project has been
appraised. Another FAO report formulated some specific proposals, now being
implemented, for the reorganization of seed production.
IDA's Role and Experience in Rural Development in Benin
3.22        IDA has participated in the financing of seven agriculture sector
projects in Benin since L;69. The first one was designed to help the Government
in establishing oil palm plantations and ended in failure. An impact evaluation
report was made by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) (Report No.
5029).   The second project, aimed at the development of the Zou and Borgou
provinces (1972), was closed early for technical reasons and because of
inappropriate agricultural policies. Subsequent projects, initiated after a ten-
year gap and co-financed by various donors, were much more successful. They
related to integrated regional development in Borgou (Credits 1127-BEN of 1982
and 1877-BEN of 1988) and Zou (Credit 1314-BEN) (para. 3.11). The second Borgou
project focused especially on reform of cotton production nationwide.   The
agriculture portfolio now being prepared has three main aimss strengthening of
the national institutions, protection of natural resources and improvement of
food security. This approach has already given rise to a project to reform the
CLCAMs and CRCAMs (Credit 2086-BEN). A national natural resource protection
project, being appraised, would follow on the current forestry project (Credit
1505-BEN). A food security project is currently providing preliminary financing
for five pilot operations, which should lead to the preparation of a larger-scale
project in 1992. The regional development projects have made it potsible to test
agricultural services in rural areas. More recently, IDA and the CCCE, in the
context of the second Borgou project, have helped Benin in the study of its rural
sector and the formulation of a global strategy for the sector.
IV. THE PROJECT
Obiectives
4.01        The Beninese Government's objectives in the rural sphere are to put
farmers more firmly on their feet, disen3age the public sector from activities



- 13 -
that are better performed by the private sector, reduce costs payable from the
national budget and decentralize the State's activities. The priority assigned
to restructuring agricultural institutions in the wider context of administrative
reform in Benin is justified by the agriculture sector's significance in the
country's economy, by the fact that MDRAC is the only ministry with significant
decentralized agencies, and by the availability of existing studies of high
quality that have received the approval of the Beninese authorities and spell out
both the actions to be undertaken and their cost.
4.02        The fundamental objective of the project is to give the Beninese
State, within its financial constraints, better control over rural development
activities in order to cope with the evolution of the balance between supply and
demand for agricultural products due to the country's increasing urbanization,
the degradation of its natural resources and movements in international trade.
The project would define rural service programs from the bottom up, i.e.,
starting from public or private units working directly with the farmers.  It
would improve the quality and suitability of the services provided to Benineso
farmers and herders, and would create additional employment opportunities in the
private sector.   It would also lead the agricultural services to pay more
attention than in the past to food crops and livestock and to training staff to
meet the specific technology needs of women and the most disadvantaged rural
communities.
4.03        The project does not propose to finance regional or nationwide rural
development actions directly; these will continue to be handled by other
projects.   However, the project would develop an invaluable tool for the
planning, implementation and monitoring of such operations, whatever their source
of financing. This tool would also provide design support for rural development
activities carried out by private institutions or enterprises. To do this, the
project would restructure MDRAC's central services, including some of its
dependent agencies, and the six CA%DERs, to implement those activities that fall
naturally within the public purview, to enhance the quality and efficiency of
their services and ease the burden on the budget.   Outright elimination of
certain functions and reduction of .he number of positions in other-,. such as
extension, as a result of these improvements would reduce MDRAC and CARDER
personnel by around 63Z of the present total (para. 6.04). The envisaged number
of redundancies would represent about 6? to 10? of all Benin's public employees.
4.04        The function of the restructured MDRAC and CARDERs would comprise
both public service activities and, in the case of the CARDERs, activities that
do not fall exclusively in the public sphere and which could gradually be taken
over by the private sector. In the medium or long term, the CARDERs would retain
purely public service activities, i.e. t (a) planning and supervision of measures
for the conservation of natural resources, including rural legislation and the
setting up of a rural land registry; (b) monitoring and orientation of the crop
and livestock sectors and their potential markets, including early warning
operations; (c) livestock and plant health controls; and (d) acting as owner for
State-financed rural infrastructure projects and providing technical advice when
requested for works financed by village communities. The activities that the
public services will have to carry out as long as and where no other mechanisms
are available would be provided by the Extension and Farmer Organization



- 14 -
Directorate  (DVAOP)  (organization chart 2).   They aret   (i) agricultural
extension, the impact of which must be expanded beyond cotton growing to food
crops, livestock and other possible export products, and to the most
disadvantaged rural communities; and (ii) management advice to village groups.
Veterinary services, currently provided by the CARDERs, and importation (by
PHARNAVET) and distribution (by the CARDERs) of veterinary products, would be
privatized as early as possible.   The organization charts of MDRAC and the
CARDERs would be defined by law or decree. The staffing of each CARDER's various
units would be adapted to local needs.
4.05        Agricultural extension will require a reform of the concepts on which
it is based. The aim would be to help the farmers improve their decision-making
capacity, their production system at farm level, their productivity and their
knowledge of the domestic and international socioeconomic environment.   The
extension system should also promote the conservation and rational management of
village lands, once it has improved its own knowledge of the environment; it
should provide demonstration, support and advisory services meeting the
objectives and specific constraints of the villagers in an evolving context. It
should also provide equal access to women and to the most disadvantaged rural
communities. At present, the CARDERs are the only bodies capable, after reform
of their structures and methods, of providing this service to a substantial
segment of the rural population. The CARDERs should have the flexibility to
adapt their staffing and objectives to the emergence of new private and
professional organizations in their respective regions.
Strategy
4.06        Sectoral strategy.  The strategy proposed to assist the development
of Benin's rural sector would combine complementary and coordinated national and
regional approaches (geographic and topic-based projects). The national approach
would aim at refining and decentralizing the State's structures and procedures.
The regional approach would focus on strengthening the farmer organizations,
young people, women and the most disadvantaged groups and would finance specific
rural development projects. A draft OLetter of Rural Development Policy' would
be prepared by MDRAC and presented at negotiations to the institutions financing
this project. It would be signed by the Government before Board presentation.
4.07        Project strategy.  The project strategy would combine agricultural
and administrative policy reforms (para. 4.19) with the investments necessary for
the proper functioning of the restructured institutions (para. 4.20).   The
implementation of this strategy would be built around four successive and
complementary components: (a) restructuring of the institutions concerned,
involving downsizing of their personnel and providing of equipment they will need
in light of their new functions and dimensions and their existing resources;
(b) financial compensation for permanent redundant staff and technical and
financial assistance for those who submit viable projects for reentry into the
private sector; (c) reassignment and strengthening of the capabilities of the
remaining personnel, thereby ensuring the sustainability and efficacity of the
institutions concerned; and (d) systematization of the working methods of the
various services, focusing on regional diversification of the action programs and
on expanding opportunities for the private sector while allowing effective
monitoring by the central government.   The criteria and procedures for the



- 15 -
gradual transfer of the management of agricultural services to private operators
would be studied. The project would be carried out over a period of about three
years. However, the redundancies would be eliminated according to the calendar
shown in Annex 1, para. 22. Lessons from experience in agricultural services
projects in Benin and elsewhere in Africa have led to the design of an improved
approach, as described in paras. 4.08 through 4.14.
4.08        Central coordination.  The reorganization of PDRAC would be based on
(a) effective separation of administrative and political functions; (b)
simplification of hierarchical structures and decision circuits; (c) definition
of each manager's responsibilities around clearly spelled objectives; and (d)
clear correspondence between the structures of HDRAC and those of the CARDERs.
The MDRAC central services should be responsible, through appropriate structures
and duly qualified staff, for: (a) defining Benin's rural development policy;
(b) aligning the ministry's objectives with its human and financial resources;
(c) studying and programming the actions that the CARDERs, as decentralized MDRAC
agencies, should undertake, in particular as regards assistance to the most
disadvantaged and on the subject of food security; (d) introducing rural land
tenure legislation; (e) further liberalizing national regulations to facilitate
private initiatives in the spheres of production, marketing and processing of
agricultural and livestock products, the manufacturing of agricultural equipment
and the provision of agricultural services; (f) orienting and coordinating
regional or specific external financial assistance to ensure that it is used in
complementary and productive investments; (g) monitoring and evaluation of all
projects under its supervision; (h) producing sector analyses and projections of
markets, climate, technology and other needs, etc.; and (i) preparing and
enforcing rules and regulations concerning livestock and plant health, quality
of inputs and agricultural and livestock products, and protection of the
environment. The ministry's structures would reflect their function of support
and follow-up for CARDER activities and the concern for continuity in public
sector actions, while clearly distinguishing between technical and policy
activities. The CARDERs would be answerable to MDRAC for all their activities.
Direct communications would be set up for that purpose between the technical
directorates of MDRAC and their counterpart structures at CARDER level. The
latter would, however, be accountable to the Director General of the CARDER.
4.09        Agricultural  research.   Benin's  strategy on applied agronomic
research would focus on six specific aspects.  The research teams, which are
currently too heavily concentrated in the south of the country, would be
decentralized. Research would be reorganized to prevent duaplication. A multi-
disciplinary approach would be adopted in research programs. Applied research
would be better linked with R-D. The proportion of research (currently focused
almost entirely on varietal research and input use) devoted tot (a) processing
and preservation of agricultural products, especially foodstuffs, to meet the
country's food security concerns; (b) natural resource management and
conservation; and (c) cultivation practices, would be increased taking climatic
and ecological changes into account. Research programs in each ddpartem,nt would
be adjusted to the principal local constraints, such as the risk of
desertification and shortage of labor in the north and low soil fertility in the
south.



- 16 -
4.10        The Government of Benin intends to have applied agricultural research
performed through an autonomous institute, whose restructuring and research
programs would be funded from other sources.   The institute would plan the
strategy and supervise the implementation of all agricultural research in Benin
besides conducting research on its own. This project would finance the applied
research reorganization study (Annex 3, para. 16).
4.11        Research and development would be performed similarly to the RAMR
project (para. 3.15) on Experimentation Sites in Farmer Environment (SEMP), where
research would be done through a collaboration between applied researchers,
extension agents and the farmers.   It would be organized to ensure that the
farmers' problems are heard and their knowledge utilized to adjust the topics of
applied research in accordance with these observations. R-D would also allow a
better use of the existing CPEs through a more thorough integration of cotton
research with research on other crops. These CPEs could also provide systematic
trials on innovations identified on the SEMPs. Production of improved cereal
seed would make greater use of local traditional varieties, which would be
multiplied by small private farmers.
4.12        Extension.   The system proposed for managing the extension staff
comprises a set of rational, basic practices applied to the organization,
supervision and continuing training of field agents working throughout the entire
country and to their working relations with the farmers and agricultural
research.   The training and visit system, from which the proposed system is
derived, is already used, though poorly, by the CARDERs. Provision will be made
under the project to encourage a flow of information from farmers to extension
staff and researchers.   Selection of extension agents who are sufficiently
trained and motivated to dialogue with the farmers and prepared to provide
eventually their services on a contract basis rather than as government
employees, will be one of the measures adopted. Other necessary steps will be
adaptation of the extension messages to local cultivation systems and physical,
climatic, social and commercial conditions, better participation by researchers
in the field, and flexibility in the visit schedule. Once the reorganization of
the CARDERs completed, extension or farmer organization agents would be recruited
only on a contractual basis.
4.13        Compared with what has been done up to the present, the proposed
extension system would maintain three fundamental principles. Meaningful and
measurable socioeconomic objectives would be set, against which the extension
agents' results would be judged.  A work program that is clear and easy to
supervise would involve regular meetings between agents and farmers or herders.
Continuous on-the-job training of extension personnel would enable them to act
as general agricultural advisers. The proposed system would, however, introduce
many innovations.   Work programs (content and schedule) would be defined in
collaboration with the farmers rather than by a central unit covering an entire
region. The extension agents' results would be evaluated on the basis of the
farmers' accomplishments rather than the (often theoretical) number of farmers
touched by the system. This will lead to the extension agents' efforts being
concentrated on farmers displaying a real interest in the service provided. On-
farm research would be expanded as the basis for determining the content of
extension programs, taking into account the problems affecting the community,
such as availability or otherwise of natural resources, village land development,



- 17 -
water supply and transhumance, instead of disseminating technical messages
developed in a vacuum by appl.ed research. Demonstration plots would be located
in the farmers' fields rather than in plots reserved for the extension agents.
The work would be done by the farmers, on issues of their choice.   Meotings
between agents and farmers would be scheduled according to the agricultural
calendar for the different regions and in such a way as to permit, during the
less busy times of the year for the farmers, exchanges of views and advice on the
socioeconomic environment. Special attention would go to the introduction of
techniques that permit conservation and improvement of soil fertility, something
that has not been done so far. Stock raising and agriculture would be integrated
by means of the introduction of cover crops and alley crops in the south, mixed
cropping or rotation of cereals with leguminous fodder crops and establishment
of fodder silo technologies in the north, animal traction, use of crop byproducts
for stock feed and of livestock byproducts for organic fertilizer.  Measures
would be taken to reduce the heaviest constraints on women, such as segregation
by sex for credit or the heavy work involved in drawing water and gathering
firewood. Participatory training of extension agents would be sought, benefiting
from contributions by all participants, rather than trickle-down training working
down progressively from subject matter specialists (SMS) to supervisors to
extension agents and, finally, to farmers. Increasing participation of farmer
organizations would be sought in the administration of the extension service, as
described in the following paragraph.
4.14        As the village groups reach a technical level and financial stability
enabling them to manage their extension needs themselves, the supervision and,
at a later stage, the administration of the extension function could be
transferred to associative, professional (such as a Chamber of Agriculture or
NGO) or commercial organizations.   In an initial interim phase, these local
bodies could be associated with the CARDERs in joint management of services
intended for farmers, which would prevent either a sudden disruption in provision
of services or the instituting of disjointed extension systems cut off from the
communication system linking R-D, extension activities and the farmers.
Ultimately, the farmer associations would take over the management of extension
and the CARDERs would withdraw from it. The schedule for these transfers would
vary from region to region depending on the actual organization of the farmers
in a given area in solid associations vacked by regional projects or the CARDERs
themselves. One of the State's permanrnt roles in such an association would be
to prevent extension activities tending to serve only the most developed farmers
and those best able to organize themselves, at the expense of the most
disadvantaged. This would be achieved in part by maintaining a core of targeted
public extension services beyond the introduction of private extension. Another
State function would be to train farmer organizations to assess the quality and
technical validity of the inputs and advice provided by merchants, manufacturers
or veterinary pharmacists when selling equipment, products or services.  The
Order of Veterinarians would also be responsible for assuring the ethical conduct
of its members.
4.15        The project strategy in the field is to keep the total number of
polyvalent extension agents (APV) in the CARDERs low (766) with respect to the
number of agricultural production units (40,000) in Benin. At the same time, a
high number of SMSs (206) and supervisors (127) would be maintained.   These
figures result from the following assumptions: (a) reduction of the number of



- 18 -
sectors from the current 79 to 41 in the future; and (b) the possibility of an
intensive working relationship of each APV with a core of 120 to 190 farmers.
This proportion would vary according to the particular features of each region
and would be accompanied by faster dissemination of innovations beyond the core
group, also using mass media.
4.16        SupPort  for  farmer  organizations.       The  support  for  farmer
organizations would be designed to help villagers who desire to organize
themselves around activities of coiimon interest. It would also enable unions of
these groups to take over management of the marketing of crops such as cotton,
and to identify and meet their members' needs in terms of functional literacy,
cooperative management, formulation of applications for financing or preparation
of  development  projects.    Legal  and  administrative  oversight  of  these
organizations by the State would be reduced to a strict minimum. The assistance
of specialized private entities or villager associations that have already gained
experience in this respect would be sought in the context of regional projects
to help the new organizations develop (para. 5.16).
Justification of IDA's Partirdpation in the Financing of the Project
4.17        The proposed project is nationwide in scope and forms a kev and
leading component in Benin's structural adjustment program.  This program is
supported by IDA and the other main donors. IDA, as well as the other donors
financing the project, have considerable experience of collaboration with the
CARDERs in Benin and in setting up agricultural service systems in various
African countries. The project is consistent with those already financed by IDA
in Benin, while at the same time bringing a new and more comprehensive
perspective.    It  would  provide  the  institutional  background  for  other
agricultural projects to be financed by IDA and the other donors in Benin, such
as the Natural Resources Management project.
Project Area
4.18        The project will impact the Government's activities in each of the
country's six ddpartements. Close coordination will be established in each of
these ddpartements with the various ongoing regional or thematic development
projects.
Proiect Components
4.19        The project would contain two types of components: those concerning
agricultural policy, and the investments to be made once the necessary policies
have been adopted. General policy measures have been spelled out in a Letter of
Rural Development Policy (LPDR) describing the policy orientations of rural
development in Benin, establishing a calendar for the implementation of the
various policy measures and listing studies which are needed for the Government
to further its reform and reorganization process in rural areas. The LPDR was
agreed between the Government and the donors financing the project during the
project negotiations. An unofficial translation is provided in Annex 1. The
policy components of the project form part of the general policy matrix for
Benin's structural adjustment program and consist of: (a) adoption of the new



- 19 -
statutes for the CARDERs and MDRAC including the profiles for the positions to
be included; (b) updating of legislation on cooperatives; (c) release of more
than 3,500 staff from the CARDERs and MDRAC, excluding the agricultural research
directorate, and reallocation of surplus equipment belonging to the CARDERs,
preferably to agents moving into the private sector; (d) privatization of the
seed farms; (e) drafting of a veterinary code; (f) privatization of PHARNAVET;
(g) taxation of subsidized meat imports; and (h) preparation of a health services
action plan for the livestock sector.
4.20        The  investments would comprise:  (a)  restructuring the central
services of MDRAC; (b) restructuring the six CARDERs; (c) internal and external
training for MDRAC and CARDER staff remaining in public employment; (d) R-D
programs; (e) strengthening of the two remaining seed production facilities; (f)
targeted support for the livestock services; (g) financial and technical
assistance for redundant stafC settling on their own; (h) technical assistance
in support of the organization and management of the project; and (i) various
legal and technical studies, including that on the future of applied research.
Detailed Description
A. Agricultural Policy Components
4.21        New statutes for MDRAC and the CARDERs.  The new organization of
MDRAC and the CARDERs, the profiles of the positions to be staffed and also the
manner in which these institutions will interact with the rural sector following
the changes proposed by the project will be laid down in new statutes and
organization charts. The statutes should be consistent with the arrangements
envisaged for the shift to joint management of the extension services by the
CARDERs and the farmer organizations. These statutes would be accompanied by
regulations setting the procedursl for implementing the reorganization of
personnel and reallocation of equi;pant.
4.22        Personnel management rules.  The adoption of an improved personnel
management code is envisaged under the structural adjustment program for the
totality of the civil service. Without such rules, staff stability cannot be
ensured and no institutional memory ca-. be preserved, neither can the significant
training costs included in the project. be Justified.
4.23        Cooperative legislation.  I-nin's legislation on cooperatives is on
the whole well designed but, as app: ie  in the past, has led to numerous
instances of disruptive intervention by rhe State in the functioning of villager
or professional organizations.  This legislation would be revised in accordance
with the objectives of liberalizing the economy and with a view to ensuring
independence vis-&-vis the Government for the organizations g ouping producers,
merchants and other professions, with respect to their objectives, statutes,
choice of officers and various financial dspects.  Assurances were received
during negotiations that the code would be reviewed and, if need be, revised
before June 30, 1992.
4.24        Reduction of redundant staff.   Effective use of the resources
provided by the project and the balancing of the national budget require a
considerable reduction in MDRAC and CARDER staff numbers (para. 6.04). The LPDR



- 20 -
states the Government's agreement to lay off some 3,500 permanent or contractual
MDRAC and CARDER staff (900 PCSs by December 31, 1991; 900 more PCSs by May 31,
1992; another 500 PCSs, of the lowest administrative echelon, by January 31,
1993; some 800 contractual staff by May 31, 1992; the remaining 400 staff,
through normal retirement, by the end of 1992). The situation of some 300 other
staff, involved in cotton marketing activities to be taken over by the private
sector or found in the applied nutrition and processing quality control units of
MDRAC, planned to be transferred to other ministries, would be the object of
further studies. The transfer to the private sector of many CARDER activities
will leave the CARDERs with a certain quantity of equipment (maintenance,
transportation and office equipment) and facilities that they will no longer
need. The best use of these assets would be sought through their sale to the
staff who will be leaving the CARDERs. The estimated value of these sales could
be deducted from the severance pay involved. Assurances were received during
negotiations that the Government:   (a) in accordance with the normal rules
applicable in Benin, would settle the CARDERs' debts and claims at the time their
statutes are changed; and (b) would allocate their surplus equipment to other
uses or institutions after drawing up an inventory of same and ensuring that the
equipment is maintained in good condition during the transfer phase.
4.25        Privatization of seed farms.  The seed farms presently belong to the
CARDERs, which buy the improved seed at a preset price and provide a label of
certification. Assurances were received during the negotiations that the two
remaining farms would be privatized before June 30, 1992, with the CARDERs
retaining their certification function, which is a State responsibility.
4.26        Privatization of PHARNAVET. The conditions for the privatization of
PHARNAVET, with the State divesting itself of at least the majority of its shares
in the enterprise, and promotion of free competition in the import and
distribution of veterinary products would be studied at the start of the project.
As intended at the time of its establishment, PHARNAVET would be reorganized in
accordance with commercial management principles to handle wholesale importation
and distribution at ddpartement level by its own resources (para. 4.38)
Retailing of the products would be the business of private sector veterinarians
or veterinary agents. MDRAC would keep an updated list of veterinary (and plant-
health) products which could be imported and would introduce rules concerning the
symbols  to be used on packages  for illiterate users.   The principle of
privatization of PHARNAVET is stated in the LPDR.   The procedures for its
privatization are intended to be developed under the structural adjustment
program in collaboration with the German donors.   They are expected to be
approved before June 30, 1992 and put in place before December 31, 1992.
4.27        Taxation of subsidized meat imports.  The elimination of meat market
distortions through appropriate customs tariffs would open the way for
appropriate stock raising techniques to be adopted by Beninese herders.  The
interception and taxation of subsidized imports at the border has been
facilitated by similar measures taken by Togo. The impact of subsidized imports
on local production and on low-income consumer budgets, as well as the
introduction of a system for taxing these products through customs duties which
fully compensate for the level of foreign subsidization in line with the GATT
agreements would be the subject of a local study to be financed by the project



- 21 -
(para. 4.38) complementing those already made in C8te d'Ivoire and in the context
of the general reform of Benin's customs tariff. The adoption of the new customs
tariffs would be sought under the structural adjustment program. Application of
similar taxes on other subsidized agricultural products would depend on adoption
of comparable measures by neighboring countries.
4.28        Action plan for animal health services.   The action plan would
comprises (a) an inventory of the human and physical resources of the public and
private  livestock  health  services;   (b) a  timetable   for  transfer  of
responsibilities to private veterinarians; (c) a list of equipment that the
CARDERs would transfer to private veterinarians; (d) a plan for installing
veterinarians in the country's various ddpartements; (e) setting of minimum
tariffs to be charged by the public services for veterinary care and
vaccinations; (f) the rates that the State would pay the veterinarians for the
vaccination and inspection services it would subcontract to them; and (g) the
role and statutes of the Order of Veterinarians, which would be prepared as part
of a study financed by the FED. The principles underlining the action plan are
spelled out in the LPDR. Agreement on the action plan with the donors would be
a condition for disbursement for the livestock component of the credit. The LPDR
also states that the plan would be prepared and reviewed with donors by May 31,
1992 and that its major components would be translated into a veterinary code by
December 31, 1992.   The code would comprise (a) the method of transfer of
veterinary services to private operators; (b) the tariffs and subcontracting fees
established by the Government; (c) the duties, rights and responsibilities of
public and private sector animal health agents; and (d) an authorization for
private agents to combine the functions of veterinarian and veterinary pharmacist
and to provide public care services on a subcontracting basis in order for them
to achieve sufficiently attractive incomes. Such a code would be indispensable
for the successful transfer of livestock health agents to the private sector and
for young graduate veterinarians wishing to set up in business on their own
account.
3. Investment Components
4.29        Restructuring of MDRAC central services.   According to studies
completed with the help of FAO, the reorganized MDRAC would comprise, under the
Minister, a Directeur de Cabinet to whom ten directorates would report through an
appropriate intermediary structure. These would consist of the administration
(personnel and finance) and human resources and training directorates and eight
technical directorates: sector analysis, natural resources, rural works,
extension and R-D, rural promotion and legislation, crop production, livestock
and fisheries (organization chart No. 1).  The office of the Minister would
consist of a private secretary, an expenditure control unit, an internal audit
unit and a number of technical advisers.  Three or four special task leaders
(chargds de mission), reporting to the Director General could eventually be
entrusted with the coordination of larger agricultural investment projects along
the main lines of the country's rural development strategy, i.e., the management
of natural resources, diffusion of information and training, animal and plant
health and rural works. A reduction in MDRAC's personnel from its present level
of 1,200, excluding the Research Directorate, to about 740 (and after relocation
of another 180 staff, to about 560) would follow.   Subject to some further



- 22 -
clarifications to be sought prior to their enactment, the new structures of MDRAC
have been agreed upon with the Government.
4.30        MDRAC would need, in theory, office space of about 5,000 me to house
all its future directorates. The first option would be that a suitable building
of that size (even needing rehabilitation on completion), such as the unfinished
building originally intended for the Ministry of Plan, be made available by
Government. An alternative but less satisfactory option would be that a new
building (about 2,000 a? in area) be put up near the present MDRAC headquarters
with limited financing already obtained by the Government I rom BOAD, of the order
of US$300,000, complemented by project funds. This optio1 would only allow (a)
bringing to Cotonou the MDRAC directorates presently located in Porto Novo; and
(b) providing office space to the Directorate of Livestock, which has lost its
present lease. In either option, the project would provide civil works, office
equipment (furniture, telephones, telex, etc.) and data processing facilities.
It would also finance the replacement of the ministry's vehicle fleet.
4.31        Restructuring of the CARDERs.  The restructured CARDERs would have
their staff reduced from about 4,910 to some 1,870 (and later to some 1,750).
It is proposed, subject to final agreement between project donors and Government
prior to enactment of the corresponding legislation, that each CARDER comprise
an administration and finance directorate and five technical directorates
(organization chart No. 2).  The extension and villager support directorate
would, at least initially, be the largest in terms of numbers of personnel and
the most significant in view of its involvement with the actual farms. The other
directorates would be those of (a) planning, monitoring and evaluation; (b)
natural resources, forestry and plant health control; (c) rural works; and (d)
rural institutions and legislation. The restructuring of the CARDERs will not
entail major investments in most cases since they have already been equipped by
the regional projects and the volume of their operations and personnel is to
decrease. The project would finance the construction or rehabilitation of some
buildings, logistic support and the replacement, as needed, of vehicles.
4.32        Personnel training. The training of personnel remaining in the MDRAC
and CARDERs would comprise six components. Training would be provided, under
project financing of tutorial expenses and trainee travel and subsistence costs,
to (a) the MDRAC (36) and CARDER (108) directors and other management staff, in
programming, monitoring and evaluation, data processing and management; (b) 44
sector chiefs, in programming, organization, monitoring, outreach and
communication techniques, knowledge of the environment and simple management;
(c) 12 operational training managers, in programming and organization, teaching
and communication techniques, management of teaching tools and follow-up; (d) 414
SMSs, in knowledge of the human and natural environment, identification of
development constraints, assessment of the farmers' needs and motivations,
preservation of the ecological balance, experimentation and teaching techniques
and identification of small projects, with a complement varying according to
specialty (livestock or crop production, support for farmer organizations, etc.);
(e) 126 supervisors, in knowledge of the human and natural environment, local
production techniques, outreach and communication and monitoring; and (f) 766
APV, in knowledge of the human and natural environment in their area, types of
farms, natuiral resource production and conservation techniques, assessment of
farmers' ueeds and constraints, outreach, communication, keeping of simple



- 23 -
records and preparation of farm activity schedules. The latter training would
be provided on a continuous basis, on the job, by SMSs backed by the CARDERs'
operational training service, utilizing the slack times in the agricultural
production cycle (para. 5.08). Further intensive training for some 25 A?VS every
six months would be provided by one of the two training centers planned to be
established under the Zou project. This project would finance the correspondir.g
costs.
4.33        Research and development would allow the spreading of tests at the
farm level and in the 10 SEHP which have been identified (Annex 5) on and above
the three RAMRs already found in the Mono. Three of the new sites would be in
the Atacora, three in Borgou, three in Zou and one in Oueme. Two higher level
research technicians would work on each site. CARDER supervision agents would
participate in R-D activities as part of their normal work. The project would
finance simple offices and warehouses, mopeds and inputs for research. The ten
new SEHPs and those existing in the Mono would receive the support of four multi-
disciplinary rese.rch teams, each attending to three SEMPs.  These teams would
comprise an agronomist, an animal husbandry specialist and a socio-economist,
with part-time participation of thematic researchers. Part-time employment of
a forestry specialist and a soils expert is planned under the Natural Resources
Management project.  The teams would be based in Natitingou for the Atacora, at
Ina for Borgou, at Dassa for the Zou and at Niaouli for the three coastal
ddpartements. Insofar as two of these R-D centers would be located within the
premises of the Ina and Niaouli research stations, the project would finance
housing for researchers at Ina, a hookup of the Niaouli station to the Allada
power station as well as pumping equipment and, in both stations, livestock
research equipment.  Housing is available for rent at or close to the other
centers. The Natitingou offices would be located in CARDER or other facilities,
which are available but would have to be upgraded by the project. Offices for
the other three centers would be financed by the project. The project would also
fund light equipment items, construction of stores and offices, office and data-
processing equipment and the transportation means and costs of the researchers.
CPEs expanding cotton research to new lines based on a farming system approach
which would integrate food crops and livestock activities would also be
strengthened. Improvements of the food technology laboratory would comprise the
rehabilitation of existing equipment, the purchase of a pick-up truck, and the
cost of outside services and of analyses and documentation (Annex 5, para.5).
4.34        Seed production.  The project would finance equipment such as maize
shellers, dryers and irrigation pumps, a small truck, training and consultant
time, the necessary operating funds, and the equipment for producing pre-base
seed in the two remaining farms of Alafiarou in Borgou, and Agbotagon in
Atlantique.
4.35        Livestock services.  The project would testructure the livestock
services so as to strengthen central and regional surveillance and control of the
major epizootics, veterinary public health, livestock and meat imports and
exports, imports of veterinary pharmaceutical products and livestock feeds, and
inspection of foodstuffs of animal origin. The livestock directorate of MDRAC
would be responsible for inspection at quarantine and border posts ar.d providing
animal health services until the latter are privatized. To the extent possible,



- 24 -
public livestock health actions would be entrusted, under State contracts and
financing, to private veterinarians whose installation would be supported by the
project through training and about 20 individual loans not exceeding CFAP 4
million each for veterinarians and veterinary agents moving into private
practice. Livestock extension would be unified with crop extension within the
CARDERs. This restructuring would reduce the central and departmental livestock
services staff to 167.   The project would finance, beyond the equipment and
vehicles provided under MDRAC restructuring, (a) a central laboratory for
epidemiological diagnostic work and routine analyses providing services on
request to the veterinarians and supporting the public inspection services for
foodstuffs of animal origin; and (b) four quarantine and border veterinary posts
(Nikki and Madekali in Borgou, Kaboua and Toui in Zou) in addition to the four
posts financed by EDF. The project would finance periodic technical assistance
to the laboratory and the technical assistance and equipment needed by the Order
of Veterinarians covering public and private sector veterinarians. Livestock
research to be based on four of the CPEs, in various ecological environments in
Atacora, Borgou, Zou and one coastal ddpartement, would entail the financing of
mopeds, improved CPE offices and stores and simple research equipment.   The
project would not become involved in pastoral water supply development, which has
already been the subject of numerous projects of a more or less pilot nature and
needs a further period of experimentation.
4.36        Reinsertion of redundant personnel.   The project would aim to
facilitate the return of a part of the MDRAC and CARDER personnel to private
sector activities by financing two training components and credit lines reserved
exclusively for those leaving government employment. One training component,
intended for staff resettling in commercial activities and focusing on simple
business management and marketing, would be run in each ddpartement in the form
of short practical seminars. It would be intended for a maximum of 250 former
middle or higher level staff and 150 mechanics and truckers. A second type of
training would be provided in the second of the two training centers being
established in the 2ou (para. 4.32), to some 150 civil servants returning to the
land. This training would be for groups of some 25 participants and last about
six months. It would focus more particularly on crop/livestock integration.  The
credit component, subject to changes in accordance with needs emerging during the
project, would comprise, besides the loans to the veterinarians,  (a) up to 150
loans of not more than CFAF 2 million each for repairmen or truckers leaving the
CARDERs; and (b) up to 200 loans of not more than CFAF 1 million each for
resettlement in the rural sector, involving either procurement of production or
processing equipment, or on-farm works. Requests for loans would be submitted
in the form of simple projects using models to be prepared by the Restructuring
Units (para. 5.03) with the help of the financial intermediaries (para. 5.07)
paying due attention to environmental concerns.   .he amounts indicated would
presume a substantial contribution (between a thirc and a half of the cost) on
the part of the borrowers from their severance pay. Assurances were received
during negotiations that the credit lines would be on-lent to eligible financial
intermediaries within procedures acceptable to IDA, at the prevailing long term
savings interest rate, and that loans to the final borrowers would be made at
interest rates close to those charged in the prevailing Beninese market.
Projects offering an enhanced market for agricultural production would receive
priority. Technicians and veterinarians would be encouraged to purchase the



- 25 -
equipment and facilities previously used by them on preferential terms, as part
of their personal financial contributions. In line with Operational Directive
11.00 of the Bank, such equipment, though used, could be financed under IDA
lending, considering that procurement of other, new, material would result in
prohibitive financial costs to the buyers and economic losses to the State, which
has no alternative use for this equipment. The total cost involved would be less
than US$1 million. The equipment would have to be evaluated prior to sale. This
equipment could then be sold to the highest bidder, with a slight preference (not
to exceed 10 or 15X) to be given to departing staff.
4.37        Assistance for proiect management.  The project would finance the
technical assistance needed for coordination and monitoring of the restructuring
and start-up of MDRAC's and the CARDERs' new activities. This assistance would
comprise:   (a) one principal expert in public institution organization and
management, for 24 months; (b) one financial expert to set up the new budget
procedures, for 24 months; (c) one expert in agricultural R-D in the real
environment, also for 24 months, with a possible extension; (d) one expert in
training course preparation and monitoring, for a total of nine months in three
missions;  (e) approximately two months' assistance fort   (i) setting up a
monitoring and evaluation system; and (ii) the epidemiological laboratories; and
(f) shorter missions to support the various types of training.
4.38        Studies. The project would finance:  (a) the drafting of legislation
setting out the operating statutes and organization charts of MDRAC and the
CARDERs, together with the restructuring procedures (para. 4.21) and the
personnel management rules for MDRAC and the CARDERs (para. 4.23); (b) updating
of the legislation on cooperatives (para. 4.24); (c) drafting of a veterinary
code on the basis of the animal health action plan (para. 4.28); (d) a study on
the privatization of PHARNAVET (para. 4.26); (e) a study of meat taxation levels
and procedures (Para. 4.27); (f) a study of the strategy and programming of
agricultural research in Benin (paras. 4.09 and 4.10); and (g) a study of the
detailed criteria and procedures for the gradual transfer of the management of
agricultural services from the public to the private sector (para. 4.07). The
first of these studies has been initiated with UNDP financing in the context of
a preparatory assistance project. It will be implentnted in close collaboration
with the various project donors. The other studies would be financed by the
project. The project would also finance preparation of a critical assessment of
the technical messages available for extension activities and of their
consistency with actual conditions in the field. The project could further
finance studies the need for which would have been identified in the LPDR.
V. PROJECT EXECUTION
5.01        The project would be executed by MDRAC, although some of the policy
components will need to be jointly agreed with other ministries. A steering
committee comprising representatives of the Government and project donors would
review this project's annual implementation nlans, evaluate progress in the
restructuring of the rural institutions and propose and adopt complementary
measures, as necessary, to ensure adequate and speedy implementation. It would
not, however, interfere in any way in the day-to-day management of the project.
The two principal aspects of project managemtc.t would be, first, the



- 26 -
restructuring of agricultural institutions, of limited duration, and second, the
management of the permanent functions of MDRAC.
Institutional Restructurina
5.02        The restructuring of MDRAC and the CARDERs would be carried out under
the direct supervision of the Minister of Rural Development. It would be done
in accordance with the rules and procedures established for the reform of the
public sector in general and for the project itself (institutional organization
charts and position descriptions) as well as cost projections, all of which would
be approved beforehand by the Government, specifically by the national
authorities responsible for structural adjustment, and set out in enabling
legislation. Detailed information is already available from FAOIUNDP on the
expected numbers of redundant staff by employment category, number of years in
the civil service and proximity to retirement age for MDRAC and all the CARDERs
(Annex 3, Attachment).
5.03        Before restructuring begins, the Government would ensure, as a
condition of credit effectiveness, (a) the adoption of legal texts agreed upon
with the donors defining (i) the modalities and regulations for the restructuring
of MDRAC and the CARDERs; (ii) the functions and organization of these
institutions, specifying their new relations with new staff and budgeting rules
including analytical accounting and performance evaluation procedures; and (iii)
the regulations establishing the restructuring units, their powers and
procedures, and determining their material and financial resources; (b) the
nomination of the members of the restructuring units and their training in
matters pertaining to the restructuring regulations and procedures; (c) the
implementation of an information campaign on the objectives of the restructuring,
to which labor union representatives would collaborate with MDRAC staff: and (d)
the definition of procedures and establishment of a calendar for the transfer to
private operators of CARDER activities in the fields of cotton, rural works and
repair shops.
5.04        The procedure for restructuring MDRAC and the CARDERs would be as
follows:  (a) appointment by the Minister of Rural Development of the senior
MDRAC and CARDER personnel; (b) proposals of appointment, in light of studies
already carried out by UNDP/FAO and predetermined criteria, of the personnel to
remain with the CARDERs and MDRAC, to be made by seven selection committees (one
for MDRAC and one for each CARDER) consisting of all the directors of the
institution in question, and reporting to the Directeur do Cabhet of MDRAC; (c)
confirmation of these appointments by a national committee chaired by the
Minister of Rural Development and containing representatives of the Ministries
of Finance and the Civil Service, whose task would be to verify that these
staffing proposals are in line with the ministry and departure budget estimates
and organization charts previously defined, and to facilitate any transfers that
may be required among the various CARDERs and MDRAC; (d) administration of the
new appointments and provision of assistance to departing staff by restructuring
units (CR) to be provisionally established in each CARDER and in MDRAC, including
(i) determination of severance paymernts and other entitlements for redundant
personnel, to be submitted to the national committee for ratification; (ii)
proposals to be submitted to the national committee regarding the reallocation



- 27 -
of CARDER and MDRAC assets as part of the privatization or elimination of some
of their activities; and (iii) assistance for personnel leaving the civil service
in the form of guidance on training opportunities or help with the preparation
of loan applications; and (e) the establishment of an appeals committee presided
over by a judge and including representatives of the institutions involved
(CARDERs, MDRAC, Ministries of Finance and the Civil Service) and of the staff,
which would hear grievances from redundant staff and submit its opinions to the
Minister of Rural Development for his decision.
5.05        The selection committees would have two months to prepare their
proposals for the staffing of their respective CARDER or MDRAC, and the national
committee one month to confirm them. The salection committees would have to be
dimensioned to be able to review on average 20 to 30 individual files per day.
The first list of PCS and contractual personnel to be released would be announced
no later than December 24, 1991 and the departures would take place during the
following week. Similar procedures would apply for the departures planned for
May 31, 1992 and January 31, 1993. During negotiations assurances were received
that around mid-1992 the Government and donors would make an interim evaluation
of progress In the implementation of the initial restructuring process, covering
(a) the calendar of staff departures; (b) the appointment of adequate staff to
the various positions in the new organization charts; (c) project monitoring
procedures; (d) staff performance evaluation and remuneration procedures; (e)
measures taken for services to reach young farmers and women; (f) progress in the
implementation of studies; (g) transfer of CARDER activities and equipment to the
private sector; (h) measures taken for the reinsertion of departing staff; and
(i) the main difficulties encountered in project implementation. Satisfactory
implementation of the review would be a condition of disbursement against the
staff training and CARDER vehicles and equipment categories of the credit.
Within the wider context of privatization of agricaltural services, measures
would be introduced to ensure the gradual though early departure from the CARDERs
of personnel responsible for marketing and financial operations in the cotton
sub-sector, and rural works and repair shop personnel, amounting in all to some
120 employees.
Management of Proiect Activitiens
5.06        The Human Resources and Training Directorate of MDRAC, assisted by
the Personnel Departments of the CARDERs, would manage staff training.  The
Administrative and Finance Directorate in the ministry and the Budget Departments
of the CARDERs, supported by expatriate and local technical assistance, would
prepare bidding documents and monitor their implementation. The new centers for
on-farm applied research, based on the RAMR project model, would be administered
by the DRA. The CPEs would also remain under the DRA. Arrival in Cotonou of the
three long-term experts (para. 4.37) would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
On-lending of Reinsertion Loans
5.07        Given the only recent reestablishment of a banking system in Benin,
the new banks have limited financial and administrative capacity to service the
targeted recipients of project on-lending.  The implementation of the credit
component will therefore depend on the identification of financial institutions



- 28 -
interested in and having a sufficient level of technical know-how, domestic
network and monitoring capacity to manage the component. In any case, potential
financial intermediaries--banks or other local institutions--would be requested
to take a substantial share of the non-repayment risk upon themselves.  The
financial institution responsible for managing the credit lines would make the
final selection from the applications forwarded to it by the various CR through
the financial director of MDRAC.   The Livestock Directorate would also be
consulted as regards decisions involving veterinarians and other veterinary
agents. This would ensure that appropriate measures are taken to avoid unfair
competition between MDRAC and private sector veterinarians and to encourage
private veterinary practice in remote areas.   The choice of credit line
beneficiaries would be made using criteria designed to ensure that funds are lent
to the most deserving and capable applicants. Assurances were received during
negotiations that procedures and criteria acceptable to IDA for the selection of
credit lines beneficiaries would be worked out by MDRAC with the selected
intermediaries.
Management of Training Activities
5.08        Training would be provided by local or regional  institutions
according to programs to be prepared with external technical assistance.
Professional training facilities are scarce in West Africa. Training abroad,
particularly in industrialized countries, is not adapted to local conditions.
Business training would be provided by an agency such as the Business Personnel
Training Center. Cooperative development agents would be trained by the Pan-
African Cooperative Training Center (CPFC). The complementary practical training
designed to integrate livestock and crop farming would be provided by the DRA and
the School of Agronomy. The APVs would be trained on the job by the CARDERs with
assistance from the School and an external center. The extension agent training
centers at Ina and Porto Novo are not regarded as capable of training the APV to
the level aimed at by the project. After reform, these centers could be oriented
toward the training of young farmers using the model of the Tempegre rural
training center in Atacora.  The Italo-Beninese NGO, Hanitese, which already
operates the Tempegre center, would be entrusted with the management of the two
training centers established in the Zou (para. 4.32). Further analysis of the
availability and capability of local and regional training institutions to
fulfill project objectives and of the additional technical assistance required,
and the preparation of a detailed training program will be undertaken as part of
project start-up activities, with preliminary IDA assistance.
Coordination with Regional Proiects
5.09        Both this project and the regional rural development projects
financed by various donors will impact the provision of agricultural services in
Benin. The objective of the regional projects within this specific context would
be to enable, through training and advice, farmer and other professional
organizations to take over the management of rural services presently provided
by the CARDERs. This transfer of responsibil4ties would be gradual and extend
well beyond the implementation period of this project (para. 5.13). The regional
projects would help establish an institutioial set-up within which the CARDERs
would formulate and monitor the impact of agricultural service procedures and
policies while the farmer organizations would take increasingly upon themselves



- 29 -
their management on the field.   Coordination between this project and those
regional projects which would not be managed directly by a CARDER would be
ensured through operational arrangements to be agreed upon between MDRAC and each
regional project's autonomous management unit.
5.10        The CARDERs currently depend for almost all of their investments and
about one third of their operating budget on funds made available under external
assistance projects.  The management and financing of -hese projects vary as
regards the organization, nature and diversity of field activities, the coverage
of operating expenses (inclusion or otherwise of salaries), or reward and bonus
systems. The harmonization of regional agricultural policies will require close
coordination of projects by the Government.   Coordination between national
project and regional project activities would be ensured both in overall terms
and at the level of specific responsibilities.
5.11        Overall, ongoing project activities in Mono and Borgou would be
adjusted to facilitate institutional restructuring and the departure of redundant
civil servants and to adapt the activities of the CARDERs to the resulting
operational implications. In Atacora, the prcject currently being prepared with
IFAD assistance is designed, as in Mono and Borgou, to finance both the costs of
the national project in that ddpartement and the activities deriving from the IFAD
project's regional focus. A similar approach, excluding the financing of CARDER
operating costs, is proposed by German donors for the Atlantique. The annual
work programs of these projects would be established in close coordination with
those of the national project. In Zou, the national project would finance all
CARDER equipment and activities.   A strategy similar to the above-mentioned
approaches must be agreed between MDRAC and ABEDA for the departement of Oueme.
5.12        As regards specific issues, four points must be considereds  (a) the
gradual process whereby extension activities come to be managed largely by the
farmers rather than the State; (b) the technical assistance required to assist
farmer groups in the design and implementation of specific local development
works; (c) execution and dissemination of the results of R-D; and (d) support for
farmer organizations.
5.13        Extension activities.  The project is designed to avoids (a) the
sudden disappearance of existing services and communications networks providing
a basis for effective agricultural extension activities; (b) over-exclusive
concentration of extension activities around the best-organized, and therefore
most developed, village groups; and (c) interruptions in extensior services and
support when the projectb financing them terminate. Farmer associations would
gradually take over the management of extension activities from the State as and
when they request it.   In the initial phase, the villagers would share in
planning the work of the APV. Subsequently, an interim joint management phase
would link the village groups to the CARDERs through extension management
committees, established initially in sub-sectors  (containing from 10 to 15
villages) in which the farmers have already achieved a level of organization
enabling them to intervene rationally and effectively.   This process would
subsequently be extended to complete sectors and finally to an entire ddpartement.
The management committee would approve the timetable and content of the APVs'
field work programs and the size of the bonus that would reward the quality and



- 30 -
relevance of their work. Appropriate training would be given to the management
committees. The increasing participation of farmers in this management process
would be accompanied by financial support from the farmer organizations' own
resources to pay for part of the extension services, particularly bonuses for
field agents. Another option would be for farmer organizations which have
developed the necessary structure and financial capability to call upon
commercial extension services, with State participation in the financing of these
services to be negotiated with MDRAC on a case by case basis.  Part of the
financing would, again, have to come from the farmers' own resources.   The
services would have to be provided without being cut off from R-D activities or
from the communication network linking farmers, resesrchers and extension agents.
The degree of success of the first such attempts would be evaluated jointly by
the Government and the donors before being further extended. As part of the
reorganization, and as soon as the new civil service regulations are published,
the Administration and Finance Directorate of MDRAC would review the structure
of CARDER salary scales in order to benefit agents working in the field as
compared to thoce performing office tasks.
5.14        Technical assistance for specific local works would be provided by
the regional projects. The CARDERs with qualified personnel in the area of rural
projects could help plan and monitor the works, the relationship being that of
a service provider (CARDER) and his client (farmers or projects).
5.15        Execution  and  dissemination  of  the  results  of  research  and
development. A national coordinator at the DRA would be in charge of the R-D
program. He would closely collaborate with the Extension and R-D Directorate of
MDRAC.   He would ensure the coordination of R-D activities among regional
development projects and the national project as well as between these activities
and extension work of tne CARDERs.
5.16        Support for farmer orRanizations.  One of the main aims of the
regional projects will be to provide assistance to farmer organizations,
essentially through qualified private entities. However, these projects do not
have the resources to extend such assistance to all the small farmers in Benin.
The CARDERs would intervene in the zones not reached by the regional or topic-
based projects and would adjust the nature of their activities in areas already
serviced by private development entities.
Monitoring. Evaluation and Supervision
5.17        The innovative nature of the project and its significant social and
political implications make the establishment of an effective monitoring and
evaluation system vital.  The evaluation criteria would focus mainly on the
impact of the project's activities. The monitoring process would assess project
performance in light of the projections for the dismissal, transfer and
retraining of government employees in order to evaluate the social, economic and
financial impact of these operations. The principal indicators would measure:
(a) the cost of project actions and the financial impact on the ministry's
budget; (b) improvements in services provided to farmers; and (c) the status of
personnel reinserted into private sector activities. The monitoring of stock
raising would focus on the impact of (i) a unified extension service on the
development of mixed production systems; (ii) the privatization of veterinary



- 31 -
services; and (iii) the training provided to herders.   Monitoring would be
performed by the staff of MDRAC and the CARDERs.   The evaluation would be
conducted, first, for the interim review (para. 5.04) and then at the end of the
project,  under the aegis of the Government and donors and would be the
responsibility of an independent specialized institution.  The choice of the
institution and the preparation of a monitoring plan would be conditions of
credit effectiveness.
5.18        Given its complex innovative aspects, and the need for coordination
with numerous regional projects and for policy and technical support from donors,
the project will require close supervision.   In particular, it will require
specialists in management during the initial institution restructuring period,
and in personnel training and agricultural extension activities during the
subsequent phase. During the first year a mission should be planned for every
four months.
VI. COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimate
6.01        The total cost of the proposed project has been estimated at about
CFAF 7.5 billion (US$29.6 million), of which some CFAF 3.3 billion (US$13.0
million) or 441 is in foreign exchange.   The estimates are based on prices
prevailing in July 1990 and the ex2hange rate of the US dollar of January 1991;
they include US$3.5 million in physical and price contingencies.   Physical
contingencies of 252 for training, 152 for civil works and 101 on all other items
have been included, with the exception of technical assistance, for which there
are no physical contingencies since clear specifications are available. Project
costs exclude domestic taxes.
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Percent
Local Foreign   Total   of Base
-----(US$ million)----    Cost
Restructuring of MDRAC           1.1    2.0     3.1       11.7
Restructuring of the CARDERs   4.4    4.0       8.4       32.4
Training                        1.6    0.4      2.0        7.7
Research/development             2.0    1.4     3.4       12.a
Seed production                 1.3    0.1      1.4        5.4
Livestock services               1.2    0.7     1.9        7.4
Reinsertion of personnel        2.8    0.3      3.1       12.0
Management support               0.2    2.0     2.2        8.4
Studies                         0.2    0.4      0.6        2.3
Total Base Cost              14.8   11.3    26.1       100.0
Physical contingencies           1.2    1.0     2.2        8.4
Price contingencies              0.6    0.7     1.3        4.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST           16.6   13.0    29.6       113.3



- 32 -
6.02        Price contingencies on foreign costs are based on Bank projections
of incernational price increases (4.9? per year from 1992 through 1995). Local
price contingencies are based on Bank forecasts of domestic inflation in Benin
(2.7? per annum in 1992 and 1993, 2.2? per annum thereafter). Project cost does
not include the cost of making some 3,500 government employees redundant, of whom
about 2,700 are PCSs, 400 to be separated through regular retirement and 2,300
with a right to full compensation.   It does, however, include incremental
operating costs of the MDRAC and CARDERs, other than salaries, which in the
aggregate should decline in relation to the pre-project situation.   Summary
project costs are provided in Annexes 9 and 10, and detailed project costs are
to be found in the Project File (Staff Working Paper No. 4).
Financ ing
FINAUCING PLAN
US$ million    ?
IDA                         12.3        41.5
French assistance            3.2        10.8
EDF                          2.9         9.8
GTZ                          0.9         3.0
IFAD                         4.0        13.5
UNDP                         1.5         5.1
Government                   4.9        16.5
TOTAL                       29.6       100.0
6.03        The IDA credit of US$12.3 million would finance 48? of the foreign
exchange costs and 36? of the local costs out of a total project cost of CFAF 7.5
billion (US$29.6 million).  The share of the other donors, in joint or parallel
financing, would be some US$12.4 million, with the Government providing the
remaining US$4.9 million. This latter figure represents on average about half
of the project's operating costs, over and above salaries, which are paid from
the regular Government budget. The Government's share in financing non-salary
operating costs would be kept to 20? until the end of 1992, brought up to 50? in
1993 and to 80? thereafter. The IDA credit would finance vehicles, equipment,
civil works and some operating costs for the MDRAC (including the livestock
services), the Zou and Borgou CARDERs, the seed farms and the and R-D units,
including the Food Technology Laboratory and specific expenditures in the
regional research centers of Ina and Niaouli, in the Zou, Borgou, Atlantique and
Oudme ddpartements. It would also finance staff training costs and reinsertion
credits in the Atlantique and Ou6me ddpartements, as well as technical assistance
to assist in R-D activities. French assistance would finance the costs of staff
training and reconversion in the Borgou and the Zou, studies, and technical
assistance other than that related to project management or R-D, for a total
amount of FF 20 million (about US$3.5 million). EDF would finance all project
investment and a share of operating expenditures related to the Mono ddpartement
out of the funds of its ongoing project in that ddpartement. Similar arrangements
are envisaged in their upcoming projects, with IFAD in Atacora (about US$4.0
million) and with GTZ in the Atlantique. The GTZ project would include DM 1.8
million for CARDER institution-building but would not finance operating costs.
Expenditures related to the operations of the Ou6md CARDER are not included in



- 33 -
project costs. They are expected to be covered by the ongoing AfDB/ABEDA project
there. Training and reconversion costs of the Oueme staff are, however, included
in the project. A substantial portion of the technical assistance to support
project management, and the study of the future of applied research, would be
financed by UNDP.
Financing of Severance Payments
6.04        The project would entail the departure of some 3,800 staff from MDRAC
ard the CARDERs (including the 300 subject to further study) within the next two
years, or 62Z of the total of 6,120.   These figures exclude the DRA, whose
reorganization would be the subject of a subsequent study. Almost all (94z) of
the redundant personnel are support stsff in the two lowest civil service grades.
MDRAC is in the process of identifying irregular staff or staff who have
committed major professional faults, not entitled to departure compensations.
Other permanent civil staff employed by MDRAC and the CARDERs on the date on
which recruitment was frozen as part of the first structural adjustment program
and who are anticipated to leave the civil service under this project and
departing contractual staff would be entitled to compensation for dismissal.
Budgeting by the Government of the funding of these redundancies would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. Under the structural adjustment program, the
Government has undertaken not to rehire PCSs who leave within the program.
Conditions for On-lending of Reinsertion Loans
6.05        Assurances were received during negotiations that the financial
intermediaries responsible for managing the reinsertion loans meet financial,
operational and technical criteria satisfactory to IDA. The Borrower would sign
an agreement with each participating intermediary, the terms of which would have
to be approved by the IDA; this would be a condition for disbursement of the
credit lines.   Additional assurances were received during negotiations that
(a) the credits would be approved in light of simple feasibility studies, using
models whose general principles would be agreed with IDA; and (b) the studies for
agricultural investments would pay attention to environmental concerns, within
a format to be agreed with IDA. The exchange risk would be borne by the State,
with the risk of non-recovery borne by the intermediary. There would be regular
monitoring of the performance of financial intermediaries,  including loan
xecovery.   The proposed system would provide an opportunity for additional
training of the staff of the intermediaries selected and for an expansion of
their action areas.
Procurement
6.06        All goods and services financed by the IDA credit would have to be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts for vehicles or equipment
that exceed US$200,000 equivalent, up to a total of US$1.9 million for vehicles,
and up to US$2.1 million for equipment, would be awarded by International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and would be grouped into lots equal to or exceeding
this amount as far as possible.   Local Competitive Bidding  (LCB),  using
procedures approved by IDA, would be permitted for contracts not exceeding
US$200,000, up to a total of US$600,000 over the course of the project.
Contracts for civil engineering works (Us$2.3 million) would be too small and



- 34 -
dispersed to attract international bidders. They would be awarded through LCB.
In the ICB procurement of goods, local manufacturers or contractors may be
granted a margin of preference of 15Z or the applicable customs duty, whichever
is lower. Given the specific nature of the training services, these contracts
would be negotiated directiy with institutions or individuals agreed by IDA.
Part of the technical assistance and of the studies, estimated at US$1.0 million
and US$0.5 million respectively, would be financed by UNDP using the regular
procedures of these institutions. Technical assistance financed by IDA would be
contracted according to IDA guidelines. Bidding documents and proposals for the
award of all contracts financed by IDA whose cost exceeds US$200,000, purchases
of data processing equipment and technical assistance contracts would be
submitted to IDA beforehand for approval.
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Proiect Component         ICB       LCB     Other      N.A.      Total Cost
Vehicles                  4.1                                        4.1
(1.9)                                      (1.9)
Equipment                 2.3       0.9                              3.2
(1.5)     (0.6)                            (2.1)
Civil Works                         2.7                              2.7
(2.3)                            (2.3)
Technical Assistance                         2.1                     2.1
(0.6)                  (0.6)
Training                                     4.3                     4.3
(1.9)                  (1.9)
Credit                                                  2.4          2.4
(0.8)        (0.8)
Operating Costs                                        10.1         10.1
(2.7)        (2.7)
TOTAL                    6.4        3.6      7.1      12.5          29.6
(IDA share)             (3.4)      (2.9)    (2.5)     (3.5)        (12.3)
Disbursement
6.07        Given the Government's  limited ability to pre-finance project
expenditure, a special account denominated in CFA Francs would be opened at a
commercial bank and maintained and operated on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA. IDA would make an initial deposit into that account of US$1 million
equivalent (about four months of IDA-financed components of project operation)
immediately after the credit became effective. The account would be replenished
monthly, provided requests in excess of US$100,000 equivalent had been made. The
special account would be used for all expenditures of less than US$20,000
equivalent to be submitted for IDA financing.
6.08        The IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of three years.
Contracts up to US$20,000 (or US$50,000 for civil works) would be disbursed on



- 35 -
presentation of Statements of Expenditure (SOE) by the administrative controller
of NDRAC. For all other contracts full substantiating documentation would be
required. The relevant substantiating documents would have to be retained for
presentation to IDA's supervision missions. Disbursements on operating costs
would be at an 80? rate until the end of 1992, 50? in 1993, and 202 thereafter.
Since the main objective of the project is to ensure the administrative
reorganization of MDRAC and the CARDERs through the dismissal of redundant staff
and the training of the others, the project life and corresponding disbursements
are not expected to expand beyond throe years. If some difficulties were to be
identified in ensuring full staff training within that time, that specific
component alone would be extended for the necessary period. The IDA credit would
be disbursed according to the following schedules
DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
Amount          Percentage
(USS million)    Financed by IDA
Vehicles                  1.7               100o
Equipment                 1.9               100?
Civil works              2.0                1002
Technical assistance      0.5               1OOS
Training                 1.4                100?
Credit                    0.7               1OO0
0 & M                    2.4               (variable)
Unallocated               1.7
TOTAL                12.3
Accounts and Audits
6.09        MDRAC and the CARDERs would maintain separate accounts for the
project in accordance with international accounting practices. Each agency would
prepare its annual budget and work program. The administrative controller of
MDRAC would be responsible for consolidating the accounts, financial statements
and work programs, which he would submit to IDA, including those of the CARDERs
not directly financed by the IDA credit. He would also be responsible for budget
monitoring and the preparation of applications for withdrawals of funds.
6.10        Project accounts would be audited by competent independent external
auditors, whose appointment would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Audited accounts and reports would be submitted to IDA not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report on project expenditures
would include an examination of the documentation substantiating expenditures and
a verification that: (a) goods and services had been procured in countries
accepted by IDA as suppliers; (b) goods had been received or work performed; (c)
payments had been made; (d) all expenditures had been legitimate; (e) loans
extended by the financial intermediaries were legitimate, and lending and
recovery procedures were adequate; and (f) the special account had been used
appropriately; along with an opinion on the reliability of the SOE procedures and
on whether the goods and services acquired under the project were being utilized



- 36 -
in accordance with its aims. Assurances were received on these points during
negotiations.
Impact on the MDRAC Budget
6.11        The project would reduce the operating costs of MDRAC and the CARDERs
by more than half (from CFAF 7.8 billion in 1989 to CFAF 3.6 billion after
restructuring). This would in principle enable them, after the departure of the
redundant staff, to meet their entire operating expenses within the present
envelop of State outlays (i.e., the greater part of the CFAF 4.9 billion of
salary costs), and without recourse either to commercial resources that the
CARDERs would no longer have, or to external assistance. However, while salary
costs of the MDRAC and CARDERs are intended to be covered entirely by the
Government budget, considering that (a) non-salary operating costs have been
financed by foreign donors, including IDA, in the past; (b) the three year
duration of the project corresponds to a period of fundamental reorganization of
the agricultural institutions; (c) it would be important to ensure a proper
financing ratio between salary and non-salary costs; and (d) the 1992 budget has
already been established within the structural adjustment agreements and has
little provision to meet such expenditures, about half, overall, of the non-
salary operating costs would be financed by the foreign donors, on a declining
basis. The short-term demands of project investments on MDRAC's budget would be
negligible, since the bulk of these costs would be covered by the financing of
this project.
VII. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Justification
7.01        The project is justified on economic, financial and social grounds.
The economic and financial justification derive from the opportunity it offers
to provide services of a quality at least equal te those provided in the past,
but at a lower cost. An additional, non-quantifiable economic gain would be an
increase in agricultural production. In the area of livestock production, the
project would improve animal husbandry and increase the supply of inputs and
advice to livestock farmers, thereby reducing animal mortality, raising
production and ensuring the sustainability of production systems. The project's
social justification lies in the fact that the emphasis in agricultural services
will be on food crops, thus enhancing Benin's food security, tae least privileged
farmers and the rural activities of women, which will ensure more equitable
distribution of incomes from agriculture and will allow women more opportunity
to perform their maternal and household management functions.
Environmental Impact
7.02        The investments and activities entailed by the restructuring of MDRAC
and the CARDERs will have no direct impact, positive or negative, on the
environment. However, the project would provide an essential tool for (a) the
successful execution of the natural resources project currently in preparation;
(b) improving agricultural yields through the application of sustainable farming
practices, thereby reducing the pressure on the land; (c) the integration of



- 37 -
stock raising and crop farming, whose absence prejudices the preservation of
natural  resources.    The  agricultural  extension  and R-D  specialists  and
technicians would be trained to consider land management factors, so as to
promote the preservation of resources. The R-D operations would make villagers
participating in them more aware of the methods available for preserving their
land and forest assetc.
Risks
7.03        One of the most striking results of the project would be the
departure of some 3,800 former civil servants, many of whom, with low skills,
will have to re-enter the traditional agricultural production system. A large
minority can be expected to engage in small-scale production and private
commercial activities. The success of the former group depends on their capacity
to return to the land as producers, a process that will be facilitated by the
fact that most of them already have access to cultivable plots. The success of
the latter group should be facilita..ed by Benin's solid commercial traditions,
although these have suffered from the state control policy applied by the
previous regime. Additional measures to facilitate this group's integration into
their new environment will be studied as part of the social dimensions of
adjustment program. The other main project risks are: (a) a temporary negative
impact on agricultural production resulting from the transfer of certain
activities from the CARDERs to the private sector; (b) management of the civil
service that does not respect the project's technical and financial efficiency
criteria; and (c) the inability of the available training centers to meet the
demand for training created by the project. SONAPRA's spare capacity and the
involvement of the private sector in equipment and transportation maintenance
operations should minimize the impact of the CARDERs' disengagement from these
activities, but measures have been included in the project to ensure that they
are transferred at a pace compatible with local conditions. The introduction of
a new civil service code as part of the structural adjustment program would be
supported by this project in the area of agriculture.   The duration of the
project would be extended if the training program became a constraint. The risk
of seeing the project suffer from a wide departure of Government policies from
the structural adjustment strategy in rural areas would be reduced by the close
links sought between this project and the structural adjustment program as a
whole.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01        During negotiations, assurances were received from the Boirower
regarding:
(a)   review and completion of the legislation on cooperatives before June
30, 1992 (para 4.22);
(b)   settlement of the debts and claims of the CARDERs upon their change
of status and preservation of their surplus assets in good condition
until their reallocation (para. 4.24);



- 38 -
(c) privatization of the two remaining CARDER seed farms before June 30,
1993 (para. 4.25);
(d)   credit lines to be on-lent to financial eligible intermediaries
within procedures acceptable to IDA, at the prevailing long term
savings interest rate, and the interest rate charged to final users
on the reinsertion and veterinary loans to be similar to those
generally applied in the Beninese market (para. 4.36);
(e)   a mid-project evaluation to be made in conjunction with donors
around mid-1992 (para. 5.05);
(f)   the beneficiaries of the project's credit lines to be selected in
accordance with procedures and criteria agreed with IDA (para.
5.07);
Cg) the financial intermediaries responsible for administering the
reinsertion loans to meet donor criteria, and these loans to be made
on the basis of simple feasibility studies, in line with models
based on principles agreed with IDA (para. 6.05); and
(h)   the project's accounts to be examined and audited in accordance with
IDA criteria (para. 6.10).
8.02        The conditions for credit effectiveness are:
(a)   (i) the adoption of legal texts   agreed upon with the donors
defining the modalities and regulations for the restructuring of
IDRAC and the CARDERs; the functions and organization of these
institutions, specifying their new relations with new staff and
budgeting rules including analytical accounting and perforsiance
evaluation procedures; and the regulations establishing the
restructuring units, their powers and procedures, and determlning
their material and financial resources; (ii) the nomination of the
members of the restructuring units and their training in matters
pertaining to the restructuring regulations and procedures; ($ii)
the implementation of an information campaign on the objectives of
the restructuring, to which labor union representatives would
collaborate with MDRAC staff; and (iv) the definition of procedures
and establishment of a calendar for the transfer to private
operators of CARDER activities in the fields of cotton, rural works
and repair shops (para. 5.03);
(b)   the arrival  in Cotonou  of the  long-term  experts  in  project
management (para. 5.06);
(c)   the preparation of a monitoring plan and selection of a project
evaluation agency (para. 5.17);



- 39 -
(d)   budgeting by the Government on funding the departures of redundant
staff (para. 6.04); and
(e)   appointment of independent external auditors (para. 6.10).
8.03        Agreement on a livestock health services action plan would be a
condition of the disbursement of credit categories related to the livestock
component (para. 4.28).
8.04        Satisfactory review of progress in the restructuring of the MDRAC and
CARDERs would be a condition of the disbursement of the training and MDRAC and
CARDER vehicle and equipment categories of the credit (para. 5.05).
8.05        The conditions for disbursement of the credit category would be the
approval by IDA of the agreements regarding the administration of the reinsertion
loans, to be signed between the Borrower and the selected financial
intermediaries (para. 6.05).
8.06        With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
eligible for an IDA credit of US$12.3 million.
June 3, 1991



Oroanizaton Chart No
OROANIZATIOIe OAfAT OlF PRAC
s                                      Ipcton
Dir. do ci                                    ind audit
task leaOders                                                          secetaias
......................   ...................  :................................
~_    _ _I
&ftentsion     Rural
wrabo$*           min.         _bm             Analysis.       Ib"turl      Rural        Activites,     Prootion        crop           Li vestock      Fiseries,
a        Resources a       Forecaeting    ResOUrce8       ark*        a Rsearch/        N            roduction
Finance     Training         A Synheis,                                Cevelopsa-nt   Leg isntIon
F_         Trn7n7nB         ^ 58t7- ORW                    DCR                                                        IDE nRift  CRO  OP
o_*agsvs         Pe sonnl Rationalizatior   Sector           Inventory    Rur               rh/        Promotion      Plant         Li vestoc       Castal
Of h              anlyi A         deo      t  dsv.          dvelont    of rme:             production    prodciont    fisheries
Resources         forecastino    of ntura      i nfra-                      institutions   proso,tion &   eeomn
reowurces    structure                                   development
9udgt     Training           Projectis       _ nt * Technical   Su"port               Promotion of   Promtion of Animl halth   Freshastar
Upgrading         tchn 1          replnishmt studies a   for  rtelon   youn                 grifood                     fisheries
cooration         natural   works.        activitie s       frCe vt      techno7log *                   s* uac* ture
resources    inspection                    - sOma 
activities
Control A                                Land            Plant         Anisel
EVipmnt                      Stt7ti t7ce A   protection                               onership         rotction    fodtff
dometation  of natural                                      us A           health     a fd
resource                                 rurel           surveil lanc   control
legislation
AdIM.sal;



Organtzatlon Chart Nm. 2
ORGANIZATION OCART OF HE CARDER.
General Directorte                                                   S cr tnrlnt Mail Files |
Administration          Planning,               Extension                Forestry a            Rural Works A            Plan Hanlth
Directorate.      A Finance            Nonitoring              Activities &            ProtOctlon of          Infrastructure              Control
DAF               Evaluation              Support for                Natural                  DAER                    OCVP
WPSE                   Farmers                 Resources
Organizations                DFPRN
DVAOP
Personnel             Planning,            Extension,                 Study of natural        Studios A              Food Inspection
monitoring,          resarch/                   reource                 development
ector &              developmnt
sacivities
oevluation
_  tuOnt        Oodget               Monitoring            Support for                Monitoring &           Support for            Crop health
human                farner'                    prctectlon of          workS &                 Inspection
resoures             orpgnizations              natural                activities   
resouresn              technicl 
control
Equipment A          Statistics A          Operational
Maintennce            documentation        traintng
Sector 1                     r                    _                     Sector n
RDR                                        RDR a Responoiblo for
tS                        .................................... rural development
CSS                       .................................... or sector chie
APV                                        TS a SubJect matter
Specialist
CSS a Subsoctor chief or
supervisor
APY * Polyvalent
extens ion get 
A:RC.em



- 45 --
Annex 1
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
RURAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY STATEMENT LETTER
The Republic of Benin intends to undertake a program of restructuring of
the institutions responsible for implementing its rural-sector policy and
furnishing services to the agricultural sector. This restructuring vill take
place in the context of the rural development policy and the specific commitments
of the Government summarized in this letter.
Rural development policy obiectives
1.    The main objectives of the Beninese Government's rural development policy
will be to raise rural living standards by winning markets for and improving the
competitiveness of Benin's small farmers rather than simply pursuing regional or
national self-sufficiency. The resulting priorities are as followss
(a)   to redefine the Government's role and enhance the efficiency and
lower the cost of its action;
(b)   to improve (i) the services and (ii) the infrastructures to which
the rural population groups have access;
(c)   to increase export earnings, in order to compensate for the small
size of the domestic market, by rais,.ng yields and diversifying
production;
(d)   to combat food insecurity in the more vulnerable geographic areas
and time periods;
(e)   to preserve the nation's natural assets through resource management
that exhibits increased concern for its protection.
1.    In the context of:
(a)   the general objectives described above;
(b)   the goals of the structural adjustment program, which is designed
inter alia to:   Ci) restore public finances equilibrium;  (ii)
restructure the major ministrie3 and public enterprises; (iii)
pursue restructuring of the financia: sector, and (iv) promote
development of the private sector, and
(c)   the general diagnostic study of the rural sector conducted in 1989,
and also the conclusions of the seminar on rural development
strategy held in July 1990, as summarized in the report of December
1990 and the document (Draft Rural Deve:.opment Policy Letter) dated
May 16, 1991, which highlighted (i) the weaknesses of the
transportation and storage infrastructure and their impact on the



- 46 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 8
domestic market; (ii) the deficiencies in the services offered to
farmers and stockraisers; (iii) the large seasonal variations in the
prices of food products; (iv) the mismatch between agronomic
research and the sector's real problems; (v) the currently
unfavorable impact of the naira exchange rate on Benin's
agricultural sector; (vi) the lack of competitiveness of palm oil
and groundnuts on the world market; (vii) the lack of private
processing or artisanal enterprises; (viii) the failure of the
industrial and commercial public e.aterprises; and (ix) the
agricultural credit management problems,
the Government recalls herein the major actions it has already undertaken in this
field and its intention to institute the development policies described below.
Action already accomplished
3.    The Government has already undertaken;
(a)   restructuring of the cotton sector through (i) transfer of the
industrial and commercial activities of the Regional Rural
Development Action Centers (CARDERs) to the agricultural promotion
company Soci$te Nationale pour la Promotion Agricole (SONAPRA); (ii)
abolition of input subsidies, and (iii) linking of producer prices
to world market prices;
(b)   rehabilitation of the  regional and local agricultural  savings
cooperatives (CRCAMs and CLCAMs);
(c) preparation of an agricultural services restructuring program which
is the basis for the proposed financing And which makes the Ministry
of Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC) the first to
propose a strategy in line with the goals of the structural
adjustment program;
(d)   design of an environmental action-plan embodying a natural
resources management project;
(e)   creation of a rural-sector investment programming unit which, in
order to meet the concern to reconcile project management autonomy
with the need for policy coherence, will establish a three-year
sliding program which, after approval by the Government, will
constitute the rural sector's contribution to the Priority
Investments Program, and update it annually in light of the
development of priorities, resource availabilities and donors'
proposals.
Atreements under the structural adiustment program
4.    In uddition to the reforms already initiated, commercial and financial
reforms have already been agreed on in the context of the structural adjustment
program. They concern in particular a communications infrastructure development



- 47 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 8
plan to be drawn up by the end of 1991, the future of the plantations (status of
the palm groves), agricultural industrial enterprise, (SONICOG factories and Sava
sugar mill) and commercial activities (privatization of PHARNAVE', , the cotton-
sector development strategy, the strategy of protection of th'. domestic meat
market, strengthening of the financial sector and savings mobilization, and
social policy. The structural adjustment program also provides for continuation
of the early warning system in the context of the national cereals office, Office
Nationale des Cereales (ONC), and restructuring of the latter after its mission
has been redefined. It further provides for a program for helping staff leaving
the public service and unemployed young people to re-enter the economy.
Agricultural policy compnents
5.    MarketinR and processing.  Priority will be given to (a) opening up and
maintaining rural roads; (b) relaxing customs and export procedures and improving
the discipline of the road control services; (c) developing techniques and
financial instruments that facilitate storage of agricultural food products on
the farm and at all stages of marketing; (d) the slaughtering and animal health
products conservation and health control infrastructure; (e) regional integration
of agricultural markets and their protection, where appropriate, against imports
subsidized at origin; (f) installation by the end of 1992 of a system of support
for exporters and local dealers, including in particular a system of continuous
information on domestic and world market prices and conditions, which would be
managed by the ONC; and (g) a national policy of promotion of small and medium-
scale *?nterprises that process agricultural products or furnish services to
farmers.
6.    Food production.  The Government's objective is to achieve the desirable
balance between the concerns to maximize agricultural income and to preserve and
improve the country's land assets.   Market conditions do not in most cases
justify the use of expensive inputs to rebuild soil fertility or raise production
density as a means of slowing the expansion of agricultural area. The goal will
be to foster crops, such as nieb6, that make it possible to rebuild soil
fertility, integrate animal and vegetable productian activities, and increase
farming value added through primary processing and by promoting simple
mechanization (such as draft cultivation), to enhance labor productivity, in
appropriate areas.
7.    Industrial or export crops.  The Government ia in process of drafting the
arrangements for withdrawing from the industrial units of the national fats
industries company, Societe Nationale des Industries des Corps Gras (SONICOG) and
reassigning ownership of the existing palm groves. The Government will encourage
the creation or strengthening of small private units or cooperatives for artisan
extraction and domestic marketing of palm oil. The reforms initiated in the
cotton sector will be pursued and means sought for integrating cotton production
into more diversified and ecologically more stable production systems.
Diversification of agricultural exports will be encouraged through agronomic
research and by establishing, in collaboration with the professional
o-ganizations and with the help of the donors, proper production and marketing
conditions.   The agricultural services will give special attention to high-
quality crops such as niebe and cassava that find an external outlet.



- 48 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 8
8.    Animal production.  The Government will continue to monitor and evaluate
the water point construction experiments with a view to replicating them widely
with due respect for environmental constraints. It will encourage integration
between farmers and stockraising and promote the development of private
veterinary services. It will prepare an animal health action plan and define the
arrangements for privatizing veterinary care and the importation and distribution
of veterinary pharmaceutical products by May 31, 1992. A code of veterinary
practice will be adopted by the end of 1992. The public ranches will be put into
liquidation. Their partial reorientation toward animal husbandry research and
improvement  of  local breeds  could be  studied.    Short-cycle  stockraising
activities wi.l be encouraged. Maritime fishing techniques will be strengthened.
Lake and offshore fishing will be regulated by a domestic fishing code. Beef and
farm products will, so far as necessary, enjoy tariff protection against
competition from products whose export is subsidized at origin.
9.    Natural  resources  management.       The  basic  components  of  Benin's
environmental policy will comprise  (a) monitoring of resource degradation
phenomena, as the basis for defining action priorities; (b) development of
technical solutions acceptable to the population groups concerned; (c)
improvement of the basic land tenure legislation, w.th due regard to the rights
and responsibilities of individuals, communities andl the State, as recognized by
all, and (d) information and training. A natural resource management project is
in course of appraisal; it would aim to ensure implementation of the first phase
of a long-term program. Its goals will also be taken into account in all future
regional development projects. The national parks protection project under way
in northern Benin would be extended to consolidate the gains achieved in the
Pendjara national park, extend them to the W park and integrate its activities
with those of neighboring countries.
10.   Aaricultural credit.  The CRCAMs/CLCAMs rehabilitation project will be
continued and the management autonomy of these p^ivate institutions will be
respected. The Government will ensure that any loan facilities put in place
carry interest rates not lower than those charged or the Benin financial market.
It will foster competition on the rural financia: market by encouraging the
commercial banks to operate there.
The role of the Government
11.   Government  functions  in  the  rural  areas will  be  divided  into  two
categoriess exclusively public functions, and functions to be performed by the
Government pending their takeover by private operators.
12.   The exclusive functions comprises
(a)   orienting national rural development policy by  (i) formulating
strategies and programs; (ii) developing legislative and regulatory
instruments; and (iii) taking incenti7e measures (particularly
financial measures);
(b) monitoring and supervising implementat:on of these policies and of
related support measures;



- 49
Anney 1
Page 5 of 8
(c)   compilation and dissemination of inforration;
(d)   designing, programming and supervising natural protection measures,
including institutionalizing the land tenure rights of individuals
and local authorities;
(e)   orienting and coordinating external aid at the design and execution
levels;
(f)   managing public rural infrastructures and supervising compliance
with technical standards in works projects executed by private
persons or local authorities.
13.   The non-exclusive functions, which can be exercised by the Government or
by private operators or professional organizations, comprises (a) agricultural
extension; (b) management advisory assistance to farmers; and (c) support for
producers'  organizations.   The Government would aim to avoid  (i) abrupt
dioruption of existing communication networks among extension agents, research
and development and applied research; (ii) exclusive concentration of services
around the more developed village groups; and (iii) interruption of these
services when the projects that finance them come to completion. The farmers'
or professional associations would progressively take over management
responsibility for extension activities.
14.   Agricultural extension will be assigned precise goals, measurable in
economic terms. Action will be taken to improve the level of the extension
agents and step up their training and guidance. They will be trained to be alert
to farmers' problems and to respond to the specific concerns of population
categories not previously reached, such as women and young people. Their
activities will extend to both plant and animal production and both commercial
and food product activities and aim at improving natural resource management.
15.   Support for farmers' organizations and functional literacy will be assigned
priority.   The farmers will eventually have to define their training needs
themselves and progressively take over management of the necessary resources
through 4heir organizations.
16.   The regular personnel training programs of the agricultural institutions
will stress:  (a) the need to adapt to market and ecological constraints and
potentialities and the means for doing so8 and (b) management techniques for
individual enterprises and professional organizations.
17.   InRut and seed distribution will be privatized in due course but the
Government will continue to play a role in (a) input supply in the cotton-growing
area through SONAPRA, with the support of village groups; and (b) cottonseed
production. Pre-base seed of other crops would continue to be produced in the
agronomic research centers; base seed would be produced in the two seed farms of
Borgou and Atlantique, which would be privatized by June 30, 1993; propagation
of these seeds would be done by selected farmers.   Agronomic research would
provide technical support and quality monitoring on the two fArms and among seed-
propagation farmers.



- 50 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
18.   Agronomic research will be reorganized as an autonomous institute and will
seek to (a) decentralize the research teams, currently over-concentrated in
southern Benin, while maintaining close linkage among them; (b) ensure better
research planning to take account of agriculture's true priorities (such as
product processing and conservation, improvement of soil fertility and
environmental protection, farming/stockraising integration and exploitation of
livestock byproducts), replace unjustified research lines, better define
responsibilities and avoid overlapping with the work done in neighboring
countries and within Benin; and (c) ez.sure a multidisciplinary approach and
better linkage between applied research, research and development and extension.
19.   Professional organizations and other non-governmental organizations.  In
accordance with its objectives of democratizing Benin society, the Government
will encourage the setting up of these organizations and their contribution to
rural development, within respect for the existing regulations. It will ensure,
by means of an appropriate legislative framework, that these entities comply with
the basic rules of management transparency and honesty. Complementarity between
public action and that of private organizations will be governed by contractual
relationships within a legal framework which remains to be defined.
Agricuitural policy reforms to be implemented as par. of the restructuring of
agricultural services
20.   The Government requests the International Development Association (IDA),
French Aid, the European Development Fund, Genrian Aid, the International
Agricultural Development Fund and the United Nations Development Programme to
finance the agricultural services restructuring project. Since the purpose of
the project is to respond to the considerations set forth in sections (a) and (b)
(i) of the first paragraph of this letter, the Govi.rnment hereby undertakes to
execute the following administrative, financial and economic reforms within the
framework of the project, reforms whose implementation would have in impact on
its successful execution:
(a)   lightening oi the MDRAC and CARDER strictures, resulting in better
matching of personnel profiles to the profiles of the posts to be
filled and in a substantial reduction in MDRAC and CARDER staffs;
(b)   revision of the cooperative legislation, and progressive institution
of a new framework that favors representation of the agricultural
and professional organizations on the various rural development
bodies;
(c)   privatization of seed farms; and
(d)   settlement of the CARDERs' debts.
The Government will  inform all the donors  that are helping  finance  the
development of the rural sector of these actions to enable them to harmonize
their activities with the restructuring goals and the development policy
described in this letter.



- 51 --
Annex 1
Page 7 of 8
21.   The preparatory steDs for trimmiing the MDRAC and CARDER aaencies will
comprise the following actions, essential to its successful executions
(a)   adoption of legislative instruments agreed upon with the donors,
defining:    (i)  the methodology  of  and  regulations  governing
restructuring of the MDRAC and the CARDERs; (ii) the functions and
organization  of  those  institutions,   specifying  their  new
relationships with the rural sector; (iii) their new personnel and
budget management regulations, including a cost accounting system
and performance evaluation criteria; and (iv) regulations creating
the restructuring entities, prescribing their powers and their
procedures and defining their physical and financial resources;
(b)   appointment of the members of the restructuring agencies and their
training in regulations and procedures;
(c)   launching of an information campaigV concerning the purposes of the
restructuring exercise, in which the representatives of the civil
service unions would participate along with MDRAC personnel;
(d)   definition of the procedures and tims-table for transferring the
CARDER activities relating to the cotton subsector, rural works
projects and repair workshops to private operators.
22. The Government undertakes to effect as soon as possible selection of the
personnel who would be appointed to the various posts defined in the new MDRAC
and CARDER organizational charts and to finance the departure of redundant staff.
This would involve the departure of about 900 permanent civil servants (PCS) by
December 31, 1991, about 900 PCS by May 31, 1992 and the remaining 500 or so PCS,
essentially staff of category E, the lowest civil service level, by January 31,
1993. About 800 contract staff would be let go by May 31, 1992. Termination of
some 120 staff members associated with input management, mainly for cotton
production, will take placa in step with the transfer of the corresponding
functions from the CARDERs. Termination of about 80 staff of the Agricultural
Products Packaging Control Directorate and about 100 staff of the Food and
Applied Nutrition Directorate will be defined after the audit of the ministries
to which they are proposed to be transferred is completed.
Studies to be conducted
23.   As part of the continuous upgrading of iti rural-sector policies and
activities, the Government proposes to undertake cfrtain studies, of which the
chief ones are summarized in the following paragraphs, and to seek the necessary
funds for their execution where they are still lacling.
24.   Animal and fishery production activities. A study to assess the efficiency
of the financial circuits, technical competence, s:aughterhouse infrastructure
and conservation and health control, to be carried out by June 1992, will provide
the basis for a project for improving the organization and training of the
various professions involved in the animal and fishery product industries. In
the livestock areas the Government will undertake an inventory of pasture



- 52 -
Annex 1
Page 8 of 8
resources and carrying capacity, as the basis for securing more systematic
management of grazing lands.  An action plan for the whole of the livestock
sector will be drawn up by the end of 1992. A study of livestock product tariff
protection needs will be conducted by June 1992.
25.   ExRorts.  A comparative study of export procedures, taxes and costs will
be stasted in the second half of 1992 with the object of comparing the costs
borne by Bcnin exporters with those of exporters of neighboring countries and
analyzing the services made available to them.
26.   Credit.  & study will be conducted of credit constraints and the types of
credit best suited to the storage problems of food and animal product producers
and dealers; this study could be carried out in collaboration with the commercial
banks and the CRCAMS/CLCAMs.
27.   A medium-term cotton development strategy document integrating the macro-
and microeconomic and ecological dimensions will be completed by December 1991.
It will include prospective cotton acreage and production development and
industrial development components.
28.   A general study, as the basis for redefining agricultural research policy,
structures and activities will be conducted as part of the agricultural services
restructuring project by June 1992.
29.   MDRAC and the Ministry of National Education will carry out a joint study
with a view to reform of a gricultural sector staff training, with emphasis on
basic training, message quality and teaching methods, personnel competence, and
training geared to self-employment.
30.   The Government will draw up the new internal statutes of MDRAC by the end
of June 1991, together with civil service career management regulations.
31.   Finally, in the areas of land tenure and natural resources, the Government
will prepare, by the end of 1992, a legal study oZ the respective rights and
responsibilities of individuals, local authorities and government.
Done at L.ashington, D.C.
May 31, 1991
For the Government
Mama Adamou-N'Diaye
Minister of Rural Development
and Cooperative Action



- 53 -                ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PROPOSED EVOLUTION OF RURAL SERVICES
1.           Implementation of the agricultural services restructuring process
will entail a gradual evolution which, in the middle to long term, would lead to
a redefinition of the institutional arrangements for the provision of these
services and a redistribution of responsibilities between public sector agencies
on one hand and private or professional organization undertakings on the other.
This redefinition would provide the various economic and social agents of the
country with the possibility of developing their own initiatives within an agreed
legal framework, in partnership or competition with each other, according to
their perceived interests. The reallocation of responsibilities which had until
now been concentrated within a highly centralized administrative system among
decentralized rural operators would help revitalize and restructure the rural
environment.
2.           The proposed division of future responsibilities would confirm the
preponderance of the public sector in the (a) establishment of rural development
policies, strategies and programs, of legal and regulatory dispositions, and of
incentive measures; (b) monitoring and control of the implementation of these
policies and measures; (c) collection and diffusion of information towards
individuals, organizations and enterprises; and (d) implementation of applied
agricultural research along needs identified by the rural populations.
3.           This would leave the need for an eventual transfer of some functions
and activities to private or professional organizations. This transfer would,
in a first phase, deal with industrial and commercial activities, as well as some
services which could be immediately provided by the private sector (such as
veterinary services or seed multiplication). As new organizations in a given
geographical area become capable to oversee on their own the provision of
management advice, training, extension services, studies and the diffusion of
information, the transfer would gradually extend to these activities.
4.           The time frame of this evolution would depend on the speed at which
private or professional organizations which are recognized to be capable to
assume the corresponding responsibilities will emerge. This emergence would be
facilitated through promotional activities (such as an improvement of the
legislative framework, training, and management support), some of which could
preferably be undertaken by agencies outside the public sector. Even so, public
funding would be necessary to ensure these promotioral activities and, later, to
help defray the operating costs pertaining to the provision of private
agricultural services. Funding could be provided either through joint management
arrangements or through contractual agreements betwcen the State and the private
operators, reached on a case by case basis.
5.           As these transfers occur, the regional services of MDRAC would have
to adapt their staffing and organization to the ptevailing situation. In the



54 --         ~~ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
long term, this would result in the desired concentration of MDRAC staff on
purely public sector activities.   However, MDRAC would never totally divest
itself from training, management assistance, studies or extension activities,
since it would need to (a) ensure coordination among private agencies, as well
as between them and research -ad R-D activities; (b) provide neutral and
objective arbitration among socio-professional groups; and tc) guarantee full
access to agricultural services to all rural populations, including the poorest
strata. The organization chart proposed for the CARDERs (Organization Chart 2)
is built on these principles and would allow the Directorate of Extension and
Support to Farmer Organizations (DVAOP) to adjust its structures to a gradually
reduced need for involvement.
6.           The agricultural services restructuring project constitutes one of
the facets of the proposed evolution towards lighter administrative structures
focused on public sector responsibilities and the establishment of a legislative
and  institutional  frame  facilitating  the  ptoposed  redistribution  of
responsibilities between the public and private sectors. The activities of the
project would be completed and later expanded through the regional development
projects.  One of the objectives of the regional projects would be to help
establish and strengthen private or professional organizations and to assist them
in their interface with public sector institutions.



- 55 -                ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 12
BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
RESTRUCTURING OF THE MDRAC AND THE CARDERS
I. INTRODUCTION
1.           In view of the worrying situation of the public rural development
institutions,  characterized by poor performance  and operating costs  that
represent an intolerable burden on the public finances, the Benin authorities
have decided to restructure them within the joint framework of the Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP) and this project.
2.           The main purpose of this restructuring--which would be applied
initially to MDRAC and the CARDERs--is to provide the Government with
institutions through which it can perform its rural development efficiently and
at a cost commensurate with their true activities and with the country's
afinancial capacity. The redefined role of these public institutions would lead
the Government to withdraw from commercial and productive activities in order to
give better attention to the tasks of fostering initiative, guiding and
coordinating development efforts, issuing and enforcing regulations, and
providing certain forms of development support, notably agricultural research and
management training.
3.           In 1989 and 1990, the Beninese Government, with the help of FAO,
UNDP and the World Bank, conducted a series of studies designed to ensure that
restructuring would be implemented under the best possible conditions. These
studies culminated in proposals for restructuring MDRAC and the CARDERs which are
summarized below.
II. RESTRUCTURING PROPOSALS
4.           On  the  basis  of  the  Government's  redefined  role  in  rural
development, an assessment of the farmers' needs, in light of local conditions
and a clear distinction between the roles of MDRAC, at the central level, and the
CARDERs, as decentralized entities, the studies proceeded to redefine the
functions of MDRAC ind the CARDERs, draw up their organization charts and job
profiles, and determine their operational human, physical and financial resource
requirements.
Ortanization and Responsibilities of tha MDRAC
5.           The MDRAC's proposed organization is depicted in Organization Chart
No. 1.  MDRAC would comprise, under the authority of the Minister:  (a) the
Office of the Minister, consisting of a private secretary, technical advisers and
an internal inspection and audit unit for the Ministry; and (b) a Directeur de
Cabhnet (or Director General) who would direct and coordinate the activities of



- 56 -                ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 12
nine technical directorates and an Administration and Finance Directorate, which
have a total of 26 departments. Three or four coordinators, or task managers,
under the Director General, would be made responsible for the administration of
larger projects corresponding to the major strategic objectives of the ministry,
i.e., natural resources management, diffusion of information and training,
elaboration and supervision of legislation, and ruwal works.
6.           The Office of the Minister would assist the Minister, in particular
by preparing the necessary summary reports, based on the work of the
directorates, especially the DAPS, to enable him to keep abreast of developments
in the rural sector and form judgments concerning the activities of the
departments, decision-making and trade-off factors, and dossiers to be submitted
to the Government.
7.           The Directeur de Cabinet (or Director General) of the Ministry is
responsible for directing, coordinating and monitoring the activities of the
directorates and the CARDERs, and for ensuring that the country's agricultural
policy  is  implemented  and its development  goals achieved.    The  special
coordinators would assist him, each in his specific field, in ensuring an optimal
response to the established strategic objectives by calling, as needed, on the
various technical directorates.
8.           The  Administration  and  Finance  Directorate  (DAF)  would  be
responsible for managing the Ministry's personnel, budget and equipment. Its
personnel functions would be limited to administratlve management in application
of the regulations in effect.
9.           The Analysis, Forecasting and Synthesis Directorate (DAPS) would
have "horizontal" responsibilities, geared mainly to data gathering, processing
and distribution (statistics, data bank, documentation, activity and project
monitoring briefs, and so on) for the purpose of kee.ing abreast of developments
in the agricultural sector, monitoring project execution, preparing analyses and
projections, and formulating agricultural strategies and policies. It would also
be responsible for preparing and negotiating technical cooperation projects.
10.          The Human Resources and TraininR Directorate  (DRPF) would be
responsible for continuously evaluating personnel needs and human resource
training and utilization across the rural development instiLutions. It would
propose needed improvements in terms of numbers, quality and assignments; prepare
training programs and monitor their implementation evaluate training results;
and maintain continuous liaison with the traini'd tstablishments so that their
services can be adjusted to the requirements of tne development process.  It
would centralize instruction instruments to form mn agricultural information
center and furnish teaching support to the CARDERs and the other rural
development institutions in the areas of continuint and refresher training.
11.          The Natural Resources Directorate (DRi) would be responsible for
maintaining the natural resources inventory (soils, surface and groundwater, and
land and aquatic flora and fauna), assessing their potentials and classifying
them.   It would define authorized thresholds a.ad suitable harnessing and
utilization techniques and issue regulations for r.atural resource protection-



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 12
monitor natural resource trends; participate at the national or local level,
through the CARDERs, in the formulation of land use and development plans and
environmental protection policies; and help promote natural resource protection
and regeneration initiatives.
12.          The Rural Works Directorate (DGR) would decide, on the basis of the
DRNI's conclusions, on natural resource utilization equipment and technical
requirements, particularly in the area of agricultural water works, land
improvement and development, and village water facilities.   It would define
standards, techniques and models to facilitate the study and execution of rural
infrastructure works. It would participate at the national level and, through
the CARDER, at the local level in land infrastructure planning. It would help
promote enterprises specializing in rural studies and works, and support the
CARDERs in their work of assisting farmers in studying and executing
infrastructure and other rural projects.
13.          The Extension Activities and Research/Development Directorate (DVRD)
would maintain direct and continuous relations with the CARDERIDVAOP and the
research institutes. It would direct and coordinate consultation between the
CARDER/DVAOP, the research institutes and farmer organizations at various levels
on all aspects of extension, research/development and advisory assistance to
farmers.   On the basis of the information furnished by the CARDERs and the
assessments made by the farmer organizations, it would evaluate the extension and
advisory assistance activities and propose all appropriate improvement measures.
With the CARDERs and the research institutions, it would maintain a continuously
updated inventory, and a system of dissemination, of the knowledge acquired in
the country. It would collect validated research results and present them to the
various users in a dissemination-ready form; store all the information collected
and maintain a data bank with a simple and rap'.d system for updating and
utilizing it; foster and direct exchanges of technical information and transfers
of experience among the CARDERs; and propose measures to promote management of
extension and advisory assistance by farmer organizations and monitor their
application.
14.          The Crop Production, Livestock and Fisneries Directorates would be
responsible, each in its own field, for monitoring production trends, identifying
the technical, economic and commercial factors and mechanisms that determine
them, and studying and proposing suitable measures for revitalizing them. They
would draw up--each in its own field--agricultural policy proposals and goals,
evaluate the resources required to achieve them, and discuss them with the DAPS
to ensure that they are consistent in themselves anl with the country's general
rural development guidelines and policy. They would monitor--again, each in its
field--the installation of production facilities and the implementation of
agricultural policy measures (trade, credit, extension, etc.). Finally, the Crop
Production and Livestock Directorates would be responsible for ensuring health
protection of plants or livestock and for control.ing foodstuffs of plant or
animal (including fishery) origin and production factors (seed, plant health
products, fertilizer, livestock feed, veterinary pLoducts, etc.).
15.          The Rural Promotion and Lenislation Directorate (DPLR) would be
responsible for monitoring and studying the evolution of the rural institutions,
particularly the farmer organizations and their unions, and for proposing policy,



-58 -                 ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 12
legal and socioeconomic measures designed to foster the development,
diversification and expansion of their activities to enable them to furnish
greater and better support upstream and downstream of farm production. More
particularly, the DPLR would study the condition of rural youth and women and
propose all measures, of whatever kind, for promoting and developing their
economic activities and improving their social condition. To that end it would
draft proposals for creating farms and rural activities related to farm
production, providing all possible facilities for rural women and youth. At the
request of the other directorates, and on the basis of proposals presented by
them, it would prepare draft laws and regulations in conformity with the
applicable legislation, and archive legal instruments and bring them to the
attention of the departments affected.  It would provide liaison between the
Ministry and the professional organizations and arrange for information exchanges
and consultation between them on the preparation of agricultural policies and the
terms of their implementation by the farmers.
Agricultural Research
16.          Responsibility for the planning, coordination and implementation of
agricultural research is intended to be entrusted to a semi-independent entity
linked to but outside the MDRAC.   The present reorganization plan does not
therefore extend to agricultural research. A study, financed by the project,
would make specific and detailed proposals to that effect, covering, among other
things, the integration of the Cotton and Fiber Research Unit into the national
research  system.    Ultimately,  the  scientific  staff  of  the  livestock,
socioeconomic and forestry research units would be transferred to research
stations where these specialties are currently not represented. For efficiency
reasons and to ensure a multi-disciplinary approach, the analysis laboratories
would be concentrated in a multipurpose central laboratory, located in the
present premises of the National Agropedology Center (CENAP), after strengthening
of CENAP.  The present laboratories of the Foodstuffs and Applied Nutrition
Directorate (DANA), slated for elimination, and the food technology and crop
protection laboratories, could also be placed under CENAP. Veterinary research
would be concentrated on the epidemiologic and economic aspects of disease
control.
Oraanization and Functions of the CARDERs
17.          The new CARDER organization is depicted in Organization Chart No. 2.
Each CARDER would be headed by a Director General (DG) who would at the same time
be the representative of the Ministry of Rural Development at the ddpartement
level. The Director General would be answerable for all activities of his CARDER
to the Minister and the Director General of the Ministry, with whom he would
maintain a hierarchical relationship.   He would be the go-between of the
Ministry's directorates, from which he would receive technical instructions for
implementation by his departments.   This must not interfere with the direct
technical and functional relations between MDRAC directorates and the CARDER
departments, which would continue to be accountable for their activities to the
DG of the CARDER to which they report.



-59-.               ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 12
18.          Each CARDER would consist of two entities acting under the authority
of the DG: (a) the general directorate, and (b) the rural development *sectors.'
The General Directorate would comprise, in addition to the Administration and
Finance Directorate, five technical directorates:
(i,      The Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate (DPSE).  Like
the Ministry's DAPS, the DPSE would be responsible for disseminating working
methods to the other departments, gathering and processing data on the rural
sector, performing analytical studies of rural sector trends, and proposing rural
development measures to the Ministry.   It would also be responsible for
monitoring development projecta, evaluating the activities of CARDER departments
and functions, and continuous upgrading of human resources and their adaptation
to rural development needs.
(ii)      The Natural Resources.  Forestry and Plant Health Directorate
(DFPRN).    This Directorate would maintain  functional relations with the
Ministry's DRN, within which it would participate in the work of maintaining an
inventory of natural resources and assessing their potentials and in drawing up
technical requirements and regulatory measures for their conservation. It would
perform natural resource monitoring and surveillance tasks and enforce the
regulations. It would prepare technical recommendations as required, tailored
to local conditions, on the preservation of natural resources and disseminate
them among the farmers through the DVAOP and the CARDER extension network. The
Plant health section would be responsible for enforcing the plant health
regulations in the country in liaison with the CARDER field agents; performing
epidemiological diagnostic studies and deciding on and organizing anti-epidemic
action, and inspecting food products of vegetal origin and production factors
(plants, seed, plant health products, livestock feed, and so on).   A land
registry would also be set up in this directorate, first on a pilot basis to be
gradually extended to cover the whole national territory.
(iii)      The Rural Works and Infrastructure Directorate (DAER). On the basis
of data and recommendations transmitted by the Natural Resources Directorate
(DRN), this Directorate would study rural land use and infrastructure development
plans and help to draw up the land use development plan at the department or
local level. It would draw up technical standards and specifications, in light
of local characteristics, as the basis for selecting the most economical
agricultural equipment and rural infrastructure works, tailored to the natural
environment and the farmers' technical capacity. It would furnish technical
assistance to the farmers and farmer groups in s udying and executing rural
infrastructure and agricultural improvement and water works projects, and
exercise technical supervision of the work.
(iv)      The Rural Institutions and LeRislation Directorate would provide
assistance to all rural institutions within its geographic area, provide
information for the elaboration of rural legislation and oversee its
implementation.
(v)      The Extension Activities and Support for Farmer Organizations
Directorate (DVAOP). The DVAOP's activities would be geared to direct support
for farms and farmer organizations. It would accordingly maintain operational



- 60 -                ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 12
relations with the sectors (see para. 19). These elations would be reflected
essentially in support of many kinds to the sectors, particularly through
operational training, research and development (R-D,, storage and circulation of
technical knowledge, and assessment and upgrading of extension themes and staff.
It would thus extend structurally as far as the extension agent and exercise
hierarchical authority over the sector. This power would be reflected in the
establishment of contractual relations based on the execution of program
contracts defining the goals, activities, resources and contributions of each
party.   Program contracts would be adopted following discussions based on
assessment of the needs expressed by the farmers and their organizations. The
DVAOP would be organized into specialist teams, selected in light of the rural
development sectors' specific needs, designed to furnish them with all necessary
technical support to improve the advisory assistance they furnish to the farmers
and their organizations concerning livestock, cropping practices, environmental
protection, product processing, and management of their farms and groups.
19.          The rural development sector. Each department has been divided into
geographical rural development sectors on the basib of criteria reflecting the
farmers' needs, specific local natural, demographic, technical and socioeconomic
characteristics at the farm and village levels, and communication distances and
constraints.   Each sector is to be provided with a team responsible for
furnishing the farmers with support in the form of ixtension services, advisory
assistance on upgrading agricultural land and techn'.cal assistance in setting up
farmers' organizations, particularly concerning training and management.
20.          Each sector would be headed by a Sector Chief or Rural Development
Officer (RDR), responsible for leading, organizing, tsonitoring and evaluating his
team's activities. He would report to the CARDER General Directorate on his
sector's activities and the results achieved by it in relation to the annual
program contract entered into with it.
21.          The rural development sector team, under the authority of the RDR,
would comprise:
(a)   technical specialists in various disciplines geared to the sector's
specific needs -- plant technology, animal husbandry, land
development, animal health, farmer organizations, etc. -- whose
function would be to provide technical support and training to the
polyvalent extension agents (APV) in their task of furnishing
advisory assistance to the farmers, all in liaison with R-D;
(b)   supervisors who would assist the extension agents in organizing and
carrying out their work, which they would also monitor and
evaluate;
(c)   extension agents, who are the persons in direct contact with the
farmers, providing them with advisory assistance on request and
helping them assess their needs and devise solutions to their
problems and implement them at the farm level.



- 61 -                ANEX 3
Page 7 of 12
III.  Main Imoacts of Restructuring of MDRAC and the CARDERs
Impact on Activities
22.          The impact of restructuring on activities encompasses redefinition
of the State's role, reorganization of agencies, improved distribution of
responsibilities and resources, and far-reaching changes in staff working methods
and management rules on the basis of decentralized decision-making powers and
resources, encouragement of initiative and more efficient utilization of skills
and efforts.
23.          The State's withdrawal from commercial and productive activities,
the very sharp reduction in the bureaucracy and its spillover effect in promoting
local initiatives and sustaining the farmers' development efforts should
ultimately lead the farmers to assume responsibility for obtaining the services
they need.  The State would then focus more closely and more efficiently on
guiding and monitoring the agricultural economy, research and training support,
natural resource protection, and regulatory activities. This withdrawal would
be accompanied during the initial years by intensive action on the part of the
State to promote the emergence of private operators and strengthen farmer groups
and associations so that it can quickly hand over responsibility for extension,
farmer organization and production support services.
Impact on Personnel
24.          The restructuring would result in staff cuts of about 63S, with
about 90? of the cuts affecting unskilled staff, through better manpower
distribution, particularly in favor of the field staff, and improvement of
technical qualifications through supplemental training for the great majority of
staff. Thus, for example: (a) the staff of MDRAC and the CARDERs, currently
over 6,100, would be reduced to about 2,300; (b) in MDRAC, the proportion of
operations staff would be reduced from the current 74? to only 45?; (c) all APV,
of whom 912 are currently ADR, would be recruited at the technically higher ATDR
level; and (d) in the CARDERs, the proportion of field staff would be raised from
the current 602 to 782 of total personnel.
25.          These changes would involve the departure of more than 2,800 civil
servants and a further 1,000 contractual employees, taking into account possible
exchanges of staff among the CARDERs and between the latter and MDRAC. This
would require the implementation of a plan for reinserting redundant employees
into private-sector activities, many of them in the framework of the transfer of
certain CARDER activities (transportation, repair shops, inputs, marketing, rural
works, etc.) and most into agricultural production. In addition to the severance
allowances to which permanent civil service staff would be entitled, the plan
provides for assistance in creating activities by employees who express the need
for it, in the form of guidance, advisory assistance, appropriate light training
and possibly credit for those that submit acceptable applications.



- 62-                 ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 12
Financial Impact
26.          Restructuring would reduce the operating expenditures of MDRAC and
the CARDERs by more than 502, from CFAF 7.8 billion to just over CFAF 3.6
billion.   After  restructuring,  MDRAC's  total operating expenditure would
represent only 70S of just the State's current srlary bill. The CARDERs' total
operating costs would be lower than just the salaries currently paid by the
Government to the permanent civil servants assigned to the CARDER. The CARDER
operating budget, currently covered 542 by the State, 332 by external
contributions and 132 by the CARDERs' commercial resources, could then be funded
entirely by the State, The external contributions could therefore be used for
productive investments for the benefit of the farmers.
Imnact on Work Organization and Efficiency
27.          Performance  should  be  improved  substantially  through  better
definition and distribution of functions, increased circulation of information,
decentralization of responsibilities, and delegation of decision-making powers
to the field level.    At that level consultation with the farmers would be
stepped up and contractual relationships would be established, based on program
contracts, that allow more objective judgment of performance, stricter budget
management, and a personnel management system that reduces the scope for
arbitrary judgments, rewards merit and fosters initiative.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION OF RESTRUCTURING
28.          Restructuring would be implemented under the responsibility of the
Minister of Rural Development.
Restructuring Organs and Procedures
29.          The staff retained in MDRAC and the CARDERs would be chosen by a
selection committee within MDRAC and each CARDER (Director General or Directew de
Cabinet of the Ministry, as the case may be, plus the Directors, the Head of the
Personnel Department and (in the case of MDRAC) the chiefs of the Human Resources
Rationalization and Human Resources Monitoring departments, taking into account
the organization chart, the job profiles and the selection criteria laid down for
this purpose. These staff members would be appointed to the relevant posts and
assigned to training under the training plan.
30.          Staff leaving MDRAC and the CARDERs would be processed by a
Restructuring Unit (one for MDRAC and one for each CARDER) in accordance with
rules of procedure to be drawn up (ongoing UNDP/FAO preparatory assistance
project). The restructuring units' proposals would be submitted to the national
restructuring committee for adoption. This committee would be chaired by the
Uinister and would include Inter ala representatives of the Ministries of Finance
and the Civil Service. The units would also provide technical guidance, counsel
and training to outgoing staff, on request, to help them set up new activities.
Outgoing staff may also apply for a loan for that puipose, provided they meet the



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 12
established requirements and standards. .The unit woLld also help loan applicants
to present loan requests in the requixed form and in accordance with the rules,
without, however, in any way acting as guarantor. Outgoing staff who disagree
with the decision concerning them would be entitled to have recourse to an
Appeals Committee chaired by a magistrate and including, in particular,
representatives of MDRAC, the ministries of Justice, Finance and the Civil
Service and of civil service staff.
Tasks Preparatory to Reconstruction
31.          The following are the mnin tasks to be accomplished by the end of
June 1991 preparatory to implementing restructuring:
(a)   drafting   and  adopting  official   instruments   creating  the
restructuring organs, defining their functions, powers and
organization, and prescribing their physical and budget resources;
(b)   appointment of the officials and staff of the restructuring organs
and training them in the restructuring rules and procedures;
(c)   drafting  and  adopting  official  instruments  prescribing  the
restructuring rules and procedures;
(d)   drafting and adopting official instruments (decrees) defining the
functions of MDRAC and the CAR)ERs, their organization and their
relations with the farming couziaunity;
se)   installing the committees responsible for selecting the staff to be
retained;
(f)   drafting the new MDRAC and CARDER personnel management rules;
(g)   installing the restructuring organs and their resources; and
(h)   laying down procedures,  adapted  to each ddpartement, for  the
transfer of activities, inputs, rural works and repair shops, and
the practical arrangements and timetables for implementing them.



- 64 -                ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 12
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DATA ON MDRAC AND CARDER STAFF
I. CARDERs
A.  Staff situation on Sent. 30. 1990
Years on the Job       0-9  10-14  15-22 23-24 25-26  27 plus TOTAL
Categories          A   292    57      56     8      6       3    422
B   125    87    120    13      4       18    367
C   283   256    218    53    31        43    884
D   136   742    780   191   170        83  2,102
E   101   459    155      7     9       12    743
SUB-TOTAL               937  1601   1329   272   220       159  4,518
Contractual Staff                                                 398
TOTAL STAFF        4,916
B. Permanent Civil Servants to be laid-off
0-9  10-14  15-22  23-24  .25-26   TOTAL
A     11    -       -      -       -        11
B      _    _       _      _       _
C      3    3       3      -      1         10
D     96  562    540    137    '31       1,466
E     61  330      11      2      3        407
171  895   S54       139    135    1,894
These 1894 staff are those who would be the object of targeted departures.
Other staff include:
(a) 271 staff to retire by 1993;
(b) 341 staff having requested voluntary departure benefits;
(c) 298 staff whose status is under review fer inclusion among
permanent civil servants; and
(d) 398 contractual (or similar status) staff.
As a result, a total of 3,202 staff are exijected to leave the CARDERs.
This number includes some 120 stafZ who will be temporarily maintained in the
CARDERs until SONAPRA or farmer cooperatives take over the cotton credit and
marketing support -lu ons.



- 65 -                 ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 12
II. MDRAC
A. Staff on July 31, 1990 (including the Ag. Research Directorate)
Years on the Job          0-9  10-14  15-22  23-24  25 plus  TOTAL
A     198    68      73      13      7        359
B      59    28      47       7      1        142
C      84    72      40       3      9        208
D      71   209    143      52      61        536
E      87   149      80       5      8        329
Unspecified        276    95       9      1       3        384
775   621    392      81     89      1,958
of which: 404 have contractual status and 18 have requested review of status.
B. Permanent Staff to be Laid-Off
Years on the Job         0-9  10-14  15-22  23-24  25-26  TOTAL
A      77    43      51       7      3     181
B       -      -      _      _       _      _
C       1    71      37      1       4     114
D      11    96    133      26      17     283
E      17   134      58      2       -     211
TOTAL              106   344    279      36      24     789
Further staff include:
145 staff to retire by 1993
22 staff who have requested voluntary departure status
18 staff whose status is to be reviewed
404 contractual (or similar status) staff.
Total MDRAC staff to be laid-off is thus 1378, including the Agricultural
Research Directorate.
C.  MDRAC Staff to be Laid-off (excluding ag. reseurch)
Gross Departures Transfers to CARDERs Net Departures
A            137                  25                  112
B            18                   18
D and E     247                   65                  182
402                 108                  294
Transfers to CARDERs relate to staff whose profile is needed in the CARDERs but
are not available there. The above numbers include some 80 staff linked to the
processing control unit and some 100 staff of the Food and Applied Nutrition



-66-                ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 12
Directorate (DANA) whose transfer to other ministries awaits the completion of
the restructuring audits of the recipient ministries.
III. Agricultural Research Directorate
Technical   Administrative   Total
1. Superior Level      90              8           98
2. Middle Level        17              2           19
3. Lower Level          -              -          641
TOTAL                                 758



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of IS
BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
A.    The National Goals
1.          Efforts to develop Benin's agricultural sector would be channeled
through better structured rural institutions, for the purpose of attaining the
following national goals.
-     ensure food-security through a well-balanced food production;
-     diversify agricultural production by promotion of foreign-currency-
generating export crops with comparative economic advantagel
-     increase farm income levels, enabling farmers (including women and
youth) to become independent partners in the national economy;
-     conserve the natural resources (soil - water - vegetation) of the
country by enabling and encouraging the inhabitants of each region
to make a rational and sustainable use of the resources within their
habitat;
B.    Obiectives of the Extension Service
2.          In the process of attaining the national goals,  the extension
service, through its complete cycle of participative intervention, would play a
decisive role, by gearing itself to help farmers attain these specific
objectives:
(a) To improve on-farm productivitvs
Demonstrating and promoting the optimal use of available inputs and
resources through the adoption of good husbandry practices, adapted
to the technological levels of target farmers or groups.
Intensification should result in economically justified increases In
yields per surface and labor units.
(b)   To improve farmina systems at the farm and householi levels throuah;
-     better crop associations and rotations;
-     integration of livestock activities;
-     soil fertility conservation and improvement practices; and
-     gradual improvement of household management.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 13
(c)   To introduce and demonstrate farming alternatives:
-     demonstrations of new crops,  cropping practices;  livestock and
fisheries; other related activities;
-     training farmers to m4ke correct choices between alternatives and to
improve their decision-making skills.
(d)   To strengthen the economic environment of production at group level
by informing and trainina farmer groups int
-     specific  support  activities,  such  as  local  seed  production;
alternatives to imported inputs; storage; transformation; etc.., and
-     prices, credit, marketing systems, etc.
'e)   To improve manatement of land use at village and community level:
-     enabling the conservation and better uae of the natural assets by
helping farmers to understand the benefits of and define the demand
for communal management of land use; and
_     introducing and demonstrating the know-how to  implement these
measures.
C.    The Extension Cycle
3.          To meet the challenge of becoming the catalytic factor in the
achievement of these objectives, the extension service must be conceived and
structured as a dynamic reciprocal process where farmers, extension agents,
research workers and other public and private support-services operators
participate, interacting within well defined tasks. This interaction occurs in
a continuous cyclical flow of activities, comprising the following stages:
(a)   Acquiring knowledge of the environment
Understand how and why farmers are cultivating their land in a
specific manner.
This is a cumulativ. learning process of all the personnel involved.
It is achieved through constant field-observation and diagnosis with
the farmers, specific formalized surveys, and methodical and
personalized use of the data collected. This stage can be conceived
as the starting point of the cycle but, in fact, it is realized
continuously throughout the successive events, as described later
on.



- 69 -
Page 3 of 13
THE EXTENSION CYCLE
(a)
-~~~~~0 
UNDERSTANDINO AND KNOWLEDGE OF THE MILIEJ
continuous learning In * participattv- approach;
observation and diagnosis
of the foroing systems and situations;
specitic and formal survoys;
(g)                                                           (b)
FARMERS BEHAVIOR CHANGES                                      DEFINITION OF TMHE  DEMAND"
undsrstanding, and decislon-making                                     farming constraints
In adoption and diffusion of,                                        and problems In farmsr
improved technologles                                                   practices
(f)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
EVLATO  OF REFINIOI  AFPLICATIYN
review of poposed technical
solutionsl tos
testss ond farers fiellodne
f  tor r-as    rehttn
(an
sstEmi   researCh eFperIONts.
ot tl-ld pplTc tlonsoutionI
vxtensTonfrm-soiaio  activities./
nyst ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~/  ACTIVITIESRADG  F  ILDACIrTE
teste ~ ~   ~ ~ *x onon famr fieh/ldsop;t
xt ~ ~ ~ cmmnlln  maaemen  /ie
\~~~ssei hreusearch coxparTmont*nd



- 70 -
AMNE 4
Page 4 of 13
(b)   Defining the  demand* of the farmers:
finding what are the constraints for better farming and how they are
defined and manifested as problems in farmer practices and behavior;
-     formulating with the farmers what is expected from extension,
farmer-organization and other related services?
-     identifying in what domains it is possible to act now as well as in
the short and medium terms.
(c)   Defining what the extension services have to offer:
systematic analysis of the causes and consequences of the problems
observed within the farming systems context;
-     taking stock of possible solutions for immediate application through
individualized field extension activities;
proposing solutions through groups, associations and cooperative
organizations;
sdefining the need for further on-farm research; and
3     identifying questions to be transferred to on-station research.
(d)   Prosrammina the 2riority action vlan for the seasons
-     deciding when and where to act, according to the definition of
demand for and supply of extension services;
-     establishing the strategy of the overall extension program for the
introduction of priority technical themes; and
-     prograumming the means and budget, and adjusting the whole program
accordingly.
(e)   Field anplications:
-     comparing  and  reviewing with  farmers  the  proposed  technical
solutions through widespread demonstration work (individualized
demonstration plots, installed by the farmers themselves in their
own field, serve to compare new agro-techniques with their usual
ones and test their adoption possibility for them and their
neighbors);
-     activities of farmer association to resolve specific constraints and
attend to specific interests;



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 13
-     testing and verifying applicable solutions through on-farm trial
plots and other activities of the research and development program;
and
-     communal work on land management sites (vllMage-terrolr).
(f)   Evaluation of the agricultural season's results:
-     the increase in yields per ha or labor unit;
-     the soundness and applicability of better husbandry practices and
use of agricultural inputs;
-     better soil conservation and land use;
-     farmer  group  organization  and  the  alleviation  of credit  and
marketing constraints; and
-     new solutions and recommendations from on-farm trials and research.
(g)   Evaluation of farmers adoption behaviors
_     the degree of understanding by farmers of the new practices and the
possibility to integrate them in their farming systems;
-     their decision-making process as to actual larger-scale adoption;
and
-     lateral and inter-farmer diffusion; how to enhance it by using media
and other communication methods, village information *networks,"
etc...
4.          The practices and behavior adopted partially or completely by the
farmers introduce alterations in their environment. This dynamic situation is
again studied and diagnosed to become part of the understanding/action cycle of
the extension work.
D.    Basic Principles for the Extension Services of the MDRAC
5.          The extension cycle will evolve harmoniously and achieve efficient
impact when it behaves according to the following basic principles:
Continuous and Regular Traininx
6.          Where training becomes not only one-time one-way transmission of
technologies and knowledge, but a constant exchange, review and adaptation of
knowledge and behavior, both by the trainers and the trainees.



- 72 -
ANNEX .4
Page 6 of 13
Regular Meetings Between Farmers and Extension Agents
7.          If the extension process is to be a continuous and cyclical, each of
its elements should reflect the whole.  It means that each encounter between
farmers and extensionists should contain all the elements of the extension cycle.
Depending on the cropping calendar and the specific occasion, one or the other
of theses elements is brought into focus and becomes the subject of attention for
the group, be it sharing of know-how and the application of practices, evaluation
of the advancing season's field-work, observation and diagnosis of specific
occurrences, programming of the next steps, etc.   To enable all this, the
meetings should be held at regular intervals and ensured of sustainability. A
period of two weeks between meetings should answer this demand: it is the lowest
frequency which would still ensure the continuity of the process and the
completion of certain field practices (i.e., sowing, first weeding, fertilizer -
dressing) together with the extension agent.
8.          The frequency should be, though, a subject of careful study to adjust
to the real life rhythm in a specific rural area. Re-programming of the visits
could be envisaged according to the agricultural cropping calendar.   The
adjustment should be done at the supervision unit level by associating the
representatives of the village committees (see specific features: management of
extension).  Some flexibility should be maintained to approach the needs and
constraints of the farmers, but the visits should be pre-programmed and as
regular as possible.
Integrated Activities Linking Extension, Farmers and Research:
9.          This principle is, again at the heart of the extension cycle.  These
activities, generating and shaping the technological content, are of reciprocal
nature and occur in specific meeting points, with specific tasks to be performed
by each of the participants. The tasks are mainly in two domains of activities:
(i)   Training during the fortnightly training sessions and the monthly
technological review meetings (see specific features). Extension
agents are trained by research workers in relevant technical themes
as well as in the skills of field observation, diagnosis and
evaluation of agricultural situations and results.   At the same
time, tha research workers are sensitiz,3d by the extension agents to
the needs and problems of the farmers and to the means of better
recognizing and identifying those needs.
(ii) Technology generation and adaptation theough the process of on-farm-
research, pre-extension test plots and identification of existing
improved farmer technologies. All the activities should take place
on and be related closely to farm fields and farmers.   They are
referred to as the research and development process.



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 13
Evolution. Sustainabilitv and Regeneration:
10.         Agricultural extension is an evolutionary process.   In order to
justify its existence, it has to consistently help raise the level of its clients
and to up-grade continuously its own level of professionalism. The increase in
sustainability and efficiency of its clients' enterprises, the farmer households,
will mean increase in professionality and efficiency of the service itself. And,
thus, there would be an evolution towards a real low-cost, demand-driven,
sustainable service, which characterizes the more developed countries. The raise
in the degree of group-organization, management capacity and agricultural
technicity of the farmers, would be manifested by &radual enlargement of their
part in the s;tared management of the extension work. This growing responsibility
would take place first at sub-unit level, where organized farmers would
participate in planning the work-program and manage the salary components related
to quality and work output of the state extension agents.
Judicious Use of Communications and Medias
11.         These are accompanying means to the real practical extension work.
Their role is the diffusion of all information connected with production, prices
and marketing, but also, of the extension service itself: its activities, places
and subjects of encounters, results of field demonstrations and tests, success-
stories,  adoption response, etc...
E. Criteria for the Design of the New Extension Structure
12.         The new extension structures should meet the following requirements:
-     flexibility, and adaptability to speci'ic genuine demands;
-     technical and operational independence .)f individual units to enable
faster response to feed-back and to ensure involvement of farmers in
the programming and management of field extension work;
-     efficiency in the cost/output ratio;
-     sensitivity and support to farmer organizations and associations and
openness to the gradual transfer of specific tasks to these
organizationsa and
-     organization of the programs and budgets in a way to encourage local
privatization whenever certain prevailing conditions meet criteria
to make it feasible.
13.         Two  main  guidelines  orient  the  dimensioning  of  structures:
Technoloaical diffusion and adontion natterns require that (a) the levels of
effective output and the parameters of workload for extension agents; (b) the
topological distribution characteristics for the placement of the extension
agents to ensure effective coveraEe for accelerated diffusion of technologie,l;
and (c) the relation between the intensive core of participating farmers and th,e



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 13
extensive surrounding perimeter of potential adopters be defined.   These
parameters allow to computer the working ratios of farmer families/extension
agent. Good management requires defining the roleu and the functions, as well
as the numbers and size of the structures' units for efficient and sensitive
decision/feedback and steerage capacity. Each of the guidelines is determined
by a set of criteria as followsa
Criteria for Technolozical Diffusion:
14.         The  technological  diffusion process,  as  a guideline  for the
determination of extension work ratios, is defined by three parameters:
-     the core of participating farmers;
-     the perimeter of surrounding farmers;
-     the diffusion factor.
15.         The core is the circle of farmers with uhich an intensive practical
extension work is undertaken. The aim is an accelerated adoption of improvements
in farming behavior. The size of the core is determined by:
*i) the effective output of the APV,  i.i., the optimal number of
intensive direct field encounters to be conducted in a given time
(one working day) with a specific topological distribution of farm
units in a given area (assumed to be between one and three);
(ii) the assimilstion capabilitv of the participants, i.e., the optimal
number of farmers who can participate actively and repeatedly in the
practical exchange and exercise of each field visit (assumed to be
between six and 15); and
(iii) the time (working days) allocated for field visits in the APV'S
cycle of work, 8 according to the T&V fortnightly schedule, the
other days in the cycle being dedicated to training and unallocated
time for specific tasks.
16.         The combination of the three factors in Benin gives a core of 120 to
190 farmers depending on the region.   Within the core,  qualitative and
quantitative targets can be proposed, measured and evaluated, such ass number of
farming practices ready for adoption and their economic impact, rates of adoption
and cumulative adoption time profiles, quality of assimilation by the farmers for
further communication, etc...
17.         The perimeter includes the surrounding farmers and all the potential
participants in the process of improved agriculture.  The aim is to improve
inter-farmer communication and natural adoption patterns, by mass-media and other
facilitating methods. These farmers are not in direct permanent contact with the
APV but are exposed to information and experience flowing from the core through
traditional inter-farmer communication channels. The total cumulative adoption
can be predicted and targets proposed. For example, if intensive extension work
is aimed to achieve, within the core, complete adoption of a given farming
practice at the end of the second year of work by lOX of the farmer households,



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 13
an objective of adoption by half of the total farm households after 6 years of
work would require a rate of 50Z of new adogters per year.
Intone]ve
d mnstratlon,   'Coro'
Starting   positive        Adoption   Adoption  Adoption  Adoption   Adoption  Total
yFer     results           I0         15s       22X      3sx       sex    femera
Yeat r       I               I          I          I        I        I
18.         The diffusion factor is the relation b-tween the perimeter of
potential participants and the core. The smaller t'ie t.ctor, the faster is the
diffusion of improved farming techniques from the core to the perimeter. The
diffusion factor determines therefore the ratio of farm household/APV and thus,
by taking into consideration the norms for use of vehicLes and APV/support staff
ratios, the cost of the whole system.
Criteria for Good Managements
19.         The definition of the scope of the provincial structure, the size of
units and the number of points of convergence within the organization itself are
determined by the rational use of time and means required to achieve efficient
output with dependable and sensitive control capacity.  When built from the
field-extension-agent level, through the supervision fine-tuning level, the
sector programming and support level, up to the province (CARDER) coordinating
and managing level, the following structure emerges for the CARDERs' extension
structure:
20.         The Polvvalent Extension Agent (APV) would work continuously with the
core of farmer groups on a regular and permanent basis. He would develop with
them the capacity to manage their households in a mcse efficient and sustainable
way. His program would include such activities as:
(a)   Identifying within his working area the existing social and common-
interest groups, grouping tendencies and possibilities, farmers'
technological strata, farming systems and farming constraints;
(b)   participating in the process of elaboration of adequate solution to
these constraints and helping farmers assimilate these solutions;
(c)   sharing technical advice and know-how with farmers and farmer
associations; and
(d)   developing his own skill and professional capacity according to the
specific job-description demands and a-:ricultural activities.
21.         The supervision unit.  About six to eight APV would form,together
with their Coordinator-Supervisor, a group, i.e., a unit of extension where
activities can be coordinated, evaluated and adaptcd to the specificity of the
unit's  area through a mechanism of  regular me.tings  an exchange.    This



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 13
intermediate layer between management and front-line staff is necessary at
present, but would disappear eventually when the level of technicity and
specialization of the APVs is raised. Supervisors would merge with the technical
and training unit or become professional extension agents themselves. Farmer
organizations at village level would be increasingly associated in the planning
and orientation of the work of these units.
22.         The extension sector.  The next level or organization would group
three to five supervision units (25 to 30 APV serving 12 to 20,000 households)
to form the basic field management structure of the CARDER. The geographical
boundaries of these sectors could differ from existing or future administrative
boundaries.   These units would be relatively independent functional entities
obeying cost/efficiency and manageability criteria, with a capacity to manage
their resources (personnel, equipment, operational funds, etc.) and to interact
with agricultural research in the generation and adaptation of suitable
technologies.    They would program,  support,  supervise and evaluate their
training, R/D, extension ahd farmer organization activities. Their central teams
would comprise the Sector Chief with a group of Subject Matter Specialists (TS).
The number and specialization of TSs would vary according to local needs. These
would be interdisciplinary and mobile units, working as a field team in
coordinated and cost-efficient manner with the following compositiont
-     four or five TSs for main crops, livestock and fisheries, new or
specific crops, land/water use development; and
-     three or four cooperative  specialisLs  for farmer organization
activities.
23.         The general directorate of the CAYADER is the next and top echelon in
the organizational structure. All the activities of extension and assistance to
farmer organizations would be managed and coordinated at its level by a central
team headed by the Director of Extension and Assistance to Farmer Organizations,
assisted by four chiefs of services, one each fort extension, research and
development, training, and support to farmer organizations.
24.         This team, placed under the overall responsibility of the General
Director of the CARDER, would be assisted by the four other Directorates of the
CARDER. The team would be in charge of field operations through the sector teams
and the supervision units. In this capacity, it would review and coordinate the
work programs of the sectors, adjust and approve the operational budgets; and
design, evaluate and re-orient the strategy for the implementation of desired
activities. The central managing team of the CARDER would be, as well, the organ
of liaison with other institutions taking part in rural sector development,
especially with the research institutions and the technical directorates and
central services of the MDRAC.
25.         Once defined according to these basic concepts, the size of regional
structures was readjusted taking into consideration the following specific data
for each CARDERs



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 13
-     ecological and agro-economic zones$
-     infrastructure and commiunication facilities;
-     geographical and topographic factors;
-     population and rural-settlement density;
-     personnel and manpower managing ability; and
-     political and administrative considerations.
26.         Working closely with existing CARDER teams, the sectors were re-
delimited.   The number of sectors was reduced from 79 to 41.   Considerable
numbers of technicians with ATDR level of education (mainly Ochiefs of posts')
would become as a result and, after suitable additional training, higher-level,
better qualified, APVs. Out of the 41 new sectors, 12 (29?) are small sectors
consisting of only two supervision units each.  This situation is a starting
point intended to respond to specific local conditions and is bound to evolve in
time.
CARDER     Fsrm*re    Formrs/APV    PV        CSS        TS       Frmer    Admint   Sector
(Households)                    (Supervisors)           Organ.     Staff   ChIef*
Speclillits
Atlantique    68,90         760      84            12     22           25       12       4
MONo       78,69          680   1I             17      81          29       16       6
OUEME      79,090        8s0       98           17      81          28       1i        6
ZOU       94,909         635    148             22     45           29       24       8
SOROOU      61,00          846    177            89      41          82       27       9
ATACORA     69,000         485    148            29      86           82      24        8
TOTAL     489,890        8,6S6   766            127    290          17T      128      41
F.    Specific Features
27.         The basic principles and wanagement criteria for a well-structured
training and visit system were described in sections C, D and E. In addition,
the following specific features will be describeds



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 13
Joint Management of Extension
28.         The objective  is to advance from extension systems which are
exclusively managed by state administrations towards a growing participation of
farmer organizations in the management of the extension service. Ways would be
sought in the project to enable this process.  It should start first in the
smallest units possible, probably the supervision unit which comprises 10 to 15
villages.   In each main village, a village development committee would be
created, which, together with the supervisor and the APV, would discuss and
approve the work program, i.e., the program of visits, as well as the location
and themes of the demonstration plots and on-farm pre-extension tests.  The
committees would gradually, after acquiring the relevant training, manage with
the sector's administration unit and the supervisor the remuneration of that part
of the APV'S salary which would be determined by his field work accomplishment
and quality.   The next step could be the establishment of the sector&l
development committee which would comprise representatives of the village
committee and introduce similar changes at. the sector level.
Extension Technology
29.         A study has been completed to assess the potential and availability
of technology to feed the extension process. The preliminary findings indicate
that there is in Benin enough technology to be found on the fields of more
advanced farmers, and at on-farm trial sites, multi-location and systemic
research on some experiences of extension agents, to keep the extension system
operating at a good pace for quite some time.  The RID activities should be
promoted and have high priority in order to keep up the necessary level of
appropriate technological innovation.
30.         Privileged extenGion tools.  Although  he acquisition of knowledge
of the environment is a continuous process, it is _'ormalized by the pre-season
diagnostic survey. For tsre extension agents, the survey should be a very simple
and straightforward tool, enabling a discussion with farmers in order to
understand and regi3ter the farmer's own know-how. The survey is a cumulative
process and at the beginning should prioritize farmer practices and agricultural
techniques, adding, as time passes, other components to the overall knowledge of
the complex systems.
31.         Th3 demonstration plots.  These are small individualized plots,
installed by farmers themselves inside their own cultivated fields. They serve
to compare the new and old agricultural techniques and test their adoption
possibilities by the farmer and his neighbors.   The plots should be well
distributed, in great number, to assure rapid diffusion of conclusive results and
to convince farmt.:s that the adoption of the proposed technology is feasible.
One of the main factors here is that farmers should always be able to refer to
a demonstration plot which is comparable enough to their own conditions to be
relia3le. The technologies to be the subject of these comparisons and tests
should be discussed and selected with the farmers to enable them to choose from
a "menu" of alternatives, or from s sequence of activities, the ones that suit
and interest them best.



- 79-
ANNEX 4
Page 13 of 13
32.         Technoloav review meetings.  Periodic (preferably monthly) meetings
would take place during two days for extension managers, research workers, and
resources people from the research institutes or on-farm-resenrch to meet with
representatives of the farmer organizations to review and discuss the
technological issues and priority topics. The first day would be dedicated to
field visits where relevant information would be gathered through observations
and discussions with farmers in their own fields. A day of training and exchange
would follow, where the technology generated or identified by the
extension/research process would be evaluated as to its adoption by farmers and
adaptation to their possibilities and demand.



- 81 -                ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 8
BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
1.           The research and development (R-D) approach adopted consists in
encouraging researchers, extension agents and small farmers to work together at
all stages of programming, implementation and evaluation of the R-D component.
It involves participative research designed to enhance the skills of all three
groups of participants. The R-D activities will be refocused on well-defined
sites, Experimentation Sites in Farmer Environment (SEMP), that reproduce typical
real situations, on the basis of which researchers, extension agents and farmers
will be able to formulate and appraise new proposals. At the national level, R-D
organization will contractually link together agricultural research, the CARDERs
(respon-ible for extension) and the farmers among whom and with whom these
activities will be carried out.    Within the CARDERs, the units that will
participate actively in R-D are the Extension Activities and Farmer Organizations
Support Directorate (DVAOP), the sector chiefs (RDR) and the technical
specialists (TS). The broad lines of R-D cooperation and the resources allocated
to each program will be prescribed in an agreement between each CARDER and the
Agricultural Research Directorate (DRA) or the institution which would replace
it. A regional agricultural development committee composed of representatives
of research, extension and farmer organizations will meet at the CARDERs twice
a year. The annual R-D programs will be drawn up then. These programs will
define each partner's tasks, responsibilities and ccntributions and the required
relationships betwee.i the partners, including the role of the various CARDER
agents and their technical assistance to the partiripating farmers, as well as
that of the DRA vis-a-vis the CARDER technical sta: f.
2.           To avoid disrupting operations already functioning satisfactorily,
the Permanent Experimentation Centers (CPE) currently used by the DRA's fiber
cotton unit would be strengthened and their activities extended to include food
and  forage  crops  and cropfarming/livestock  combinations.    They  could be
particularly useful iL conducting systematic trials of the innovations identified
by the SEMPs.   The 12 CPE would be strengthened by improving buildings and
stores, building wells and acquiring appropriate transport equipment and inputs
for their research activities. Applied animal husbandry research would be put
in place in four of these CPE in ecologically different zones of Borgou, Alacora,
Zou and a coastal ddpartement.
3.           SEMPs will be set up in selected villages in the six ddpartements in
light of agro-ecological conditions (village/rural a rea or unit). The following
table shows a possible scheme of distributiont



- 82-                   ANUE  S
Page 2 of 8
Ddpartement     Zon. No.      Agro-scolopy    Cll ti      Re nt ll (_)     VII ISO"
Borsou                       Extreme        Sudano-             90        Strnl Latta
north. Borsou  Snh lln
Contral        Sudanese         90-18590     enekou
north. Borgou
Center South   Sudano-          1200L-US0    Sokko
Borgou         Cuitnan
Atacoro                      Eastern        Sudns             960-1200    Pehunco
Atacora
Western        Sudano-          120.-1a0    Boukouub6
At core        Oulnean
Western        Sudano-          120-L180    Ouvak
Atacoro        Cuinean
(southern
part)
Zou                          Northern       Sudano-          1000-1200    0_s6
zone,          Guinean
rontly
settled
Northern       Sudano-          1-1200    bass
zone,          Oulnen
Iona settled
Southern       Sudeno-          lOO0-12M     to be tdent.
zone, bar     Cutneen
lends
Mono                         Bar lands      Sudeno-           800-1400    Adja
Platoeu        Cuinean
La -Tchl       Sudano-          6u-1400    T hl
depression     Gui nean
Savannah       Sudeno-           W-14M       Lonkly
Guinean
OUM6                         Fluwlo-        Bonin             000-14.>    to be Ident.
lscustrlno    equatorial
The systems will reflect local development parameters--the diverse agricultural,
social and economic environments and farmers' production strategies, techniques
and resources--so as to facilitate the generation and application of suitable
technology.    Some  sites  could be  selected  in villages where  a number  of
improvement works have already been carried out: livestock watering points,
grazing lands, anti-erosion devices. The project would finance the required
light Infrastructure works (stores and offices) and experimentation equipment.



-83 -                XNE  5
Page 3 of 8
These sites vould provide support for potential development works, anti-erosion
works, development of transhumance routes, or agro-forestry works.
4.           Responsibility for implementing the project's R-D component would
rest with the National Coordinator in DRA. He would be assisted for three years
by an internationally recruited R-D expert.   There will be one permanent
technician, a rural development officer (controeur du ddveotpement rur  or A%DR
level), at each SEMP for continuous monitoring and observation. The subject
matter specialist (TS) will be associated to the SEMPs in his sector. On the
basis of an internal diagnostic study carried out by research workers, the
extension agents and farmers, a detailed trials program (protocoolesmal) will
be prepared by the interdisciplinary team concerned, located in the research
stations or substations.   Each team will comprise an agronomLst (systems
researcher), an animal husbandry technician and a socioeconomist. A forestry
technician and a soil scientist will be employed part-time to perform natural
resources management activities.
"dpa rtemr n     System                       Livestock       System
-ttement    Aitronomist    Socioecon.     Technician  Coordinator
Atacora            11                             1
Borgou             1               1              1
(existing)
Zou                1               1              2
(existing)     (existing)
Atlantique)        1               1
Mono          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Ou4md Pob6         1
DRA Cotonou                                                      1
Central            _               _
Unit                                                      (existing)
Total          5               4             4               1
Total researcherst  14 (4 existing and 10 to be allocated).
Each team will be responsible for three SEMPs including those already in the
MONO; the teams will be provided with suitable vehicles and transport funds to
enable them to perform this permanent field technical support. The work itself



- 84 -                ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8
will be done by farmers with the help of the extension team concerned (RDR, TS,
CSS and APV). The approach will aim at enabling a better technology
transfer by improving and adapting, on farmer fields, the innovations proposed
by R-D and by encouraging two-way collaboration between farmers, researchers and
extensionists.   Innovations which are not accepted would be analyzed and
discussed with the farmers in order to develop improved versions. On-farm trials
would be managed by the farmers themselves, with periodic assistance from
research Rtnd extension agents. After evidence of positive results and farmer
acceptance, the messages would be passed or. to extension services for pre-
extension so that these services and the SEMP teams can verify the new
technology's impact.
5.           The project includes strengthening of the food technology laboratory
(LTA) after its transfer to the CENAP site.  There are many demands at the
village and regional levels for the development of artisan technologies that
utilize agricultura' products.        The LTA would be devoted to improving
traditional and artisan technologies for processing agricultural products: roots
and tubers (cassava, yaw, sweet potatoes), oil crops (groundnuts, palm oil,
karite, coconut palm).   The work should culminate in a proposal for small
production units, possibly in the form of cooperative groups at village or
neighborhood level. The emphasis will be placed on designing and manufacturing
the necessary equipment for mechanization, improving traditional processes and
conducting trials of technologies of other African countries. Local consultants
could be contracted. Following detailed study of artisanal and traditional food
product conservation and processing technologies, the laboratory will test
possible improvements to them in a pilot workshop before proposing their
application at the village level. The specialized laboratory of the unit that
is to replace DANA would furnish the necsesary chemistry and microbiology
support. Outside services would be consulted for tho engineering/energy aspects
(Ouidah engineering and mechanization workshops, and engineering section of the
university polytechnical college).   The LTA would be strengthened by adding
another researcher (a woman if possible), rehabilitating the existing laboratory
and building a pilot workshop. The technology equipment would be used initially
for artisan production of gari (cassava), groundnut oil and palm oil, and food
utilization of coconut.   The required equipment would comprises   grinders,
screens, presses, an autoclave and small tools.   A pick-up truck would be
provided.  Support for the LTA would include the provision of outside serniceq
(engineering, mechanization), the cost of specialized agro-food analyses,
documentation facilities and small intermediate consumption equipment.
6.           The  project would  also  finance  certain  improvements  in  the
infrastructure of the multi-disciplinary R-D centers to prepare them to receive
R-D teams comprising each one agronomist, one an.mal husbandry technician and one
socio-economist. The one in Atacora, in Natitingou, could be temporarily housed
within the FAO watershed development project frcilities. The Borgou center would
be located at Ina, the one in Zou at SavO and the one for the coastal ddpartements
either at Niaouli or Abomey, with further support fzom a systems agronomist from
Pob4. These teams would later be reinforced with topical researchers, according
to local needs, and with specialists (agro-foresters, soil scientists, truck-
farming specialists)  from other projects.   It is essential  that the R-D
researchers maintain frequent liaison with the researchers of the various



--85 -                ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 8
research units, particularly those responsible for food or industrial crops
(cotton, palm oil, etc.).   The project would finance living accommodation,
offices and a workshop-laboratory for the three centers, as well as 4-wheel drive
vehicles, small equipment to monitor experimentation on the SEMPs, together with
office and data processing equipment. Ina has already been partially equipped
under the FSR SAFGRAD/OAU project. The Niaouli station would be connected to the
Allada electricity network. The project includes external training in the form
of resident courses for a member of each team, together with internal training
for the technizians. It also includes consultant services (five man-months) to
start field operations and study the results obtained at the West Africa regional
level. Operating costs include the salaries of staff and additional resear.hers,
transport equipment and travel costs, operation of the data processing equipment,
and the soil, plant and other analyses to be done by the support laboratories.
7.           The Ina and Niaouli regional centers would be assisted by a
specialist (researcher or research assistant) from DRA's crop protection
laboratory at Porto Novo. The purpose is to support R-D aimed at reducing field
and post-harvest losses.  At the Niaouli and Ina regional centers, the crop
protection workshop-laboratory, offices and living accommodation would be built
or rehabilitated.  One pick-up truck and small harvest and insect protection
equipment would also be acquired for each center
8.           The Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Research Unit (URZV) based at
Cotonou, with existing field units ia the Niaouli and Ina regional centers, would
need to extend its regional R-D activity. It would need additional resources at
the Niaouli, Pob4 and Ina regional centers to support the real-environment
research projects conducted with the active participation of the producers. The
URZV employs four researchers, four research attachds, a research assistant and
six technical agents.  Its R-D procedure is well targeted:  on-farm study of
livestock systems (constraints, diagnostic sampling); on-farm tests for
immediately available solutions; referral of problems to research on the basis
of constraints identified with the farmer's participation; on-farm monitoring of
animal production and reproduction parameters; on-farm diagnostic studies of the
prevalence of pathologies and choice of treatment methods; and socioeconomic
study and continuous evaluation of the impact of the action taken. The required
supplementary facilities comprises  (i) construction (Ina) or rehabilitation
(Niaouli) of offices and barns/sheds; (ii) livestock equipment (livestock weigh-
bridge, pasture fencing materials, small cattle and sheep-raising equipment); and
(iii) cattle, sheep and goats to be purchased for on-station animal nutrition
tests.
9.           One of the purposes of thS  project component is to allow the fiber
cotton research unit to develip experimt. tation in a controlled environment (CPE)
and a real environment for food crops as well as cotton growing on the CPE and
the two small cotton seed farms. A mobile soil preparation team will be based
at the Okpara seed farm. The two seed farms at Okpara and Angaradebou, extended
by the activities of the seed farmers, could supply the whole of the cotton
growing areas (100,000 ha) with selected seed. The technical assistance already
provided by the Borgou II project (one researcher) would be maJntained.
10.          Technoloay  review meetings.    Two-day meetings would be held
periodically (preferably monthly) at which exten ion managers, research workers



- 86 -                AM    S
Page 6 of 8
and resource people from the research institutes and on-farm research would meet
with representatives of the farmers' organizations to review and discuss
technoloSical issues and priority topices. The first day would be devoted to
field visits during which relevant information would be gathered through field
observations and dLscussions with farmers in their fields.   This would be
followed by a day of training and exchange of views which would evaluate the
suitability of the technology generated or identified by the extensionlresearch
process for adoption by farmers and its adaptation to their capacity.  The
meetings would take place mostly in at on-farm research sites. The research and
extension personnel involved would use the means of transportation made available
to them for their normal work programs; the expenses would be included in the
proposed operating budgets.



BENIN
ACRICULOURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTtURIN  PROJECT
RESEARCH AND DEVELU1NENT
RESEAMRJERS EXISTING AND TO BE RECRUITED FOR R-0
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH DIRECTORATE
Year O                 Yanr I                Yonr 2                           Yo.r 4
onw&R
Resnerch              Existing              -        -Roearcher. to be recruited-       -
C06xMetooAWtC       StP tit 0            Researchors                                                                    Total
1 Socio- eon.o t
Atacor             Atecore Fiold off.       -                  1 Agronomist           1 Livestock Techn.                    S
Borgom             Ing                   1 Agronomist          1 Li vestock Techn.
1 Socio-"conoeist                                            3
zoo                                      1 Socio-lcoOIt        I Li vstock Techn.    I Llstock Tochn.                      0
Atlatiqe           Ni"sul or Aboey                             1 Soclo-econ_ist
bno        )                             1 Agronomist          I Agronomuit
0.40               PO I& Agronomit                                                                                          1I
Agricultural
Resesrch           Cotonou                1 Agronomist
Dl rectorate                                (*s*t4M)
coton"
4                    9                      2                                    14
10
'l
0



IENIN
A6RICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTLEINO PROJECT
RESEARCH-EXTENSION LINKAGES
L   DRAC                         CNR
Virection de Cab;"et
I |__ ~~~~~~National                                                 0    R A
|  Z  ~~~~~~~~ordntor,
(D R a P)
r         Agtlcuttural r_rch field office and regional centers
.       ~          ~I         I                       I                              .                        oU
Hat; iinpu             In                    Des.         NTaouli
D VA OP   -At-coe                                                Borgou                  Zou        Outme, Mono Atiantiqu.|
a R-D tochn.                                               3 R-D t.ch.         6 R-D tcbnn.            I R- tochn.
seur  1  1 1                                2 CPE/8 SEMP  I        4 C!EF8 SEMP         3 CPE/3 SEW      |      3 CPE/4 SEW|
OlD *     TS (Subject Matter Speciallst.)
vilaIes                                    CPE: Permarent Experlentation Center
SW: Experim      tion Sites in Former Environmnt
O.



-89-                ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SUPPORT FOR THE SEED SUBSECTOR
1.           The pre-base seed production and base seed assistance component
would comprise strengthening the Niaouli and Ina research centers for the
production of pre-base and base seed.
2.           A study of traditional varieties of major food species cultivated
in Benin has been carried out by the selection geneticists already in place in
the Niaouli and Ina stations, with the support of specialist consultants. The
study has identified the varieties most commonly cultivated, indicating their
phrenologic, organoleptic and socio-cultural characteristics. The findings are
being analyzed in order to identify, for each area, the varieties most commonly
cultivated and those most valued by producers and consumers, provi.de data for a
limited selection for short-term propagation, and furnish guidance for selectors
in introducing or creating new varieties. The Niaouli and Ina experts would
select and harvest the seeds of the varieties chosen, which would be refined and
propagated on the station. With the help of the consultants, a mission equipped
with varietal data briefs indicating the most desirable characteristics of the
various species cultivated is visiting foreign research centers with comparable
ecologic conditions (Togo, Ghana, C8te d'lvoire, Nigeria) to select varieties
likely to be acceptable to the farmers. This material would be subjected to
station and on-farm testing and serve to identify varieties suitable for
introduction to the farmers by the extension service.
3.           Strengthening of the Niaouli and Ina research centers for the
production of pre-base and base seed would involve providing them with civil
works (a cold storage facility (40C) for medium-term conservation of stock, smw l
stores and drying area); equipment (cob thresher, sheller, cleaner/separator,
balances, bagging machine); and base seed. The Niaouli station would be provided
with agricultural equipment from the disbanded seed farms (reallocation of
surplus equipment) or would be helped out by the cultivation equipment of the
Agbotagon farm, 15 miles away. The Ina station would be provided with a complete
cultivation unit (45-hp tractor).
4.           As regards operating costs, the costs of producing the pre-base seed
considered necessary for the three-year intermediate period would be included in
the operating budget at the DRA (Niaouli, Ina). The costs of producing the base
seed would be paid as a grant either to Agricultural Research or to the seed
farms (Production and Packaging Units--UPCs--provided for by the FAO/UNDP
project) likely to produce the seed. The estimates of the land areas required
for the production of seed have been done by the FAO/UNDP



-90-                AN A 6
Page 2 of 2
Food Seed Restructuring project. The necessary funds for thit production of base
seed are included for the first year of the present project.  For subsequent
years, the seed department should be able to assume responsibility for the
necessary financing out of its own income, which would remain under its control.



-91-                 ANNEX 
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LIVESTOCK COMPONENT
Present Situation
1.          Importance.   Livestock is of moderate importance in Benin.  The
national herd of about 1 million head of cattle, 2 million head of sheep and
goats, 450,000 pigs and 7 million poultry contributes about 9X to the
agricultural GDP.   Furthermore, approximately 30,000 pair of oxen cultivate
annually about 100,000 ha or about 10 percent of the total planted area.
2.          Main-Production Systems.  Most cattle are kept by the 19,000 Peuhl
pastoralist families found in tLa sub-humid savannah areas of the Borgou and
Atacora ddpartements, which together contain about 85X of the cattle population.
Average herd size is about 50 heads per family, and livestock is the main source
of revenue for those families. Furthermore, in this area, cattle is kept for
draft cultivation or traction,  especially in the cotton areas.   The key
constraints are lack of livestock drinking water and poor feed quality in the dry
season. The pastoralicts are poorly integrated into the overall society, and
conflicts between livestock producers and crop farmers are increasingly common.
These conflicts are exacerbated by pastoralist needs for dry season migrations
('tr'nnshumance') in search of water. With administrative authority inadequate
to control these movements and prevent conflicts, a more participatory approach
needs to be developed, bringing representatives of the pastoral and cropping
groups together and building appropriate institutions aimed at promoting a modus
vivendi for all.
3.          Average cattle holdings in the central and southern ddpartements are
much smaller; here., again, cattle is used for traction but also increasingly as
an investment for sedentary farmers. As these farmers lack cattle husbandry
skills, they have entrusted the herding of these cattle to Peuhl herders. Such
systems of entrustment, using hired labor, constitute an important constraint to
the transfer of technology, as it puts day-to-day decision-making into the hands
of unmotivated managers. A more direct involvement of the sedentary farmers in
the management of their animals, by breaking down the psychological barriers they
have towards cattle management, is therefore needed. Sheep and Roats are kept
throughout the country, although the majority are found also in the Atacora and
Borgou. They are kept at a low-input/low-output level of technology, but are an
important  source  of  cash  income.    Poultry  is  kept  under  a  similar
low-input/low-o'atput system, and while most of the West African coastal countries
have shown a rapidly expanding modern poultry sector, the modern poultry industry
in Benin is incipient, and production is still largely in the hands of small
holders. Pits are mostly found in the South, again as an adjunct to the farming
system.



-92 -                ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 8
4.          OutDut.  Total annual production is estimated at 30,000 tons of meat
and about 40,000 tons of milk. This makes Benin practically self-sufficient in
meat, although meat consumption is quite low (6-7 kg per capita per year) because
of substitution by fish and the low purchasing power of the population. Some
2,500 tons of subsidized meat are imported per year from the EEC. This dumped
meat* forms an importan: threat to local production. The country imports a small
amount of dairy products (2,000 tons of milk powder equivalent, valued at about
US$ 3 million per year).
S.          Institutions.  The Directorate of Livestock and Animal lndustries
(DEIA) is responsible for the development of the sector. It has a staff of 445,
of which 98 are professional-level.   With this staffing,  it has generous
staff/livestock ratios (tsl7,000 at the professional and ls 3500 at the assistant
level). DEIA works at field level through the CARDERs and various project units
(para 6). Its impact is limited because of poor training, the multitude of badly
supervised functions the field agents are entrusted with, poor input supply and
lack of recurrent funding 1/ for field operations. All veterinary tasks are
carried out by the public sector in spite of a surplus of about 20 young
veterinary graduates, who remain unemployed. As a result, all clinical services
and most preventive services are poor.   The only exception is the yearly
compulsory vaccination campaign against Rinderpest and Contagious Bovine
Pteuro-Pneumonia (CBPP), which is reported to h.ve covered up to 90? of the
cattle population over the last two years.  Responsibility for the import and
distribution of veterinary drugs has recently been shifted from the CARDERs to
the newly created parastatal company, PHARNAVET, which has received financial aid
to that effect from Germany. An Association of Beninese Veterinarians is being
launched. Such an association would be an important partner in the dialogue on
privatization.   The Benino-Lybian Agricultural Company (SABLI) is a public
enterprise producing day-old-chicks and poultry feed. The company, burdened with
high overhead costs, is in financial trouble. Livestock-research is the
responsibility of the Agricultural Research Directorate (DRA), but DRA has very
limited resources, is biased towards crop (cotton) production research and thus
has had practically no impact on the livestock sector.
6.          Projects.   The main vehicle for change in the sector are the
livestock development projects.  Most pro4ects are in the Northern part of the
country, where they fund water development and provide support for the normal
operations of the livestock services (GTZ in the Atacora province, EDP and
PNUD/FENU/FAO in the Borgou province and FAC in the Zou province). While water
development certainly addresses one of the main constraints (para 3), there is
yet no proven package regarding pond construction techniques (size, dam
structures), and the institutional framework required to manage these watec
points aud to avoid resource degradation around them is also lacking. Resource
degeneration seems to be emerging in the Atacora ddpartement, where large ponds
are built and entrusted to rather weak pastoral organizations. A more promising
approach seems to be tested in the .NDP/FENU/FAO rroject in the Eastern Borgou
where a much smaller pond size is combined with strong emphasis on the
1I    The 1988 budget of DEIA amounted to CFAF 347 million, of which 99 percent
(CFAF 341 million) was allocated to salaries and related costs.



_ 93 -             ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 8
institutional organization, not only concerning the water point, but also
including other essential services like marketing and animal health. However,
there is st' 11 much uncertainty about the sustainability and environmental impact
of .aese efforts.  The operational support for veterinary services provided by
the projects often lacks a clear strategy for after-projec_.. sustainability. A
project has been in the making with Afr'can Development Bank financing to
transform failed four para-statal ranches into centers to provide services to
producers of the surrounding areas. More narrowly focused projects include the
FAO-sponsored ar.imal traction training center in Borgou. An interesting approach
is being taken by an Italian NGO at a training center at Tempegre (Atacora
province) which provides practical training in crop-livestock integration and
sustainable agriculture to high-school drop-outs, thus providing alternative
employment opportunities, lessening the psychological barriers towards livestock
raising and promoting sustainable agriculture.
7.          Potential for and iustification of increased livestock Production.
With a -iresent low stocking rate of about 1 adult cattle equivalent per 7 ha and
an apparent under-utilization of agro-industrial by-products (cotton and
oil-palm), there is an obvious potential for expansion.   Provided the water
problem is adequately colved, it is possible to double the cattle population,
within present range-production techniques. There is an ample market in Nigeria,
at present hampered by an unfavorable exchange rate, but potentially attractive.
But the justification for increasing livestock production goes beyond the need
to produce more meat and milk, and includes also the need for more attention to
the sustainability of overall production, as there is a compelling need to
strengthen the role of livestock in crop production, especially in areas of high
population densities and shortening fallow periods, where soil fertility is
rapidly declining.
Dumped meat imports
C.          Livestock production in Benin is hurt )y the subsidized import of
meat, especially from the EEC. These imports, observed throughout West Africa,
increased in Benin from almost nothing in 1982, to about 3,000 tons in 1990,
mainly (2,000 tons) in poultry meat. These are low quality products with limited
demand in Europe. The level of subsidy is difficult to assess. However, studies
in 'wte d'Ivoire show a subsidy of about 402 on the product (US$300 per ton) and
50? on the transpcrt (US$75 per ton). These subsidies have a negative effect on
local production everywhere in the region as they depress prices and cut down the
interest of producers in investing. They have entailed a 151 decline in poultry
production in C8te d'Ivoire over the last two years and are probably one of the
main reasons there is no poultry industry in Benin. Cameroon, COte d'Ivoire and
Togo, the first two under Bank projects, have introduced countervailing import
levies in line with GATT agreements, at a level about equal to the subsidy
amount. These levies are intended to (a) increase demand for local products,
which is preferred at equal price; and (b) cause the poorer urban populations to
increase their consumption of fish.
9.          The introduction of similar levies in Benin would require a short
study to complement those carried out in C8te d'livoire, to (a) estimate the
impact of dumped imports on local production; (b) if a negative impact is
confirmed, propose a taxation system protecting the local industry from unfair



- 94 -               ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 8
competition without providing over-protection; and (c) estimate the impact of
such protection on the consumption patterns of the poorer populations. The study
would require the services of an economist and a livestock specialist for four
and six weeks respectively.   The economist would need to be familiar with
international commodity trade, especially in meat, and have experience in
subsidies and taxation systems. The livestock specialist would review the effect
of taxation on local production and assist the economist in designing the
taxation regimes for different classes of meat.
Obiectives
10.         The livestock component of the project would focus on institution-
building in the sub-sector and thus have the following objectives:
(a)   at the policy level:  (i) restructuring of DEIA and its field tasks
by phasing out public sector involvement in the provision of
clinical treatments, subcontracting prophylactic and public health
tasks to private operators, and restricting DEIA's tasks to policy
planning and control, research and supervision of the veterinary
care system; (ii) the establishment of a veterinary code; (iii) the
privatization of PHARNAVET; and (iv) the introduction of a system of
countervailing import duties to mitigate the effects of dumping of
meat or other agricultural products;
(b)   at the proiect level:  (i) strengthening of livestock research axd
extension services; (ii) assistance to private veterinary operators;
(iii) strengthening of DEIA in its public sector tasks; and (iv) the
practical   training  of  young  farmers,   in  particular,   in
crop/livestock integration.
11.         The livestock component would not get involved in water development.
First, water development as a major infrastructure ,nvestment falls outside the
scope of the project, which has, almost exclusively, an institution-building
focus. Second, there is a need for an additional period of experimentation of
different pond sizes and organizational forms (para 6). Third, water development
is already the subject of at least five projects. The project would not either
get involved in the organization of transhumance as this would fit more in the
scope of the proposed Natural Resources Development Project.
Detailed Policy Features
12.         Privatization of veterinary services.  Within its general policy
objectives of transferring the responsibility for commercial services to the
private sector, the Government would withdraw from the provision of all clinical
veterinary interventions, drug imports and distribution and subcontract the
vaccination campaigns to private operators. The preparation of a detailed action
plan stipulating the precise actions Government would undertake to privatize
these tasks is envisaged under EDF financing. The Action Plan would include:
(a)   a detailed inventory of all human and material resources available
for public or private veterinary health services;



- 95 -
95 -          A~~NNEX 7
Page 5 of 8
(b)   the timing of the phasing-out process for the provision of clinical
services by DEIA staff;
(c)   the facilities the Government would provide to veterinarians and
certified technicians who want to start a private practice;
(d)   the most suitable type of operator for the respective areas.  It is
envisaged that in the ddpartements with a high livestock density
(Borgou and Atacora), the operator would be a veterinary graduate,
whereas in the other areas, with a lowe& livestock density, it would
be a veterinary technicians
(e)   the minimum fees the Government would charge for clinical services
and vaccinations it would continue to provide in the interim period,
based on the full costs of the services in order to prevent unfair
competition and pave the way for private operators;
(f)   the level of the fees government would pay to private operators for
public sector services contracted out to them (vaccinations, meat
inspections, eventually epidemiological surveys) and the mechanisms
for future revisions of these fees, combining cost data collected by
DEIA with negotiations between DEIA and the Beninese Veterinary
Association;
(g)   the role of the Association and the steps and means necessary to
strengthen it; and
(h)   a draft of the Veterinary Code, which would reflect the respective
responsibilities of the public and private sectors, and incorporate
the relevant conclusions of (a) through (g).
Assurances would be sought at negotiations that the implementation of the Action
Plan would be completed by December 31, 1992.
Approximate Staff Numbers Required for Public Sector Tasks
(Extension excluded)
Headguarters Provinces   Ptoiects        Total
Veterinarians                 15          12            4          31
Zootechnicians                 8          12           4           24
Technicians
General Support             15                       8           23
Animal Health Control.                  18          12           30
Research                                12                       12
Support staff                 23          19           5           47
Total                         61          73          33          167



- 96 -               ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 8
13.        Role of the oublic sector. The privatization of most veterinary tasks
would leave DEIA with the public sector tasks of policy and planning, research
and a number of public health aspects, such as quarantine and border control.
It would furthermore supervise the private sector in carrying out its clinical
and preventive work and public health and hygiene aspects.   Pending the
completion of the privatization study from EDF, for budgeting purposes, an
estimate for the total staff requirements for these functions is summarized
below. At headquarters, they are based on estimations of the requirements for
each of the tasks to be carried out. At ddpartement level they are based on an
estimated need for two university-level veterinarians (one for direction and
public health and one to supervise the veterinary care provided by the private
sector) and one to two subject matter specialists (TS) for extension, according
to the size of the livestock population (para 15) per ddpartement. Furthermore,
the projections are based on a requirement of one veterinary assistant per border
post and the secondment of 100 livestock agents to the unified extension service.
On this basis, about 20 veterinarians and the same number of technicians would
be available to be transferred to the private sector.  The redistribution of
responsibilities would imply a substantial reduction of support staff. Needs
would fall from the present level of about 175 to about 50.
14.        Privatization  of  PHARNAVET.    The  parastatal  veterinary  drug
distribution company PHARNAVET would be privatized. A privatization at this
early stage of the company's establishment would be essential to ensure that the
import and distribution network is set un according to sound business principles.
Within the procedures already established under the government's Structural
Adjustment Program, Government would divest itself of at least the majority
ownership of PHARNAVET before December 31, 1992 according to procedures to be
defined by June 30, 1992.
15.        Privatization of other functions.  Withii the government's policy of
withdrawing from the provision of services, the extent to which the changed
function of the parastatal ranches (para 6) concurs with the new role of the
Government will be analyzed in a post appraisal mission.
16.        Anti-dumoing regulations.   In order to protect local production
against dumping of frozen meat (or other produce) from the EEC, Government will
impose a countervailing levy. This levy, which would be according to GATT rules
and within the framework of the new Customs regulations of Benin, wou i take as
reference the world market price for non-subsidized beef and m( t-offals
(ex-Argentine) plus freight and handling, and the levy would equal the difference
between the non-subsidized and subsidized prices.   Care would be taken to
distinguish between different meat qualities, so as not to impede the import of
low-cost meat and thus penalize poor urban consumers. A system of countervailing
duties, acceptable to the Bank, would be introduced under the structural
adjustment program.



ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 8
Detailed Proiect Features
17.        Livestock research. The livestock research component would assist DRA
to strengthen its research on crop/livestock integration technologies, notably
in the introduction of alley cropping (south), fodder banks (north),
inter-cropping of cereals with fodder legumes, and animal traction research. The
project would strengthen four permanent experimental centers (CPE) in the
different ecological zones of the country, i.e., Borgou (low population density),
Atacora (high population density), Zou (high population density) and in one of
the Coastal ddpartements. Furthermore, the project would provide the means for
livestock work R-D in the SEMP. The International Livestock Center for Africa
(ILCA) through its Nigerian (Kaduna) substation would be approached for a
twinning agreement with a two-month-per-year technical assistance input.
18.        Livestock extension.   The project would provide  some 700 crop
extension agents (APV) with a three-month training in livestock production
issues, with the emphasis on practical husbandry. Similarly, the 100 APVs having
a livestock background would be trained in crop husbandry. This is essential in
order to develop a capable unified extension service.   In addition, nine
livestock TSs (two in each of the three livestock ddpartements of 1,tacora, Borgou
and Zou, one in each of the others) would receive up to six weeks of training
each. In practical farmer training, three training centers along the lines of
Tempegre (agroecological and low-input focus on crop/livestock integration) would
be established in Borgou, South Atacora and Zou under a sub-contract with a
private organization.
19.        Private veterinary service.   A total of about ten veterinarian
practices would be established in the Northern ddrartements and about the same
number of technicians would be set up in the Soathern part of the country.
Furthermore, the project would support the creation of the Association of
Beninese Veterinarians and provide it with office equipment and short term (3-
month) technical assistance in finance and adminis-.ration. Further incentives
for the privatization of veterinary services could be considered following the
completion of a study on the subject carried out by the EDF.
20.        Public  animal health service.   The project would provide  some
veterinary equipment and four cars to strengthen DEIA's central operations.
Furthermore, in addition to the four border posts financed under EDP, four more
livestock border posts would be constructed and equipped, in Kaboua and Toui in
Zou, and Nikki and Madekali in Borgou.   The project would further fund the
construction and equipment of a central diagnostic laboratory in Cotonou to be
^used as a reference laboratory for the small regional labs and to coordinate the
epidemiological research required to support the private veterinary services.
Equipmer.t would be provided for parasitological and bacteriological work, as well
as some simple virological work. The project would provide repeated short-term
technical assistance and training to implement this epidemiology program.



- 98 -               ANNEX 7
Page S of 8
Organization and Management
21.        The public sector veterinary tasks (para 11), excluding extension,
would be planned and implemented by DEIA.  Animal producti'n research would be
carried out by DRA.   The diagnostic laboratories and tuie epidemiological
research--provided mainly as a service to the private veterinary operators--would
be integrated in DEIA.  The extension component would be carried out by the
extension services of each CARDER.   The livestock SMSs would be directly
integrated in this extension service.
Monitoring and Evaluation
22.        Monitoring and evaluation would focus on the following parameters:
(a) The efficiency of the unified extension service in promoting mixed
farming systems. Key parameters would include the level of expertise
of the unified extension agents in livestock matters, the
participation of the livestock SMSs in extension training, the share
of livestock messages in agricultural extension and the adoption of
these messages by the farmers;
(b) The progress and impact of privatization on the veterinary services.
Specific parameters would include the number of veterinarians and
veterinary technicians establishing themselves as private operators,
the government's reaction (adequacy of public sector withdrawal from
the private tasks), private operators' income, cost of services to be
provided under subcontract, periodic sampling of the availability of
veterinary drugs, and the reaction of different classes of farmers to
the private animal health care system; and
(c) the impact of the farmer training component regarding, in particular,
the impact of the trainee after his/her return to the village, their
adoption of the new techniques and the sociological constraints
limiting adoption.
Benefit and Risks
23.        The main benefit would be an improved institutional framework for the
livestock sector, resulting in better animal health care, input availability and
animal production advice. This should result in reduced mortality and morbidity,
increased production and more sustainable production systems. However, within
the short time span envisaged for the project and its dominant institutional
character, a precise estimation of the benefits is not feasible.
24.        The main risk would lie in an inadequate support of DEIA and therefore
in the failure of the efforts to privatize veterinary services, and inadequate
coamitment of the unified extension agent to also disseminate livestock and mixed
farming technologies.  Precise project conditionality and extensive training
efforts should mitigate these risks.



_ 99 -
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Task                        Comoletion Date         610EtfE
lesoons$blo
1.  Revision of MDRAC and CARDER statutes with   before credit       MDRAC-Pr sidency
new staff and budget management procedures   effectiveness
2.  Establishment and staffing of selection       before credit      MDRAC-Presidency
coumittees and restructuring bodies           effectiveness
3.  Implementation of an information campaign    before credit       MDRAC
effectiveness
4.  Recruitment of key consultants                before credlt     MDRACIUNDP
effectiveness
5.  Definition of procedures and a calendar for  before credit      HDR&C-SORAPRA
the transfer of CARDER cotton sector          effectiveness
activities to private operators
6.  Preparation of a monitoring plan              before credit.    MDRAC
effectiveness
7.  Appointment of independent auditors           before credit     MDRAC
effectiveness
8.  Release of redundant staff                    9C; by Dec 31,   MDRAC-Min. of
isSl              Finance
1,700 more by
May 31. 1992
SCO by Jan 31,
1993
9.  Revision of co-operatives code                June 30, 1992    HD1AC
10. Preparation of veterinary code                Dec. 31, 1992      MDRAC-Livestock
Directorate
11. Privatization of seed farms                   June 30, 1993     MDRAC
12. Privatization of PHARNAVET
- approval                                    June 30, 1992
- implementation                              De: 31, 1992
13. Implementation of a mid-term review           Jute 30, 1992      MDRAC/Donors



BENIN
PMJET DE RESZiRCTURATION DES SERtVICES gtRICMES
Project Cost Suwmery
CFAF                            uSS                         S Totet
S Foregn      Bae
Locol  Foroign    Totel        Locol Fortign   Total    Exchange    Cost
A. ESTRUCT. DES SICES
1. MNISTERE                    278.8    W61.1    774.7          1.1      2.0      8.1        64.7      11.7
2. CARDER ATACORA              272.0    29.1    562.1            1.1     1.1      2.2        61.8       8.5
8. CARDER ATLANTIqI             186.3    162.7    848.0         0.7      0.6      1.4        48.8       6.3
4. CARDER BOROOW                144.7     68.7    228.4         0.6      0.8      0.9         86.7      8.5
5. CARDERt MONO                29.8    263.9    503.7           0.9      1.0      2.0        62.4       7.6
6. CARDER ZOU                   274.2    224.5    496.7          1.1     0.9      2.0        46.0       7.5
Sub-Total                         1389.5   1626.2   2915.6         5.5      6.0    11.5         52.3      44.1
S. FORMATION DU PERSONNEL         404.2    i02.2    508.4          1.6      0.4      2.0        20.2       7.7
C. ETUDES                          82.6      87.4      iiL.w       v.2      0.3      0.6        68.3       2.3
D. APPUI DE CESTION                48.2    568.6    651.7          0.2      2.0      2.2        91.8       8.4
E. RE4CEROHE-DEVElOPPEVENT
1. CENTRES REGIONAUX DRA       186.8    101.4    287.8          0.S      0.4      0.9        42.8       3.6
2. CPE A SEP A R/D             828.7    228.7   S2.4           1.8     0.9      2.2        41.4       8.4
8. LAB.TECH.ALIMENTAIRE         88.1      18.6      68.9        0.2      0.1      0.2        33.1       0.9
Sub-Total                         497.5    849.0    846.6          2.0      1.4      8.8        41.2      12.8
F. RECONVERSION DU PERSONNEL      706.8      84.2    796.5         2.8      0.3      3.1        10.7      12.0
0. SERVICES DE L ELEYACE           827.6    164.0    491.5         1.3      0.6      1.9        33.4       7.4
M. PRODUCTIOt. DE SEMENCES        181.4      87.6    865.9         1.3      0.1      1.4        10.6       6.4
Total BASELINE COSTS              8752.8   2854.0  S606.8         14.8    11.8    26.1          43.2    106.0
Physical Contingncies           800.8    264.8    565.0         1.2      1.O      2.2        45.9       8.4
Price Contingencies             145.1    175.9    821.0         0.6      0.7      1.3        54.6       4.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS             4197.6   8284.7   7482.8         18.6    18.0    29.6          48.9    118.3
Values Scaled by 1000M.0 - 6/7/1991 9:12
UE



BENDN
PROJET DE RESTRUCTURATION DES SERVICES AORICOLES
Summry Accounts Cost Sui_ry
CFAF                           USS                           Total
____ ____ _ _____ _ ___ _ _-  -  Foreign  BaM
Local  For ign    rot*l       Local Foreign   ToteW    Exchange    Coot
I. INVESTMJET COSTS
A. VEHICULES                      134.8    760.7    696.0         0.S     a.o      3.6        66.0      13.6
B. E4UIPEMENT                     142.8    549.0    692.6         6.6     2.2      2.7        79.4      16.6
C. GENIE CmI L                    804.1    348.6    662.9         1.2     1.4      2.6        63.4      9.9
D. ASSISTANCE TECHNIqUE             0.0    479.6    479.S         6.o     1.9      1.9       190.0      7.3
E. FORMATION                      747.8    149.8    697.2         3.0     8.6      8.5        16.7      13.6
F. ETUDES                          62.8     67.4    16.0         0.2     0.3      0.6        58.3      2.8
0. CREDIT                         622.0     58.0    S8m.0         2.1     0.2      2.3        10.0      6.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           1913.1   248U.9   4847.0         7.6     9.6    17.2         66.0     65.8
tI. RECIRREWT COSTS
A. INDEIITES                      674.3      0.0    674.8         2.7     0.0      2.7         0.0     10.2
B. FRAIS DE FONCTIONEMENT        1164.9    420.1   1565.1         4.6     1.7      6.3        26.5     24.0
Total RECURENT COSTS             1698.2    420.1   2269.8         7.8     1.7      6.9        16.6     34.2
Total BASELINE COSTS             82.8   2864.6   66.8            14.6    11.8    26.1         48.2    106.0                         w
Physical Contingncies          t0.3    2S4.8   656.0           1.2     1.0      2.2        45.9      8.4
Prico Contingancies            145.1    176.9    821.0         0.6     0.7      1.3        S4.8      4.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS             4197.6   3264.7   7482.8        16.6    13.0    29.6         48.9    113.8
Valuos Scaled b 101i000.0 -  5/7/1991 9:45
I1
o-



- 105                                                                     ANNEX 11
FROJ8r 0E R51WJC1lR;iON   E  SERVSCES AtOULES                                                 Page  1  of  3
Pinancing Plan
(US$ Million., Encluding Contingan xec, aclu4ins Taxes)
---------------------------------------   - .  . I   .  _  _ - -_--------------------_ ------------------------------__ __-_-_- _-_ ____- _-_-
Component                                            IMA    FPCH          fED         OTZ      IFAD   WP        OOVy T.    TOTAL
A. REYRU.CT. MNIST2e8
______________________
Vehicula 0.94                                                                                                         0.94
Equipsment & Material                           0.67                                                                  0.67
Ceni- Civil                                     1.18                                                                   1.1B
Fonctionn,smont                                 0.3O                                                         0.40     0.79
8. RESTRUC. DES CARDER
____________________
1. Carder Atacorc
______________
Vahicu I                                                                                O .                            0.84
Ecouipaent S Mater-el                                                                   0.31                          0.31
Fonctionnement                                                                          1.21                0.18       1.34
2. Carder Atlantique
________________
V.hiculc as                                                                   0.31                                     0.31
Equipement & Materiel                                                         0.31                                    0.31
Fonctionnsemnt                                                                                              0.93      0.93
3.  Carder Borgou
_____________
V.hiculow                                       0.07                                                                   0.07
Equiposent A Materiel                           0.14                                                                  0.14
Fonctionnement                                  0.41                                                        0.42      0.83
4.  Cardcr Mono
___.________
Vehicul.a                                                           0.73                                               0.73
Equvp.aent A Materiel                                               0.31                                              0.31
Ponctionnement                                                      0.80                                    0.39       1.1C
S. Carder Zou
__________
Ve h;culea                                      0.47                                                                   0.47
Equipement S Materiel                           0.31                                                                   0.31
Fonctionnement                                  0.73                                                        0.74       1.47
Subtotal                                     5.30      0.00      1.88      0.63      2.36                3.01    13.14
C.  FORTION DU PERSONNEL                               0.81      0.88      0.22      0.22      0.44                          2.57
D.  R8DEtCE-OeVELOPP484rf
1 Cont ee R*eionaux ORA
-____________________
Equipemant                                        0.39                                                                   0.39
Cnim  Civil                                       0.23                                                                   0.23
Achat Chaptel                                     0.03                                                                   0.03
Fonctionnaoent                                    0.22                                                         0.22      O."
2.  CPE A S4P A R/O
________________
Vehicules                                         0.15                0.06                 0.06                          0.28
Equip*ment                                        0.15                0.06                 0.0                          0.27
Genie Civil                                       0.42                0.18                 0.18                          0.78
Fonction,a.ment                                   0.26                0.11                0.11                 0.70      1.19
3. Lab.Tnch.Alim,entaire
Vehicalaa                                         0.02                                                                   0.02
Equipeent                                         0.02                                                                   0.02
COni; Civil                                       0.07                                                                   0.07
Fonctionnomant                                    0.07                                                         0.07      0.15
Subtotal                                     2.03                0.42                0.42                0.99      3.87
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  - -      -- -      ----      -----     -----_ _ _      _   _ _ _ __ _   _



- 106 -
ANNEX 11
S. PRWJCUC?ZON DE S54e4CO                                                                                            Page  2  of  3
Vshlcults                                 0 02                                                        0.02
EquIpaant                                 0.01                                                        0 01
O4nnl Civil                               0.10                                                        0.10
A" lstmnc* Techntque                      0.07                                                        0.07
Snenceo Bnas  (Fonds de Rou oent)                                                            0.16    0.l8
Semnc*o Pro-ba.. (Fond. de Roul,ao_nt)                                                       0.17    0.17
Foncti;nne_nt                             0.49                                               0.49    0.98
Subt1tol                              0.6O                                               0.82    1.51
F. SERVICES DE L'EL'VA0E
Equi1ent                                  0.40                                                        0.40
Vahlcul..                                 0.10                                                        0.10
Ceni. Civil                               0.a8                                                        0.30
Formation                                 0.91                                                        0.91
C.adit                                    0.3a                                                        0.33
Fonctionnesoat                            0.05                                              OOS    0.11
Subtotal                              2.18                                               0.05    2.20
0. RB4VtSI4N tJ PESONNEL
Asi-taneo Technique                                0.11                                               0.11
Credit a Ia Roconvoraion                  0.48    0.90    0.23              0.4i                      2.03
Formation                                 0.17    0.33    0.09              0.1.'                     0.79
Fonctioennont                             0.05    0.16    0.04              0.0o                      0.37
Subto l                              0?71    1.S3    0.35              0.71                      3.30
- - --    -- ---   -- ---   -- ---   -- ---   -- ---   -- ---   -- ---
H. APPUX A LA ObTSON
VJhlauloe                                 0.15    0.03    0.03    0.0o    0.03                        0.27
Ao.iet.nce Tochnique                      0.47   O.                                 0.80             1.91
Fonctionnownt                                                                        0.16             0.16
Subtotel                             0.61    0.67    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.96                2.33
- - --    - - - -    _--  -- ---   -- ---   -- ---    - - - -- --
Z. EMDES                                              0.08                              0.37             o.68
TOTAL                                 12.3     3.2     2.9      0.9      4.0     1.3     4.9    29.6
41.51   10.811   9.81    3.0o   13.51   S.1    16.33    10ol8



- 107 -
ANNEX 11
BENIN                                                        Page  3 of  3
ACRICLTURE SERVICES RESTRUCTRINO FROJECT
Project Financing Sumary
(ISS Millions, Including Contingencies, Ezxluding T*eg.)
Category                                        IOA  FRENCH      FED      CTZ    IFAD   LUP   GOV'T.   TOTAL
Vehicles                                       1.93    0.03    0.83    0.34    0.94    0.00    0.00    4.06
Equipment A Materiel                           2.10    0.00    0.37    0.31    0.37    0.00    0.00    3.16
Civil Works                                    2.34    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    2.70
Training                                       1.90    1.23    0.31    0.22    0.61    0.00    0.00    4.27
Studies                                        0.00    0.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.67    0.00    0.6e
Technical Asistance                            0.84    0.75    0.00    0.00    0 00    0.80    0 00    2 09
Credit                                         0.78    0.90    0.23    0.00    0 48    0 00    0.06.       2 36
Livestock                                      0.03    0.00    000    0.00    000    000    000    003
Seed Production (Working Capitel)              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0 00    0.00    0 33    0.33
Operating Coste                                2.70    0.16    0.93     0.00    1.40    0.16    4.85    9.93
TOTAL                                 12.3      3.2     2.9      0.9      4.0     1.8      4.9    29 6



BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURN   PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(SOR Ml II ion)
IDA FY and                Estimate by   Cumulstlve
quarters Ending           Quarter
1992                                                                               DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
---   I             0.0            0.0                                       ISTORICAL AND ES5MATED PROFIE
II                    0.0           0.0                 10 -
III                    0.8           0.3
IV                   0.4            0.7                  9
1998                                                              8 
--     I                    o0.6           1./
II                   0.6            1.9                  7-
III                    0.6           2.6
IV                   0.6            8.1          z       6 -
0
1994                                                                                                                                                     -
I-                        0.7            8.8o
II                   0.7            4.5          0       4_
III                    0.1           6.2
IV                   0.7            5.9                  3-
1995
I                   0.6            6.5                  2-
i 0.6                              7.1                  1
III                    0.6           7.7
IV                   0.6            8.3                  0 8,
19"                                                                1992n     1    n  1311   I1994   1V199511 a v 1996 It   i 199711  IV 19981 
----  I             0.6            8.8                                             IDA _-s   _ YAR
II                    0.            9.3                                  a   ESTIMATE           +  PROFILE
(a) Board approval end Jun. 1991 (1.*. end FY91)
(b) The Bonin general historical profil- was modified
to reflect the fact that It to a throe year project.
N3



f   /  RKiNA lr,   r      )                     k      | ~~~G  E R  i
- - .1. - -~i -  / o  B tU R K I N A                  _-   Kowg. YwLNIL
(xt5}1    ' Boni\   _3    t              Xt'' \'\NIGERIA
g \' ~A T A C O   R A  g  E '   
.   \               '1 afinrom    i        Y50,.   4    E          IB 
\  IANGUIETk                ,         r         B ( O   R. G  /0  ll |d
.  Kobl _/  \ rooello   4  ) /           ef~~~~S
I ,>          y   K,           ,    ,   8Aw                      .  
>   ONlonlo   |   KouondbJ (    X    j   /        / oDniouo   /  .f
solib.s V J EG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- P1 R '|
*y  >  ixai .. ) - s opLO                                   Iail .o
ArdoraO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Im t- |Ai) _-II.t.
,,,._,-)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 NPo.. Capita
Al-                                                                      W    I mRAK U 
e-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 36 hs0 rg                                             .0  -~E
i                      Ttov 
It.~~~~~~~            SAYLO LO,.'                .tRciwsY
ft~~~~~~                Gboii    t                              ,tDlabGOCS
! t } ,; .AdbL,., .... , _ _ Dq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
Ato  j_s,   R  4  4      8tWOKET ts o   w    0          0t~~~~~~~~~J"'



