Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No:. 20225
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CREDIT 22850; TF: 21619)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.3 MILLION
US$ 12.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
April 4, 2000
Rural Development 2
Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1990 - 1999)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
Average CFAF per US dollar
1990      280
1991      259
1992      241
1993      285
1994      568
1995      484
1996      513
1997      606
1998      594
1999      633
CFAF 1 = US$ 0.002
US$ I = 538 (on average)
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETUR             Agence d'execution des travaux urbains (Urban Works Executing Agency)
AFD                Agence francaise de developpement (French Development Agency)
APV                Agent potyvalent de vulgarisation (Polyvalent Extension Agent)
BOAD               Banque Ouest-Africaine pour le developpement (West African Development Bank)
CAA                Caisse autonome d'amortissement (Autonomous Sinking Fund)
CARDER             Centre d'action regionale pour le developpement rural (Regional Action and Rural Development Center)
CNSEHA             Centre national de surveillance epidemiologique et d'hygiene alimentaire (National Center for Epidemiological
Surveillance and Food Hygiene)
DANIDA             Danish International Development Agency
FECECAM            Federation des caisses d'epargne et de credit agricole mutuel (Federation of Savings and Agricultural Credit Funds)
FED                Ponds europeen de daveloppement (European Fund for Development)
GTZ                German Technical Cooperation Agency
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
IFAD               International Fund for Agriculture Development
MDR                Ministere du developpement rural (Ministry of Rural Development)
MDRAC              Ministere du developpement rural et de I 'action cooperative (Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action)
PAS                Programme d'ajustement structurel (Structural Adjustment Program)
PHARNAVET          Pharmnacie nationale veterinaire (National Veterinary Pharmacy)
PIP                Public Investments Program
PISEA              Projet d'insertion des diplomes sans emploi de l'agriculture (Project to integrate unemployed agriculture graduates)
PO                 Producer Organization
PRSA               Projet de restructuration des services agricoles (Agricultural Services Restructuring Project)
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SONAPRA            Societe nationale pour la promotion agricole (National Agricultural Promotion Company)
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
VC                 Village Committee
VLPA               Village Level Participatory Approach
Vice President:         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Theodore 0. Ahlers
Sector Manager:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Noel Rene Chabeuf



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     8
6. Sustainability                                                                         9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       11
9. Partner Comments                                                                      12
10. Additional Infonnation                                                              13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                        23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    24
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                        25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witiout
World Bank authorization.



I



Project ID: P000 105                                       Project Name: Agricultural Services Restructuring
Team Leader: Noel Rene Chabeuf                             TL Unit: AFITR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: April 4, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Agricultural Services Restructuring                L/C Number: 22850; TF: 21619
Country/Department: BENIN                                                 Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AR - Research
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/30/88                                 Effective:  10/15/91           11/25/92
Appraisal:  09/25/90                                   MTR: 06/30/92              10/10/93
Approval:  06/27/91                                 Closing: 06/30/95            09/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT/MDRAC
Other Partners: AFD, FED, GTZ, IFAD, UNDP (at appraisal). BOAD, DANIDA (joined towards
the end of implementation)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Theodore 0. Ahlers                         Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                          Kevin M. Cleaver
Team Leader at ICR.   Noel Rene Chabeuf                         Maurice Asseyo
ICR Primary Author:   Jumana Farah
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
At the time the project was designed, following two decades of a centrally managed economy, the
Ministry of Agriculture was overstaffed, poorly coordinated, and unable to operate because there was no
operating budget. Salaries in the public service were several months in arrears. The operation of the
Regional Action and Rural Development Centers (CARDERs) was dependent on regional economic
resources and 75% of their budget was derived from regional development projects and commercial
receipts. Income-generating activities were given priority over all other public tasks. The CARDERs
industrial responsibilities were transferred to specialized operators in 1987. In the case of cotton, the
operator was the parastatal National Agricultural Promotion Company (SONAPRA). Farmer organizations
were non-existent, cooperatives were entirely Government controlled, and top-down management was the
norm, resulting in the stagnation of the rural sector. Parastatals were poorly managed; absorbing large
amounts of public resources with little output, and preventing private initiative start up. The Beninese
Government's objectives in the rural sector were to put farmers more firmly on their feet, disengage the
public sector from activities that are better performed by the private sector, reduce costs payable from the
national budget, and decentralize the State's activities.
The objectives of the project are summarized in paragraph 4.02 of the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR): "The fundamental objective of the project is to give the Beninese Government, within its financial
constraints, better control over rural development activities in order to cope with the evolution of the
balance between supply and demand for agricultural products due to the country's increasing urbanization,
the degradation of its natural resources, and movements in international trade. The project would define
rural service programs from the bottom up, i.e., starting from public or private units working directly with
the farmers. It would improve the quality and suitability of the agricultural services provided to Beninese
farmers and herders and would create additional employment opportunities in the private sector. It would
also lead the agricultural services to pay more attention than in the past to food crops and livestock and to
training staff to meet the specific technology needs of women and the most disadvantaged rural
communities." The SAR's project description gives the following: "The project would improve the
provision of agricultural services in Benin by restructuring the country's agricultural institutions, including
the central services of the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperative Action (MDRAC), research and
development (R-D) and seed production stations, and the six Regional Action and Rural Development
Centers (CARDERs), while focusing their operations on those normally undertaken by the public
administration."
The project's objectives and timing complemented the Government's five-year structural and
financial restructuring program to address the severe financial crisis affecting the country, particularly, its
public sector. One of the program's objectives was to restructure public enterprises, with priority placed on
the agricultural institutions. This decision was reinforced by the agricultural sector's significance in Benin'
s economy, the fact that MDRAC (later renamed the Ministry of Rural Development-MDR) was the only
ministry with significant decentralized agencies, and the availability of accepted studies on the nature and
cost of reforms. The project had a high degree of complexity as it covered the entire country and had
multiple components including policy reform, credit, civil works, TA, training, and studies. In addition to
the Government, eight cofinanciers contributed to the project- IDA, Assistance francaise de
de'veloppement (AFD), European Development Fund (FED), GTZ, IFAD, UNDP, BOAD, DANIDA.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The broad project development objective remained unchanged at the Mid-term Review in late 1993,
but the objectives were reformulated when the project was retrofitted in 1997 as a result of the logical
-2 -



framework exercise which was then carried out to link output with indicators, and another objective was
added aimed at conserving the natural resource base:
*   Restructure the central services of MDRAC, the six regional rural development centers (CARDER),
research and development centers and seed production stations for more cost-effective agricultural
structures and services in order to increase farm productivity and farmers income.
*   Increase capacity at both the central and local level. To this end, specific needs of rural communities in
particular would be addressed through training, decentralization and farmers' empowerment.
Supporting policy measures comprise the adoption of new statutes for MDR and the CARDERs,
privatization of seed farms and other state enterprises and preparation of an animal health action plan.
*   Conserve the natural resource base through community-based diagnosis and the use of technologies
that encourage intensification, and soil and water conservation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was organized into two major components: agricultural policy reform and supportive
investments, with several subcomponents each.
Agricultural policy reform:
*   New statutes for MDRAC and the CARDERs: to develop new mandates and organizational charts of
the institutions, position descriptions, and the manner in which these institutions will interact with other
rural sector institutions.
i  Reduction of redundant staff to help balance the national budget and improve the quality and
suitability of agricultural services. Accompanied by the sale of equipment and facilities owned by the
CARDERs.
*   Personnel management rules: to adopt an improved personnel management code.
3   Cooperative legislation: to revise the already well designed legislation in accordance with the
Govemment liberalization of the economy and with a view to ensuring independence farmers and other
professional organizations.
*   Privatization of seedfarms: seed production and commercialization to be transferred to the private
sector with the CARDERs retaining their certification function.
*   Privatization of the National Veterinary Pharmacy (PHARNA VET): Govemment would divest itself,
to the profit of the private sector, of at least the majority of shares in PHARNAVET and promote free
competition in the import and distribution of veterinary products. PHARNAVET would be reorganized
in accordance with commercial management principles.
* Taxation of subsidized meat imports: study the impact of subsidized imports of meat on local
production and on low-income consumer budgets, and feasibility of taxing these products through
customs duties.
* Action Plan for animal health services: to be translated into a Veterinary Code, which is considered
indispensable for a successful transfer of these services to the private sector.
Investments:
*   Restructuring of MDRAC's central services: civil works, office equipment and data processing
facilities, and vehicles.
*   Restructuring of the CARDERs: civil works, logistical support, and vehicles.
*   Training: tutorial, travel and subsistence costs for remaining staff.
*  Research and development: simple offices and warehouses, housing for selected staff, mopeds, input
for research, connection to a power station, rehabilitation of equipment, transportation, the cost of
- 3 -



outside services and of analyses and documentation, and pumping, livestock research, and data
processing equipment.
* Seed production: equipment, TA, and transportation.
*   Livestock services: training and 20 individual loans. The project would also finance a central
laboratory, quarantine and border veterinary posts, TA, improved offices, research equipment, and
mopeds.
*  Reinsertion of redundant personnel: training and two lines of credit for those leaving the CARDERs to
help finance the procurement of equipment, or on-farm works.
*  Assistance for project management: TA for the coordination and monitoring of the restructuring and
start-up of MDRAC 's and the CARDERs' new activities.
*   Studies: assessment of suitability of extension's technical messages.
While these components were necessary for achieving the objectives of the project, implementation
demonstrated that the capacity of the implementing agency had been overestimated.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project's components were not revised or changed. However, the individual loans program was
cancelled and the credit component for reinsertion of personnel was replaced by a smaller grant component.
This occurred when it became clear that the credit could not be implemented according to the terms of the
Credit Agreement under the prevailing local commercial credit conditions.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated Unsatisfactory in this ICR. Although the overall project purpose as
stated in the SAR was relevant and had a direct link to the Government's structural and financial
restructuring program and rural sector strategy, the project objectives in the SAR were not clearly defined.
PRSA addressed the key issues hindering the growth of the agricultural sector which fit well within Benin's
rural development strategy. But, the project was very complex and its implementation program and
schedule proved ambitious. Weaknesses in project design caused difficulties in project implementation
including: (a) excessively centralized project management resulting in cumbersome implementation; (b) an
unrealistic work program and implementation schedule; (c) the transfer of responsibilities program did not
sufficiently take into account the handicap of rural illiteracy; (d) the lack of planning regarding the release
of redundant staff; (e) an unrealistic assessment the Government's counterpart funding capacity and
CARDERs pre-financing of activities; (f) an unrealistic credit subcomponent; and (g) an inadequate
approach to extension services.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Although the choice of the institution and the preparation of a monitoring and evaluation plan were
conditions of Credit effectiveness, the recommended monitoring and evaluation system never became
operational, even though it was designed. Thus, the lack of quantifiable data impairs the assessment of
achievement of objectives. The following is based on the mission findings, including an independent
evaluation carried out in late 1998 on behalf of all project cofinanciers, as well as the Govemment's own
assessment. Although the achievement of project objectives was rated Satisfactory throughout the seven
years of implementation, it is rated Unsatisfactory in this ICR in hindsight (the project supervision reports
often indicated that the r.ating should have been "Marginally Satisfactory").
Did the costs to the national budget decrease without negatively impacting quality of services? "Yes" for
the first part of the question; "no" for the second part. The reduction in staff numbers at the MDRAC level
-4 -



and in the CARDERs resulted in a reduction in staff costs currently estimated at about CFAF I billion
per year. However, the impact of this reduction has reflected negatively on the quality of services. Positions
vacated, especially in planning, management, control and regulation were not adequately staffed due to a
temporary employment freeze, and the functioning of these activities suffered from financial constraints on
both MDR's and CARDERs' operating budgets (savings made on salaries were not re-injected into the
operating budget). The training provided to the remaining staff was not sufficient to build the capacities to
adequately fulfill the positions to which they were promoted.
Did the public sector disengage itselffrom activities that are better performed by the private sector, and
are these activities better executed now? The transfer of industrial and commercial services from
CARDERs to producer organizations (POs) was completed, except for the production of base and pre-base
seeds. The transfer was more successful in some cases than in others. Cotton being the most important
crop, the transfer of cotton processing, transport, credit management, and input procurement and
distribution from CARDER to POs was very successful, with these organizations adequately providing
these services to the communities. Transfer of commercial activities related to other crops was not as
successful since the POs did not have the human or financial capacity to step in, and private entrepreneurs
expressed limited interest. Commercial seed production by private producers is dependent upon demand for
certified seed (currently at 30% of total seed demand), and many private seed farms remain exceedingly
dependant upon technical and financial support from CARDERs. Importation and distribution of veterinary
pharmaceuticals is now completely privatized. Yet, the privatization of veterinary services remains
incomplete although more than forty veterinarians have been allowed to operate in private practice. The
Mandat sanitaire, by which Government would contract private practitioners for compulsory vaccinations
and quarantine work, was belatedly enacted and on a limited scale; the line of credit to assist private
veterinarians could never be mobilized because of various administrative hurdles; and the enabling legal
framework has not been fully established.
Have farmers become more empowered? "Yes." POs have emerged and become true partners in
development. This is a major achievement of this project. Through the transfer of responsibilities program,
PRSA gave POs the opportunity to gain autonomy in the management of their affairs. Especially notable is
the emergence under PRSA of women's groups and specialized farmer groups. However, irregularities are
noted in the financial management of the POs, which do not place enough importance on proper
bookkeeping. Further support, training, and supervision remain necessary.
Didfarm productivity andfarmers' income increase? Due to the lack of monitoring and evaluation data, it
is difficult to assess and quantify results. It is probable that farmer incomes increased particularly in the
cotton growing areas as cotton production rose noticeably during this period, although this may have been
only marginally related to the project. Communities visited during Bank supervision missions expressed
their satisfaction with the support they received from PRSA.
Did capacity at the central and local levels increase? Have the services provided to farmers and
communities become more suitable? Capacity building results are mixed. There is no doubt that capacities
at MDR central and local levels were weakened because key positions were left vacant, with the most
competent and brightest staff leaving the civil service for the private sector, and Government being unable
to recruit replacement staff because of a hiring freeze. The CARDERs had to relinquish their
income-generating activities, which were gradually, and more or less successfully, taken over by the private
sector. This resulted in a loss of resources for the CARDERs and their weakening. On the other hand, there
was a relatively spectacular emergence and development of farmers' organizations and community
associations, and a real empowerment of rural producers who became, during this period, full partners of
the Government in the management of rural development, particularly in the cotton sub-sector. Community
-5 -



Concertation Committees established under the Village Level Participatory Approach (VLPA) are coming
closer to achieving their social development goals with support from the project and NGOs. Extension
services are more responsive to the needs of the communities since the introduction of VLPA, near the end
of project implementation.
Was conservation of the natural resource base through community-based diagnosis enabled? "Yes." But
belatedly, and only when "Training and Visit" was abandoned and the communities were allowed to
identify their development priorities through VLPA. The loss of soil fertility and other environmental
concerns were recognized as priorities and extension messages were targeted toward resolving these issues.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Agricultural policy reform:
The agricultural policy reform component is rated marginally Satisfactory. MDRAC and the
CARDERs have been restructured beginning with the adoption of new statutes. Some aspects remain to be
finalized such as the implementation of the new organizational charts, which have already been approved,
and the development of a proper personnel management code. MDR and the CARDERs have already
transferred nearly all of their industrial and commercial responsibilities to POs and the private sector.
Cooperative legislation reform is not complete; it must be approved by the National Assembly and enacted.
A law establishing the Ordre des v6terinaires was adopted by Parliament.
The reduction of redundant staff has been almost fully achieved in terms of numbers of staff
leaving the public service. By 1994, the restructuring resulted in a reduction of staff by about 55% in MDR
and the CARDERs, but more than the target of 62% have now been released. This has been accompanied
by a reduction in salary costs, reducing the burden on the National Budget. However, this subcomponent
has had mixed results because there was no mechanism to retain key staff and although numbers decreased,
key positions were left vacant or inadequately staffed.
The transfer of responsibilities program had mixed results. In some areas it was highly successful,
in other areas it was only partially implemented mainly due to the poor technical and financial capacity of
POs and the private sector.
The privatization of PHARNAVET was successfully implemented with the enactment of an
Arrete clarifying the control of the importation of veterinary drugs, disengaging PHARNAVET from retail
distribution of drugs, the subsequent closing of its retail outlet, and the contracting of private veterinarians
to distribute both the remaining and newly imported drugs. For some time, unfair competition by
government agents (supplied by PHARNAVET) limited the ability of private veterinarians to provide
services and earn a living; this was later suppressed by Government. The Centre national de surveillance
epidemiologique et d 'hygiene alimentaire (CNSEHA) was created by another MDR Arr&et .
Two draft decrees based on the recommendations of the study on customs regulations on imported
meat were prepared but not approved because they would have resulted in losses of revenue for the national
budget.
Investments:
The investments component is rated overall Unsatisfactory. The equipment, and vehicles
sub-component for the restructuring of MDRAC and the CARDERs, research and development, and
livestock services experienced implementation delays and procurement problems throughout project life.
-6 -



Cumbersome and lengthy procurement procedures resulted in that the purchase of equipment for the four
border veterinary posts and the epidemiological laboratory was not completed by the end of the project.
However, although the civil works subcomponent experienced similar setbacks, it was turned around when
the Agence d'execution des travaux urbains (AGETUR) was contracted, ensuring full implementation.
Thus, civil works are rated Satisfactory, while the goods subcomponent is rated marginally Satisfactory.
Training is rated marginally Satisfactory. There was no formal training program. All of the funds
were disbursed, but the program succeeded in only partially in addressing the needs of MDR staff.
Implementation of this component was handicapped by the high turn over of staff in all positions resulting
from constant political changes during this period which reduced the benefits of the training received.
Research and development is rated marginally Satisfactory. In a first phase, cooperation between
the research and extension activities was intensified; in a second phase, the introduction of VLPA allowed
research and extension activities to more efficiently identify and more adequately address the farmers'
needs. However, research tended to remain relatively academic and suffered from the excessive
centralization of project management.
Seed production: Rated Unsatisfactory. Base and pre-base seed production remained within
government farms and research stations. Multiplication was transferred to private operators by the
CARDERs. In some cases, these operators were individual farmers, but in most cases, they were POs
established by former staff from the CARDER multiplication stations with facilities and equipment, often
obsolete, informally transferred from the CARDER. Some of the equipment promised under PRSA was not
procured. Despite the support of the CARDERs, these POs met with great difficulties procuring inputs,
equipment, and appropriate technologies.
Livestock services: Rated Unsatisfactory. The project line of credit to assist private veterinarians
was never mobilized due to administrative hurdles. The Caisse autonome d'amortissement (CAA)
haggled for months over the rate at which the line of credit should be sub-lent to financial intermediaries.
Finally, the national association of veterinarians decided that the final interest rates were unacceptably
high. However, some veterinarians were able to obtain credit to start their operations from PISEA (Projet
d 'insertion des diplomes sans emploi de l 'agriculture). After delays, motorbikes financed under PRSA
were distributed to private veterinarians under a lease-to-purchase scheme managed by the national
veterinary association.
Reinsertion of redundant personnel: The credit subcomponent is rated Unsatisfactory. When it
became clear that it was not possible to implement, this subcomponent was cancelled. AFD stepped in and
provided funds for subsidies of equipment, which represented a change in the spirit and substance of the
financial support designated for the conversion of staff. Management of the credit was problematic and no
institution was interested in taking the responsibility (in part because of the following: comparatively small
funds, high administrative costs, high risks in loan recovery, and the risky nature of proposed projects).
Distribution of the subsidies suffered huge delays that were related to the conditions under which the funds
were made available to Government.
Project management is rated Unsatisfactory. The management structure was understaffed, heavily
centralized, had too many responsibilities, changed several times, and was far removed from the field. This
contributed to shortfalls in management, institutional memory and continuity, in delays in project
effectiveness and implementation, and in procurement. Audit reports regularly reflected weaknesses in the
financial aspects of project management. When counterpart funds were late, project management could
have helped, but did not. A monitoring and evaluation system was proposed but not implemented.
-7-



Studies: Rated Satisfactory. The studies identified were completed.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
There is no mention of a Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, or economic costs and
benefits projections, in the SAR of the project. The closest to an economic evaluation of benefits is found in
paragraph 6.11. of the SAR, referring to the impact on MDRAC's budget. The statement in the SAR is the
following: "The project would reduce the operating costs of MDRAC and the CARDERs by more than half
(from CFAF 7.8 billion in 1989 to CFAF 3.6 billion after restructuring)".
During the ICR mission, it was found that due to the lack of monitoring and evaluation and other
data on project implementation it was not possible to confirm the SAR's projections. The statement
regarding costs to the national budget in paragraph 4.1. is based on the Government's own assessment.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Rated Modest. The impact of PRSA at the central and CARDER level was mixed. It helped MDR
and the CARDERs shed cumbersome and inefficiently managed activities, and has laid a coherent
institutional framework on which future institutional strengthening programs could build. However, it has
weakened the human resource base in the public sector and the financial resources of the CARDERs.
At the grassroots level, PRSA has significantly helped the development of POs, enabling them to
become full partners in development. It has empowered farmers and community associations through
training and entrusting them with the provision of services previously performed by Government. PO
numbers in Mono increased from 445 in 1991 to 1,163 in 1998 (a 162% increase). In Zou and Borgou in
1991, only 8 and 13 POs, respectively, participated in the transfer of responsibilities program. Currently,
all existing POs, 486 and 515, in Zou and Borgou, respectively, participate in the transfer of responsibility
program.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
PRSA became effective 17 months after Board approval. The project was to be implemented
during a three-year period, but it did not close until six years and ten months following effectiveness.
During these nearly seven years, Benin went from a centrally controlled economy to one which was almost
fully liberalized and underwent huge political, social, and economic changes that had an impact on project
implementation.
The multiplicity of cofinanciers, the wide diversity in their financing procedures, and the
differences in their approach to rural development caused some inefficiencies in project financial
management which, in turn, impacted the performance of MDR and the CARDERs, the quality of the
services provided, and inefficiencies in the conversion program. Because some CARDERs were being
financed directly by donors, they did not readily adopt the statutes and responsibilities newly accepted by
Government, causing further confusion, inefficiencies, and delays in project implementation.
Weaknesses in PRSA design (section 3.5. Quality at Entry) also caused delays and inefficiencies in
project implementation. In particular, the fast pace of implementation and transfer of responsibilities,
coupled with the inefficiencies in the pre-financing approach to CARDERs' operations, seem to have
-8 -



handicapped the performance of their duties under the new statutes.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A hiring freeze in the public sector at the time did not allow MDR to compensate for the departure
of a greater than expected number of qualified staff. Training was not sufficient, thereby affecting the
performance of MDR and the project. The delayed, irregular, and insufficient release of counterpart funds
played a major role in limiting the scope of PRSA and causing inefficiencies in MDR and the CARDERs
operations. In particular, a belated release of counterpart funds in 1998 was apparently linked to
administrative reform that created Regie and appointed Regisseurs who had to review and approve all
government financial commitments before their release.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Weak linkages within and between MDR and the CARDERs did not allow for coordinated and
smooth project implementation. In addition, the lack of a monitoring and evaluation system affected project
coordination and the proper collection and analysis of necessary data. Also, MDR's Cabinet Director was a
political appointee with multiple duties including project director. Training was seen by Government as
inadequate in terms of substance and duration. It should have helped trainees to understand the statutes and
missions of the agricultural institutions, and encouraged team building.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project costs were lower by US$1.8 million (a 9% decrease) at completion than at appraisal,
equivalent to US$29.6 and US$27.8 million, respectively. PRSA disbursed 97.15% of the IDA Credit,
which was US$12.9 million in real terms. Cofinancing for AFD, FED, and UNDP were less than estimated
at appraisal by US$2.2, 1.37, and 0.3 million, or equivalent to 31%, 53%, and 80% of the original
amounts, respectively. DANIDA joined the pool of cofinanciers in 1998 with about US$1.4 million, out of
which only US$0.7 million was disbursed (53%). BOAD also added about US$0.2 million. Total
cofinancing was equivalent to 94% of the original amount at appraisal (in real terms). Counterpart funds
were lower than estimated at appraisal by US$1.5 million, equivalent to 69% of the original amount.
Cofinancing for operating costs increased by 21% to compensate for this decrease.
Within IDA's share of project costs, allocations to the different project categories changed during
implementation. Allocations to civil works, TA and studies, and training increased by 24%, 22%, and 41%,
respectively, decreased by 4% for vehicles and equipment, and were cancelled for the credit subcomponent.
Civil works, and vehicles and equipment experienced procurement and disbursement delays. When this
became clear, and to facilitate the total implementation of at least the planned civil works component, the
Bank asked Government to delegate its implementation to AGETUR. The increases in civil works costs
were caused by power shortages in Benin and most of West Africa in 1997. These shortages delayed
implementation of civil works, and resulted in increased energy costs and a subsequent revision of original
contract amounts and contracting additional civil works. The increases in allocations were made possible
by the cancellation of the credit component, the devaluation of the CFAF against the U.S. dollar, and the
higher U.S. dollar equivalent value of the SDR (9.3 million SDR Credit were equivalent to US$12.3
million and US$12.9 million at project appraisal and completion, respectively).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of PRSA is Unlikely. Some actions such as the privatization and legislative acts are
now the reality and the Government movement toward liberalizing the economy provides a sufficiently
strong incentive to support the achievements made under the project. However, MDR and the CARDERs
have been weakened. The POs and private operators are not yet strong enough to ensure the continuation of
-9-



project achievements.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Recognizing the need to continue the implementation of original project objectives, the Government
and donors began preparing a follow-up project during the last years of implementation, and a Project
Concept Document (PCD) was prepared. A later shift in the policy of donors towards a community-based
development approach prevented this process from being completed. It is likely that future financing for
community-based development will build on the achievements of PRSA. Meanwhile, donor support
continues through numerous projects to assist the Beninese agricultural sector in evolving in that direction.
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Rated Unsatisfactory. Although the project was consistent with the Government's development
vision, strategy, and priorities, and with the Bank's assistance strategy for Benin, it suffered from some
significant weaknesses in design that contributed to a mixed and unsustainable outcome. In addition, the
management capacity of the implementing agency and overall Government commitment was overestimated,
as demonstrated by delays in project implementation.
7.2 Supervision:
Rated marginally Satisfactory. A total of no less than 18 supervision missions (including a
Mid-term Review and a retrofitting mission) assessed the progress at various stages of project
implemerttation providing assistance as necessary, and making recommendations for better lending
performance. But, very often these recommendations came later than they should have. Two major factors
hampered the project: The much anticipated monitoring and evaluation system was never implemented, and
the multiplicity of Task Managers (6), Division Chiefs/Sector Leaders (6), Project Directors (3), and
financial controllers (2) during the project's life.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Unsatisfactory. During the life of the project, the Bank
underwent two reorganizations. Efforts were made by the successive task managers to adjust to the
evolving local situation, but most often adjustments came much later than they should have.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Rated Unsatisfactory because of an unrealistic implementation schedule, an overestimated
management capacity of the implementing agency, and a significant lack of coordination within
Government.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Rated Unsatisfactory because of the inability to release counterpart funds in adequate amounts and
in a timely manner resulting in procurement delays. Additionally, there were delays in adopting and
enacting key reforms.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Rated Unsatisfactory. Project management suffered because the management structure was
understaffed, centralized, and far removed from the field. The audit reports regularly reflected weaknesses
in financial management. The credit subcomponent was not executed due to a lack of coordination with the
other stakeholder agencies and because problems were not identified and addressed early in the
implementation stage. No monitoring and evaluation system was implemented although it was designed.
- 10 -



7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rated Unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Reduction in staff numbers: PRSA gave all staff an opportunity to leave, and those who left first
(willingly) were primarily the qualified high level staff whose skills and background would have been most
needed for the successful operation of MDR after restructuring. The reduction in personnel numbers did
not result in better and more efficient services at the scale it was assumed it would. When aiming at
streamlining institutions, project design should explicitly identify the staff whose expertise is no longer
needed and include incentives to retain those who have desirable skills.
Financing arrangement for CARDERs: Pre-financing, the arrangement whereby CARDERs would be
reimbursed for expenditures incurred for the implementation of their work program, was based on the
assumption that they had the necessary financial resources at the outset. After they transferred their
industrial and commercial activities, this was no longer the case. Turning an autonomous entity operating
on semi-commercial terms into a budget-supported entity was originally designed to rid the CARDERs of
the burden of generating their own funds and to allow them to concentrate on providing extension services
to farmers. In reality it increased bureaucracy and their dependence upon central ministerial services. This
reflected very negatively on the morale of CARDER staff and contributed to their attrition. The result was
the opposite of the original purpose, and capacity at the CARDERs was weakened rather than
strengthened. The project design should have ensured that sufficient resources are made available to the
CARDERs to enable them do their work adequately. It would be advisable in the future to treat CARDERs
as independent operators, and contract them directly for the tasks that they have to implement with
provisions for financing advances.
Project management: The structure was understaffed, too centralized, and too far removed from the field.
Having project management as an integral part of, and almost undifferentiated from, MDR's heavy
management structure proved a poor choice for managing this complex and geographically diverse project.
Although the choice was made to comply with participatory and sustainability concerns, it left project
management vulnerable to Government changes and to MDR's staff turn over. It also affected project
scheduling (effectiveness, implementation), institutional memory, and communication because project
management was only one task among many for MDR managers, and did not always receive priority
attention. Whether in- or outside Government, the project management unit should be clearly identified and
have the sole responsibility of managing the project.
Training and Visit: In hindsight, it appears that this approach was inadequate and costly. The concept of
Polyvalence of extension agents was ineffective. Extension agents were usually former agents from
technical services retrained for all-purpose extension services. Some did not have the education to
effectively widen their expertise. The expected polyvalence was therefore never achieved and neither was
the quality of service to producers improved.
The Village Level Participatory Approach (VLPA): When VLPA was introduced in early 1997, it was
readily adopted by the rural population and proved to be a very effective vehicle for the transfer of
technologies. It required much less input than Training and Visit, and more appropriately addressed the true
need of agricultural producers. Other ministries, seeing the success of VLPA in agriculture, wanted to
replicate this approach.
- 11 -



Transfer of activities: This exercise was well implemented in areas where the private sector and POs were
strong and able to adequately take over. However, it translated to a quasi-abandonment of services
provision in areas which did not produce a critical commodity (and hence, where the private sector/POs
were not much interested in filling the gap because of non-guaranteed financial returns). It would have been
beneficial, in the latter case, to devise an incentive framework to elicit the active participation of the entities
to which the activities are transferred. Proper and equitable management of transferred activities:
especially when management of funds is involved, it is of primary importance to provide the private sector
and POs with adequate training and an enabling environment, as well as provide support to the monitoring
and regulatory functions of the public sector.
Empowering farmers and communities: The transfer of responsibilities program, including financial
resources management, the effective provision of training, the reform of the cooperatives legislation and the
adoption of VLPA, among others, have all contributed to helping the communities gain self confidence,
take charge of their affairs, and become effective partners in development and effective negotiators with
Government and donors.
Project pace of implementation, scope, and complexity: The high level of illiteracy in the population and
its lack of knowledge and means did not permit a proper transfer of responsibilities at the pace at which it
was done under PRSA. Also, with such an ambitious and complex work program, it might have been more
appropriate to have PRSA as a Sector Program and not a one-time specific investment project.
Diversity of cofinanciers' objectives and procedures: The different donors had some divergence in vision
and objectives in the rural sector. Their review and disbursement procedures differed as well. This
contributed to hamper further the project's implementation. Given the scope and importance of a
project/program such as PRSA, it was necessary for the donors to agree at the onset of PRSA on the
objectives the project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PRSA was instrumental in introducing reforms and changes necessary for the survival and growth of
the agricultural sector including empowering framers and communities. This included the transfer of
commercial and industrial activities-which were inefficiently performed by the public sector-to the
private sector. The delays in project effectiveness and implementation were largely due to the serious
political and social implications of PRSA. Project management was inadequate for such a complex and
geographically diverse project.
However, the objective of reducing staff and salary costs while improving the efficiency of services
was not realistic and the results showed that this objective was somewhat ambitious. The PAS (Structural
Adjustment Program) superceded PRSA objectives, and reducing staff numbers and the salary burden on
the national budget has not contributed to a more efficient structure. MDR's and CARDERs' performances
have been less than optimal due to financial and human resources shortages. The inability of Government
to contribute to operational expenses as agreed exacerbates this situation. Furthermore, its inability to
cover all expenditures at the end of PRSA reflects the unrealistic expectation that it can do so with the
current resources at its disposition.
The transfer of responsibilities program was well implemented in some areas where the private
sector and POs are strong; however, it translated to a quasi-abandonment of services provision in other
areas where production does not concentrate on a critical crop. It performed worst in the livestock sector
- 12 -



because the financial support did not materialize and training was inadequate. In the wake of privatizing
PHARNAVET and creating the Veterinarians Order, some confusion reigns among the official private
importers and distributors of drugs that demands a quick response from Government to develop and enforce
sector regulations.
Finally, the number, the divergence in vision and objectives in the rural (or any other) sector, and the
procedural diversity of cofinanciers should not negatively impact project implementation. A project with
multiple cofinanciers should be considered an autonomous entity that operates according to its agreed
objectives.
(1) Cofinanciers:
The public sector agricultural institutions have largely been restructured, the targeted staff
reductions have almost been achieved, the national budget is unburdened to the extent possible, and MDR
and the CARDERs have transferred their commercial and industrial activities to a large extent. However,
the objective of better performance has not been attained due to a lack of financial resources, staff
capacities, and institutional and organizational weaknesses. The reduction in the national budget burden
and the projected operational budget for MDR and the CARDERs are not realistic or sustainable.
With respect to the exclusive and non-exclusive newly defined missions of MDR and the
CARDERs, PRSA has put much more emphasis on the non-exclusive activities of CARDERs-extension
and advisory services to POs in the context of the transfer of responsibilities program-versus the
exclusive activities such as planning, regulation, control, monitoring and evaluation. It would be necessary
for Government to devise an incentive framework to elicit the participation of the private sector in the
transfer of responsibilities, as well as to define its role in critical areas such as food security and vulnerable
groups, among others.
If the Government's contribution to operational expenditures remains largely insufficient, the MDR
and CARDERs will face a financial crisis with the closing of PRSA and other projects that support the
CARDERs. It is recommended that a follow-up project to provide support for the retained agricultural
services be based upon: support for the MDR's and CARDERs structure to increase their implementation
capacities and improve their efficiency; a Government guarantee that it will contribute adequate and timely
financial support for their operational expenses; and the finalization of liberalizing commercial agricultural
activities in the cotton and inputs subsectors.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
During the supervision missions, it was found that communities were especially pleased with the
VLPA system introduced under PRSA, and the assistance they received from the newly restructured
CARDER staff who helped them formulate projects and directly tap donor funds. But, during the ICR
mission, villagers seemed to feel abandoned by the CARDERs and favor more guidance from CARDERs in
extension and marketing, as was the case before PRSA.
10. Additional Information
None.
- 13 -



I



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Output Indicators
IaluorMtl -cta/Lts EEEt.                  - -
New Agricultural Sector Strategy emphasizing decentralization   Yes
developed
Agricultural institutions have been restructured       Yes
- New statutes for MDRAC and CARDERs elaborated/adopted   Yes
- New organizational charts developed                  Yes
- Personnel reduced by 62%                             Personnel reduced by about 55% up to 1994. In 2000, the number is thought to
have been reduced beyond what was originally planned through PRSA
- Critical commercial and industrial functions such as marketing, Yes, except the production of pre-base and base seed, which are still handled
management of inputs, seed production transferred to the private by govemment because they are not lucrative to private farmers. The planned
sector, notably farmers organizations.                 transfer of responsibilities helped tremendously in the emergence of producer
organizations, women groups, and specialized producer groups. It also helped
POs and villagers in general to take charge of their lives.
However, the anticipated level of performance has not been attained due to
low level of knowledge of producers, many of which are analphabet, and
irregularities in the management and financial practices of their POs.
- Skills-mix analysis completed                        Yes
-100% personnel counted                              Yes
-100% job description completed                      Yes
- Personnel management rules developed                 Yes, but personnel management not much improved
Legislation on cooperatives updated (revised in accordance with Yes
the objective of liberalizing the economy)
PHARNAVET privatized                                   Yes
Livestock health services action plan developed and translated    Yes
into a Veterinary Code
Training
- 76% of training program for Extension agents executed (1,350  At least 50% executed
person-month out of 1,770 person-month planned)
- 45% of training program for supervisors executed     No special training for supervisors was executed, but they were trained with
the Extension agents
250 Village Committees established in the Borgou in 1997 and   Yes. 256 Village Committees (VCs) have been established in the Borgou. In
decision taken to extend the village-based participatory  July 1999, a decision was taken to establish at least 140 VCs in Zou, 34 in
diagnosis approach to the remaining five regions of Benin  Mono, 64 in Oueme, 35 in Atlantique, and 21 in Atacora.
All planned (10) rural experimental sites established forjoint    Yes
farmers/research and extension programs
Civil works executed and received                      Yes, except MDR's headquarters where the building has not been fully
completed (menuiserie and aluminum installations not yet finished) and thus,
not yet received
Office equipment, laboratory and other equipment, computers,   Not fully received. For example, the 4 quarantine and border veterinary posts
etc.                                                   have been built but not equipped. They are used occasionally, only when
officials are alerted to the passing of a herd. This partial control is still
allowing for unannounced herds to cause trouble between farmers and herders
and transmit diseases across border. Also, the central epidemiological
laboratory has not been equipped as planned, and other veterinary laboratories
have been partially equipped.
Planned vehicles and mopeds received                   Yes
- 15-



Outcome/Impact Indicators
Agricultural institutions have been restructured so as to improve  The ad-hoc reduction in personnel resulted in a poor skill-mix.
the quality of their services, and increase farmers responsiveness
to these services                                          The quality of services offered (e.g., vulgarization, monitoring, control, etc.)
did not improve as much as anticipated due to lacking resources: human (in
number, skills, and training) and financial. The structure was lighter as
planned but not better prepared or more qualified (lacking training, staffaging
and many being below required level of expertise, staff not motivated). One
factor that played a role in having insufficient resources is that the savings
acquired at restructuring and reduction of personnel have not been reinjected
into the operating budget of MDR and the CARDERs.
Although the resulting structure provided some support to assist the
functioning of the POs (e.g., bookkeeping, TA), it was too light and
inadequately financed to sustain their development and growth, and ensure
proper monitoring and regulation of their activities.
Training for personnel remaining in public service         It was a success especially in bringing researchers, APVs and producers
together. However, in some instances, personnel capacities could not be
improved beyond a certain point.
Credit extended to those leaving the public service so as to assist Credit was cancelled due to inability to execute the subcomponent according
them reintegrate productive life                          to terms in Credit Agreement. It was substituted by some subsidizing which
went against the spirit of the intended intervention.
Extension                                                  No data available. However, empirical evidence shows that through VLPA it
75% of messages extended have been adopted while extent of   became possible to extend to producers messages/solutions that addressed
coverage relatively small (75,000 farm families per a total of    their needs which were readily adopted, such as soil fertility technologies, the
480,000)                                                   use of fertilizers on maize and crops other than cotton, improved varieties of
manioc, better seed conservation, etc.
Increased beneficiary satisfaction monitored through annual  Some assessment was done, but empirical evidence shows that beneficiary
beneficiary assessments                                    satisfaction is not increasing and is not up to expectation due to a mix of
causes: society-based, and lacking technical knowledge of APVs and financial
capacities of the CARDERs, the former falling outside of PRSA while the
latter falling mostly within PRSA.
-16-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                      ;ih                 atisatc         Auac *At   timAte3g/         %.f Appraisal
Restructuring of MDRAC 1/                              3.10
Restructuring of the CARDERs 1/                        8.40
Institutional strengthening  1/                                                  11.80                  103%
Training                                               2.00                       3.50                  175%
Research/development (Adaptive research in             3.40                       3.30                  97%
supervision reports)
Seeds production                                       1.40                       1.40                  100%
Livestock services                                     1.90                       1.90                  100%
Reinsertion of personnel 2/                            3.10
Retraining ofstaff 2/                                                             3.10                  100%
Management support                                     2.20                       2.20                  100%
Studies                                                0.60                       0.60                  100%
Total Baseline Cost                                   26.10                      27.80
Physical Contingencies                                2.20
Price Contingencies                                   1.30
Total Project Costs                             29.60                      27.80
Total Financing Required                              29.60                      27.80                   94%
I/ The SAR differentiated between the Restructuring of MDRAC and that of the CARDERs, while the Supervision reports tied them
together as Institutional strengthening
2/ The Reinsertion of personnel in SAR is the totality of assistance offered to the staff leaving the public service to help them
reintegrate productive life and consists of training and credit lines. Later on the credit subcomponent was cancelled and
substituted with subsidies
3/ As per supervision report of last site visit, February 1999
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
- E        uPiocrainent Metlwd I                          i
Expemdi4ure Category          1Ci     :         NCR               Other           .N.,F. 2J        TotalCost 3
1. Civil works                                  2.34                                 0.36              2.70
(2.34)
2. Goods                     3.40               0.60                                 3.19              7.19
(4.00)
3. Services 4/                                                     1.35              4.11               5.46
(1.35)
4. Training                                                        1.90              2.37              4.27
(1.90)
5. Operating costs                                                2.70               7.23               9.93
(2.70)
Total                 3.40               2.94              5.95              17.26             29.55
(12.29)
1/ IDA Credit
2/ N.B.F. stands for Non-Bank Financed
3/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit. All costs include contingencies
4/ Services cover TA, studies, and credit
- 17-



Project Costs (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
I. Civil works                   2.90                           0.73                          3.63
(2.90)
2. Goods                          3.85                          3.08                          6.93
(3.85)
3. Services 4/                    0.66                          2.16                          2.82
(0.66)
4. Training                       2.68                          2.39                          5.07
(2.68)
5. Operating costs                2.70                          6.64                          9.34
(2.70)
Total                     12.79                         15.00                         27.79
(12.79)
1/ Project costs financed by IDA were not available by procurement category (ICB, NCB, Other) at the time this report was
written, February 2000
2/ N.B.F. stands for Non-Bank Financed
3/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
4/ Services cover TA, studies, audits, and subsidies
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Civil works            2.34                 0.36     2.90               0.73      124%                 203%
Vehicles & Equipment   4.03                 3.19     3.85               3.08      96%                   97%
TA & Studies           0.54                2.20      0.66               1.88      122%                  85%
Training               1.90                2.37      2.68               2.39      141%                 101%
Credit                 0.78                 1.58       -              0.28 2/       -
Operating costs        2.73      4.90      2.68      2.70     3.39      3.25      99%        69%       121%
(including Livestock
& Seed production)
Total           12.3      4.9       12.4    12.8 3/    3.4      11.6    97%  4/       69%       94%
1/ Exact allocation to the different categories of the cofinancing of BOAD, DANIDA, and IFAD was not available at time of writing
this report in February 2000. However, the totality of the cofinancing is known
2/ Subsidies for reinsertion of personnel
3/ Real value 2000
4/ When comparing values in terms of 1991 USD
- 18-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
There is no mention of a Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Retum, or economic costs
and benefits projections, in the SAR of the project. The closest to an economic evaluation of
benefits is found in paragraph 6.11. of the SAR, referring to the impact on MDRAC's budget. The
statement in the SAR is the following: "The project would reduce the operating costs of MDRAC
and the CARDERs by more than half (from CFAF 7.8 billion in 1989 to CFAF 3.6 billion after
restructuring)".
During the ICR mission, it was found that due to the lack of monitoring and evaluation and
other data on project implementation it was not possible to confirm the SAR's projections. The
statement regarding costs to the national budget in paragraph 4.1. is based on the Govemment's
own assessment.
-19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Identification/Preparation
11/88          6       2 Sr. Economists, Institutions Specialist,
Livestock Specialist, Household Food
Security Expert, Early Warning and Food
Storage Expert
4/89           5       Sr. Economist, Livestock Specialist,
Economist, Institutions Specialist,
Agriculturist
11/89          7       Sr. Agronomist, 2 Sr. Economists,
Institutions and Management Specialist,
Livestock Specialist, Ag. Research Specialist,
Human Resources Specialist
2/90           6       Sr. Economist, Ag. Economist, Institutions
Specialist, FAO Rep., Director of Planning at
MDRAC, Extension and
Research/Development Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
7/90           1       Sr. Livestock Specialist
10/90          9       Sr. Economist, Extension and
Research/Development Specialist,
Institutions Specialist, Ag. Economist,
Agriculturist, Training Specialist, Architect,
2 Financial Analysts
2/91           1       Sr. Livestock Specialist
4/91           2       Sr. Economist, Sr. External Affairs
Counselor
5/91          11       Minister (MDRAC), Charge de Mission
(MDRAC), Chef de Cabinet (MDRAC),
Director General (CARDER Atlantique),
Rep. of French Assistance, Rep. of European
Development fund (EDF), Rep. of UNDP, Sr.
Economist, Principal Livestock Adviser,
Legal Adviser, Disbursement Specialist
- 20 -



Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Radng
(eg., 2 lDonomists< I FMS, etc
MontwYear                 Count                   Specialty                 Implementatin    Development
Progress        Objective
Supervision
8/91           1      Sr. Economist                                    S                S
2/92           1      Sr. Economist                                    S                S
3/92           1      Sr. Economist                                   U                 S
7/92           2      Sr. Economist, Ag. Economist                     S                S
11/92          3      Agronomist, Ag. Economist, Project Officer      U                S
3/93           2      Ag. Economist, Agronomist                        S                S
10/93          3      Ag. Economist, Agronomist, Civil Service         S               S
Reform Sp.
4/94           3      Ag. Economist, Agronomist, Financial             S                S
Analyst
8/94           3      Ag. Economist, Agronomist, Financial             S                S
Analyst
5/95           1      Agronomist                                       S                S
7/95           3      2 Agronomists, Ag. Economist                     S                S
10/95          2      Agronomist, Ag. services Specialist              S               S
12/96          4      2 Agronomists, Ag. Economist, Operations        S                S
Officer
3/97           4      2 Economists (inct. a Technical Manager),        S                S
Ag. Operations Officer, Ag. Services
Specialist
11/97          6      Sr. Economist, Agronomist, Ag. Services          S               S
Specialist, Ag. Operations Officer, Sr.
Livestock Specialist, Financial Analyst
9/98           4      Ag. Services Specialist, Ag. Operations         U                 S
Officer, Sr. Livestock Specialist, Financial
Analyst
2/99           3      Ag. Services Specialist, Ag. Operations          S                S
Officer, Sr. Livestock Specialist
ICR
2/99           1       Sr. Livestock Specialist                        S                S
2/00           1       Ag./Nat. Res. Specialist                                         S
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cyde                                     Actual/lxtest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                                      US$ ('00)
Identification/Preparation                          111.2                                            136.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                                66.1                                            179.1
Supervision                                         331.5                                            874.2
ICR                                                   9.3                                             25.1
Total                                  518.1                                           1,214.7
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ZSector Policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
I Institutional Development                0 H  O SU  *M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Gender                            O H OSUOM * N O NA
B Other (Please specify)
X Private sector development               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                 0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfictory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
C0 Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS*S   OU   OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS *U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS Os   *U   O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS  O U  0 HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS *U O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Development Credit Agreement, and subsequent amendments. Benin - Agricultural Services
Restructuring Project. IDA Credit 2285. 1991, 1992, 1996.
Disbursement Database and Reports. Benin - Agricultural Services Restructuring Project. IDA
Credit 2285. World Bank Integrated Controller's Systems. 1991 - 1999.
Evaluation du Projet de Restructuration des Services Agricoles au Benin. 1998. Netherlands
Economic Institute (NEI). An evaluation by some of the project's cofinanciers.
Implementation Report: Mission de Controle et de Surveillance. 1999. AGETUR.
Mid-Term Review Package. 1993. Benin - Agricultural Services Restructuring Project. IDA
Credit 2285.
Personal Communication with several colleagues at the World Bank's Headquarters and in Benin
who have been involved with the Benin Agricultural Services Restructuring Project. IDA Credit
2285.
Point et evaluation de l'appui a la reconversion. 1997. Cellule Nationale de Reconversion, MDR,
PRSA.
Procurement data and Reports. Benin - Agricultural Services Restructuring Project. IDA Credit
2285. World Bank ISR/SAP system. 1991 - 1999.
Rapport Final d'Execution. Projet de Restructuration des Services Agricoles (PRSA). IDA Credit
2285. Ministry of Rural Development, Benin. Government Implementation Completion Report.
1999.
Retrofitting Mission Package. 1997. Benin - Agricultural Services Restructuring Project. IDA
Credit 2285.
Staff Appraisal Report. Benin - Agricultural Services Restructuring Project. IDA Credit 2285.
Report no. 9442-Ben. 1991.
Statement of Mission Objectives, Back-to-Office Reports, Supervision Reports, and Aide-
Memoires. Benin - Agricultural Services Restructuring Project. IDA Credit 2285. 1988 - 1999.
- 24 -



Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN
MINISTERE DU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
PROJET DE RES TRUCTURA TION
DES SERVICES AGRICOLES
(PRSA)
RAPPORT FINAL D'EXECUTION
RESUME
FEVRIER 2000
- 25 -



INTRODUCTION
Dans le cadre du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel (PAS), les institutions
de d6veloppement doivent promouvoir le secteur prive dans !es domaines de la
production, du stockage, de la transformation et de la commercialisation des produits
agricoles, ainsi que dans celui des services, encourager l'organisation des
producteurs et la participation du monde rural au processus de developpement,
renforcer la capacite de l'Etat a assumer les missions qui doivent rester la
prerogative du secteur public
Le Projet de Restructuration des Services Agricoles (PRSA) s'inscrit dans
cette optique et vise a ameliorer 1'efficacite des institutions chargees de promouvoir
le developpement du secteur agricole qui determine dans une large mesure la
performance economique du pays.
Le PRSA est theoriquement mis en ceuvre a partir de novembre 1992 par le
Gouvernement beninois avec l'appui technique et financier de la Banque Mondiale,
du PNUD, du FIDA, de la GTZ, du FED et de la CFD auxquels se sont ajout6s plus
tard la BOAD et DANIDA.
1) Objectifs, Strategie et duree du Projet
1. 1. Objectifs
Se fondant sur les objectifs de l'administration dans le secteur agricole rural,
l'objectif"fondamental du PRSA est d'aider l'Etat dans le cadre de ses limitations
financiers, a acquerir une meilleure maitrise des activites de d6veloppement rural
afin de pouvoir faire face i l'evolution de l'equilibre de l'offre et de la demande des
produits agricoles due a l'urbanisation croissante du pays, a la degradation des
ressources naturelles et aux mouvements du commerce international.
Le PRSA vise a developper un outil indispensable a la planification a
l'execution et au suivi des operations.
1.2.  Strategie du Projet
La strategie d'assistance au secteur rural combinera une approche nationale
visant a rationaliser et a decentraliser les structures et les procedures de l'Etat et une
approche regionale qui vise le renforcement des organisations paysannes des
jeunes, des femmes et des couches les plus demunies.
La strategie du projet comprend des reformes de politique agricole
accompagnees des investissements necessaires pour le bon fonctionnement des
services et se developpe autour de:
- La construction des Services Centraux du MDRAC, des stations de recherche-
developpement et de production de semences, et des Centres d'Action Regionale
pour le Developpement Rural (CARDER);
- 26 -



- La compensation financiere des APE sortants et une assistance technique et
financiere a ceux presentant des projets viables pour leur insertion dans le
secteur prive;
- Le redeploiement du personnel restant et le renforcement de sa competence pour
assurer la perennit6 et l'efficacit6 des institutions concern6es;
- La systematisation des methodes de travail des divers services.
1.3. Dur6e du Projet
Le PRSA, mis en vigueur en novembre 1992 a effectivement demarre en mars
1993 et devrait durer 3 ans. II a connu trois prorogations successives qui renvoient
son terme a fin juin 1999. Le PRSA aura donc dur6 au total plus de six ans.
2) Conception initiale et resultats attendus du projet
2.1. Composantes du projet
Elles se repartissent en deux cat6gories:
211 Composantes de politique agricole
Elles comprennent:
a) Nouveaux statuts du MDRAC et des CARDER;
b) Regles de gestion du personnel
c) Legislation Cooperative
d) Reconversion des fonctionnaires excedentaires
e) Privatisation des fermes semencieres
f) Privatisation de la phamavet
g) Taxation des importations de viandes sbventionn6es
h) Plan d'action des services de sant6 animale
212 Composantes d'investissement
a) Restructuration des services centraux du MDRAC
b) Restructuration des Carder
c) Formation du personnel
d) Recherche-developpement
e) Production de semences
f) Services de l'elevage
g) Reconversion du personnel partant
h) Assistance a la gestion du projet
i) Etudes.
2.2.  Execution, pilotage et suivi-evaluation du projet
Le Projet sera execute par le MDRAC
Un ComitM de pilotage regroupant les bailleurs de fonds participant au
financement du projet et l'administration assurera la revue des plans d'execution
annuels
11 a ete prevu la mise en place d'un systeme de suivi-evaluation.
2.3. CoOt et financement du projet
- 27 -



D'un cout total de USS 29,6 millions, le PRSA est conjointement finance par
IDA   .                   12,3
Aide Fran,aise            3,2
FED                       2,9
GTZ                       0,9
FIDA                      4,0
PNUD                   _15
BENIN                      4,9
29,6
Au cours de 1'execution du projet, le Gouvernement beninois a sollicite et
obtenu l'appui de deux autres bailleurs pour le montants respectifs ci-apres:
BOAD              124.300.000 F CFA
DANIDA            990.000.000 FCFA
3. Mise en CEuvre du PRSA
3.1. Le dispositif d'execution du PRSA
3.1. 1. Les acteurs techniques
Ce sort:
- ie Comite national de Restructuration
- ia Cellule Nationale de Restructuration
- la Cellule Nationale d'Administration Provisoire
- six cellules departementales de Restructuration
- six cellules departementales d'Administration Provisoire
- sept Commissions de Restructuration
3.1.2. La Structure de Direction et de Gestion du PRSA.
Le dispositif de gestion peut etre sch6matise comme ci-apres:
Organigramme de la Structure de Gestion du PRSA
Directeur PRSA         ......................  Chef de Cabinet
Directeur de Cabinet                       (Directeur AdministratiO
Responsable Financier
( Comptable MJDR)
| Comptable PRSA  |        |  Charge du   |      | Charge du materielt
l   |   I  Budget   - et des marches
Collaborateur
Charge des stocks
- 28 -



3.2.  Ex6cution des Composantes de politique agricole
Les divers elements des composantes executes se presentent comme suit
3.2. 1. Nouveaux statuts du MDR et des Carder
3.2.2. Regles de gestion du personnel
L'adoption d'un meilleur code de gestion du personnel couvrant toute la
fonction publique a ete envisagee dans le cadre du PAS.
3.2.3. L6gislation Coop6rative
Le projet de texte finalise est transmis a l'Assemblee Nationale pour adoption
3.2.4. Reconversion des fonctionnaires excedentaires
- Effectif du MDRAC en 1990: 6.120 agents (non compo..
- Depart pr6vu par PRSA    3.500 personnes + 300 personnes des secteurs a
transferer soit une reduction de 62 %
- Effectif mis en place apres etude des profils par PRSA: 3.681 dont 2.843 dans
les CARDER et 738 au MDR soit un deficit de 992 agents par rapport a l'effectif
mis en place
Incidence de la restructuration sur le personnel
Le seul avantage du PRSA est d'avoir r6duit le perscnnr! ,uF. pf'. rpondre
aux condionalites du PAS.
Cette r6duction n'a pas 6te accompagnee par un appui consequent en
moyens humains, financiers, techniques.
Elle est plus accentu6e aujourd'hui a cause du blocage des recruterments
depuis 1986, les departs a la retraite, le vieillissement et les deces du personnel mis
en place.
3.2.5 Privatisation des fermes semencieres
3.2.6 Privatisation de la Phamavet
3.2.7 Taxation des viandes subventionn6es
Elle n'a pas pu etre r6alisee.
3.2.8. Plan d'action des services de sant6 arnimale
- 29 -



Partiellement execute, mais a connu de serieuses difficultes au niveau de
I'appui financier a octroyer aux veterinaires prives pour leur installation.
3.3.  Ex6cution des composantes d7nvestissement
Elle se rapporte a:
- la restructuration des services centraux et des CARDER qui consiste en ia
refection, en la construction de batiments, en ia dotatiscn    q ..-:- : M2teriels
techniques et materiels roulants
- la formation de certaines cat6gories de personnel a travers les recyclages, les
ateliers mensuels de revue de technologie (AMRT), les formations de auinzaines
quelques formations specifiques etc...
- la recherche-d6veloppement a travers les travaux de genie civil
- la production de semence
- I'equipement de la Direction de l'Elevage, la construction de 4 portes frontieres et
du centre National de Surveillance epidemiologique et d'hygiene alimentaire
- la conversion du personnel partout
* I'assistance a la gestion du projet
- les Etudes
4. Realisation des objectifs fondamentaux du PRSA
Au terme de l'ex6cution du PRSA, ii y a lieu de se demander si les objectifs
essentiels fixes ont et6 atteints.
* Le secteur public a-t-il ete degage des activites aue le secteur priv6 serait a
meme de mieux executer, et ces activites sont-e'fs   -'-   .     t mieux
executees ?
* L'agriculteur est-il devenu plus maitre de son destin, et parvient-il a s'assumer
efficacement ?
* La restructuration a-t-elle effectivement aid6 l'Etat a acquerir une meilleure
maitrise des activites de developpement rural ?
* Les couts a la charge du budget national ont-ils baisse sans prejudice cour Ia
qualite des service agricoles ?
4.1. Les transferts d'activites et leur efficacite
Au nombre des activit6s transferees, figurent:
- ia commercialisation du coton graine et autres produits agricoles,
-  la gestion des intrants,
- le transport,
- la mise en place et la recuperation du cr6dit:
-  In nrncid ,rtinn riz RPmtnr.  Pt nlqntq
- 30 -



- la maintenance des vehicules (garages);
- 1'execution de travaux (genie rural);
- la distribution de produits pharmaceutiques et les soins veterinaires.
La commercialisation du coton graine a et6 transf6re aux OP. Le transoort et la
mise en place du credit ont ete transf6res uniquement aux Unions Sous-
Prefectorales de Producteurs (USPP). Par ces transferts, les CARDER se
trouvent debarrasses d'activites qui autrefois etaient mal gerees et les
mobilisaient au point de les detourner de leurs missions d'orientation, de contr6le,
d'appui au monde paysan et de suivi.
Aucune defaillance majeure n'est actuellement relevee au niveau des
repreneurs des activites transferees dont certains (USPP du Borgou en particulier)
connaissent grace a leur structuration et a leur degr6 de maturite une avance re!ative
dans ia prevision des besoins en intrants et des facteurs de commercialisation, la
tenue des documents de commercialisation, la gestion des stocks, ',e calcul des
ristournes, etc.
Cependant, il faut signaler que le desengagement des CARDER de
I'approvisionnement des producteurs en intrants s'apparente quecui-e rau a un
abandon de l'activite pour ce qui est des zones non  !oto2z- ^. _t, 'a releve
n'est pas assuree dans ces zones oui les OP ne disposent pas de moyens
necessaires, alors que les prives n'y sont pas interess6s.
=L'activit6 de production de semences certifiees a ete transferee a des OP et a des
producteurs individuels.
La production semenciere souffre actuellement d'un certain relachement a cause
de la mevente enregistree lors de certaines campagne agricoles. La oerennisation de
I'activite transferee est conditionnee par l'augmnentation de la demande de semences
selectionnees encore faible, et par une bonne crgarisatiorn      .- ".nciere
garantissant des d6bouch6s a ses acteurs qui doivent -tre soutenus par un
programme d'assistance adequat.
La production de plants par les CARDER a ete arretee dans la plupart des cas et
transf6ree aux priv6s.
* Les activites de mecanique auto, t6lerie, et peinture ont ete arretees par les
CARDER, a l'exception des CARDER Atacora et Mono qui ont maintenu leurs
garages a cause de I'absence de competences et de concurrence locales. Le
transfert du Garage du CARDER Zou est un exemple a citer. pa-re cue I'unite a
et6 reprise par une bonne partie des anciens emr2n!o-   a_=.su?s en une
cooperative denommee COOP-METRA.
* Que ce'soit au niveau de la DGR ou des DAER des CARDER, le desengagement
de l'execution des travaux de construction d'infrastructures diverses est effectif,
sauf que la Brigade pistes rurales dans le d6partement.
L'Unite Pistes du CARDER Atlantique a 6t6 transfer6 a une societe creee et
dirigee par un ancien de l'unite. L'entreprise regroupe les comp6tences n6cessaires
- 31 -



pour une poursuite harmonieuse de l'activite puisqu'elle emploie la plupart des
anciens agents de l'Unite Pistes reconvertis. Le Programme Puits et Forage du
CARDER Atiantique a et6 6galement transf6re.
La poursuite harmonieuse des activites par l'unitA Pistes et ia Programme
Puits et Forage requiert un soutien consequent des institutions financieres.
La releve des activites transf6r6es ne souffre pas de problemes techniques
majeurs dans de domaine de la construction de batiments et de pistes, mais de
manque d'experience des entreprises locales dans le domaine des amenagements
hydroagricoles n'a pas permis d'obtenir des resultats encourageants, d'oCi ia solution
de rechange transitoire que constitue la formule de r6gie contr6lee.
o L'importation et la distribution des produits pharmaceuticues v6eterinares sont
actuellement assurees par des officines privees aOc czntre, les
vaccins et autres produits biologiques sont importes et g6r6s par la PHARNAVET
qui n'est presentement qu'une unite de la Direction de l'Elevage chargee du
controle et de l'inspection des produits veterinaires.
4.2.  La contribution du PRSA a rendre I'agriculteur plus maltre de son destin
La mesure de ce parambtre doit se lire a travers:
- I'appui technique des services competents du MDR a la structuration des OP et a
la formation de leurs membres;
- ie developpement du mouvement associatif;
- Ie transfert aux producteurs d'activites et de competences pour les rendre moins
dependants des services publics dans la satisfaction des besoins essentiels de
laur exploitations;
- la participation des producteurs organises ou non a la reflexion pour le
developpement a la base, au choix des technologies, et a !a r6alisation des
actions de developpement dans leur milieu;
-  1'envergure economique et financiere acquise par les OP _t :.eur participation au
financement d'infrastructures communautaires.
En depit de la subsistance d'un cadre institutionnel quelque peu inadapte et de la
faible coordination des activites d'appui, le PRSA a contribue de fa,on sensible a
insuffler aux OP une dynamique organisationnelle soutenue par un regain de
confiance en leurs capacites.
La forte structuration du monde rural (GV,USPP,UDP),qui s'insta!le progressivement
grace a l'impulsion des services agricoles, permet au producteurs d'avo,r
- 32 -



des canaux d'expression et de participer au debat sur le developpement rural aussi bien au
niveau local qu'a l'echelle nationale.
* L'implication des OP dans le programme de transfert de competences s'est traduit par la
naissance de structures falti6res avec une 6volution quantitative remarquable. A titre
d'exemples:
- dans le Mono, le nombre d'OP toutes categories confondues est passe de 445
en 1991 a 1163 en 1998, soit une progression de 61,73% en 7 ans;
- dans le Zou, seulement 8 sur [es 395 GV existants etaient impliques dans le
programme de transfert en 1991, mais aujourd'hui, tous les 486 GV du
d6partement adherent a ce programme;
- dans le Borgou, 13 sur les 461 GV existants etaient impliques dans le
programme en 1991, mais actuellement, tous les 515 GV du departement
participent au programme.
Aujourd'hui sur le plan national, toutes les sous-prefectures sont dotees d'une USPP,
tous les departements d'une UDP, et il existe une Federation des Unions de Producteurs
(FUPRO). On note egalement le developpement des Groupements Feminins et
l'emergence d'autres formes d'associations de producteurs (producteurs d'ananas,
d'anacardes, eieveurs de porcs, etc.)
* La prise en charge par les OP d'activites essentielles transferees par les CARDER
comme la commercialisation du coton graine, la gestion des intrants, la mise en place et la
recuperation du credit, , la production de semences et de plants, etc., traduit leur volonte de
s'assumer et d'acquerir une certaine autonomie dans la gestion de leurs affaires.
* De directives qu'elles etaient, les relations des CARDER avec le monde rural autrefois
passif prennent, conformement a la philosophie du PRSA, une allure de plus en plus
participative. En effet, les producteurs ont commence a jouer un r6le dans le diagnostic de
leurs problemes, I'identification de leurs besoins, et le choix de technologies appropriees. IIs
sont desormais representes, qu'ils soient organises ou non, a ia r6flexion sur l'organisation
et le developpement du monde rural.
Le transfert d'activites a favorise dans une large mesure la structuration des OP des
zones cotonnieres en particu7ier. Ces organisations sont devenues de veritables entreprises
disposant d'importants revenus constitues par les ristournes et les plus-values sur la
commercialisation du coton, et la remuneration des prestations de services dans le cadre
de la production et de la collecte du coton. Elles parviennent desormais a elargir leurs
activites (transport, transformation de produits, formation) et a realiser des infrastructures
communautaires (si6ge social, salle de reunion, magasins, etc.)
Au total, les OP sont devenues de veritables partenaires au developpement et des
interlocuteurs valables des pouvoirs publics et des bailleurs de fonds. Cependant, les
insuffisances qu'elles connaissent actuellement ne leur permettent pas de jouer pleinement
leur role. Dans cette rubrique, on peut citer entre autres:
- le faible niveau d'instruction de la majorit6 de leurs membres, qui les limite dans
leur aptitude a prendre un grand nombre de responsabilites;
- le faible niveau d'organisation et de formation des OP des zones non
cotonnieres, qui ne facilite pas I'emergence d'autres filieres porteuses;
- le faible niveau de maitrise des principes cooperatifs;
- le fonctionnement peu democratique des OP, oCi dans beaucoup de cas le
pouvoir est concentre entre les mains du president, du secretaire et du tresorier;
-  la faible capacite de gestion des dirigeants;
-  la faible representation des femmes dans les instances dirigeantes;
- 33 -



- la forte dependance des OP de la culture du coton qui represente la base de leur
structuration, et dont ddpendent leur sante et leur perennite;
- l'insuffisance des relations fonctionnelles entre les OP.
4-3 La contribution du PRSA a I'amelioration des performances des services
Le recentrage des activites de l'Etat dans le secteur du developpement rural
procede du souci de lui permettre de concentrer ses efforts sur les missions qu'il a
l'obligation d'assumer.
On distingue desormais:
- les missions exclusives, celles qui relivent des fonctions regaliennes de l'Etat, a
savoir l'orientation, la programmation, le suivi et la coordination des actions de
developpement, le contr6le reglementaire et technique;
-  les missions non exclusives comme la vulgarisation, le conseil aux exploitations
et l'appui aux organisations de producteurs, qui ne sont pas des missions de
service public mais que l'Etat peut exercer en meme temps que les prives et les
organisations professionnelles.
La restructuration des services en termes d'allegement de leur structure
organisationnelle et de redeploiement du personnel necessaire vise a les rendre plus
performants, but qui ne saurait etre atteint sans la disponibilite des moyens humains
materiels et financiers adequats, la formation et un changement positif dans les
comportements et methodes de travail.
L'objectif fondamental du PRSA etant de permettre a i'Etat de mieux maitriser les
activites de developpement rural, il y a lieu d'apprecier son impact sur l'exercice de toutes
les missions qui lui echoient en exclusivite ou non.
4-3-1 Appr6ciation de la performance des services centraux
Les services centraux ont essentiellement a charge l'orientation, la programmation,
le suivi et la coordination des actions de developpement, le contr6le reglementaire et
technique, ainsi que i'appui aux services decentralises dans ces divers domaines.
Pendant tout le temps qu'a dure le PRSA, I'amelioration des performances des
services centraux n'a pas ete tres sensible. En effet, leur situation en termes de
competence du personnel et de moyens n'a pas connu de changement significatif.
Contrairement aux espoirs que portait le PRSA, les moyens sont restes insuffisants, les
Directeurs et cadres de gestion n'ont pas re,u les formations prevues sur la programmation,
le suivi-evaluation, le traitement de donnees de gestion, etc. Bref, le personnel dans son
ensemble, qui n'a pas ete autrement prepare a assumer le role de definition de politique et
de controle de son execution se sclerose dans la routine.
4-3-2 Appreciation de la performance des CARDER
Avec l'int&kt particulier porte a la vulgarisation et a l'appui aux OP, missions
precisement classees non exclusives, le tableau des performances au niveau des CARDER
est plus reluisant.
La formation operationnelle, qui a ete assez satisfaisante, a permis de relever le
niveau de l'encadrement. L'acquis majeur de la vulgarisation est l'introduction de l'approche
participative d'intervention aupres des populations, qui associe ces dernieres au diagnostic'
et a la recherche de solutions a leurs problemes, a la mise en execution des mesures
retenues et a son evaluation. A cela if faut ajouter le renforcement des liens entre la
vulgarisation et la recherche.
Tout comme au niveau des services centraux, la preparation du personnel aux
missions exclusives a fait defaut.
L'integration insuffisante des differents services et directions n'a pas permis
d'obtenir la synergie que devrait creer la methode de travail en equipes pluridisciplinaires
recommandee par le PRSA. Ce manque d'integration a deteint sur l'efficacite des APV,
- 34 -



dont la polyvaience n'a pas ete assuree. 11 faut reconnaitre que cette situation trouve une
part de justification dans le bas niveau general des APV, que les formations organisees
n'ont pas encore reussi a relever de facon sensible.
L'insuffisance des diverses competences necessaires au niveau du Service
Vulgarisation et Recherche-Developpement (SVRD) et les difficultes de mise en oeuvre des
equipes de travail pluridisciplinaires limitent 1'efficacite de ce service, notamment dans le
domaine de la production animale et halieutique. En effet, faute de repondants sur le
terrain, la Direction de l'Elevage et la Direction des Peches eprouvent de serieuses
difficultes a apporter leur appui en vue d'insuffler une dynamique a la production animale et
halieutique.
4-3-3 Quelques causes de la faible performance des services
L'nsuffisance quantitative et qualitative des ressources humaines
Deja insuffisants lors du redepfoiement du personnel au niveau des entites
restructurees, les effectifs des divers services se sont progressivement degrades sans
compensation sensible, ce qui a conduit a des cumuls de postes parfois incompatibles.
L'indisponibilite en nombre adequat des qualifications requises n'a pas permis de
realiser entierement l'adequation poste/profil, ce qui a conduit au positionnement a certains
postes importants d'agents sous-qualifies que meme une bonne dose de formation ne
saurait relever au niveau requis (cas d'un ATDR qui occupe un poste reserve aux
ingqnieurs).
Au total, le dispositif de ressources humaines, boiteux des le depart, a vu son mal
empirer au fil du temps, ce qui n'autorise pas a en attendre des resultats meilleurs.
* Linsuffisance de la formation
11 s'agit aussi bien du defaut d'execution de toutes les formations prevues que de
l'insuffisance des themes developpes et des durees des formations dispensees.
Mais la formation devrait aussi et surtout engendrer une meilleure comprehension
des missions des CARDER et des directions techniques centrales restructurees, et viser a
l'instauration de ia methode de travail en equipe. Cette formation qui en un mot doit.
permettre d'edifier une culture de travail, cest-a-dire un ensemble de traditions
d'organisation et de savoir-faire assurant un code de comportement implicite et la cohesion
a l'interieur de l'equipe, a ete totalement absente.
* Linexistence d'une veitable qestion des ressources humaines
En fait, la non tenue a jour des donnees obtenues pendant l'tude des postes et le
redeploiement des agents, et les lacunes dans la gestion des carrieres sont les
consequences de l'absence d'une strategie de gestion des ressources humaines, du defaut
de formation des agents responsables, et du manque de moyens techniques. La gestion
des carribres reste alors tributaire de criteres parfois subjectifs, avec quelques fois
l'interference negative de considerations politiques.
* L'insuffisance des movens materiels et financiers
Avec la restructuration, les services centraux qui se trouvaient autrefois dans un etat
de denuement avance ont connu pour la plupart une certaine satisfaction, qui reste
cependant relative parce que le seuil des moyens necessaires pour un fonctionnement
optimal des services n'a pas ,te atteint.
S'agissant des CARDER dont la plupart disposaient auparavant de ressources
importantes et d'une large autonomie dans la gestion de leurs fonds, le PRSA est plutot
per,u comme un facteur de rationnement excessif, car les moyens offerts sont sans
commune mesure avec ceux qu'ils pouvaient acquerir grace aux revenus qu'ils tiraient des
activites industrielles et commerciales desormais transferees.
L'insuffisance de moyens financiers trouve sa justification dans:
- 35 -



-- la complexite des procedures propres aux bailleurs de fonds, qui ne facilite pas
la mobilisation des fonds;
l'inadaptation et l'inefficacite de la structure de gestion du projet qui non
seulement est fortement centralisee, mais encore est confondue avec la
structure traditionnelle de gestion du ministere qui n'arrive pas a apprecier les
priorites des services et dont la lenteur est evidente;
- les procedures comptables et financieres qui manquent de realisme en obligeant
les CARDER a prefinancer leurs activites au lieu de leur consentir des avances a
titre de fonds de roulement.
La faiblesse des echanaes entre les structures
11 s'agit des echanges entre les directions techniques du ministere, entre ces
directions et leurs correspondants dans les CARDER, entre les directions techniques d'un
meme CARDER, et parfois meme entre les differents services d'une meme direction. Cette
situation est favorisee par l'absence de procedures de travail propres a, faciliter la
communication directe entre les structures, en particulier entre le niveau central et le niveau
departemental.
* Le defaut de responsabi!isation des cadres autour d'obiectifs clairement d6finis
11 s'agit lad'un principe fondamental de la restructuration, qui n'a pas ete applique
non seulement a cause du manque de volonte, mais egalement en raison de l'inadequation
des moyens affectes au fonctionnement des services. En effet, la notion de "centre de
responsabilites" suppose non seulement la definition concertee d'objectifs clairs, mais
aussi la disponibilite des moyens necessaires pour atteindre ces objectifs, faute de quoi
l'appreciation des performances n'a pas de sens.
4-4 L'apport du PRSA a la decentralisation des activit6s
La decentralisation n'est pas une preoccupation nouvelle. Aussi bien avant qu'avec
la restructuration, l'organisation des services agricoles repond a une logique de
dscentralisation. Le cadre formel est propice, mais c'est la decentralisation du pouvoir de
decision qui fait defaut. Le moins qu'on puisse dire est que le PRSA n'a pas contribue a
cette decentralisation. Bien au contraire, il a soumis les CARDER en particulier a un regime
de gestion financiere fortement centralise, qui a beaucoup desservi leur efficacite. Une
v6ritable decentralisation des activit6s ne saurait se passer de la decentralisation de la
gestion des moyens.
4-5 Le PRSA et la reduction des couts a la charge du budget national
Comme impact sur le plan financier, le PRSA devrait se traduire par une reduction
des depenses de fonctionnement du MDR et des CARDER de plus de moitie en passant de
7,8 milliards de FCFA a un peu plus de 3,6 milliards de FCFA.
L'appreciation de l'impact effectif du PRSA sur le plan financier amene a apprecier
d'abord le realisme de l'impact attendu: le cout du fonctionnement du MDR et des
CARDER, en passant a 3,6 milliards de FCFA, serait largement inferieur a la masse
salariale estimee a l'poque a 4,9 milliards de FCFA. C'est dire que des economies
substantielles devraient etre realisees a travers l'assainissement de la gestion des'
structures, et grace a la reduction de la masse salariale par une recduction des effectifs de
personnel d'environ 62%.
La reduction reelle des effectifs qui est de 40%, a induit une reduction de la masse
salariale estimee en fin septembre 1993 a 912 millions de francs CFA.. Si ces effectifs
etaient restes en place, leurs salaires suite aux revalorisations et ajustements inter-venus
entre temps pourraient atteindre aujourd'hui un milliard de F CFA environ.
Mais il convient de noter que pendant toute la duree du PRSA, l'une des causes du
rendement non optimal du MDR et des CARDER est l'insuffisance des moyens humains,
materiels et financiers. En consequence, les budgets de ces structures pendant cette
- 36 -



periode ne sauraient servir a mesurer l'impact financier du PRSA dont un objectif est d'offrir
des services ameliores a un moindre coat.
Au total, on peut affirmer que la reduction engendree par le PRSA sur les charges de
fonctionnement n'a pas ramene ces charges a un niveau supportable par l'Etat sans
recours aux apports exterieurs. Par ailleurs, les difficultes de mise en oeuvre du scenario de
contribution degressive des ressources exterieures au fonctionnement - qui devrait etre
entierement pris en charge par le budget national au terme du PRSA - renforcent cette
affirmation. Les difficultes de l'Etat dans la liberation de sa contrepartie financiere au projet
n'augure pas d'une prise en charge imminente du fonctionnement des services agricoles
par les seules ressources nationales.
5- Respect par [es partenaires de leurs engagements
dans 1'execution physique et financi6re du PRSA
Les engagements doivent etre entendus comme responsabilites incombant a
chaque partie pour la bonne execution dans les delais prevus des diverses composantes
du projet.
Outre la charge de l'execution g6nerale du projet confiee au MDR, le gouvernement
beninois devait participer au financement du projet par une contrepartie de US S 4,9
millions n'incluant pas les salaires des fonctionnaires. Cette contribution doit se traduire
concretement sur les trois ans que devait durer le PRSA  par le financement du
fonctionnement (hormis salaires) du MDR et des CARDER a concurrence de 20% pour la
premiere annee, 50% pour la deuxieme annee, 80% pour la troisieme annee, le
complement a 100% incombant aux bailleurs de fonds et Ia prise en charge totale du
fonctionnement devant etre reelle a l'issue du projet.
Les engagements des bailleurs de fonds se resument a leur obligation de participer
au Comit& de pilotage du projet, et de liberer en temps requis et pour les fins prevues leurs
parts de financement respectives, soit en millions de dollars US 12,3 pour l'IDA, 3,2 pour
l'Aide franSaise, 2,9 pour le FED, 0,9 pour la GTZ, 4 pour le FIDA, 1,5 pour le PNUD. Les
derniers intervenants qui sont la BOAD et DANIDA doivent contribuer respectivement pour
l'equivalent de 124.300.000 et 990.000.000 FCFA.
5-1 Le respect des engagements par le Gouvernement
Le PRSA devait etre execute en trois ans suivant un calendrier qui distingue des
composantes a realiser avant l'entree en vigueur du credit IDA (revision des statuts, mise
en place des conditions de restructuration, etc.), et des composantes a realiser dans des
delais determines (reduction du personnel, revision de la legislation cooperative, code
veterinaire, privatisation de la PHARNAVET et des fermes semencieres, etc.).
Les composantes qui conditionnent l1entr&e en vigueur de l'Accord de credit signe le
12 juillet 1991 ont ete dans l1ensemble executees, avec cependant une certaine lenteur qui
justifie la mise en oeuvre de I'accord en novembre 1992, soit seize mois apres sa signature.
Hormis l'actualisation de la legislation cooperative qui se fait encore attendre, toutes
les autres composantes ont ete executees, mais pas toujours avec la celerite qui aurait pu
permettre de circonscrire le projet dans la periode de trois ans prevue, au lieu de la dur6e
effective qui depasse six ans. 11 faut reconnaitre que les implications politiques et sociales
du PRSA participent des causes de la lenteur enregistree dans son execution.
En ce qui concerne les engagements financiers, la partie beninoise ne les a pas
honores comme it se doit. Un amendement apporte a l'accord de credit en decembre 1992
consacre desormais les taux de 20% jusqu'au 31 decembre 1993 et 50% au dela de cette
date pour la part des charges de fonctionnement a supporter par la contrepartie beninoise.
Le tableau ci-apres presente le point des montants debloques au titre de la
contrepartie.
- 37 -



Exercice   Montant accorde    Montant debloque   Tranches et Dates     Observations
(millions de FCFA)  (millions de FCFA)  (millions de FCFA)
20.000.000 le 19/10192
1992          70 000.000        70.000.000   50.000.000 le 23i3/93
1993         200.000.000       200.000.000   200.000.000 le 11/4/94
1994         175.000.000       175.000.000   175.000.000 le 19/12/94
200.340.823 le 15/9/95
1995                           365 340.823   165.000. 000 le 23/2196
1996         400.000.000       400 000.000   200.000.000 le 12/8/96
_____ ___    _ _____ ____ ___  _ _____ _____ ____ 200.000.000   Ie  14/2/97
100.227.500 le 12/8/97
1997         200.455.000       200.455.000   100.227.500 le 2/12/97
68.451.709 le 23/10198    68.548.921 non
1998         274.000 000       205.451.709   68.500.000 le 24/11/98    debloques
68.500.000 le 29/12/98
1999         500.000.000       500.000.000   500.000.000 le 25/5/99
Total         _            2.116.247.532
11 ressort essentiellement de ce tableau que les montants accord6s ont ete
entierement debloques sauf pour l'annee 1998, et que le rythme de deblocage, tres
irregulier pour les montants accordes au titre des exercices 1992 a 1996, s'est ameliore a
partir de 1997 sans toutefois atteindre la perfection.
II est utile de pr&ciser que les montants accordes ne sont pas toujours ceux juges
necessaires et demandes. A titre d'exemple, 200,455 millions ont ete accordes pour 1997
sur une demande de 600 millions, 274 millions en 1998 sur 500 millions, et 500 millions en
1999 sur 700 millions demarid6s.
Au total, la contrepartie beninoise a contribue au fonctionnement des services dans
le cadre du PRSA pour 2.116.247.532 FCFA. Meme au taux de change du dollar US a 253
FCFA avant la devaluation et a 500 FCFA apres, ce montant ne depasse pas 4,37 millions
US $, ce qui est inferieur aux 4,9 millions US S qui incombent au Benin suivant le plan de
financement. En six ans d'execution effective du projet, le Benin n'a meme pas debloque la
totalite du montant prevu a sa charge pour les trois ans initialement retenus.
Les difficultes de fonctionnement des CARDER et du MDR trouvent dor.c une part
de justification dans l'insuffisance des montants liberes au titre de la contrepartie et de
l'irregularite de leur deblocage qui accuse parfois des retards allant jusqu'& un an.
5-2 Le respect des engagements par l'IDA
Le plan de financement du PRSA a reserve a ia charge de lIDA le montant de 12,3
millions de US $ representant 41,5%  du co&t total du projet, a affecter a l'achat de
vehicules et d'equipements, aux travaux de genie civil, a i'assistance technique, a la
formation, a la reconversion du personnel, au fonctionnement et aux etudes. La repartition
de ce montant par rubrique se presente comme suit:
Montant       %
(millions US S)
Genie civil                       2,0           16,3
Vbhicules et equipements          3,6           29,3
Assistance technique              0,5            4
Formation                         1,4           11,4
Reconversion (cr6dit)            0,7             5,7
Fonctionnement                   2,4            19,5
Non alloub                        1 7           13,8
Total             12,3            100
Le tableau ci apres resume la situation du financement deja assure par l'IDA et la
situation attendue a la fin des decaissements prevue pour septembre 1999.
- 38 -



Point du financement IDA
Categories de depenses   Consomme     Programmation 1I1 au 3019199  Situation finale
au 31/12198                                    escomptee
Programme   Decaisse  A decaisser
Genie civil             753.695.929  1.507.528.835 807.232.435 700.296.400   2.261.224.764
Equipements & vehicules    1572.328.145   36.195.498  18.096.004  18.099.494   1.608.523 643
Assistance technique    436.642.907   11.700.000  11.700.000            448.342.907
Formation              1.040.640.202   33.588.105          33.588.105  1.074..228.307
Reconversion du personnel _ _ _      _ _
Fonctionnement         1.417.987.392   16.282.522                      1.434.269.914
Etudes               I. I
TOTAL 5.221.294.575  1.605.294.960 837.028.439 768.266.521   6.826.589.535
La repartition en pourcentage du financement de l'IDA entre les differentes
categories de depenses, telle que prevue au plan de financement et telle que realisee, se
presente comme suit:
Categorie                              % prevu    % realis6
Genie civil                            16,3         33,1
Vehicules et equipements               29,3         23,6
Assistance technique                    4            6,6
Formation                              11,4         15,7
Reconversion (credit)                   5,7          0
Fonctionnement                         19,5         21
Non alloue                             13,8          0
Total                     100          100
A l'issue de tous les decaissements, le credit IDA aura ete entierement consomme.
La repartition des montants montre que les travaux de genie civil ont absorbe plus du
double de ce qui etait prevu au depart. Ceci n'a pu se realiser qu'au detriment des
rubriques dont la part a diminue ou s'est annulie (vehicules et equipements, reconversion
du personnel) ou devait davantage augmenter avec la repartition du montant non alloue
(formation, fonctionnement).
Tout comme la contrepartie beninoise, la contribution de l'IDA au fonctionnement est
insuffisante au regard de la duree effective du projet qui est de six ans au lieu de trois.
S'agissant des travaux de. genie civil, il faut remarquer que l'IDA n'a pas facilite leur
realisation dans des delais souhaitables. En effet, face aux difficultes objectives d'evolution
de certains chantiers de construction, la Direction du Genie Rural a propose depuis aocit
1997 une revision des marches de l'ordre de 30%, negociable avec les entrepreneurs
jusqu'a hauteur de 20%. Cette proposition qui aurait permis la livraison des travaux courant
1998 n'ayant pas recu Iaccord de la Banque mondiale, les chantiers sont restes en
souffrance jusqu'6 leur reprise en main recente par I'AGETUR. Plut6t qu'une augmentation
des prix de l'ordre de 20%, le projet doit supporter une variation situee entre 25 et 40% (y
compris le paiement de Ia maitrise d'oeuvre et de la maitrise d'ouvrage dofdgude), avec ia
certitude que les travaux ne seront acheves qu'apr6s le 30 juin.
5-3 Le respect des engagements par les autres partenaires
GTZ- Dans le cadre du PRSA la GTZ a appuye le CARDER Atlantique pour environ 585
millions de FCFA, soit 1,3 million de DM ou 0,9 million US$ (montant inscrit au plan de
financement) repartis en assistance technique, moyens de transport, equipements et
formation. Les decaissements, effectues pour la plupart en 1995 et 1996 sans interference
de la structure de gestion du PRSA, n'ont pose aucun probleme. La GTZ n'a donc pas failli
a ses engagements.
- 39 -



PNUD - La participation du PNUD au PRSA a ete assuree a travers Ie projet
BEN/901007 (( Appui a la restructuration des institutions de d6veloopement rural
execute par ia FAO et clotur6 depuis le 31 decembre 1994.
La contribution du PNUD SE CHIFFRE 0 1,14 millions USS pcur ur.e prevision
de 1.35 millions USS au plan de financement. Le deblocage de ces fonds n'a pas fait
appel a la structure de gestion du PRSA et n'a connu aucune difficulte.
FED - Le FED devait participer au PRSA par le financement du Projet de
developpement integre du Mono, une contribution au financement du volet
<< recherce-developpement >) (vehicules, equipement, genie civil et fonctionnement
des CPE et des SEMP), et une contribution aux rubriques credit a la reconversion,
formation et fonctionnement du volet (( reconversion du personnel >.
Le Projet de developpement int6gr6 du Mono, demarr6 en 19-9? et echeve en
1997, a ete execute grace au financement du rED,
Le FED n'a pas effectivement particip6 financierement a la r6alisation de [a
composante R-D. ii en est de m6me du volet < reconversion du personnel )> pour
lequel le seul intervenant est la CFD qui a pris en charge [es subventions
d'6quipement aux partants (en remplacement des cr6dits qui n'ont pas pu voir le jour)
et leur formation.
FIDA - L'apport du FIDA dans le financement du PRSA se rapporte a la deuxieme
phase du Projet de developpement integr6 ex6cute par le CARDER Atacora qu'il a
co-financ6 avec la BOAD ET LE Gouvernement beninois de 15992 : ^7. Cat soport
a permis d'acqu6rir les moyens de transport et !'equipernent, et d'assurer le
fonctionnement et la formation pour ia vulgarisation. Malgr6 les difficult6s habituelles
de mobilisation de ia contrepartie beninoise destin6e au fonctionnement, le FIDA a
regulierement liber6 sa part.
Aide fraincaise - L'aide francaise a servi a financer le fonctionnement des Cellules
chargees de la reconversion du personnel, les subventions d'equipement aux
fonctionnaires partants, la formation, I'assistance technique pour la mise en place
d'un systeme de gestion du personnel.
L'apport total est 6valu6 a 650 millions de F CFA, so,t i c.ui\'-e  de 1 million
de USS, alors que la prevision inscrite au plan de financement est de 3,2 millions de
USS.
BOAD Le cr6dit de la BOAD est financement complementaire pour la construction
du siege du MDR dont les travaux de finition sont en cours.
Danida Le don danois est destine au financement de travaux de genie civil, de
l'assistance technique, de la formation et du fonctionnement. Sa gestion est assur6e
par la Banque mondiale.
- 40 -



6 Analyse de l'experience du PRSA
Le PRSA est un projet institutionnel de grande envergure qui a eu pour fondement
diverses etudes suscitees par des situations objectives dont la resolution etait devenue
imperieuse pour la survie et la prosperite du secteur agricole.
L'appreciation des resultats obtenus par rapport aux attentes amene a conclure a un
succes tres relatif, dont 1'explication doit etre recherchee aussi bien dans la conception du
projet que dans son execution.
6-1 La demarche d'elaboration du projet
En tant que projet de restructuration des services agricoles, le PRSA a pour premiers
beneficiaires les producteurs agricoles, dont il doit tenir compte des motivations
profondes. Cette preoccupation n'a pas ete absente dans la demarche d'elaboration du
projet, dans la mesure ou une consultation en agro-sociologie a e  organisee dans le
cadre des 6tudes preparatoires de la restructuration, pour recueillir les appreciations
des producteurs et de leurs organisations sur les services rendus par les CARDER, de
recenser leurs attentes et d'en tenir compte pour la formulation des propositions de
restructuration.
.  La participation des cadres du MDR au processus d'laboration du PRSA  a e
essentielle lors de la conception des nouveaux organigrammes et de la determination
de moyens humains necessaires.
L'experience du projet n'autorise pas a affirmer que l'adh6sion des acteurs et des
beneficiaires aux objectifs et leur engagement recherches a travers leur participation a e
absolument acquis. En effet, beaucoup de producteurs continuent d'avoir jusqu'a ce jour
une vague connaissance du PRSA, pendant qu'un grand nombre de cadres du MDR
ignorent ses contours precis, demeurent sans conviction quant aux possibilites d'atteinte
des objectifs ou ne semblent pas s'y reconnaitre. Les causes de cet etat de fait doivent etre
recherchees dans l1efficacite de la participation, I'instabilite des cadres responsables a leurs
postes et la resistance naturelle des hommes au changement.
6-2 La rationalite des objectifs et de la strategie du projet
Rendre l'agriculteur plus maltre de son destin, degaaer le secteur public des
activites que le secteur priv6 serait a meme de mieux executer, decentraliser les activites
de l'Etat et accroitre la performance des services agricoles sont des objectifs qui
s'accordent bien avec le contexte economique, politique et social du pays caracterise par
une volonte reelle de democratisation et de liberalisation.
En revanche, l'objectif de reduction des couts avec une amelioration concomitante
des performances des services semble a priori manquer de realisme, et les resultats ont
montre que cet objectif etait plutot ambitieux.
En fait, I'objectif semble tenir plus des preoccupations du PAS de reduire les
charges que de la volonte d'ame1iorer les performances des services. Cela est d'autant plus
evident que dans la pratique, le projet n'a pas beneficie des recrutements de personnel
demandes alors que les etudes qui en constituent la base ont fait clairement etat des
deficits de competences et propose les recrutements appropries, en meme temps que le
degagement du personnel en surnombre. L'amelioration des performances ne saurait etre
obtenue sans l'affectation aux services des moyens adequats, dont les ressources
humaines.
Lidee pe restructurer les services agricoles a vu jour et les etudes ont commence
avant le PAS, mais le PRSA a pris corps dans le PAS, ce qui lui a fait perdre son originalite
au point d'en faire a certains egards une "conditionalit6" du PAS.
6-3 La gestion du PRSA
La structure chargee de la gestion du PRSA est pour le moins inadaptee, tant au regard
de l'envergure de ce projet qui touche toutes les directions techniques centrales du
MDR et les six CARDER repartis sur toute l'etendue du territoire, qu'au regard de sa
- 41 -



nature institutionnelle avec ses implications politiques, 6conomiques et sociales, et de la
complexite de son financement qui mobilise une multitude de bailleurs de fonds aux
procedures differentes. Plut6t qu'une structure de gestion diluee dans l'administration
routiniere et lourde du cabinet du MDR, il aurait fallu une entite specifique autonome et
stable dependant du MDR, dotee de moyens humains, materiels et financiers adequats
et operant suivant des methodes de travail bien con9ues.
*  A l'inadaptation de la structure et a l'inefficacite de ses methodes, s'ajoute son
instabilite, qui est ia cause principale de l'absence de m6moire institutionnelle au niveau
du projet. En effet, le PRSA en est aujourd'hui A son troisieme Directeur, cette fonction
6tant liee au poste politique tres mouvant de Directeur de cabinet, et a son deuxieme
Responsable financier. Trois Chefs de cabinet se sont deja succedes dans son
dispositif de gestion, alors que deux cadres ayant recu des formations specifiques et
commis a des taches importantes l'ont quitte pour d'autres postes.
* S'agissant de la gestion financiere du PRSA, elle a ete marquee par une forte
centralisation, en depit des conclusions et recommandations des etudes sur la gestion
administrative et financiere des services restructures. La grande difficulte pour ces
services a ete le systeme de prefinancement des depenses impose par les procedures
financieres et comptables du PRSA, qui suppose que les services disposent des
ressources suffisantes pour executer leurs programmes dactivites avant de se faire
rembourser, ce qui n'est plus le cas general depuis leur desengagement des activites
industrielles et commerciales. Ce systeme a beaucoup desservi la performance des
services qui n'avaient d'autre choix que d'executer partiellement leurs programmes ou
de les ajuster a leur capacite de prefinancement. Les concepts de "centre de
responsabilites" et de contrat-programme si chers a la restructuration ont ete ainsi
battus en breche, alors qu'une d6centralisation judicieuse de la gestion financiere par la
mise a disposition d'avances renouvelables sur justification aurait permis aux services
de mieux fonctionner.
6-4 Le pilotage et le suivi-evaluation du projet
Le Comite National de Restructuration, en tant qu'instance de pilotage du PRSA
devrait non seulement definir les orientations et !es r6gles de restructuration, mais
egalement adopter les programmes d'action et en suivre l'execution.
Dans la pratique, ce Comite n'a pas joue son r6le en matiere d'adoption et
d'appr4ciation de l'execution du projet. Cette situation a etb favorisee par i'absence de
programmes periodiques et le defaut de mise en place par le MDR du systeme de suivi-
evaluation propose par le Bureau d'etudes ADE commis a cet effet conformement aux
previsions du PRSA.
6-5 Le financement du projet
Pour le financement du PRSA, le Gouvernement b6ninois a obtenu le concours de
huit bailleurs de fonds differents, dont l'IDA, la BOAD et le FIDA au titre des prets, I'Aide
fran9aise, le FED, la GTZ, le PNUD, et DANIDA au titre des dons.
La multiplicite de ces intervenants et la diversite de leurs procedures de
decaissement plus ou moins complexes et contraignantes, et les differences dans leurs
approches des questions de developpement rural, n'ont pas du tout facilite la gestion
financiere du projet. A ces handicaps, il faut ajouter l'inefficacite de la structure de gestion
et tous les problemes crees par le non respect par la partie beninoise de ses engagements
de contrepartie.
- 42 -



Conclusion
De l'experience du PRSA, les lecons suivantes doivent etre tirees pour la conception
et la mise en oeuvre des prochaines actions de developpement.
* L'approche participative doit etre consideree comme un imp6ratif a tous les niveaux de
l'laboration des futurs projets ou programmes, car elle seule peut assurer a priori de la
rationalite des choix et de I'adh6sion des beneficiaires et des acteurs. La participation
doit etre reelle, sincere et efficace, et tout programme doit etre base sur une politique
clairement definie qui emporte l'adhesion de tous.
+  La definition des objectifs doit etre realiste et a l'abri des interferences negatives comme
celies du PAS qui, polarise par "I'imperatif" de reduction des charges, n'a pas permis au
PRSA de doter les services de moyens adequats en ressources humaines pour leur
fonctionnement regulier.
+ Tout programme devra desormais prevoir expressement sa structure de gestion. Cette
structure doit etre efficace et stable, dotee de moyens humains, mat&riels et financiers
ad6quats, et doit op6rer suivant des methodes de travail et des procedures. bien
definies. Cela permettra d'eviter des improvisations de structures mal adaptees.
e  11 est indispensable que les structures responsables de 1'ex6cution des projets soient
considerees comme de veritables centres de responsabilites et disposent a ce titre des
moyens necessaires pour l'execution de leurs programmes sur la base de laquelle elles
seront appreciees. Elles doivent donc jouir d'une certaine autonomie, qui exclut la
centralisation a outrance de la gestion au niveau du cabinet du MDR.
i  La realisation optimale des objectifs de tout projet suppose une bonne programmation
des actions, un suivi et une evaluation reguliers de leur execution dont les resultats
doivent effectivement perrmettre a la structure de pilotage d'operer des ajustements et
de prendre les mesures necessaires.
* Quels que soient le nombre des partenaires au financement et la diversite de leurs
procedures, le prcqet doit etre considere comme une entite devant fonctionner suivant
des proc6dures homogenes. Qu'il s'agisse alors de prets ou de dons, les bailleurs de
fonds doivent consentir a se departir de leur originalite pour se fondre au niveau du
projet dans une procedure uniforme et moins contraignante. Les parties au financement
doivent respecter leurs engagements. L'Etat beninois en particulier doit faire preuve de
responsabilit6 et de sincerite en ne s'engageant que dans la mesure de ses capacites
et en liberant sans defaillance sa contrepartie (sur laquelle est souvent indexee la
participation de certains bailleurs). En tout etat de cause, ii ne doit pas perdre de vue
que l'agriculture est un secteur prioritaire qui doit beneficier de financements
substantiels pour constituer effectivement la base de i'economie.
En conclusion gen&rale, il faut reconnaitre que le PRSA a eu des faiblesses, mais
egalement des acquis importants. Les programmes et actions devant le relayer doivent
s'inspirer de lecons ci-dessus, et veiller particulierement a combler les lacunes, a consolider
les acquis, et a renforcer la capacite des services en vue d'un appui plus efficace aux
producteurs pour leur permettre de mieux s'assumer.
- 43 -



