Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2285 BEN 
(Agricultural Services Restructuring Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 12, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2285 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated May 31, 1991 from the 
Borrower describing a series of actions designed to achieve certain policy objectives 
in the Borrower's rural sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment 
to the carrying out of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from various cofinanciers grants and 
credits in an aggregate amount equivalent to about $12,000,000 to assist in financing 
the Project and the Program on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
(D)
the Borrower will carry out the Project through MDRAC and with the 
assistance of Financial Intermediaries;
(E)
the Borrower will make available to each Financial Intermediary a portion 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (6) in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement under an agreement satisfactory to the Association; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MDRAC" means Ministcre du developpement rural pour le l'action 
cooperative, the Borrower's ministry in charge of rural development and cooperative 
actions;
(b)
"CARDER" means Centre d'action regionale pour le developpement rural;
 
(c)
"BCEAO" means Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest the 
common central bank of the Borrower and other members of the West African Monetary 
Union;
(d)
"Management and Financing Agreement" means an agreement entered into by 
the Borrower and a Financial Intermediary pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(e)
"Financial Intermediary" means a financial intermediary (including a 
non-governmental organisation) which has been selected by the Borrower to participate 
in the Project in accordance with procedures, and financial, operational and technical 
criteria, satisfactory to the Association;
(f)
"Reinsertion Project" means a specific project to be carried out by a 
Qualifying Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(g)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Financial 
Intermediary to a Qualifying Beneficiary for a Reinsertion Project out of the proceeds 
of the Credit made available to such Financial Intermediary under a Management and 
Financing Agreement;
(h)
"Qualifying Beneficiary" means a person who having met eligibility 
criteria satisfactory to the Association is for that reason qualified to obtain 
Sub-loans under the Project;
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(j)
"Franc CFA" and "FCFA" mean Franc de la Communaute Financicre Africaine, 
the common currency of the Borrower and other members of the West African Monetary 
Union.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to nine million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
9,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in BCEAO on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2001 and ending May 1, 2031. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2011 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  4
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MDRAC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and credit practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to each Financial Intermediary proceeds 
of the Credit allocated to Category (5) in Schedule 1 to this Agreement under an 
agreement (the Management and Financing Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Financial Intermediary on terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association. The Management and  Financing Agreement shall include 
provisions requiring the Financial Intermediary concerned to: (i) select Qualifying 
Beneficiaries in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures satisfactory to 
the Association; (ii) provide in each Sub-loan agreement that a Qualifying Beneficiary 
(A) pay on a Sub-loan annual interest which shall not be less than the prevailing 
interest charged for similar loans on the Benin open market, and (B) repay the 
principal of a Sub-loan in not more than 7 years (including not more than 18 months of 
grace); (iii) pay annual interest, in a case where the proceeds of the Credit are 
relent to such Financial Intermediary, at a rate equal to the prevailing market long 
term savings rate and on the same repayment period as under the respective Sub-loan 
agreements; (iv) prepare models of applications satisfactory to the Association to be 
used in the approval of projects presented by Qualifying Beneficiaries for financing 
under Sub-loans; and (v) require careful consideration of environmental concerns to be 
included in the terms of reference of any agricultural investments studies.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make arrangements acceptable to the Association 
to pay compensation to persons whose employment is terminated under the Program.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a joint mid-term 
review of the progress achieved in carrying out the Project and the Program by June 
30, 1992.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
Page  5
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has taken actions satisfactory to the Association to 
commence the restructuring of MDRAC and the CARDERs;
(b)
the Borrower has: (i) furnished to the Association a plan of action 
acceptable to the Association for monitoring performance under the Project; and (ii) 
selected an institution acceptable to the Association which will evaluate performance 
under the Project;
(c)
the Borrower has employed consultants to assist MDRAC in the execution of 
Part H.1 of the Project and said consultants have assumed reported for duty in Benin;
(d)
the Borrower has made arrangements acceptable to the Association to pay 
compensation due to persons whose employment will be terminated under the Program in 
1991; and
(e)
the Borrower has appointed external auditors acceptable to the 
Association to carry out the audits referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower in charge of finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministcre du Plan, de l'Economie
   et des Finances
P.O.Box 342
Cotonou, Benin
Page  6
Facsimile No.: 
Telex:
 
30-16-60  
51-18-MINIPLAN
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Candide Ahouansou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works               1,500,000        100%
     under Parts A,
     D.1, E and F
     of the Project
(2)  Equipment and                              100%
     vehicles:
     (a) under                 1,800,000
         Parts A and
         B.1 of the
         Project
     (b) under                   600,000
         Parts D.1, E,
         G.1 and H.2
         of the Project
Page  7
     (c) under                   300,000
         Part F of
         the Project
(3)  Technical Assistance        380,000        100%
     under Parts G.1 and
     H.2 of the Project
(4)  (a) Training under          980,000        100%
     Parts C.1 and F of
     the Project
     (b) Training under           80,000
         Part G.1 of the
         Project
(5)  Credit:                                    100%
     (a) under                   300,000
         Part G.1
         of the
         Project
     (b) under                   230,000
         Part F
         of the
         Project
(6)  Operation and                              80% expendi-
     Maintenance:                               tures incurred
                                                up to December
                                                31, 1992; 50%
                                                of expenditures
                                                incurred up to
                                                December 31, 1993;
                                                thereafter 20%
     (a) under                 1,770,000
         Parts A,
         B.1, D.1,
         E, G.1 and
         H.2 of the
         Project
     (b) under                    40,000
         Part F
         of the
         Project
(7)  Unallocated               1,320,000
         TOTAL                 9,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operation and Maintenance" means 
the costs incremental to the Project of office and vehicle maintenance and of 
supplies, fuel and travel, but excluding salaries, of the agencies of the Borrower 
involved in carrying out the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) payments made for expenditures under Categories 2 (c), 5 (b) and 6 (b) 
until the Borrower has prepared a livestock health services action plan satisfactory 
to the Association; (c) payments made for expenditures under Categories (2) (a) and 
(4) (a) unless the Association shall be satisfied, after the exchange of views 
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, with the measures taken by the Borrower 
to restructure MDRAC and the CARDERs; and (d) payments made by a Financial 
Intermediary under an agreement for a Sub-loan unless a Management and Financing 
Agreement has been entered into by that Financial Intermediary and the Borrower on the 
terms and conditions set out in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in carrying out a 
program of rural development activities that adequately copes with the changing 
balance between supply and demand for agricultural products arising from Benin's 
increasing urbanization, the degradation of its natural resources and movements in 
international trade.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
MDRAC
 
Completion of MDRAC's headquarters buildings and acquisition of office 
equipment, including data processing equipment, and vehicles for use by MDRAC.
Part B:
CARDERs
 
Rehabilitation of small buildings of the CARDERs and acquisition of vehicles and 
office equipment:
1.
for the use of the Bourgou and Zou CARDERs; and
 
2.
for the use of the Atacora, Atlantique and Mono CARDERs.
 
Part C:
Training
 
Training of directors and other management staff, sector chiefs, operational 
training managers, subject-matter specialists, supervisors, and Agents Polyvalents de 
vulgarisation:
1.
for MDRAC and the Bourgou, Oueme and Zou CARDERs; and
 
2.
for the Atacora, Atlantique and Mono CARDERs.
 
Part D:
Research and development
 
Carrying out of the following research and development activities in:
1.
the Bourgou, Oueme and Zou departments; and
 
2.
the Atacora, Atlantique and Mono departments:
 
(a)
Carrying out of farm level tests and research and of research on 
experimental sites in the farm environment.
(b)
Construction of housing for researchers at the Ina Research Station and 
connection of the Niaouli Research Station to the electricity network; installation of 
pumping equipment and acquisition of livestock research equipment for the use of the 
above-named Research Stations.
(c)
Strengthening of existing experimentation centers ("centres permanents 
d'experimentation or CPEs) in order to extend their research capabilities beyond 
cotton research; acquisition of mopeds, and of research equipment; and rehabilitation 
of CPE offices and stores.
(d)
Strengthening of the Food Technology laboratory with research equipment, 
a pick-up truck, provision of outside service and analyses, and acquisition of 
technical documentation.
Part E:
Seed Production
 
Acquisition of equipment, including seed shelters and dryers, maize shelters, 
irrigation pumps and equipment for producing pre-base seed and one small truck; and 
training of seed farm staff with the assistance of consultants: for the Alafiarou farm 
in Borgou province; and for the Agbotagon farm in the Atlantique province. 
Part F:
Livestock Services
 
1.
Strengthening the Borrower's central and regional capacity and procedures for 
Page  9
surveillance and control of epizootics, veterinary public health, livestock and meat 
imports and exports, imports of veterinary pharmaceutical and livestock feeds and 
inspection of foodstuffs of animal origin.
2.
Acquisition of equipment and vehicles for the Livestock Directorate.
 
3.
Construction and equipping of a central laboratory for epidemiological 
diagnostic work and routine analyses.
4.
Construction and equipping of quarantine and border veterinary posts.
 
5.
Provision of financing in the form of Sub-loans to Qualifying Beneficiaries 
intending to carry out private veterinary practice. 
Part G:
Reinsertion of Redundant Personnel
 
A reinsertion program for:
1.
the personnel of MDRAC and the Atlantique, Bourgou, Oueme and Zou CARDERs; and
 
2.
the personnel of the Atacora and Mono CARDERs: 
 
(a)
training of former middle and higher level personnel, subject-matter 
specialists, repairmen and truckers in simple business management and marketing; and
(b)
provision of financing in the form of Sub-loans to Qualifying 
Beneficiaries for Reinsertion Projects.
Part H:
Project Management
 
Establishment of selection commissions and restructuring units in MDRAC and in 
each CARDER and a national committee and an appeals committee for the purposes of 
reorganzing MDRAC and the CARDERs and of carrying out Part G of the Project.
Part I:
Studies
 
1.
Studies necessary for the reorganization of MDRAC and the CARDERs.
 
2.
Carrying out of studies on the strategy and programming of agricultural research 
in Benin, on the traditional cultivars of food crops, and preparation of an analytical 
and critical assessment of technical messages used in extension activities and on 
which national research is based and of their consistency with actual field 
conditions.
3.
Further studies relating to the Project as agreed with the Association.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
 
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Benin may be granted a margin of preference in 
Page  10
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.1 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for computer equipment and to each contract 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
 the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (6) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to FCFA 
Page  11
280,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been  justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
Page  12
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
