Report No. PIC5396
Project Name                             Guatemala-Rural and Main Roads
Region                                   Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                                   Transportation/Highways
Project ID                               GTPA35737
Borrower                                 Republic of Guatemala
Implementing Agency                      Ministry of Communications,
Public Works and Transport
Guatemala, Guatemala
Tel. 502-362-6051/4
Fax 502-362-6059
Date initial PID prepared                April 8, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date                 June 30, 1997
Projected Board Date                     December 9, 1997
1. Country and Sector Background.
Guatemala has the largest economy in Central America, with a 1995
GDP estimated at US$14.7 billion and per capita income of US$1,340.
The economy is predominantly agricultural, with more than half of
the country's labor force engaged in farming, fishing and forestry.
Since 1990 annual GDP growth has averaged 3.9% and inflation has
fallen from 60% in 1990 to 8.4% in 1995.
The poor quality of the roads infrastructure and especially the low
rate of roads coverage in rural areas are viewed by the Government
as an impediment to economic growth and to the equitable
distribution of national income. This is a particularly serious
problem in rural areas where lack of accessibility to markets and
social services constraint development alternatives. Furthermore,
areas that have benefited from previous investments in rural roads
may lose them due to poor or unexistent maintenance. The lack of a
clear institutional framework in the management of rural roads is
one of the reasons for the poor quality of that network.
2. Objectives
The project three main objectives are: (i) to support the long term
process of building up the country's institutional capacity to
administer and maintain rural roads; (ii) to improve the efficiency
of the ZONAPAZ rural transport system, critical to providing access
to social services and fostering economic development; and (iii) to
continue to improve the efficiency of the main and secondary road networks.
3. Description
The project will have three main components: (i) development of the
institutional capacity needed to improve the administration of
rural roads nationwide; (ii) support for investment and maintenance



in rural and tertiary roads in a selected region of the country
(ZONAPAZ) where the government is focusing a major post-conflict
development effort; and (iii) continued support, begun under an
ongoing operation (Ln. 3002-GU), for rehabilitating the main and
secondary road network. More specifically, each one of components
would address the following issues:
I.      Rural Roads Administration and Maintenance
The initial steps to building up the country's capacity to
administer and maintain rural roads would be supported at two
levels. At the national level, the project would assist the
Ministry of Communications, Transport and Public Works (MCTOP),
through its Roads Directorate (DGC), with further development and
implementation of a national rural transport strategy in order to
bring coherence to the management of the rural roads subsector. The
strategy would be developed with the assistance of the key
stakeholders (municipalities, communities, social funds, NGOs,
transport operators, Ministry of Agriculture, etc). The
implementation phase of the strategy would require Bank support,
under the project, for the strengthening of headquarters capacity
in the DGC, including training. Management systems would be put in
place and jurisdictional responsibilities for the ownership and
administration of the rural roads, would be more clearly defined.
At the local level, the project would finance a pilot project in
the ZONAPAZ region, and more specifically, in the department of San
Marcos, would test institutional arrangements for administering and
maintaining rural roads on a sustainable basis. Pilot project
activities would focus principally on (i) the transfer of rural
road responsibilities to municipalities; (ii) an organized approach
to the introduction of sustainable funding (road fund, cost sharing
agreements) and maintenance arrangements; (iii) support to bundling
of contracts of neighboring municipalities to improve their ability
to procure services from the private sector (e.g., planning and
design); (iv) technical and institutional support from the local
office of the DGC (zona vial) to the municipalities and
communities; and (v) training for the providers of maintenance
services. Results of the pilot would be closely monitored and
evaluated and successful cases would be replicated in a few other
communities. Annex 5 provides more information on the pilot project.
II. Rural Roads Investment
The investment in rural roads would include:
(i) The rehabilitation and improvement of selected
rural roads in the ZONAPAZ region; and
(ii) the provision of consultant services for
engineering designs and works supervision and for studies
relating to the improvement of rural transport services.
III.    Road Rehabilitation on the Main and Secondary Road Networks.
Urgent rehabilitation works on the main and secondary roads
(and some tertiary roads) would continue to be supported, including:
- 2 -



(i)   the rehabilitation/improvement of approximately
235 km already identified and included in the
Government's program; and
(ii) the provision of consultant services for works
supervision and preparation of final engineering designs.
4. Project Financing
Including the components to be financed by other organizations,
the total project cost will be US$105 million. Of this, US$10
million will be financed by the Government of Guatemala, US$50
million by the World Bank and cofinancing is being sought from
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) for the remaining US$45 million.
5. Implementation
Overall project implementation would be undertaken by the Ministry
of Communications, Public Works and Transport (MCTOP). Within
MCTOP, the Planning Division of the Roads Directorate, assisted by
consultants as required, would be responsible for project
coordination. MCTOP has the capacity to implement the project
within the four years implementation period as preparation work for
several of the roads is either complete or well advanced.
6. Sustainability
The project seeks to ensure sustainability by helping to develop
the institutional mechanisms necessary to: (i) establish a sound
rural roads administration; (ii) clearly define the role of
government (central and local) in the provision of rural road
infrastructure; (iii) develop an adequate maintenance funding
mechanism for rural roads; and (iv) involve local industry and
communities in rural road maintenance activities.
7. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Bank-wide experience with rural roads has shown that the principal
problems in achieving sustainable results in rural roads projects
have been: (a) institutional weaknesses and inadequate
coordination, leading to delays in implementation and incomplete
execution of the works; (b) attention to road upgrading without
adequate provision for maintenance; and (c) inadequate monitoring
of results. Bank-wide experience has resulted in the following
advice for designing a successful rural roads project: (a) there
should be a strong government commitment and beneficiary
participation to ensure the sustainability of services and
infrastructure; (b) adequate mechanisms should be established for
formulating and reviewing rural roads strategy, for project
planning and execution, and for coordination between all parties
involved; (c) a strong and dedicated project management team should
be created to assure timely implementation and adequate monitoring
of the project; and (d) the capacity for applying labor-based
methods and developing intermediate means of transport should be
-3 -



built up. The project is intended to directly address these issues.
Other experiences that relate specifically to Guatemala include:
(a) long effectiveness delays; (b) frequent changes of project
administrators; (c) irregular availability of counterpart funds;
and (d) complex legal processes which delay procurement. The
project would be designed with minimum conditions for effectiveness
and, during preparation, agreements would be sought on the
project's detailed financing and implementation arrangements.
8. Poverty Category
Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI)
9. Environmental Aspects
Most works under the project involve rehabilitation and improvement
of existing roads keeping existing road alignments unchanged. In
the case of a few (3) proposed road by-passes on the Main and
Secondary roads components, Environmental Impact Assessments would
be prepared prior to subproject approval. Due to concerns over the
environmental behavior of contractors, the rehabilitation
activities would be controlled through the application and
enforcement of environmental specifications contained in the
bidding documents.
10. Program Objective Category: EN
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 4, 1997.
- 4 -



