Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4260-GU
Loan Agreement
(Rural and Main Roads Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 11, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4260-GU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 11, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A.1, A.7 and A.8 of the Project will be carried out by INFOM (as 
such term is defined in paragraph (g) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement) with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to INFOM the proceeds of the Loan allocated to such Parts of the Project as 
provided in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(C)
Part A.6 of the Project will be carried out by the Association (as such 
term is defined in paragraph (a) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement);
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas Economic Cooperation 
Fund-Japan (OECF) a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount of $49,800,000 equivalent to 
assist in the financing of Parts B.2 and B.4 of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and OECF; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
INFOM;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days; 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project's costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account; or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled.". 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Association" means the association of municipalities of the Department 
of San Marcos’ Highlands (Asociación de Municipalidades del Altiplano Marquense) to be 
established as an entity with legal personality as provided in paragraph 2 (c) (i) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Association Agreement" means the agreement referred to in paragraph (b) 
(xv) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(c)
"BOG" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco de Guatemala);
(d)
"Decree No. 1132" means Decree No. 1132 (Decreto No. 1132)  of the 
Borrower dated February 4,1957 duly published in the official gazette on February 15, 
1957 which established INFOM, as such Decree has been amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(e)
"DGC" means MCTOPV's Directorate of Roads (Dirección General de Caminos);
(f)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower and INFOM to the Bank setting the forth: (i) the Project's performance 
indicators referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; (ii) the principles and 
guidelines to be followed by the Borrower in the preparation of  resettlement plans as 
referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement; (iii) the scope of the mid-term review 
referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement; and (iv) the list of positions of 
the key staff to be employed by the PCU as referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as such letter may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank;
(g)
"INFOM" means the Municipal Development Institute (Instituto de Fomento 
Municipal) of the Borrower established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 1132;
(h)
"INFOM Operational Manual" means INFOM's manual satisfactory to the Bank, 
which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the criteria for selecting and approving Pilot 
Municipal Rural Roads Subprojects; (ii) the procurement procedures to be followed by 
INFOM in the carrying out of Parts A.1, A.7 and A.8 of the Project; and (iii) the 
Page  3
procurement procedures to be followed by the Association in the carrying out of Part 
A.6 of the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement 
of the Bank;
(i)
"MCTOPV" means the Ministry of Communications, Transport, Public Works 
and Housing (Ministerio de Comunicaciones, Transportes, Obras Públicas y  Vivienda) of 
the Borrower;
(j)
"MCTOPV Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual satisfactory to 
the Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the criteria for selecting and approving 
Pilot Departmental Rural Roads Subprojects; and (ii) the procurement procedures to be 
followed by MCTOPV in the carrying out of Parts A.2 through A.5, B.1, B.3, B.5 and B.6 
of the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank;
(k)
"PCU" means the Program Coordination Unit established within DGC;
(l)
“Peace Accords” means the accords signed by the Borrower dated December 
29, 1996;
(m)
"Pilot Departmental Rural Roads Subproject" means a project which 
consists of the rehabilitation and/or improvement of departmental rural roads to be 
selected (within the Department of San Marcos) and approved in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the MCTOPV Operational Manual; 
(n)
"Pilot Municipal Rural Roads Subprojects" means a project which consists 
of the rehabilitation, improvement and/or maintenance of municipal rural roads to be 
selected (within the Department of San Marcos) and approved in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the INFOM Operational Manual;
(o)
"Road Maintenance Fund" means the Borrower's fund (Fondo de Mantenimiento 
Vial) established pursuant to Decree No. 134-96 of the Borrower dated November 27, 
1996;
(p)
"Special Accounts" means collectively the Special Account "A" and the 
Special Account "B";
(q)
"Special Account 'A'" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement; 
(r)
"Special Account 'B'" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(ii) of this Agreement; 
(s)
"Subproject" means a Pilot Departmental Rural Roads Subprojects or a 
Pilot Municipal Rural Roads Subprojects or both; and
(t)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and INFOM pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended form time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty 
six million seven hundred thousand Dollars ($66,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of: (i) Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.1, 
B.3, B.5 and B.6 of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a separate special 
deposit account (the Special Account "A"); and (ii) Parts A.1, A.6, A.7 and A.8 of the 
Project, open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account (the Special 
Account "B"), both in BOG on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement. 
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. (d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of the 
interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan 
upon not less than six months’ notice to the  Borrower of the new basis. The basis 
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies 
the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification 
shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15 and July 15 
in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The General Manager of INFOM (or such other person or persons as 
such General Manager shall appoint in writing)  is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions with respect to Parts A.1, A.6, A.7 and A.8 of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
Page  5
(i) 
through MCTOPV carry out Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5 and B of the 
Project; with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate technical, engineering, administrative, financial and 
environmental practices and the provisions of the MCTOPV 
Operational Manual and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such 
Parts of the Project; and
(ii)
cause INFOM pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement 
to: (A) carry out Parts A.1, A.7 and A.8 of the Project; and (B) 
cause the Association pursuant to the provisions of the 
Association Agreement to carry out Part A.6 of the Project, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate technical, engineering, administrative, financial and 
environmental practices and the provisions of the INFOM 
Operational Manual and shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable INFOM to carry out 
Parts A.1, A.7 and A.8 of the Project and the Association to carry 
out Part A.6 of the Project, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of such Parts of the Project by INFOM and the 
Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to Parts A.1, A.6, A.7 and A.8 of the Project (as such amounts are set forth 
in Categories (1) (c), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement) to INFOM under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and INFOM, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include those set forth in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services  required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower and INFOM on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall during the implementation of the Project 
maintain and continue to operate the PCU with functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to coordinate the 
implementation of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by a 
coordinator and assisted by key staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
performance indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of 
Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5 and B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than thirty days after the conclusion 
of each  semester (the first semester of each year starting on April 1 and ending on 
Page  6
September 30 and the second semester of each year starting October 1 and ending on 
March 31) during the implementation of the Project, starting in the semester which 
begins on April 1 and ends on September 30, 1998, prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request with 
respect to the progress  made in the carrying out of Parts A,2, A.3, A.4, A.5 and B of 
the Project during the calendar semester preceding the date of presentation of such 
report.
Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than May 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in 1999, review jointly with the Bank and INFOM the progress 
made by the Borrower, INFOM and the Association in: (i) carrying out their respective 
Parts of the Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives of the Project, based on the 
indicators and the corresponding reports referred to in paragraph (b)(viii) of 
Schedule 6 to, and Sections 3.05 and 3.06 of, this Agreement.  As part of each such 
review the Bank may require the Borrower to prepare an action plan, satisfactory to 
the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementation.  In such event, the Borrower 
shall not later than forty five days after the conclusion of each such review furnish 
such action plan to the Bank and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried 
out, such action plan in accordance with its terms.
(b)
As part of the annual review to be held not later than May 31, 2001, the 
Borrower shall carry out with the Bank and INFOM a Project implementation mid-term 
review of such scope as set forth in the Implementation Letter.
Section 3.08. (a) In the event that the findings of the environmental assessment 
to be carried out as part of the identification of each Subproject indicate that 
resettlement of population is required in the area in which a particular Subproject 
will be carried out and/or that individuals living in such area will become Affected 
Persons as a result of the carrying out of such Subproject, the Borrower shall prior 
to the carrying out of such Subproject by the Borrower or the Association, as the case 
may be: (i) prepare (in accordance with the principles and guidelines set forth in the 
Implementation Letter) and furnish to the Bank a resettlement plan for such Affected 
Persons, satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) promptly thereafter, carry out or cause to 
be carried out the corresponding resettlement plan referred to in (i) herein in 
accordance with its terms.
(b)
For purposes of this Section, the term "Affected Persons" means persons 
who on account of the execution of a particular Subproject  had or would have their: 
(i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any 
house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or 
movable asset acquired or possessed (temporarily or permanently); or (iii) business, 
occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, and such term 
also means individually all who qualify as Affected Persons.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, if applicable, include in the bidding 
documents for the carrying out of each Pilot Departmental Rural Roads Subproject the 
obligation of the bidder to take prior to the initiation of any works under such 
subproject the necessary actions to address any potential negative environmental 
impact identified in the respective environmental assessment to be carried out as part 
of the identification of each such subproject.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, with the proceeds deposited in the Road 
Maintenance Fund by the Borrower, maintain at all times in accordance with appropriate 
practices the roads to be rehabilitated and improved under Parts A.3, A.4 and B.1 
through B.5 of the Project.
Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall take all actions necessary to carry out Part A.2 of the 
Project in accordance with the action plan referred to in paragraph (b)(x) of Schedule 
6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, prior to the carrying out of a Subproject by 
the Borrower or the Association, as the case may be, carry out consultations in 
accordance with the Peace Accords, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, with the 
population living in the area in which such Subproject will be carried out.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
Page  7
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of  Parts A.2, A.3, 
A.4, A.5 and B of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than five months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
That the OECF Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for Parts B.2 and B.4 of the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  the 
OECF Loan shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the OECF Loan 
Agreement; or
(B)
the OECF Loan  shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
Page  8
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under the OECF Loan Agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
That the MCTOPV Operational Manual and the INFOM Operational Manual have 
been approved by the Borrower and INFOM, respectively.
(b)
That the PCU has filled the key staff listed in the Implementation 
Letter. 
(c)
That the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and INFOM, and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and INFOM in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date December 10, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower  is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Zona 1,
Guatemala, Guatemala
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIP
9207 MINFIP GU
Guatemala, Guatemala 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  9
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Pedro Miguel Lamport 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) under Parts A.3,
35,820,000
83%
B.1, B.3 and B.5 of 
the Project
(b) under Part A.4 of
 4,590,000
83%
the Project
(c) under Part A.6 of
 4,770,000
85%
the Project
(2)
Goods
(a) under Part A.7 of
   370,000
85%
the Project
(b) under Part A.8 (i) of  120,000
85%
the Project
(c) under Part A.5 of
   430,000
85% 
the Project
(d) under Part B.6 of
   850,000
85% 
the Project
(3)
Consultants' services
(a) under Parts A.1
   720,000
100%
and A.8 (i) of the Project
(b) under Part A.7 of
 1,650,000
100%
the Project
Page  10
(c) under Parts A.2 
 1,500,000
100%
and A.5 of the Project
(d) under Part B.6 
 7,390,000
100%
of the Project
(4)
INFOM’s Fee
   480,000
100%
under Part A.8 (ii) of the
Project
(5)
Unallocated
 8,010,000
TOTAL
66,700,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$6,500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but not before twelve months from the date of this Agreement;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the corresponding Subproject has met the criteria 
set forth in the MCTOPV Operational Manual; 
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (c) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless: (i) the Association has been established with 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) the Association 
Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto; (iii) a framework, acceptable to 
the Bank, to carry out Pilot Municipal Rural Roads Subprojects has been established by 
the Association; (iv) the Association has created its technical service unit in a 
manner and with functions acceptable to the Bank; and (v) the corresponding Subproject 
has met the criteria set forth in the INFOM Operational Manual; and
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (2) (a) and (3) (b) of 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the condition referred to in (c) (i) 
above has been met.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods estimated 
to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first contract for 
goods to be awarded under Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) 
contracts for works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each with the 
exception of the first two contracts for works to be awarded under Part C.3 of Section 
I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (d) contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen the institutional capacity 
of MCTOPV  to administer and maintain rural roads; (b) to improve the rural road 
system in the Department of San Marcos; and (c) to continue the improvement of the 
efficiency of the main and secondary road networks in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
National Rural Roads and Transport Strategy
1.
Design of a strategy in order to: (a) improve the legal and institutional 
frameworks concerning the ownership and maintenance of  the municipal rural roads; (b) 
establish funding and cost-sharing mechanisms to finance the construction, 
rehabilitation and maintenance of such roads; and (c) define the role and functions of 
the entity, at the national level, which sets forth the standards for such roads and 
Page  11
coordinates the rural roads subsector.
2.
Implementation of the strategy mentioned in Part A.1 above.
3.
Rehabilitation of about 90 kilometers of the Ruta Nacional 12, including the 
branch off to the town of Tejutla.
4.
Carrying out of Pilot Departmental Rural Roads Subprojects.
5.
Provision of technical assistance to MCTOPV, including the acquisition and 
utilization of goods for: (a) the preparation of the final engineering designs of 
Pilot Departmental Rural Roads Subprojects; (b) the supervision of the works to be 
carried out under Part A.3 above; (c) the identification of technologies for 
cost-effective strengthening of rural roads; and (d) the definition of the future 
functions of DGC's regional offices.
6.
Carrying out of Pilot Municipal Rural Roads Subprojects.
7.
Strengthening of the institutional and administrative capacity of the 
Association through the provision of technical assistance and the acquisition and 
utilization of goods.
8.
(i) Strengthening of the institutional, administrative and financial capacity of 
INFOM (at the national and local level), through the provision of technical assistance 
and the acquisition and utilization of goods; and (ii) financing of INFOM's management 
fee, in respect of the carrying out of the Project.
Part B:
Road Rehabilitation on Main and Secondary Roads Networks 
1.
Rehabilitation and improvement of about 158 kilometers of the Cuatro Caminos - 
La Mesilla section of the Interamerican Highway.
2.
Rehabilitation and improvement of about 36 kilometers of the Chimaltenango - 
Tecpan section of the Interamerican Highway.
3.
Rehabilitation and improvement of about 8.2 kilometers of the Don Justo - Branch 
Off to Santa Elena Barillas section of the Interamerican Highway.
4.
Rehabilitation and improvement of about 162 kilometers of the San Cristóbal 
Verapaz - Sacapulas - Chiantla section of Ruta Nacional 7W.
5.
Rehabilitation and improvement of about 7.5 kilometers of the earth road from 
Ruta CA-9S to San Vicente de Pacaya.
6.
Provision of technical assistance to MCTOPV for: (a) the supervision of the 
works to be carried out under Parts B.1 through B.5 above; (b) the preparation of the 
final engineering designs for about 150 kilometers of main, secondary and tertiary 
roads in the Borrower's territory; (c) the modernization of DGC's central office, 
including the acquisition and utilization of goods; (d) the assessment of modern 
highway technologies for main and secondary roads networks; (e) the strengthening of 
the Road Maintenance Fund; (f) the carrying out of a national road freight transport 
study; (g) the design of a national road safety program; and (h) the coordination of 
the Project and the carrying out of Parts A.2 through A.5 and B of the Project. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars) *
July 15, 2003
1,395,000 
January 15, 2004
1,435,000 
July 15, 2004
1,480,000 
January 15, 2005
1,525,000 
July 15, 2005
1,570,000 
January 15, 2006
1,620,000 
July 15, 2006
1,670,000 
Page  12
January 15, 2007
1,720,000 
July 15, 2007
1,770,000 
January 15, 2008
1,825,000 
July 15, 2008
1,880,000 
January 15, 2009
1,935,000 
July 15, 2009
1,995,000 
January 15, 2010
2,055,000 
July 15, 2010
2,120,000 
January 15, 2011
2,185,000 
July 15, 2011
2,250,000 
January 15, 2012
2,315,000 
July 15, 2012
2,390,000 
January 15, 2013
2,460,000 
July 15, 2013
2,535,000 
January 15, 2014
2,610,000 
July 15, 2014
2,690,000 
January 15, 2015
2,770,000 
July 15, 2015
2,855,000 
January 15, 2016
2,945,000 
July 15, 2016
3,030,000 
January 15, 2017
3,125,000 
July 15, 2017
3,220,000 
January 15, 2018
3,325,000 
__________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods  and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works estimated to cost more than $10,000,000 equivalent each shall 
be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  13
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more but less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,230,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more but less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,260,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Procurement of all goods and works under paragraphs (a) and (b) herein 
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $530,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, at the option 
of the Borrower or INFOM or the Association in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,480,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Community Participation
Maintenance works required under Part A.6 of the Project estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of $30,000 per contract may be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be awarded under Parts B 
and C.1 (a) of this Section; and (ii) each contract for works to be awarded under 
Parts B and C.1 (b) of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods to be awarded under Part C.2 
of this Section; and to the first two contracts for works to be awarded in each 
calendar year under Part C.3 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, as the case 
may be, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  14
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for the activities under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.5 (c) of the Project may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the activities under Parts A.7 and A.8 of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for the activities under Part A.8 of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, the short list, terms of 
reference and the terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
Page  15
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a) and (b), (2) (c) 
and  (d) and (3) (c) and (d) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement in respect of Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.1, B.3, B.5 and B.6 of the 
Project and Categories (1) (c), (2) (a) and (b), (3) (a) and (b) and (4) set forth in 
said table in respect of Parts A.1, A.6, A.7 and A.8 of the Project;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B.1, B.3, B.5 and B.6 of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,500,000 
in respect of the Special Account for Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.1, B.3, B.5 and B.6 
of the Project and an amount equivalent to $750,000 in respect of the Special Account 
for Parts A.1, A.6, A.7 and A.8 of the Project, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit  into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
Page  16
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower and INFOM shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Sections in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to Parts A, B.1, B.3, B.5 and B.6 of the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A, B.1, B.3, B.5 and B.6 of 
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any  
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement
The terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement shall include, inter alia: 
(a)
the obligation of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of INFOM 
to the use of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Parts A.1, A.6, A.7 and A.8 of the 
Project to be transferred to INFOM pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary 
Agreement upon failure by INFOM  to comply with any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement or, if applicable, in the event that the Bank shall have 
exercised its remedies pursuant to Article V of the Loan Agreement or Sections 6.02 
and 6.03 of the General Conditions; and 
(b)
the obligations of  INFOM: 
(i)
to carry out Parts A.1, A.7 and A.8 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, administrative, financial and environmental practices 
and the provisions of the INFOM Operational Manual, and to 
Page  17
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts 
of the Project; 
(ii)
to procure the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
carrying out of  Parts A.1, A.7 and A.8 of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement; 
(iii)
to carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of  Parts A.1, A.7 and A.8 of the Project; 
(iv)
to take all actions necessary to enable the Borrower to comply 
with its obligation under Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement; 
(v)
at the request of the Bank, to exchange views with the Bank and 
the Borrower with regard to progress of  Parts A.1, A.6, A.7 and 
A.8 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes 
of the Loan; 
(vi)
to promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
Parts A.1, A.6, A.7 and A.8 of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by INFOM of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement; 
(vii)
to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
performance indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the 
carrying out of Parts A.1, A.6, A.7 and A.8 of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(viii)not later than thirty days after the conclusion of each semester 
(the first semester of each year starting on April 1 and ending on 
September 30 and the second semester of each year starting October 
1 and ending on March 31) during the implementation of the 
Project, starting in the semester which begins on April 1 and ends 
on September 30, 1998, to prepare and furnish to the Bank a report 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request with respect to the progress made by INFOM in the carrying 
out of Parts A.1, A.7 and A.8 of the Project and by the 
Association in the carrying out of Part A.6 of the Project during 
the semester preceding the date of presentation of such report; 
(ix)
to participate in the reviews referred to in Section 3.07 of the 
Loan Agreement; 
(x)
not later than December 31, 1999 to complete the carrying out of 
Part A.1 of the Project and immediately thereafter to prepare and 
furnish to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
enable the Borrower to carry out Part A.2 of the Project; 
(xi)
to maintain records and accounts to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Parts A.1, A.6, A.7 and A.8 of the 
Project; 
(xii)
to have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(xiii)to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than five months after the end of each such year: 
(A)
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
Page  18
(xii) herein for such year as so audited; and 
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(xiv)
to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
records, accounts and financial statements referred to in (xii) 
herein as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request; 
(xv)
to transfer, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
to Part A.6 of the Project to the Association under an agreement 
to be entered into between INFOM and the Association (the 
Association Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation of the Association 
to: 
(A)
select and approve the Pilot Municipal Rural Roads 
Subprojects in accordance with the criteria set forth in the 
INFOM Operational Manual; 
(B)
carry out the subprojects mentioned in (A) herein with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, engineering, financial, administrative and 
environmental practices; 
(C)
provide the minimum counterpart funds for the Subprojects 
mentioned in (A) herein as set forth in the INFOM 
Operational Manual; 
(D)
include, if applicable, in the bidding documents for the 
carrying out of the Subprojects mentioned in (A) herein the 
obligation of the bidder to take (prior to the initiation of 
any works under each such Subproject) the necessary actions 
to address any potential negative environmental impact 
identified in the respective assessment to be carried out as 
part of the identification of each such Subproject; 
(E)
take all actions necessary to enable the Borrower to comply 
with its obligations under Section 3.08 of the Loan 
Agreement; 
(F)
take all actions necessary to enable the Borrower to comply 
with its obligations under Section 3.12 of the Loan 
Agreement; 
(G)
operate and maintain, at least during Project 
implementation, the technical service unit mentioned in 
paragraph 2 (c) (iv) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; 
(H)
take all actions necessary to enable INFOM to comply with 
its obligations mentioned in (b) (viii), (xi), (xii), (xiii) 
and (xiv) herein; 
(I)
procure the goods and works required for the carrying out of 
the Subprojects mentioned in (A) herein in accordance with 
the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement;
(J)
carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively); and 
(K) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, exercise its 
rights under the Association Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and INFOM 
and not to amend, assign, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail 
to enforce the Association Agreement or any provision 
thereof; and 
Page  19
(xvi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Association to the use 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part A.6 of the 
Project to be transferred to the Association pursuant to the 
provisions of the Association Agreement upon failure of the 
Association to comply with any of its obligations under the 
Association Agreement or, if applicable, in the event that 
the Bank shall have exercised its remedies pursuant to 
Article V of the Loan Agreement or Sections 6.02 and 6.03 of 
the General Conditions.
