                                            99904




int
Integrity
            WORLD BANK GROUP
            World Bank • IFC • MIGA




                         Republic of Guatemala

            Second Rural and Main Roads Project


                                      Redacted Report


                                             Official Use Only



                                             September 2015
                                                                            Official Use Only




                            Statement of Use and Limitations

This Report was prepared by the World Bank Group (the WBG) Integrity Vice Presidency
(INT). It provides the findings of an INT administrative inquiry (the Investigation) into
allegations of corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, and/or coercive practices, as defined by the
WBG for purposes of its own policies, rules and procedures (the WBG's Framework
regarding Anti-corruption), in relation to the WBG-supported activities. The purpose of
the Investigation was to allow the WBG to determine if the WBG's Framework regarding
Anti-corruption has been violated.

This Report is being shared to ensure that its recipients are aware of the results of the INT
Investigation. However, in view of the specific and limited purpose of the Investigation
underlying this Report, this Report should not be used as the sole basis for initiating any
administrative, criminal, or civil proceedings. Moreover, this Report should not be cited
or otherwise referred to in the course of any investigation, in any investigation reports, or
in any administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings.

This Report is provided without prejudice to the privileges and immunities conferred on
the institutions comprising the WBG and their officers and employees by their respective
constituent documents and any other applicable sources of law. The WBG reserves the
right to invoke its privileges and immunities, including at any time during the course of an
investigation or a subsequent judicial, administrative or other proceeding pursued in
connection with this matter. The WBG's privileges and immunities cannot be waived
without the prior express written authorization of the WBG.




                                             1
                                                                       Official Use Only




                                 Executive Summary

This report provides the findings of an administrative inquiry by the World Bank Group
Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) into allegations of misconduct in connection with the
Second Rural and Main Roads Project (the Project) in the Republic of Guatemala.
Company A bid for two contracts financed by the Project (the Contracts), and ultimately
was awarded the Contracts.

Evidence indicates that Company A submitted false bid secuntles. Specifically, the
purported issuer of the bid securities submitted by Company A confirmed to INT that it
had never issued the bid securities to Company A.

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Company
A. This period of ineligibility extends to any legal entity that Company A directly or
indirectly controls.




                                          2
                                                                          Official Use Only

Background

The Second Rural and Main Roads Project (the Project) was designed to reduce rural
poverty and build social cohesion by improving and maintaining access in rural areas to
markets, schools, health centers, and other social and economic infrastructure. The World
Bank and the Republic of Guatemala entered into a Loan Agreement worth over US$ 45
million to finance the Project. Company A bid for two contracts financed by the Project
(the Contracts), and ultimately was awarded the Contracts.

Allegations

The World Bank Group Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) received an allegation that
Company A may have submitted false bid securities with its bids for the Contracts.

Methodology

INT' s investigation consisted of, among other things, a review of Project documents, as
well as statements obtained from Company A and the purported issuer of the bid securities
submitted by Company A.

Findings

Evidence indicates that Company A submitted false bid securities.

To comply with the bidding requirements for the Contracts, Company A submitted bid
securities purportedly issued by Organization A. Subsequently, the Project Coordination
Unit for the Contracts (the PCU) requested that Organization A confirm the authenticity of
the bid securities submitted by Company A. Organization A confirmed to the PCU that it
had not issued the bid securities to Company A, and that the reference numbers on the bid
securities instead corresponded with those issued to another company. Organization A also
confirmed to INT that it had never issued the bid securities submitted by Company A.

In response to INT' s queries, the legal representative of Company A informed INT that his
uncle and another individual had "borrowed" Company A in order to bid on several World
Bank-financed tenders. Company A' s legal representative claimed that this other
individual hired a third party to obtain the necessary bid securities, and stated that this
individual believed that the third party swindled him. However, Company A' s legal
representative did not provide INT with any evidence to support this claim.

Follow Up Action by the World Bank

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Company
A. This period of ineligibility extends to any legal entity that Company A directly or
indirectly controls.




                                            3
