Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9052
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 1797-TUN)
OCTOBER 10, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



"EPUBLIC OF TU ISIA
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Appraisal Year Average       US$1 - TD 0.40
Intervening Year Average    US$1 - TD 0.73
Completion Year Average      US$1 - TD 0.92
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
FTP   -    Centre de Formation de Travailleurs Portuaires
(Port Worker Training Center)
'I    -    Centre National d'Informatique
(National Center for Computer Science)
3M    -    Commission Superieure des Marches
(National Procurement Board)
rN    -    Compagnie Tunisienne de Navigation
(Tunisian Shipping Company)
ZR    -    Economic Rate of Return
cc    -    Gabbs Chimie Transport
(Gabes Chemical Transport Company)
rF    -    Information, Technology, and Facilities Department of the
World Bank
?NT   -   Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens
(Tunisian National Ports Authority)
CAM   -    Societe Tunisienne d'Acconage et de Hanutention
(Tunisian Stevedoring and Cargo-Handling Company)
iCTAD -   United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WOtLD JIANK
Washinglon. DC 204 3 3
USA
OEmc. nE Di,Kctar.CAW&I
October 10, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Republic of Tunisia
Third Ports Prolect (Loan 1797-TUN)
Attached,.for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Republic of Tunisia Third Ports Project
(Loan 1797-TUN)", prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document hu a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 1797-UN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE    .      .    .     .     .     .  .   .     .    .     .    .     .    .     .     .     .    .     .     .    .     .     .    .    .     .    .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    ii
PART I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . .                        1
I.   PROJECT IDENTITY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       3
II.   BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       3
III.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       4
IV.   PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       6
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  7
Loan Effectiveness  ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Project Startup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Implementation Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      7
Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      9
Project Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
VI.   PROJECT RESULTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           1.
Achievement of Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Achievement of Physical Targets   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Financial Performance .11
Economic Reevaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
VII.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    12
VIII.   BANK PERFORMANCE ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    13
IX. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .13
X.   BANK-BORROWER RELATIONSHIP  ...  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    13
XI. CONSUETING SERVICES .................... .   14
XII.   PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . .   15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
(Loan 1797-TUN)
Table of Contents (continued)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Table  1:  Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . a . . . . . .  .  23
Table  2:  Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Table  3:  Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . .  . . . .    ..   24
Table  4:   Project Costs   . . . . . . . . .  .  . . .  . . .  25
Table  5:  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  .  25
Table  6:  Direct and Indirect Benefits  . . . . . . . . . .  26
Table  7:  Economic Impact   . . . . . . . . . . .    ..    26
Table  8:  Project Study     . . . . . . . . . .......    26
Table  9:  Status of Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Table 10:   Staff Inputs     . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  28
Table 11:  Missions          , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2q
ANNEXES       9 ,   *   * .   .*.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .         .  .    .  .   .  30
1.   List of Equipment Procured under the Project * . . * * * . . *  30
2.   Comparison of Actual and Forecast General Cargo Traffic  . . .  31
3.   OPNT's Audited Financial Statements (1978-1988)  * . . * * * *  32
4.   OPNT's Projected Investment and Financing Plan (1990-95) . * *  35
5.   OPNT's Projected Financial Statements (1990-95)  . * * * * * *  36
6.   Cost/Benefit Analysis  . .*.  . .   .           . *  . *         37
MAP   IBRD 14530R - Tunisia:  The Ports Subsector



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD PORTS PROJECT (LOAN 1'97-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Ports
Project in Tunisia, for which Loan 1797-TUN in the amount of US$42.5
million was approved on February 8, 1980. The loan was closed on December
31, 1988, three and a half years behind schedule. The last disbursement
was on April 13, 1989 and an amount of US$7.8 million was cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division, Country Department II, of the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and
the Tunisian National Ports Authority (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in March 1990 and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan Agreement, supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 1797-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMKARY
Introduction and Background
1.          At  independence  in 1956,  Tunisia inherited a relatively well
developed transport system, which was adequate to support economic development
through the 1960s. In the 1970s, the country's economic performance, aided by
oil exports, was strong. The Fourth Development Plan (1973-76) recognized that
the transport network needed to be expanded to facilitate the handling of
increasing traffic volumes and avoid a major infrastructure bottleneck to future
economic growth. The next Plan (1977-81) concentrated on improving the existing
transport infrastructure, especially through modernization and rehabilitation
works.
Objectives
2.          The Third Ports  Project was  conceived through  long-term port
planning, which began with the preparation of a Master Plan, partially financed
by the Bank through the proceeds of the Second Port Project (Loan 573-TUN). The
Master Plan took into account the fact that changing technology in sea transport
in the Mediterranean, particularly the advent of Ro-Ro (i.e., roll-on, roll-
off) vessels, could substantially reduce transport costs. The main objectives
of the project were, therefore, to enable the country's two major ports, Tunis/La
Goulette and Sfax, to cope with changes in shipping technology, while increasing
their operational efficiency and cargo-handling capacity.
Implementation Experience
3.          The project was implemented by the Borrower, the Tunisian National
Ports Authority (OPNT). Civil works followed the original project design. Due
to limited possibilities at La Goulette, it was necessary to undertake port
expansion at Rades, a location midway between La Goulette and the smaller port
of Tunis. The existing channel was deepened and widened, a new deep-water basin
dredged, and land reclaimed from dredged materials. Operational and storage
areas, transit sheds, and maintenance facilities were included at both Rades and
Sfax project sites. A first tranche of cargo-handling equipment was financed
through a Netherlands export credit and a second tranche from the Bank loan.
In compliance with the Loan Agreement, this equipment was subsequently leased
to the Tunisian Stevedoring and Cargo-Handling Company (STAM). During project
implementation, the Loan Agreement was amended to provide for the acquisition
of a comprehensive management information system, which was installed in 1989
and now incorporates port operations, budgeting, and payroll.  To complement



- iv -
the physical components, the project also included technical assistance needed
to improve operations and train port staff. Two parts of a three-part study on
the reorganization of workshops were completed but the third part, which would
consist of specific recommendations, was never commissioned since full
responsibility for cargo-handling operations and equipment maintenance was
assigned to STAM, a public enterprise with a monopoly at Tunis/LaGoulette.
Participation in the TRAINMAR program, developed and delivered by the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Comme;. e (UNCTAD), enabled OPNT to attain self-
sufficiency in the training of port workers.
Results
4.          The estimated cost was US$104.2 million, with about US$62.9 million
in foreign costs. The actual cost was US$104.7 million, with US$42.6 million
in foreign costs, as a strong US dollar in the early 1980s contributed to
substantial savings in the foreign exchange cost of civil works and lower
borrowing needs, leaving a sizeable surplus in the loan account. Part of this
was used for the purchase of a second tranche of cargo-handling equipment, and
the remainder was cancelled.
5.          The project encountered lengthy implementation delays, which had
only a marginal impact on the achievement of project objectives. Despite these
delays and a slowdown in overall general cargo traffic growth during the 1980s,
the rapid penetration of this traffic by Ro-Ro technology brought savings in
cargo-handling costs, ships' service time, and ships' waiting time. Based on
actual costs and revised benefit calculations, an economic rate of return of 14%
has been obtained on investments at the Tunis/La Goulette/Rades port complex and
12.5% on those at Sfax (as compared with 16.5% for both ports at appraisal).
6.          Facilities at the new port of Rades, which was commissioned in
December 1986, are perfectly well suited for Ro-Ro traffic and can also
accommodate container vessels. Moreover, they have eased conventional and car-
ferry congestion at the ports of Tunis and La Goulette. The port complex handled
1.4 million tons of general cargo in 1989, 63X of which was unitized, primarily
in Ro-Ro form. The new land developed under the project will facilitate future
port expansion at a relatively low cost. In the meantime, part of the land is
being leased for commercial and industrial use. At Sfax, new port facilities
were developed in the area and adjacent to the existing port basin, facilitating
further expansion, when required.   The port of Sfax handled 351,443 tons of
general cargo in 1989, 121 of which was unitized.
7.          Recent trends and present forecasts in traffic growth do not indicate
the need for any major port investments in the foreseeable future. However, the
main requirement could be to provide equipment to encourage containerization,
which is still at a relatively low level in Tunisia (less than 101 of general
cargo).   The proposed First Transport Sector Loan, scheduled for FY92, is
expected to have a ports component aimed at promoting increased productivity and
modernization of port management through, inter alia, further containerization
at the port of Rades.



-v -
Sustainabilitv
8.          OPNT is institutionally strong in the areas of engineering, financial
management, and training. It also has the capacity to evaluate the technical
and economic viability of port investments.   Provided tariffs continue to be
reviewed periodically and rationally restructured, and if private stevedoring
companies are permitted and encouraged to compete at La Goulette and Rades, as
envisaged, there is reasonable expectation that project benefits will be
sustained. In this regard, it is also critical that the groundwork be laid for
strategic planning in the port subsector (para 11).
Findings and Lessons
9.          The PPAR on the Second Ports Project (Loan 573-TUN) commented on the
lack of improvement in port operations and concluded that the Bank did not take
the opportunity to assist in increasing overall efficiency in Tunisian ports
through improved cargo-handling organization and methods.   As a condition of
negotiating the Third Project, OPNT prepared a plan of action to set in motion
feasible and practical improvements in cargo handling, but the plan could not
be carried out effectively because of the tenuous relationship between OPNT and
STAM. This relationship, exacerbated by STAM's serious financial situation, led
to considerable delays and postponements in the purchase of cargo-handling
equipment. As a consequence, the ports of Tunis, La Goulette, and Rades continue
to operate below their potentiality; the project, thus, did not fully meet its
institution-building and operational efficiency objectives.
10.         Plans are now underway to open up cargo-handling operations at the
three ports to competition from private stevedoring companies and to restructure
STAM, an action long overdue. Clearly, the Bank should have intensified efforts
to overcome this institutional bottleneck in port operations together with an
earlier, more systematic assessment of equipment needs.   In its continuing
dialogue with the transport sector, highest priority will have to be assigned
to this set of issues.
11.         During the course of project implementation,  there was frequent
turnover at the Chief Executive officer level; several recent CEOs had tenures
of less than two years.   Such turnover seriously hampered OPNT's corporate
planning function, as well as the strategic planning process for the port
subsector as a whole.   Otherwise, OPNT is a well managed enterprise.   Good
cooperation between the supervision consultants and OPNT engineering staff led
to a satisfactory achievement of physical targets in the face of difficult
technical conditions.   OPNT's financial management functioned well given an
outdated tariff structure over which it had no control.  The need for tariff
restructuring had been foreseen during negotiations and carried out by December
31, 1982 in compliance with the Loan Agreement. Several -ears hence, however,
the downturn in traffic rendered new tariffs obsolete; the tariff structure was
only updated after ONPT experienced a negative cash flow in 1987, which led to
a tariff increase and permitted OPNT to achieve good financial results
thereafter.
12.         What is significant is that OPNT's declining revenue base relative
to its debt service requirements and operating expenses occurred during a four-



- vi -
year period (1983-86) when audit reports were not being made available until two
to three years after the due dates.   Herein lies the importance of timely
compliance with the audit requirement. If, in the mid-1980s, the Bank and the
Government had had access to annual audit reports, OPNT could have used these
results to strengthen the case for tariff increases.
13.         Clearly, lack of continuity during supervision, compounded by the
Bank reorganization, weakened the Bank"s effectiveness in dealing with the above
institutional and financial matters.  For instance, the Bank could have used
delays and general indecision concerning the acquisition of equipment as leverage
in seeking an early solution to the issue involving the working relationship
between OPNT and STAM. On the other hand, Bank intervention into the design and
implementation of the training component helpad OPNT improve its overall human
resource capacity. Implementation of the TRAINMAP program was indeed a success
notvithstandirig earlier plans for a joint OPNT-STAM training effort, which never
got .if the ground.



- I -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBUC OF TUNISIA
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 1797-TUN)
PART 1: PRJECT REIEW FRIM HE BANICS PERSP
%. 'N



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 1797-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name                Third Ports Project
Loan Number         1797-TUN
RVP Unit            EMENA
Country             Tunisia
Sector            : Transportation
Subsector           Ports
II. BACKGROUND
2.01        At independence  in 1956,  Tunisia inherited a relatively well
developed transport system, which was adequate to support economic development
through the 1960s. In the 1970s, the country's economic performance, aided by
oil exports, was strong. The Fourth Development Plan (1973-76) recognized that
the condition of the transport network needed to be improved to facilitate the
handl4.ng of increasing traffic volumes and avoid a major bottleneck to future
economic growth.   The Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) had the following
objectives for the transport sector: (a) improve the existing infrastzucture,
especially through modernization and rehabilitation works; (b) promote rural
development by improving feeder roads; (c) increase Tunisia's share of
international traffic; and (d) reorganize regional transport companies.   To
achieve the first objective, the Third Port Project would assist the Government
in the modernization of berth facilities at the main ports of Tunis/La Goulette
and Sfax and in providing support facilities for improved port operations.
2.02        In 1978, when the project was appraised, Tunisia's five major
commercial ports (Tunis/La Goulette, Sfax, Bizerte, Sousse, and Gabes) handled
almost 11 million tons of cargo, of which 9.3 million tons, or 85X, was
international traffic. Coastal traffic amounting to 1.6 million tons consisted
mainly of the movement of petroleum products from Bizerte to Sfax and La
Goulette. Liquid bulk cargo totalled 4.1 million tons; dry bulk, 4.3 million
tons (including grain, 978,000 tons) and general cargo, 2.6 million tons.
Eighty-four percent of the international trade was short-distance traffic with
Europe and North Africa, 121 with the Americas, and 41 with Asia.
2.03        Bank assistance through the Third Port Project supported the Tunisian
National Ports Authority (OPNT) investmenz in the new port of Rades, which is



situated across the channel from La Goulette, and in the expansion and
modernization of port facilities at Sfax.  New facilities were built at both
ports to accommodate Ro-Ro, as well as container traffic.   The project also
included a comprehensive port worker training program with assistance from the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Commerce (UNCTAD). This project completed
the Government's port investment program, as evidenced in the Seventh and Eighth
Five-Year Plans (1987-91, 1992-96), which do not envisage any new large
investments except for the petroleum berth at Bizerte.
2.04        The country's main port facilities are owned and operated by OPNT,
which was established in 1965 and falls under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Transport.   Cargo handling is the responsibility of several companies,
including one public enterprise, the Tunisian Stevedoring and Cargo-Handling
Company (STAM), which is by far the largest. The portion of international traffic
carried by Tunisian shipping lines constitutes about lOX and is the
responsibility of two companies: the Tunisian Shipping Company (CTN) and the
Gabes Chemical Transport Company (GCT).
2.05        The focus of future investments will be on the rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing port facilities. The Bank could probably finance these
actions, while continuing to promote increased productivity and modernization
of port management.   The proposed First Transport Sector Loan may be a good
vehicle to accomplish this objective. Other actions that have been recommended
include further containerization, which would reduce cargo-handling costs
considerably, and the restructuring of STAM. The latter would address a serious
operational, as well as institutional, bottleneck involving the lack of
coordination and overall poor working relationship between OPNT and STAM. This
stems not only from STAM's weak financial position, marked by a continually high
annual deficit, but also its monopoly over cargo-handling operations at Tunis,
La Goulette, and Rades. Where it does not have a monopoly (e.g., at Sfax, where
five private companies compete with STAM), STAM is far more efficient. In its
ongoing dialogue with the port subsector, the Bank will inevitably assign
priority to this set of issues.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01        Changing technology in sea transport in the Mediterranean has
considerably reduced total transport costs from origin to destination; the advent
of Ro-Ro vessels,  in particular, has had a significant impact.   The   main
objectives of the project were, therefore, to enable the country's two main
ports to cope with the changes in shipping technology and to increase operational
efficiency and capacity at the project ports.   These objectives would be
accomplished by providing:   (a) specialized facilities to accommodate Ro-P.o
vessels; and (b) additional port facilities with appropriate operational and
storage areas, transit shed, and maintenance facilities.   To complement the
physical components, the project also included technical assistince needed to
improve operations and train port staff.



02         The project consisted of:
(a) Civil Works
at La Goulette:
dredging of an access channel and south port basin to a depth of
lOm;
land reclamation with the dredged material at the new port area to
replace soft layers with suitable material;
improving soil conditions at the new port area;
constructing about 350 m of quays, and of jetties capable of
handling general cargo liners, Ro-Ro vessels, and container ships;
constructing about 30,000 m2 of transit and customs sheds;
paving open storage areas and constructing the port access road;
constructing port administration and other ancillary buildings;
providing port utilities, inter alia, water supply, electricity,
drainage; and
constructing a shallow-water berth and related back-up area to
handle dangerous materials.
at Sfax:
constructing quays about 515 m long and 11 m deep, capable of
handling general cargo liners and Ro-Ro vessels;
constructing the port access road;
filling, grading, and paving open storage and parking areas;
constructing transit and customs' sheds and ancillary buildings; and
providing port utilities such as, inter alia, water supply,
electricity, drainage;
(b) EguiRment and materials
at La Goulette and Sfax:
cargo-handling and workshop equipment; and
timber for the manufacture of about 20,000 pallets; and



(c) Technical Assistance:
consulting services for supervision of civil works construction;
consulting services to assist OPNT and STAM in reorganizing repair
and maintqnance services; and
technical assistance to develop and implement training programs
for port workers.
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.01        The project was designed on the basis of the recommendations of a
Port Master Plan, partially financed by the Bank under the Second Port Project
(Loan 573-TUN). Upon completion of preliminary engineering for the expansion
of the ports of La Goulette and Sfax, OPNT requested that the Bank appraise
these projects to determine their suitability for Bank financing. The appraisal
mission, which took place in September/October 1978, concluded that the project
was technically justified and appropriately prepared after assessing the
following aspects:    (a) physical  constraints  in expanding  existing port
facilities to cope with forecast traffic; (b) suitability of proposed ports
expansion in accordance with types of cargoes and shipping patterns; (c)
availability of reserve areas for future expansion; (d) road network links; (e)
environmental effects of the project; and (f) the selected port layouts and
development schemes corresponding to least-cost solution when compared with
alternative schemes analyzed during the preparation of the Master Plan studies.
From an institutional standpoint, the appraisal mission recognized that OPNT's
organization and management functioned well and that its financial management
was particularly strong. Cash flow projections indicated that OPNT would have
sufficient internally generated funds to finance local investment costs while
maintaining satisfactory operating ratios and would be able to cover its debt
service requirements. Frcm an economic standpoint, the mission supported the
Government's and OPNT's determination to curb port congestion, which, within
the next four years, would result in excessive ships' waiting time.
4.02        Negotiations took place in December 1979.  It was agreed that the
Bank would finance neither equipment procured under the project nor civil works
for the Sfax subproject. Since the Bank loan, however, would finance technical
assistance for construction supervision at both sites, it was stressed that the
Bank would supervise all aspects of the project. A tentative equipment list was
discussed and agreed with OPNT and STAM at negotiations with the understanding
that it would be revised as required by changes in operational techniques. All
equipment would be procured by OPNT and then leased, according to the Loan
Agreement, to cargo-handling companies on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.   It was also agreed that as a condition of loan effectiveness, OPNT would
obtain export credits amounting to US$20.3 million to finance the foreign
exchange cost of the civil works at the port of Sfax as well as the acquisition
of equipment.



V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Loan Effectiveness
5.01        The deadline for meeting conditions of loan effectiveness was changed
from May 8, 1980 to July 31, 1980 to allow OPNT adequate time to obtain the
financing needed for the Sfax subproject and export credit for the financing of
cargo-handling equipment. However, it was pointed out that funding for civil
works at Sfax would be available locally. It was also recognized that cargo-
handling equipment to be financed through export credits would be needed only
near completion of the civil works and not immediately, as originally assumed.
The Loan Agreement was amended in June 1980 to require that OPNT seek export
credit financing for an amount of US$7.0 million, instead of US$20.3 million,
to procure equipment, part of which was for its own use and the other part to
be leased to cargo-handling companies, including STAM.
Project Startup
5.02        Site works at Rad6s did not commence until October 1980, four months
later than forecast at appraisal.   This was due to delays in agreeing on an
acceptable site for depositing material to be dredged from the project area.
Agreement between OPNT and local agencies was finally reached in September 1980
after six months of discussions.    Construction startup at Sfax commenced in
March 1981, nine months later than forecast at appraisal. Delays were due to
the need to remove ship repair facilities, which were still in operation in the
project site area, and to Bank concern over the qualifications and experience
of a local consultant hired to supervise construction.
Implementation Schedule
5.03        Construction of the Port of Rades.   The new port facilities,
originally scheduled for completion by April 1984, were completed in mid-1986.
The main causes of delays in implementing civil works at Rades were:   (a)
unusually adverse weather conditions, consisting of heavy rain, floods, and
strong winds; (b) the change in the site allocated for dumping dredged materials
from a location at the southern inner lake to the sea shore outside the port
breakwater; (c) delay in issuance of an import license for water pipes; (d)
inadequate personnel and equipment provided by the local contractor to remove
about one million cubic meter of sand (7 m high) of surcharge to ensure final
settlement of reclaimed areas; (e) OPNT acceptance of the contractor's proposal
to change the design of paving of open storage areas, more than one year after
submission of the proposal; and (f) difficulty in obtaining an adequate number
of trucks for delivery of materials to the site, a problem that affected many
other branches of industry.
5.04        Operation of the Port of Rades.  The Port of Rades was commissioned
in December 1986.   However,  it could not be fully utilized for Ro-Ro and
containerized traffic until mid-1989 because of delays in procuring the second
tranche of equipment and in improving the link between the port area and the
road network along a 10-mile section of MC33, which had been inadequately
assessed during appraisal.   The Bank agreed to finance the latter component
under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1841-TUN). Now that the equipment has



- 8 -
been delivered and put into operation and improvement of the access road has
been completed, the new port of Rades is fully operational under a separate
directorate within OPNT.
5.05        Expansion of the Port of Sfax.   Expansion of port facilities,
originally scheduled to be completed by April 1983, was not completed until mid-
1985 representing a delay of 20 months.  The main reasons for delays were:  (a)
unusually adverse weather conditions consisting of heavy rain and floods; (b)
unsatisfactory performance of the contractor responsible for superstructure
works; and (c) difficulty in obtaining an adequate numbjqr of trucks for delivery
of materials to the site (para. 5.03).
5.06        Reorganization of Maintenance WorkshoRs.  The study was to have been
executed in three phases. Phase I covered the analysis of systems and procedures
in use.   The report, completed in June 1983, presented four options:   (a)
improvements within the existing systems and equipment; (b) rehabilitation of
workshops and renewal of equipment; (c) creation of an autonomous enterprise to
maintain equipment, which it would own and rent to STAM and OPNT; or (d) joint
STAM and OPNT ownership of equipment.  The last option was retained and the
consultants prepared Phase II of the study, which involved defining the detailed
organization, including training needs and equipment. Phase II was completed
in January 1985. A third and final phase of the study, which would have made
detailed recommendations for implementing the establishment of the new agency,
was never commissioned mainly because of OPNT's preference for private sector
involvement and its opposition to what it perceived as becoming a cumbersome,
inefficient bureaucracy.   After reviewing alternative arrangements for the
operation of the port facilities at Rades, the Government decided in April 1986
that cargo handling, including equipment maintenance, should be undertaken
entirely by STAM.
5.07        Training.   It was initially agreed that OPNT and STAM would
coordinate the training programs for stevedores and shed personnel at appropriate
levels. In early 1982, the Port Worker Training Center (CFTP) was established
for their joint use.   A director and four instructors, two each from OPNT and
STAN, were appointed and received training in Tunis in accordance with a contract
between OPNT and UNCTAD signed in August 1982. The contract specifically called
for the application of the TRAINMAR methodology developed by UNCTAD.   This
methodology relies on the support given to course developers, whose role is to
adapt training activities to the specific needs of the local sector through basic
courses centrally developed by UNCTAD, or in other countries where TRAINMAR is
already applied. Under the TRAINMAR program, CFTP developed four courses. The
first dealt with port operations addressing the needs of dock labor force
supervisors, the second with the commercial aspects of the Tunisian maritime law,
the third with warehousing and storage, and the fourth, developed in
collaboration with a TRAINMAR-affiliated training center in Mexico, with
maintenance planning. By mid-1984, CFTP faced serious institutional problems.
Although it was jointly owned by OPNT and STAN, the entire cost was being borne
by OPNT. Other issues that surfaced were related to CFTP's fiscal autonomy, the
possibility of deducting amounts allocated to CFTP from taxes paid by STAN and
OPNT to the National Labor Training Program, and the easing of restrictions
placed by the Government on the use of CFTP's facilities for non-port training.
Because these issues persisted, in early 1988 the Training Directorate of OPNT



- 9 -
was established to replace CFTP and cater only to the training needs of OPNT
staff. Implementation of the TRAINMAR program was successful notwithstanding
earlier plans for a joint OPNT-STAM training effort.
Procurement
5.08        Civil Works.   Bids for construction of civil works at Rades were
received in June 1979, but the contract was not awarded until March 1980. The
contract for civil works at Sfax was awarded in October 1980 to two local
contractors: one for infrastructure including mainly general cargo and Ro-Ro
berths and the port access road; the other for superstructure, consisting mainly
of transit sheds, ancillary buildings, and port utilities.
5.09        Timber for the manufacture of pallets.  The project included timber
for the manufacture of 20,000 pallets needed by STAM. Since these would not be
financed under the Bank loan, it was agreed that the timber would be procured
directly by STAM.
5.10        Cargo-handling equipment.  In 1984, OPNT negotiated export credits
from the Netherlands for a total amount of US$10.3 million to procure four tug
boats and two pneumatic cranes for handling containers and heavy lifts. Having
exceeded the provision of US$7.0 million referred to in the amended Loan
Agreement, OPNT decided to request the Bank to make available part of the
anticipated surplus in the loan account to finance a second tranche consisting
of land-based equipment (Annex 1), to which the Bank agreed.   In mid-1987,
international competitive bidding was completed. However, subsequent political
changes in the country and the nomination of a new CEO for OPNT delayed
considerably the finalizing of contracts with the selected suppliers, who in the
meantime raised their prices. The National Procurement Board (CSM) advised OPNT
to reject those suppliers and solicit new bids. Even though the previous bids
were no longer valid, there was inadequate time to retender except for the
smallest items. In the meantime, OPNT renegotiated with the suppliers of the
Ro-Ro trucks and the 32-ton forklift trucks who indicated their willingness to
maintain the prices of their original tenders. The equipment list was modified
to suit the needs of both OPNT and STAM keeping in mind that contract awards,
delivery, and disbursement would have to take place within six months of the
fourth and final closing date, December 31, 1989. Six four-ton forklift trucks
on the list were not financed from the Bank Loan because of OPNT's decision to
award the contract to the lowest bidder following a second round of tendering,
which did not conform with Bank procurement guidelines.
5.11        Management Information System.   In December 1984, OPNT asked the
Bank to finance a management information system to replace an existing outdated
computer. This replacement was needed to remedy the frequent disruptions in the
flow of financial information, which was partly responsible for the late
submission of audited financial statements beginning in 1983 (para. 9.02). OPNT
reviewed its needs for a computerized management information system and decided
that it should cater to a broad range of activities from the control of traffic,
accounting, workshops, and stock. A consultant's report covering the proposed
system was reviewed by Bank ITF staff who confirmed the system's general
viability.    The  timetable  for acquiring  this  equipment  required  careful
monitoring as the equipment tender documents had to be approved by the National



- 10 -
Center for Computer Science (CNI) as well as by the Bank.   The system was
installed in 1989 and now incorporates port operations, budgeting, and payroll.
It has already markedly improved OPNT's managerial and operational efficiency.
Proiect Costs
5.12        Actual project costs, totalling US$104.7 million were marginally
higher than appraisal estimates (Part III, Table 4), the major component, civil
works,  being within US$200,000.    By subproject,  however,  there was  some
variation; the cost of constructing the new port of Raees was 4% higher, while
that of expanding the port of Sfax was 11% lower.  A combination of factors
contributed to keeping the overall cost at almost the same level. The Tunisian
dinar depreciated two-fold in relation to the US dollar from 0.43 in 1978 to
0.86 in 1985 at an average rate of 15% p.a.  This took place when about 95% of
all project expenditures were incurred.   But this was also a period of high
local and foreign inflation, which was averaging 10% p.a. Contract prices for
civil works were considerably lower than expected, and the Sfax port expansion
was financed entirely through local sources, thereby helping offset price
escalation. In fact, actual foreign exchange costs without changes in physical
implementation amounted to t4o-thirds of appraisal estimates due to the strength
of the US dollar in the early 1980s and the financing of civil works at Sfax
entirely through local sources.   This situation permitted Bank financing of
additional items, i.e., cargo-handling and computer equipment, and resulted in
the cancellation of US$7.3 million from the loan account.
Disbursement
5.13        During the first three years of project implementation,  actual
disbursements averaged two to three times appraisal estimates (Part III, Table
3).  After the third year, they remained below estimated levels, as the loan
surplus mounted and redirected allocations for the acquisition remained
undisbursed.
VI. PROJECT RESULTS
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.01        Both  project  ports  have  adapted  to  the  changes  in  shipping
technology. Berths accommodating unitized cargo at Rades, in particular, have
eased conventional and car-ferry congestion at Tunis and La Goulette and
increased overall port efficiency.
Achievement of Phvsical Targets
6.02        The physical targets of the project were achieved substantially as
planned, but with delays, in the face of difficult technical conditions. New
facilities are perfectly well suited for Ro-Ro traffic and can also accommodate
container vessels.   At Rades, the new land developed under the project will
facilitate future port expansion at a relatively low cost.  In the meantime,
part of the land is being leased for commercial and industrial use. At Sfax,
new port facilities were developed in the area at the south and adjacent to the
existing port basin, facilitating further expansion, when required.



- 11 -
Financial Performance
6.03        OPNT's financial statements show that performance indicators for
some years were significantly higher than estimated at appraisal and for others
significantly lower (Annex 3). The principal factors underlying such differences
were: (a) the slower pace at which civil works were being implemented (i.e.,
about two years behind schedule); and (b) the need for additional tariff
increases, particularly since traffic levels were significantly below appraisal
estimates.  The former situation caused a surge in the rate of return on net
(non-revalued) fixed assets in use from 16.61 in 1981 to 26.61 in 1983; 15.8%
had been projected for the latter year based, mainly on the assumption that by
then civil works would have been completed and new assets put into operation.
OPNT had no difficulty complying with the covenanted 71 return on net fixed
assets in use until 1987, when inadequate tariffs in the face of an overall
traffic slowdown culminated in a negative cash flow of serious proportions. This
situation was compounded, not only by the steady decline of the Tunisian dinar
in relation to hard currencies, which increased debt service requirements twofold
in 1986 alone, but also by the commissioning of Radis, which added substantially
to net fixed assets in use. In the latter instance, as net fixed assets in use
rose from TD 37,577 in 1986 to TD 117,146 in 1987, there was, as to be expected,
a temporary overcapacity of port facilities. Tariff increases in 1988 had an
immediate decisive impact on the enterprise's financial position. Not only did
revenues nearly double in 1988, but net fixed assets in use yielded a
satisfactory rate of return of 7.5X, as compared with -2.11 for the previous
year.
6.04        OPNT's financial outlook for the 1990s is promising.  Its projected
investment and financing plan for 1990-95 (Annex 4) shows a declining debt
service requirement and an investment plan (TD 38.5 millon) that can be
increasingly financed through internally generated funds. However, there is
expected to be financing gap of US$4.0 million for the period 1990-92.  This
could be covered through bridge loans from local banks. For the period 1993-
95, the operating surplus may well surpass US$60 million. Part of this could
be used for early repayment of loans .r for rehabilitation and maintenance. On
the basis of balance sheet and income statement projections for 1990-1995 (Annex
5), investment targets can be attained while at the same time raising performance
indicators. For example, if revenues under the present tariff structure increase
commensurately with a 41 p.a. growth rate in general cargo traffic, as predicted
by OPNT, the debt service coverage ratio should reach 3.0 by the end of 1995.
The rate of return on net fixed assets in use should stabilize at about 11-12X
in the early 1990s.
Economic Reevaluation
6.05        Project economic appraisal was based on the assumptions that:  (a)
general cargo traffic would increase, on average, at 41 p.a. at both Tunis/La
Goulette and Sfax with a gradual shift from conventional cargo to unitized cargo
at Tunis/La Goulette from 301 ,n 1978 to 701 in 1992, and at Sfax from 301 in
1978 to 701 by 1992; and (b) conversion to the faster and more operationally
efficient Ro-Ro technology would result in significant savings in cargo-handling
costs, ships' service time, ship's waiting time, and avoidable diversion costs



- 12 -
arising from having to reroute cargo through other ports.  An additional benefit
for La Goulette would be the value of reclaimed land.
6.06        Actual general cargo traffic at Tunis/La Goulette/Rad6s in 1989 (1.4
millioni tons) was slightly below the 1978 level, indicating a net decrease during
the project period.  In fact, general cargo traffic in 1989 at both Tuni;/La
Goulette/Rades and Sfax (351,443 tons) showed decreases of 25% and Z0%,
respectively, over appraisal estimates for that year. In effect, general cargo
traffic at all major ports in Tunisia declined throughout the early 1980s and
has risen only slightly since 1985.  This situation was due to the worldwide
recession, declining agricultural exports to the European Community, and import
restrictions imposed by the Government in response to the trade deficit. Despite
low overall growth, the pattern of traffic at Tunis/La Goulette showed a marked
shift to Ro-Ro cargo.   These structural changes took place much faster than
anticipated. As early as 1983, Ro-Ro traffic was 58% the total general cargo
traffic and containerized traffic 9%.   Thus, the virtual stagnation in traffic
was substantially offset by the rapid conversion to Ro-Ro and container
technology made possible by the new facilities and equipment.
6.07        The method used for economic appraisal and reevaluation was a
cost/benefit analysis based on "with project" and "without project" scenarios.
At appraisal, it had been expected that the greatest stream of benefits accruing
both directly and indirectly to the Tunisian economy would be the reduction in
ships' waiting time. In the end, however, actual benefits derived from reduced
ships' service time became the more significant benefit owing to both the
unforeseen stagnation in maritime traffic which automatically reduced ships'
waiting time, and the fast pace of adapting to technological advance. Without
the project, general cargo handling throughputs would probably have increased
only marginally from a level of about 466 tons per ship-day in 1978 to about 55G
tons per ship-day in 1989.   But with the conversion to Ro-Ro and container
technology, including improved operational methods, general cargo throughputs
have actually increased to a level of 1,580 tons per ship-day: roughly 500 tons
per ship-day for conventional vessels and 2,000 tons per ship-day for unitized
cargo. Typical ship-day costs have been used to estimate ship time: US$4,500
per day for coniventional vessels, US$6,000 for Ro-Ro vessels, and US$5,000 for
container vessels. The appraisal ERRs for both subprojects were 16.5%, assuming
an 4% p.a. growth in general cargo traffic. Assuming that traffic will grow
beyond 1990 at 4% p.a., the reevaluation shows an ERR of 14% for Tunis/La
Goulette/Rades and 12.5t for Sfax.
VII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.01        OPNT is institutionally strong in the areas of engineering, financial
management, and training. It also has the capacity to evaluate the technical
and economic viability of port investments.  Provided tariffs continue to be
reviewed periodically and rationally restructured, and if private stevedoring
companies are permitted and encouraged to compete at La Goulette and Rades, as
envisaged, there is reasonable expectation that project benefits will be
sustained.   In this regard, it is also critical that groundwork be laid for
strategic planning in the ports subsector (para. 9.01).



- 13 -
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01        The Bank's major contribution lies in its technical advice to OPNT.
At an early project implementation phase, commitment to training demonstrated
through close liaison with UNCTAD and continual follow-up contributed measurably
to the success and sustainability of the training component. In the last phase,
advice on pzocurement of the second tranche of cargo-handling equipment increased
OPNT's capacity in this area.
8.02        The Bank's major shortcoming concerns the lack of continuity in
supervision, particularly during the readjustment period in the aftermath of
Bank reorganization in 1987.   First,  more careful attention to financial
indicators by supervision missions in the mid-1980s might have led to a new
tariff structure in time to keep OPNT on a sound financial track. Second, the
Bank, at various stages of project implementation, could have used the delays
in equipment procurement as leverage for addressing the institutional issue
involving the working relation between OPNT and STAM, which is still unresolved.
IX. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.01          During the course of project implementation, there was frequent
turnover at the Chief Executive officer level; several recent CEOs had tenures
of less than two years.   Such turnover seriously hampered OPNT's corporate
planning function, as well as the strategic planning process for the port
subsector as a whole.   Otherwise, OPNT is a well managed enterprise.   Good
cooperation between the supervision consultants and OPNT engineering staff led
to a satisfactory achievement of physical targets in the face of difficult
technical conditions.   OPNT's financial management functioned well given an
outdated tariff structure over which it had no control.  The need for tariff
restructuring had been foreseen during negotiations and carried out by December
31, 1982 in compliance with the loan agreement. Several years hence, however,
the downturn in traffic rendered new tariffs obsolete; the tariff structure was
only updated after ONPT experienced a negative cash flow in 1987, which led to
a tariff increase and permitted OPNT to achieve good financial results
thereafter.
9.02        What is significant is that OPNT's declining revenue base relative
to its debt service requirements and operating expenses occurred during a four-
year period (1983-86) when audit reports were not being made available until two
to three years after the due dates.   Herein lies the importance of timely
compliance with the audit requirement. If, in the mid-1980s, the Bank and the
Government had had access to annual audit reports, OPNT could have used these
results to strengthen the case for tariff increases.
X. BANK-BORROWER RELATIONSHIP
10.01       The relationship was smooth and fruitful to both parties.  However,
the lack of continuity in management from both sides resulted in less attention
being given to institutional issues.



- 14 -
XI. CONSULTING SERVICES
11.01       Construction supervision at Rad6s was the responsibility of a joint
venture of three firms. At Sfax, this was handled by a local agency assisted
by a foreign firm for soil investigation. Performance of supervision consultants
as well as that of OPNT's engineering department staff were satisfactory.
Performance of consultants who executed the first two parts of the study on the
reorganization of workshops was also satisfactory. Technical assistance provided
by UNCTAD staff and consultants, together with Bank participation in the training
effort, was well received by OPNT and helped the enterprise achieve a large
measure of training self-sufficiency.
XII. PROJECT DQCUNENTATION AND DATA
12.01        Most aspects related to the project were well documented in the
Division  and  Regional  files.    Supervision  reports  during  most  of  the
implementation period contained in-depth, ongoing analyses of port traffic and
operations although operational coefficients were incomplete and inconsistently
presented. This made it difficult to reconstruct the data base needed for the
economic reevaluation of the two subprojects. Moreover, audit reports for the
early 1980s whose receipt by the Bank had been acknowledged were missing from
the files.
12.02        OPNT provided the Bank supervision and completion missions with
adequate information on its operations, including requested statistical data
(e.g., the evolution of maritime traffic and rates of productivity) and
documentation relating to, inter alia, its in-house training program, its
convention with STAM, and its projected investment and financing plan (1990-
95).   In anticipation of PCR preparation,  OPNT submitted lengthy ex-post
engineering reports for both the Rades and Sfax subprojects.   All of this
documentation will be helpful in preparing the proposed First Transport Sector
Loan (scheduled for FY92).



--Is -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBIJC OF TUNISL
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 1797-TUN)
PART II: PRQUECT REV   FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSP



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 1797-TUN)
I.    SUMMARY OF BANK ACTIONS DURING PROJECT DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
- Preparation of feasibility studies and negotiations gave rise to major
delays from project conception to loan signature with the result that
additional costs for both subprojects were incurred.
- Quarterly progress reports for the two subprojects were submitted for Bank
approval.  Since no comments were made, the Borrower is unaware of the
reports' impact on decisions taken by the Bank.
It would have been desireable if the Bank had sent to the Borrower, at
least once a year, its comments on the various technical and financial
aspects, and, in particular, its opinion concerning any variations that
might have existed between initially planned and completed works.
II.   SUMMARY OF OPNT ACTIONS DURING PROJECT DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
* The OPNT took all necessary actions for the establishment of an appropriate
organizational chart for the supervision of works of the two subprojects.
-  The implementation of the two subprojects provided an opportunity for OPNT
technicians to increase their knowledge, i.e., they took full advantage
of comprehensive training in the field.
- The consultants who followed up the project had good practical experience
in maritime construction works.
- OPNT was obliged several times to modify specifications for the acquisition
of port equipment, such as forklift and Ro-Ro trucks.
- The target for cargo-handling efficiency included in the workshop
reorganization study did not materialize, since the program to reorganize
STAM' s cargo-handling operations, recommended by the Bank, was not followed
through.
- On the financial level, and to the extent that OPNT has strictly adhered
to procedures and documents set forth by the Bank for all transactions
such as withdrawal of loan proceeds and reimbursement, project performance
was positive.



- 18 -
However,  some  organizationa'  difficulties  occurred  during  project
implementation; the submission by OPNT of audited financial statements for
1983 to 1986 was delayed because of difficulties with obsolete computer
equipment.
III. GENERAL ASSESSMENT
In general, the two subprojects have reached their intended objectives:
the variati.ns between estimated and actual values are acceptable and the
economic rates of return have been confirmud.
Port of Sfax
The expansion has been worthwhile, in particular when the old port evinced
numerous deficiencies in the quays (opening of joints, settling, retaining
walls). Traffic has been diverted to the new port, thus alleviating the
old infrastructure, and enabling OPNT to program its port maintenance
works without interference.
Fifteen ha of pavement and 18,000 ml of hangars provide considerable
support for general cargo traffic.
tort of Radis
*     Complies with the needs of Ro-Ro traffic despite insufficient
container-handling equipment.
*     Reclaimed land located outside the port of Rades, once developed,
will have an important impact on the Tuiiisian economy (in particular,
the creation of customs areas and industries connected with the
port).
For the two subDrojects
*     With the exception of certain modifications necessary for greater
efficiency in port operations, the overall project has been
implemented as originally defined.
*     All works have been completed in coordination with enterprises,
consultants, and OPNT.
We also note that the Tunisian and foreign enterprises that were
selected completed their work, which was satisfactory and of good
quality.   They were competent in training and supervision, and
maintained good relations with construction sites.



- 19 -
The choice of the two sites has been propitious: free flow of road
traffic, reduction of traffic congestion in urban areas, reduction
of air pollution in the city center, lower land transport costs,
elimination of costs incurred from traffic detours.



- 21 -
PROJECT COMPLEflON REPORT
REPUBWC OF TUNISIA
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 1797-TUN)
PART III: STATtSTICAL INFORHMATN



- 23 -
Table 1: jelated Bank Loans
Loan Number
and Title               Purpose                   FY              Status
Loan 380-TUN      To provide initial              64         Completed in 1968;
First Port         infrastructure for
Project            the modern port of La
Goulette and to
establish OPNT as a
viable ports
authority.
Loan 573-TUN      To continue and expane          69         Completed in 1973;
Second Port        the first project,                        PPAR No. 1049
Project            including dredging at                     Feb. 26, 1976
Bizerte, Sfax, and La
Goulette; to reconstruct
a breakwater at Bizerte;
provide cargo-handling
equipment
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Planned     Revised      Actual
Identification                                            12/77
Preparation Beginning           4/78                       5/78
Preparation End                 8/78                       8/78
Appraisal Mission                9/78                      9/78
Loan Negotiations                3/79       9/79          12/79
11/79
Board Approval                   5/79                   1/11/80
Loan Signature                                           2/8/80
Loan Effectiveness           5/08/80                    6/25/80
Loan Closing                   6/30/86  6/30/87        12/31/88
6/30/88
Project Completion           6/30/84    6/30/87         8/31/89
12/31/88
6/30/89



- 24 -
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
Quarter               Original              Actual
FY81       1                  6.5
2                  2.0                    6.5           325X
3                  4.0                   9.5            328X
4                  6.0                   13.2           220X
FY82       1                  8.1                  17.6            217X
2                 10.2                  20.5            2011
3                 12.3                  22.8            1851
4                 14.6                  24.6            168X
FY83       1                 17.2                   26.1           152X
2                 20.1                  27.0            1341
3                 23.0                  28.0            1221
4                 26.4                   28.3           107%
FY84       1                 29.5                   28.8            981
2                 32.8                  29.3             891
3                 35.4                  29.9             841
4                 37.9                   30.1            791
FY85       1                 39.9                   30.3            761
2                 41.5                  30.5             731
3                 42.0                   30.8            73X
4                 42.5                   30.8            721
FY86       1                 42.5                   32.0            751
2                 42.5                   32.0            75X
3                 42.5                   32.5            76X
4                 42.5                   32.6            77X
FY87       1                 42.5                   32.9            771
2                 42.5                   33.5            791
3                 42.5                   33.6            791
4                 42.5                   33.7            791
FY88       1                 42.5                   33.7            791
2                 42.5                   33.7            791
3                 42.5                   33.7            791
4                 42.5                   33.7            791
FY89       1                 42.5                   33.7            791
2                 42.5                   33.9            801
3                 42.5                   33.9            801
4                 42.5                   34.3            811
FY90       1                 42.5                   34.7            821



- 25 -
Table 4: Proiect Casts
Appraisal Estimates                        Actual
Local                               Local
Item               Costs      F.E.      Total           Coats     F.E.       Total     Variation
(US$ million)
Civil Works
Radla                 28.85       40.07    68.92           41.80      29.69     71.49       2.57    4S
Sfax                  10.33       11.74    22.07           19.68                19.68      (2.39) -llS
Subtotal            39.18       51.81    90.99           61.48     29.69      91.17       0.18   0O
Eauiument
Cargo Handling         1.14        9.10    10.24            0.02      11.28     11.30       1.06   10S
MIS                                                                    0.17      0.17       0.17  1001
Subtotal             1.14        9.10    10.24            0.02     11.45      11.47       1.23   121
Technical Assistance
Construction
Supervision
at Radia             0.79        0.91     1.70            0.38      0.72       1.10      (0.60) -35S
at Sfax              0.24        0.29     0.53            0.12      0.23       0.35      (0.18) -341
Workshop
Reorganization         0.00        0.04     0.40            0.00       0.13      0.13       0.09  233Z
Training               0.00        0.73     0.73            0.08       0.42      0.50      (0.23) -32Z
Subtotal             1.03        1.97     3.00            0.58       1.50      2.08      (0.92) -311
TO01L                41.35      62.68   104.23            6a.08     42.64    104.72       0.4S    Ox
Table  5:   Project  Financing
Original                           Actual
Ezport                           Export
IBiD     Credit    OPT             IBIRD   Credit    OPDS
(US$ mifLion)
Civil Works
Radla                              40.50                  28.42        31.87               39.62
Sfax                                            7.20      14.87                            19.68
Subtotal                        40.50         7.20     43.29         31.87              59.30
EouiEumnt
Cargo-Handlin                                   9.10       1.14         0.90      10.40
MIS                                                                      0.17
Subtotal                                      9.10       1.14         1.07      10.40
Tschnical Assistance
Construction Supervision            1.23                   1.00          1.25               0.20
Workshop Study                      0.04                                 0.13
Training                           0.73                                 0.42                0.08
Subtotal                         2.00                    1.00         1.80               0.26
TOTAL                           42.50        16.30      45.43        34.74      10.40   50.56



- 26 -
Table 6: Direct and Indirect Benefits
A. Direct and Indirect Benefits a/
Closing Date                       Full ODeration
Estimated   Actual _/            Estimated       Actual _/
(1989)                            (1992)
Tunis/La Goulette/Rad&s
Annual Savings in Cargo-Handling Costs        669    1,386    2072              790       1,653    2092
Annual Savings in Ships' Service Time       1,278    3,414    2672            1,278      15933   1252S
Annual Savings in Ships' Waiting Ti..    41,488   11,385        272          41.488      13,485      332
Annual Savings in Land Transport             na.       289                     na.          329
Value of Reclaimed Land                    19,756   19,756    100l             na.         n.a.
Savings in Avoidable Diversion Costs        -           -                       342       1,278    3732
Subtotal                               63,191   36,230      572         43,898       32,738      752
Sfar
Annual Savings in Cargo-Handling Costs        311        67     222             358          188     522
Annual Savings in Ships' Service Time       3,899       136      32           4,504       2,255      502
Annual Savings in Ships' Waiting Time       5,334    1,831      342          11,406       2,010      182
Savings in Avoidable Diversion Costs         -        -                        -            -
Subtotal                                9,544    2,034      212          16,269       4,453      272
TOTAL                                  72,735   38,264      53Z         60,167       37,192      62X
j/ All figures in 1989 constant prices
k/ Annex 1 shows a comparison between estimated and actual traffic and Annex 2 shows actual cost and
benefit stramss.
Table  7:   Economic  Imiact
Original
Estimate             Reevaluated
Economic Rate of Return
Tunis/La Goulette/Radla            16.52                14.02
Sfax                               16.52                12.52
Projoect Life                       30 years               40 years
Table 8: Proiect Stdv
Purpose as
Defined at                                          Impact of
Appraisal                 Status                     Study
Workshop             To assist OPT anO        Two out of three           The third part of the study
Reorganisation       and STA  in               parts of the study        which would consist of specific
reorganising repair       completed.                recomendations, was nver
and maintenance                                     comissioned becauue of policy
services,                                           and institutional ehanges in
responsibility for cargo-
handling operations and
euipment mlantenance.



- 27 -
Table 9: Status of Covenants
Loan
Agreement
Reference              Description                           Status
3.02(a)           Employment of consultants           Complied with.
3.06 & SL 3       Cargo-handling equipment
to be leased on terms and          Complied with.
conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
5.02              Audited accounts to be              Complied with, except
submitted within six               for the period 1983-86.
months of the end of the
fiscal year.
5.05              Until project completion,           The investment program
investments not to exceed          for cargo-handing
US$2.5 million p.a. and as          equipment and for port
agreed in the investment           rehabilitation exceeded
plan for 1984.                      the original forecast but
the Bank considered the
expenditure to be
justified and offered no
objection.
5.06              Review tariff structure             Complied with.
by December 31, 1982.
5.07(a)           Rate of return of not less          In default in 1987;
than 7X on net fixed assets;       complied with in 1988
assets to be revalued by           after a substantial
December 1980.                      tariff increase.
5.08(a)           OPNT to maintain a debt             In default in 1987 and
service coverage ratio of           1988. Positive impact
at least 1.5.                      of the tariff increase
on this ratio require-
ment will be noted in
1991.



- 28 -
Table 10: Staff Ingur&
(Staff - Weeks)
Prc-                                                      Loan
Appraisal         Appraisal        Negociations          Processing       Supervision    PCR          Total
FY79/80     31.5             72.1              5.1                 12.0               3.5                     125.1
FY81                                                                                 21.5                      21.5
FY82                                                                                 24.1                     24.1
FY63                                                                                  6.6                       6.6
FY84                                                                                  1.1                       1.1
FY65                                                                2.1              16.7                      18.8
FY86                                                                2.8              12.1                      14.9
FY87                                                                0.8              15.6                      16.4
FY68                                                                                 10.8                      10.8
FY89                                                                                  3.5                       3.5
FY90                                                                                  0.2        16.1           4.2
TOTAL     31.5             72.1              5.1                 u.S              115.3       16.1         250.3



- 29 -
Table 11:  Missions
Specializa-
Stage of               month/          No. of    Days in        tions                              mature of
Project Cycle           Year           Staff     Field          Rapresanted            I/Ratirns   Problem
Through Appraisal       12/77            2         3            Deputy Chief
Financial Analyst
Port Engineer
05/7S            4         8            Deputy Chief
finhncist Analyst
Port Engineer
Appraisat through       10/78            5        21            Deputy Chief
Board Approval                                                  Financial Analyst
Economist
Port Eginoeer
Port Specialist
07/79            4        10            Finacial Analyst
Economist
Port Enginer
Loan Officer
Supervision             09/80            2        12            Financial nalyst         2          Technical
Port Engineer
05/81            3        10            Financial Analyst        2         Technicel
Port Engineer
Port Specialist
12/81            2        11            FinanciaL Analyst        1         Technical
Port Engineer
07/82            2        11            Financial Analyst        2         Technical
Port Enginser                      Financist
06/03            1         7            Finwcial Analyst         I         Technical
07/84            2         7            Financale  Analyst       2         Technicat
Port Enginer
03/85            1         4            Port Engineer            2         TechnicaL
06/86            1         7            Trainfng Specialist      2         Nanagerial
07/86            2        12            Port Engineer            2           anagerial
Procurement Engineer
02/37            2         9            Deputy Chief             2         Financial
Port Engineer                       anagerial
Proceurant Engineer
01/88            1         a            Opwration  Analyst       2         FinanciaL
>Mawnariet
06/88            1         2            Port Engineer            2         Financial
Minugriot
05/89            1         6            Port Enginer             2         Finwncial
Managerial
Cooptetion              03/90            1         8            Operations Anetyst
Total uSter of doas in fletd *                   156



- 3n. -
Annex 1
List of EguiRment Procured under the Project
Netherlands          IBRD
Export Credit        Loan
(US$)
First Tranche
2 32-ton mobile container-handling cranes       1,280,000
4 tugboats                                      9,100,000
Second Tranche
2 32-ton Forklift (32-ton)                                           405,924
1 Spreader
5 RoRo Tractors (200 hp)                                              337,256
2 Forklift Trucks (10 ton)                                            158,412
6 Forklift Trucks (4 ton)
TOTAL                                     10!380,000           901,441



- 31 -
Annex 2
Comparison of Actual and Forecast General Cargo Traffic
Tunis/La Goutette/Rades                        Sfax
Appri sat                                Appraisal
Estimates     Actual         X           Estimtes        Actual   X
(tons)
1978         1,450,000     1,393,961     96X           558,000       485,899     87X
1979         1,3U8,500     1,253,322    90X            448,835       375,625     84X
1980         1,327,000     1,244,560    94X            339,669       443,73     1311
1981         1.382,058     1,244,560    921            356,653       410,769    115X
1982         1,439,401     1,275,988    96X            374,486       358,460     96X
1983         1,509,500     1,378,205     851           436,000       434,065    100X
1984         1,561,000     1,317,867    871            457,800       404,m       581
1985         1,625,767     1,236,283    791            485,800       391,245     811
1986         1,693,221     1,191,525     731           509,250       298,260     59X
1987         1,763,474     1,159,378    651            534,713       326,361     611
0988         1,834,013     1,153,754    751            561,448       376,297     67X
1989         1,907,373     1,375,016    751            589,521       351,443     601



- 32-
Annex3
Page 1 of 3
OPNT's Audited  Financial Statements
197       1979      1979      1980      190       1981      1981
ACT       APR       ACT       APR       ACT       APR       ACT
(TD 000)
NALAbCE SNEET
Current Assets                        2,126     3,468     4,677      3,291     4,740    2,908      4,904
Gross Fixed Assets                   42,871.   44,875    44,729    48,195    53,348   49,295    55,293
Less Depreciation                    15,763    17,363    16,912    19.063    18,712   20,913    20,488
Net Fixed Assets
in Use                             27,108    27,512    27,817    29,132    34,636   28,382    34,805
Other Assets                                            3,219                3,866               7,068
Work-in-Progress/
New Investments                     8,625     8,795     7,151    14,715    12,167   24,935    25,747
Total Assets                     37,859    39,775    42,864    47,138    55.409   56,225    72,523
Current LiabiLities                       0         0     3,157                8,203               7,883
Long-Term Debt                       10,376     9,609     9,896    13,410    15,137   18,935    30,574
Equity                               27,483    29,654    29,809    33,728    32,070   37,290    34,066
Total Liabilities                37,859    39,263    42,864    47,138    55,409   56,225    72,523
INCO"E STATERWE
Revenues                              6,268     7,850     8,577    10,370    10,127   10,890    11,364
operating Expenses                    3,181     3,382     4,551      3,860     5,957    4,270      6,426
Depreciation                          1,367      1,600     1,149     1,700      1,801    1,850     1,776
Operating Surplus                     1, 720    2,868     2,878      4,810     2,369    4,770      3,162
Interest                                507       440       481        738       468    1.073        489
Net Surplus                           1,213     2,428     2,396      4,072      1,901    3,697     2,673
Non-Operating Expw es                   144       125        70        130       714       135      (201)
Not Revenues                          1,069     2,303     2,326      3,942      1,188    3,562     2,874
Gross Cash Flow                       2,436     3,903     3,474      5,642     2,968    5,412      4,649
KEY RATIO9I1WICT31
Debt/Equity Ratio                     27/73      24/76     25/75     28/72      32/68    34/66     47/53
Operating Ratio                         735       632        66X       54X        772      56X       722
Debt Service coverag  I/                 3.3      5.6        5.1       5.6        5.5      4.4       6.0
Return on Averag
Met FIxed Assts                      5.8X      10.5X     10.5X     17.02       7.6X    16.6X      9.1X
I/  calculated on the basis of:  (Gross Cash Flow + Depreciation)/(Int*rest Expeneo + Repayment of
Principal); actual repayment of principal, which is not shown in the above financial atatements is as
follows: 1979, TD 303,045; 1980, TD 294,000; 1981, TD 328,215.



- 33 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
OPNT's Audited Financial Statements
APIt     ACT      APUC       ACT      APR       ACT
(TD 000)
UIIAAICE SIE
Current Assets                       2,641    7,385     1,1S1    11,538    3.136    8,230
Gross Fixed Assets                  51,805   56,560   6S,685   56,760   102,475   57,192
Le  DOpreciation                    22,913   22,187   25,113   24,076   27,768   25,918
Not Fixed Assets
in Use                            28,892   34,373   40,572   32,684   74.707   31,275
Other Assets                                9,811              13,346             15,498
Work-in-Progress/
New Invest"ents                   44,047   40,134   34,930    55,363    5,220    72,018
Total Assets                    75,580   91,702    76,653   112,932   83.063   127,021
Current Liabilities                      0   11,276              16,314        0    19,821
Long-Term Debt                      40,310   39,802   43,6U    51,687   47,257   59,172
Equity
Total Liabilities                 66,318   91,702    76,653   112.932   83,063   127,021
1         - n^T
Revenes                             11.440    16,266   13,010   19.805    13,800   19,473
Operating Expeses                    4,774    8,344    5,310    9.003    5,970    10,730
Depreciation                         2.000    1,699    2,200    18'9    2,655       1,842
Operating Surplus                    4,666    6,223    5,500    8,913    5.175    6,902
Interest                             1.506      501    2,012        531    2,416       536
Net Surplus                          3,160    5,722    3,488    8,382    3,759    6,366
Mon-operating Expees                   140     (210)      150       416       150      282
Net Revene                           3,020    5,931    3,338    7,966    3,609    6,084
Gross Caah Flow                      5,020    7,631     5,538    9,855    6,264    7,926
Ku RATIOmImI
Debt/Equity tatio                    39/61    51/49    43/57    47/53    43/57    45/55
Oprating Ratio                         59X      62X       58X       5S5      63X       65X
Debt Service coverage w                3.4      9.1       2.4       5.2       2.1      3.0
Return on averae
let fixed asts                     16.31    18.01     15.8x     26.6      10.71    21.6
j/ calculated an the basis of: (Gross Cash Flow + DepreciationM)Interst Zxpemae +    _apa    t
of Principal); actual repa ment of principal. wbich is not hbon In the bowe fiamoteal
statments is a follows: 1982, TD 371,971; 1983. TD 1.533,349; 1984, TD 2,382.419.



- 34 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
OPNT's Audited Financial Statements
1985      1985      1986      1987      1988
APR       ACT       ACT       ACT       ACT
(TD 000)
ELC OM
Current Assets                                  3,345    17,986    19,840    10,890    13,994
Gross Fixed Assets                            103,195    57,539    67,324   151,279   152,639
Less Dproeciation                              30,498    27,697    29,747    34,133    38,622
Net Fixed Assets
in Use                                       72,697    29,842    37,577   117,146   114,018
Other Assets                                            7,213      7,076    17,636    18,209
Work-in-Progress/
New Investments                               8,000    94,237    99,278    21,422    21,224
Total Assets                               84,042   149,278   163,771   167,094   167,45
Current Liabilities                                 0    27,360    31,159    36,256    30,777
Long-Term Debt                                 34,171    60,312    69,909    68,135    73,964
Equity                                         49,871    61,606    62,703    62,703    62,703
Total Liabilities                           84,042   149.278   162,771   167,094   167,U5
INCE STATENET
Revemnies                                      14,590    17,530    18,258    18,142    30,863
Operating Expenses                              6,715    11,786    11,781    15,385W  17,704
Depreciation                                    2,730      1,779     2,051     4,386     4,489
Operating Surplus                               5,145     3,965      4,426    (1,629)    8,670
Interest                                        2,681       538       940     6,322w   6,563
Net Surplus                                     2,864     3,427      3,487    (7,951)    2,107
Nan-Operating Expenses                             150      993      2,390     2,497     2,302
Net RevemieS                                    2,714     2,434      1,097   (10,448)     (195)
Gross Cash Flow                                 5,4U      4.213      3,147    (6,062)    4,293
KEY 3ATICSSIWDICATQ*S
Debt/Equity Ratio                               41/59     49/51      53/47     52/48     54/46
Operating Ratio                                   65X        77X       761      109X       721
Debt Service coverag  J/                           1.7       1.2       1.0       0.2       0.7
Return an averag
Met fixed assts                                 7.5X     13.01     13.11     -2.11      7.5%
A/ increase in 1987 with respect to 1986 due mostly to mortization of engineering studies and
interest during construction, which was previously capitaUeld.
b/ increase in 1987 with respect to 1986 due mostly to change in interest on loans that
financed the project to interest charges, which were previously capitalized (a.o u/).
S/ calculated on the basis of: (Gross Cash Flow + Deprecistion)/(Interest Expenso + Repayment
of Principal); repayment of principal, which is not shown in the above financial itatements
is as follows: 1985. TD 4,061,151   1986, TD 5.414.417; 1987, TD 5.999.662; 1088, TD 11,361,398.



- 35. -
Annex 4
OPNT's Projected  Investment and Financing  Plan
1990      1991      19         t9        1994      1995
(TD 000)
Civil Works at Rados                  1,055
Civil Works at Sfax                     380
Contairer-handling equipment            210
Dredging                              2,661
Petroletv Berth at Bizerte                       5,000     6,000     4,000
Expwnsion of the Port of Sousse                  2,000     4,000
Port modermization                    4,991      3,000     1,600     1,600      1,000      1,000
Loan Reiwbursement                   16,004      9,144     7,904     7,211      6,737      5,220
Tax Credit Reimbursement                605        605       454
Total Uss                          25,906    19,749    19,958    12.811       7,737      6.220
Cash Flou                            16,780    17,827    17,239    12,637       7,610      6,220
Best Bank Credit (dredging)             316
Italian Public Credit                 2,345
Repeyment from STAN                     174        174       174        174       127
Medium-Term Government Credit         4,549      1,513       560
Other Local Financing                  1,742       235     1,965
Totat Sources                    25,906    19.749    19.958    12.811       7,737      6,220
Source: OPNT, March 1990



- 36 -
Annex 5
OPNT's Proiected Financial Statements
990       1991      1          19        1994      t9
(TD 000)
MALAIi NEJET
Current Assets             12,252    12,017    10,032    18,053    31,224    45,676
Gross Fixed Assets        200,101   212,074   224,544   238,383   246,105   249,228
Less Depreciation          44,360    47,036    49,505    51,744    53,867    55,989
Net Fixed Assets
in Use                  155,742   165,039   175,039   186,639   192,239   193,239
Work-in-Progress/
New Investments           9,297    10,000    11,600      5,600     1,000      1,000
Totat Assets          177,291   187,066   196,671   210,292   22,463   239,915
Current Liabilities        32,519    30,456    28,915    27,838    27,333    26,965
Long-Term Debt             64,565    56,329    48,531    41,320    34,583    29,363
Equity                     80,206   100,270   119,225   141,133   162,646   183,586
Totat Liabitities    177,2D1   187,056   196,671   210,292   226,463   234,915
INIVE STATEIIT
Revenues                   40,213    41,822    43,495    45,235    47,044    48,926
Operating Expenses         17,704    18,998    21,949    20,910    23,194    25,648
Depreciation                2,936     2,761      2,591     2,416      2,337     2,337
Operating Surplus          19,573    20,064    18,954    21,909    21,512    20,940
Interest                    5,729     4,998     4,306      3,667     3,069      2,606
Net Revenues               13,844    15,066    14,648    18,242    18,444    18,335
Gross Cash Flow            16,780    17,827    17,239    20,658    20,781    20,672
EY RATIOS/IWCATORS
Debt/Equity Ratio           45/55     36/64      29/71     23/M       18/82     14/86
Operating Ratio               51X       52X        56X       52X        54X       571
Debt Service Coverage *       1.0       1.6        1.8       2.2        2.4       3.0
Return on Average
Net Fixed Assets          12.6o     12.51      11.11     12.11      11.41     10.9X
p/ calculated on the basis of:  (Gross Cash Flow + Depreclation)/(Interest Ezpase
+ Repayment of Principal); repayment of principal, sboam  n Annex 2.



- 37 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Cost/Benefit Analysis
Ports of Tunis/La Goulette/Rades
Benefits
Reduced       Ship           Ship                         Savings in
cargo-        service        waiting        Land          Avoidable      Value of
handling      time-          tim-           Transport     Diversion      Reclaimed
Costs    costs          savings        savings        Savings       Costs          Lwnd
(US$ 000)
1980         3,058
1981        58,314
1982        24.373
1983         19.128
1984         14,728
1985        30,382
1986         5,415
1967            126    1,086          3,324         10,204         243                          19,756
1988           323    1,218           3,726         10,362         252
1989           77m    1,386           3,414         11,385         289
1990                  1,590          15,378         12,967         305
1991                  1,653          15,993         13,485         329
1992                  1,653          15,993         13,485         329
1993                  1,653          15,993         13.485         329            2,971
1994                  1,653          15,993         13,485         329            4,732
1995         9,500    1,653          15,993         13,485         329            6,563
1996                  1,653          15,993         13,485         329            8,468
1997                  1,653          15,993         13,485         329            16,092
1998                  1,653          15,993         13,485         329            19,264
1999                  1,653          15,993         13,485         329           22,563
2000                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2001          9,500    1,6S3         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2002                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2003                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2004                   1,653         15,993         13,48          329            22,563
2005                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2006                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2007          9,500    1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2008                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2009                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2010                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2011                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2012                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2013          9,500    1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2014                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2015                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2016                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2017                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2018                   1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,563
2019          9,500    1,653         15,993         13,485         329            22,S63



- 38
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Cost/Benefit Analysis
Port of Sfax
lanef i ts
Reduced       Ship           Ship          Savings in
Cargo-        Service       Waiting        Avoidable
Handling      Tine-          Time-         Diversion
Costs    Costs          Savings       Savirgs        Costs
(USS 000)
1980           5
1981          38
1982       5,883
1983       8,117
1984       5.965
1965       2,065          75          97          2,244
1986         112          57          80          2,088
1987          17          62         102          1,931
1988                      72          34          1,686
1989                      67          136         1,831
1990                      70       2,255          2,065
1991       6,717         181       2,273          2,029
1992                     188       2,255          2,010
1993                     196       2.295          2,049
1994                     204       2.478          2,202
1995                     212       2.582          2,304
1996                     220       2,669          2,380
1997                     229       2,758          2,459
1998       6,717         238       2,872          2,560           14
1990                     238       2,872          2,560           34
2000                     238        2,872         2,560           55
2010                     238        2,872         2,560           77
2011                     238        2,872         2.560           99
2012                     238        2,872         2,560          123
2013                     238        2,872         2,560          147
2014       6,717         238        2,672         2,560          172
2015                     238        2,872         2,560          199
2016                     238        2,872         2.560          226
2017                     238        2,872         2,560          255
2018                     238        2,872         2,560          284
2019                     238        2,872         2,560          315
2010                     238        2.872         2,560          315
2011       6,717         238        2,872         2,560          315
2012                     238        2,872         2.560          315
2013                     238        2,672         2,560          315
2014                     238        2,872         2,560          315
2015                     238        2,872         2,560          315
2016                     238        2,872         2,S60          315
2017                     238        2,872         2,560          315
2018                     236        2,871         2,S60          315
2019       6,717         238        2,871         2,S60          315



TUNISIA
THE PORTS SUBSECTOR                                                                                            MLLkANf Si            A
GENERAL LOCATION                                        .   -               ,           -                              '
N                          T Hommdov      fl n b-t-d   a v        <     tToa                               ' CAP BON
d>     Projel Ports                        Buug.                       lebouo        b           Seei; e'
Rivers                         Dm.a. ~~-'fo, det 
-  Rivers           fo Av,,b    A,v DroCno   Bee          g    M.d.:2v            j'.F            - o 
Moin Roods                 /
R-o il-,oys Rn    ***' <   /  v\hlb
,    International Airporls-         |                       eO.OJk
Ports                      gGodaoo              -     ao,                            goo         ,iom
-  International Boundaries   )
Built-up Areas                                                                    El
36' 
0     20    40      60 KILOMETERS
4dTod,e ne.    /_     bbO KSQlo,/ S/                                      
4ofbhd,o
X ~~~~~~~~~~El Aof+    
ALGERIA                                             oil    -                
3s' !< \ : l 35
KERKENNA
-!\ '-     W           #e'3o
____                                  ~                             ISLAND OF
DJERBA
10     %                   (o. r a,f/o              K-b 9                                1                                                  -
'CARTAGE
J        /   ~                                      ARIANA      |                          -
LA GOULEE                                  i
A  F  R  i C   A                                                                                       .  4--ort of
V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~L                                                                         - ,L Goulette
.fUNIS                     Po, - -Rde
{Ort of tun,iS-e'    '.
1                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ce'-I
.\   ,    t *   \    ;g  ~5ebAhet                    +RC'>..,rw,I,_
RAPEJ
JUNE 1990



