OCUMET      LOAN NUMBER 1797 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Third Port Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OFFICE DES PORTS NATIONAUX
Dated                               , U  1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1797 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            a  A..b/  9      , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and OFFICE DES PORTS NATIONAUX (hereinafter
called the Borrower), an Etablissement Public ' caractere
industriel et commercial established and operating pursuant to the
laws of the Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Gua-
rantor).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has received assurances that export credit
financing will be made available to the Borrower under an appro-
priate agreement (hereinafter called the Export Credit Agreement)
for the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the goods, works
and services required under the Project in an amount equivalent to
not less than twenty million three hundred thousand dollars
($20,300,000);
(C) by agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the Guarantee Agreement) between the Guarantor and the Bank, the
Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower
in respect of the Loan and to undertake certain obligations in
respect of the Project as therein set forth; and
(D) the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Law No. 65.2" means the Guarantor's Law of February 12,
1965, providing for the establishment of the Borrower, as the
same has been amended on February 15, 1972 and may be further
amended from time to time;
(b) "Outside Debt" means the Loan, or any other loan which
the Borrower might contract for the Project other than funds to
be made available to the Borrower by the Guarantor;
(c) "STAM" means the SocigtS Tunisienne d'Acconage
et de Manutention, a sociftf anonyme established and operating
under the Tunisian Commercial Code and pursuant to its Statutes
dated February 1, 1961, as said Commercial Code and Statutes may
be amended from time to time;
(d) "Project Ports" refers collectively to the ports of
La Goulette and Sfax;
(e) "Ports" refers to the ports within the jurisdiction of
the Borrower pursuant to the Law No. 65.2;
(f) "Tunisian Dinars" and the letters "TD" mean dinars
in the currency of the Guarantor; and
(g) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to forty-two million five hundred thousand dollars
($42,500,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of civil works and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the civil works under Part A of the Project to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and port management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall, on or before July 31, 1980,
or such other date as the Bank may agree, employ or continue to
employ engineering, equipment maintenance and repair, and training
program consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank.
(b) Upon completion of the reports to be prepared by the
equipment repair and maintenance consultants referred to in the
foregoing paragraph, the Borrower shall promptly forward said
reports and the recommendations included therein to the Bank for
its review and comments and shall consult with the Bank prior to
taking any action necessary to implement such recommendations
as may be revised to take into account the Borrower's and the
Bank's comments.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the goods imported
under the Project against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all works and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the works and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine the goods
imported under the Project, to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to be furnished with
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the


﻿-5-
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the works and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, promptly after the date
of delivery of the cargo-handling equipment included in the
Project, lease such equipment to cargo-handling companies
(including STAM) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, under arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank, transfer to STAM the materials procured
pursuant to Part A (j) of the Project, under terms ensuring the
full recovery, by the Borrower, of the cost of such materials.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times conduct its
operations under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by qualified and experienced personnel in
adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage
its affairs and maintain its financial position in accordance
with appropriate port management and financial practices and, in
particular, shall operate and adequately maintain all the equip-
ment, property, machinery and facilities of the Ports, and
promptly as required make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all licenses, consents or other rights as may
be necessary or useful in the conduct of its operations.
Section 4.04. Without any limitation upon the generality
of the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 4.03 hereof, the
Borrower shall, promptly after the date hereof, take all appro-
priate steps, in cooperation with STAM, to improve, according to
the plan of action agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank
(as may be revised from time to time), the operations and effi-
ciency of the Ports.
Section 4.05. Before the Borrower shall take any action
to create any Subsidiary, the Borrower shall first have satisfied
the Bank that such action would not prejudice the interest of
the Bank under this Agreement or the execution of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (a) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (i)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as jecurity
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on
any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all action required on its part to request
and obtain promptly as needed such funds as the Guarantor has
undertaken to provide or cause to be provided to the Borrower
under the Guarantee Agreement.


﻿-8-
Section 5.05. Until the completion of the Project and except
as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not undertake or execute, for its own account or for the
account of any third party or parties, investments which are not
included in the investment program agreed upon between the Bor-
rower and the Bank at the date hereof (and which may, hereafter,
be amended from time to time by agreement between the parties
hereto) unless the estimated aggregate capital expenditures
incurred by the Borrower as a result of such investments does not
exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000 in any fiscal year.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall: (a) review with the Bank
the level of its operating costs and service charges structure
(including the charges on vessels and for storage); (b) on the
basis of said review and not later than December 31, 1981, estab-
lish a cost related service charges structure satisfactory to the
Bank and the Borrower; and (c) implement such service charges
structure not later than one year following the establishment
thereof (or at such -other date as the Bank may agree), it being
understood that, after the establishment thereof, the Borrower
shall apply at all times such service charges structure, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain charges for services at the Ports at such
levels that they produce revenues sufficient:
(a) to ensure a rate of return of at least seven per cent
(7%) per annum on the average current net value of its fixed
assets in operation at such Ports, after deducting all operating
expenses, including administrative expenses and adequate main-
tenance and depreciation. For the purposes of this paragraph, the
term "average current net value of its fixed assets in operation"
means the average of the gross values of fixed assets in operation
at the beginning and end of each fiscal year less accumulated
straight-line depreciation; it being understood that, for the
purposes of this paragraph, such assets will be revalued not later
than December 31, 1980, and thereafter from time to time, on the
basis of a methodology acceptable to the Bank.
(b) to enable the Borrower, out of its internally-generated
resources: (i) to meet interest on and amortization of debt; (ii)
to maintain adequate operating working capital; (iii) to establish
and maintain reserves adequate to meet contingencies; and (iv) to
finance the cost of renewal or replacement of plant and equipment,
the cost of minor port works and a reasonable proportion of the
cost of major port expansion and development works.


﻿-9-
The foregoing provisions supersede any other prior agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Bank on the same subject.
Section 5.08. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, other than for Outside
Debt, unless its net revenues for the fiscal year next preceding
such incurrence or for a later period of twelve consecutive months
ending prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is greater,
shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service require-
ment for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt including the
debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt of the Borrower,
including debt assumed or guaranteed by the
Borrower, maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
a contract, loan agreement (including the Loan
Agreement) or other instrument providing for
such debt, on the date of execution and delivery
of such contract, loan agreement or instrument;
and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing such guarantee is entered
into;
(iii) the term "net revenues      means gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of the
Borrower's charges for its services at the Ports
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the
fiscal year or twelve-months period to which such
revenues relate, less all operating and administra-
tive expenses (including adequate maintenance), but
before provision covering depreciation, interest
and other charges on debt, and income tax or other
distribution of profits, if any;
(iv) the term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and


﻿- 10 -
(v) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
rate of exchange at which such other currency is
obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt, or, if such other currency is not
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 5.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall not repay in advance of maturity
any part of its indebtedness other than of its Outside Debt;
and
(b) if the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity
any part of its Outside Debt other than the Loan, the Borrower
shall simultaneously prepay in the same proportion an amount of
the Loan then outstanding subject to the provisions of the General
Conditions relating thereto.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) A material change shall have been made, without the
prior agreement of the Bank, in the Law No. 65-2 so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of the Borrower or ability of the Borrower to carry out its
obligations hereunder.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or credit made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or


﻿- 11 -
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
paragraph (a) or (b) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
export credit financing referred to in Recital (B) to this Agree-
ment, other than (if applicable) the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment, have been satisfied.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included In the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Export Credit Agreement
referred to in Recital (B) to this Agreement has been duly autho-
rized and ratified by the Borrower, and executed and delivered on
behalf of the Borrower, and is legally binding upon the Borrower
in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date    #,A 1.                , is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Office des Ports Nationaux
Batiment Administratif
Port de La Goulette
Tunisia
Cable address:                      Telex:
OFPORNA                             12386 TN
Tunis
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 13 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By4
B  ,Regional Vice President
Europe, Mi le East and North Africa
OFFICE DES PORTS NATIONAUX
IlKll      #eJcL
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works under            29,500,000        48%
Part A of the
Project
(2) Consultants'                  2,000,000        100% of for-
services and                                  eign expen-
training                                      ditures
(3) Unallocated                  11,000,000
TOTAL         42,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for works or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on works or services,
or on the importation, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.


﻿- 15 -
4.   Not,iithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to enable the Project
Ports to cope with changes in shipping technology and future
traffic and to increase their operational efficiency and capacity.
The said objectives are to be achieved through the provision of
(i) specialized facilities to accommodate roll-on/roll-off ves-
sels, (ii) additional port facilities with appropriate operational
and storage areas, transit sheds and warehouses, (iii) additional
cargo-handling equipment, (iv) repair and maintenance facilities,
and (v) technical assistance required to improve the operations of
said Project Ports and to train their personnel and port workers.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Civil Works, Equipment and Materials for
Port of La Goulette
(a) Dredging of the access channel and the south port
basin to a depth of 10 m (including reclamation and
disposal of material not suitable for reclamation).
(b) Dredging and reclamation at the new port area to replace
soft layers with suitable material.
(c) Improvement of soil conditions at the new port area.
(d) Construction of quays, about 350 m in length and 10 m
deep, and of jetties capable of handling general cargo
liners, roll-on/roll-off vessels and container ships.
(e) Construction of about 30,000 m2 of transit and customs
sheds.
(f) Paving of open storage areas and construction of the
port access road.
(g) Construction of port administration and other ancillary
buildings.
(h) Construction of a shallow-water berth and related
back-up area to handle dangerous materials.


﻿- 17 -
(i) Provision of utilities (including water supply, electri-
city, drainage and sewerage), as required to operate the
facilities included in Part A (a) through (h) of the
Project.
(j) Provision of cargo-handling and workshop equipment
and materials for the manufacture of about 20,000
pallets.
Part B:   Civil Works, Equipment and Materials
for Port of Sfax
(a) Construction of quays, about 515 m in length and 11 m
deep, capable of handling general cargo liners and
roll-on/roll-off vessels.
(b) Construction of the port access road.
(c) Filling, grading and paving of open storage and parking
areas.
(d) Construction of transit and customs sheds and ancillary
buildings.
(e) Provision of utilities (including water supply, electri-
city, drainage and sewerage), as required to operate the
facilities included in Part B (a) through (d) of the
Project.
(f) Provision of cargo-handling and workshop equipment.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
(a) Supervision of civil works construction under Parts A
and B of the Project and programming of the execution of
the Project.
(b) Reorganization of Project Ports workshops and mainte-
nance procedures.
(c) Development and implementation of a training program for
Project Ports workers.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1984
through   August 1, 1996                   1,575,000
On February 1, 1997                             1,550,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.40%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.80%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.15%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.00%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.95%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any works remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 21 -
Z.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders;
(b) after bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the relevant consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination;
(c) the terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited; and
(d) two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall


﻿- 22 -
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  h     -day of         , 1910.
FOR SECRETARY


