Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16662
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
(LOAN 3272-ME)
June 3, 1997
Mexico Department
Human and Social Capital Development Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by. recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =  New Peso (N$)
US$1.00  =  7.8 New Pesos (June, 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
BH It      Second Basic Health Care Project
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
ENSA        National Health Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Salud)
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IMSS       Mexican Social Security Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Seguridad
Social)
INSP       National Public Health Institute (Instituto Nacional de Salud
Puiblica)
ISSSTE       Public Sector Employees Social Security Services (Instituto de
Servicios de Seguridad Social para Trabajadores Estatales)
LAMXC         Mexico Country Department
LASHD        Social and Human Development Group
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
MIS       Management Information System
MTR        Mid-term Review
NAFIN        National Financing Company (Nacional Financiera)
NGO        Non-Governmental Organizations (Organizaciones no-
gubernamentales)
PAC       Programa de Ampliaci6n de Cobertura
PASSPA        First Basic Health Project (Programa de Apoyo al Sector Salud
para la Poblaci6n Abierta)
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
PROSSE        Program of Essential Social Services (Programa de Servicios
Sociales Esenciales)
SHCP       Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y
Credito Pzublico)
SSA       Ministry of Health (Secretaria de Salud)
TAP       Primary Health Care Technician (Tecnico de Atenci6n Primaria)
Vice President        Shavid Javed Burki
Director              Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager        Julian Schweitzer
Staff Member          Armin H. Fidler



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO: FIRST BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
(Loan 3272-ME)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ............................................... in
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................1
PROJECT BACKGROUND ................................................1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ................................................2
Original Objectives ...............................................2
Assessment of Original Project Objectives ...............................................2
Original Project Design and Organization ..............................................3
Agreed Changes ...............................................3
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD ................................................3
Procurement ...............................................4
Disbursements ...............................................4
Civil Works ...............................................5
Vehicles and Equipment, Drugs and Supplies ...............................................5
Maintenance ..............................................S5
Human Resources ...............................................6
Research ...............................................6
ACHIEVEMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES ................................................7
Improving and Extending Health Service Delivery in Poor Areas .........................        ......................7
Institutional Strengthening .....................................8
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ....................................9
Factors Not Subject to Government Control ..................................                                     9
Factors Subject to Government Control ...................................9
Factors subject to implementing agency control ................................... 10
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...................................                                                         10
BANK PERFORMANCE ...................................                                                               10
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ....................................11
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ....................................11
LESSONS LEARNED ...................................                                                                12
FUTURE OPERATIONS ...................................                                                              13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...................................                                                   14
Appendixes; A.   Mission's Aide Memoire
B.    Government's Contribution to the ICR
C.   Government's Comments on the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



\ 0 :: l 0:t
:



IMPLEMENTAIO COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
(LOAN 3272-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first Basic Health Care
Project in Mexico, for which Loan 3272-ME, in the amount US$180.0 million equivalent,
was approved on November 29, 1990 and became effective on September 18, 1991. In
October 1995, responding to a request from the Borrower, US$40 million from this loan
were canceled in response to the 1995 economic crisis. This cancelation would have been,
in any case, done at project closing due to late effectiveness, constant delays in budget
releases, the peso devaluation and some initial implementation delays. The Loan was
closed on December 31, 1996. An additional period of four months was granted for
submitting withdrawal applications for expenditures incurred before the Closing Date.
Final disbursement took place on May 14, 1997, and a balance of US$3.8 million was
canceled. At closing, the total loan amount was thus reduced to US$136.2 million. Total
project cost amounted to US$205.2 million. Loan versus Government contributions
represented 66 and 34 percent respectively compared with the proposed breakdown of
72/28 percent estimated at appraisal. Although the contribution of the central Government
was considerably higher than anticipated, the comnitment of state Governments to
participate with 25 percent of the Borrower's contribution was lower than expected. This
experience was taken into account in the design of the Second Basic Health Project (Loan
3943-ME), for which formal implementation agreements were signed between the central
Government and the participating states, to ensure compliance with state contributions. In
this new project the states are obligated to cofinance the annual investment plan with at
least 15 percent. But project states are free to choose the counterpart finding for any line
item of the annual project budget. This has resolved the issue of non-compliance by project
states.
The ICR was drafted by Nydia Maraviglia, Consultant (LASHD/LAMXC); John
Paul Rathbone (Consultant) participated in a first ICR mission in 1995 and in initial
drafting. The report was finalized by Armin Fidler, Task Manage+, and Maria Colchao,
Operations Assistant (LASHD). Anna Sant'Anna, Co-task Manager,nd Carmen Hamann,



iv
Sector Leader (LAMXC) provided comments. The Country Director was Mr. Olivier
Lafourcade (LAMXC). The Sector Manager was Mr. Julian Schweitzer (LASHD).
Preparation of the ICR began during a Bank supervision mission in July 1995 and
was finalized with inputs from a project completion mission that took place on October 21-
25, 1996. Early start of evaluation studies and project closing reporting had the specific
purpose of providing feedback on lessons learned to the teams preparing and implementing
the second Bank project in this sector. This report is based on supervision reports and other
relevant documents in the project file, findings of the ICR missions, field visits, and
interviews with Government officials and Bank staff. The Borrower prepared its own
evaluation of project execution (summary included as Annex B, in Spanish) which was
reviewed in detail and commented upon by the October, 1996 Bank mission. The ICR
mission suggested that the detailed Government report be distributed to the project teams in
the 18 states participating in the Second Basic Health Care Project. The Borrower reviewed
the draft Bank ICR.



v
IMPLEMNTATION COMLETION REPORT
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
(LOAN 3272-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
In the late 1980's, the Government adopted several strategies to ease the most
prominent health problems facing Mexico's 40 million uninsured and underserved,
including targeted interventions in the poorest districts of the most disadvantaged states.
The poor areas of the Federal District and selected states -- Chiapas, Guerrero, Oaxaca
and Hidalgo -- included about one-third of the underserved (13 million). The Basic
Health Care Project was the first IBRD financed health operation undertaken in Mexico.
A Second Basic Health Care Project, approved in 1995, is extending a redefined model
of services to risk areas in 18 states, learning from the lessons of the first project. It also
includes components in support of decentralization and institutional development at the
federal level.
The First Basic Health Care Project was prepared by the Secretariat of Health
(SSA) with help from the Bank and consultants, between June 1989 and June 1990. The
Loan 3272-ME, in the amount of US$180.0 million equivalent, was approved by the
Board on November 29, 1990 and became effective on September 18, 1991. In October
1995, upon request from the Borrower, US$40 million from the loan were canceled in
response to the 1995 economic crisis. The Loan was closed on December 31, 1996.
Final disbursement took place on May 14, 1997, and a balance of US$3.8 million was
canceled. At closing, the total loan amount was thus reduced to US$136.2 million. The
loan and Government contributions represented 66 percent and 34 percent, respectively,
compared with appraisal estimates.
Project Objectives and Description
Original Objectives consisted of: (a) improving and extending the delivery of
basic health care and nutrition to about 13 million uninsured people in 47 districts in
Oaxaca, Chiapas, Hidalgo, Guerrero, and marginal areas of the Federal District; and (b)
supporting institutional improvements at State and Federal levels to decentralize budget,



vi
management and operations and strengthening management. These goals were to be
accomplished through two project components:  (1) Strengthening Health Services
Development to upgrade and expand a deteriorating health network which included a
maintenance plan for facilities and equipment, purchase of equipment, firniture,
materials, vehicles, and basic medical supplies, hiring or reassigning and re-grading staff,
and improving training and supervision. (2) Institutional Development was designed to
support health services at national and state levels in achieving decentralization; it had
financing for operational research to improve service delivery, evaluation and policy
studies and included the development of a management information system (MIS). At a
Midtenn Review (MTR) in 1993, a more equitable reallocation of resources was made to
strengthen achievement of objectives, and the share for the Federal District was decreased
because of a new Government policy on health delivery for the uninsured in the Federal
District. Consequently, the proceeds of the loan were redistributed among the four poorer
states which received 80 percent of the funds, instead of the originally apportioned 64
percent. Moreover, new construction and rehabilitation of health centers and hospitals
were scaled down.
The project objectives were considered sound. Strategies were enhanced with the
reallocation of resources in favor of the poorer states. Furthermore, the project formed an
integral part of the Bank's assistance strategy (CAS) for Mexico and supported the
Government's 1989 poverty alleviation program. On the other hand, the original
objectives did not include provisions for reform on health strategies, staff incentives,
health financing, or for seeking a larger role for the private and/or non-governmental
organizations (NGOs).  However, in 1989-90, when this project was developed,
circumstances were not favorable to warrant an all out health reform effort through an
externally financed project.
Implementation Experience and Results
As the project was appraised in 1990 and implemented during the period 1991-
1995, initial high-level Government support for the project -- especially with regard to the
institutional development component -- was weak. Initially there were frequent changes
in project staff at all levels and this inevitably slowed progress. After the MTR, in 1993,
implementation improved. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) played an important
role in maintaining project stability in the face of high rates of staff turnover at both the
central and state levels and successfully monitored the implementation of project
objectives, priorities and programs, as agreed with the Bank. In addition to the expansion
of the health network, the project provided for the financing of a permanent maintenance
program and the use of private contractors for specialized maintenance, but progress
under this approach was slight, although there was more success when maintenance was
delegated to the jurisdictions.
Identifying appropriate incentives for employing and retraining qualified health
professionals in rural areas remained mostly unresolved. SSA created 5,464 positions for
health professionals, representing 95.6 percent of the revised target. These additional



vii
positions enabled the four states to increase by 23 percent the health staff working in
direct contact with patients, although there are still shortages of doctors and other health
staff in the targeted districts. Also, facilities still face shortfalls in basic medicines
reflecting problems in the logistics system, but also budget constraints. Studies aimed at
identifying specific issues hampering institutional development, management and
delivery of services, and monitoring and evaluation were of uneven quality and the
studies' recommendations were often not followed up by political decision makers.
The Bank correctly highlighted sector policy issues and addressed serious
constraints limiting efficient health service delivery, but while the Bank foresaw many of
the risks associated with the project, it may have underestimated the obstructive role that
such risks did finally play, vis-a-vis project implementation. However, the Bank ensured
staff continuity from appraisal through supervision and acted flexibly in resolving
implementation problems, conducting a thorough midterm review and re-dimensioning
certain project contributions to better meet objectives.
Regarding Government performance, initial problems were due to a lack of
political commitment and limited training on project management for state level staff.
This situation was further aggravated by high turnover of key project management staff at
the federal and state levels. For reasons beyond the PCU's control, there were problems
throughout the project regarding delays in the transfer of project funds to the states and
the implementing levels, although during the project's second half this situation
improved. Funds started to be transferred from Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) directly to
the States. This was corroborated by the changes in the pace of disbursements. While by
October 1992, disbursements had only reached 23 percent of appraisal targets, by June
1995, they were $127 million, or 80 percent of original targets. Also, new budgetary
procedures initiated in 1995 increased flexibility and transparency. The project was
completed within reasonable expectations, albeit with some under-spending.
Assessment of Outcome
Projects which incorporate many complex elements, such as in the case of health
(HNP) operations, are more likely to fall short of original expected targets. Nevertheless,
the project achieved many of its objectives and, overall, provided a flexible model for
improving health care in the targeted states. More work, however, is required to achieve
financial and administrative reform and greater efficiency, responsiveness and quality in
health care delivery. Overall, the project outcome is rated satisfactory.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
The most important factor with no direct connection to project management
affecting project implementation was the 1995 peso devaluation and the ensuing
economic crisis. Another factor beyond Government's control were the delays in
construction caused by failure of contractors to meet agreed contractual terms. Potentially
preventable or avoidable factors that slowed down the project included delays in the



viii
release of counterpart funds, rigid budget processes, inadequate handling of the project
accounts, and perennial delays at the Federal level in releasing funds to the states. Four
main factors that affected the project were subject to the control of the health central
level and/or the state health departments were: (a) complicated requirements for
programming; (b) high turnover of federal and state project staff; (c) inexperience with
procurement at the state level; and (d) awarding of bids to contractors that proved to be
unsuitable for tasks at hand.
Summary of Findings
The evaluation of project implementation concluded that the project accomplished
to a great extent its principal objective of expanding health services in underserved areas
in the four poorest states. Moreover, it partially met goals of institutional development
by preparing the states for formal decentralization. The new and rehabilitated facilities
benefited a large proportion of the poorest districts by increasing the health network by
12 percent, and rehabilitating 63 percent of the existing facilities, Also, over 90 percent of
the new construction had lower costs than the regular civil works programs of several
public health agencies.
In spite of the significant strengthening of manpower, the project had little
success in motivating medical and nursing staff to take assignments in the targeted
districts, fact which continues affecting negatively service provision. Between 1990 and
1995, due to population growth in the four project states, the number of uninsured who
were fully dependent on SSA services, increased from 8.1 million to 9.3 million. During
the same period, service coverage to the uninsured grew by 1.8 million (15 percent) with
the help of the project and, of this increase, 315,500 people were served through new
construction, two-thirds in areas of high or very high poverty levels. In addition, the
continued presence of a primary care technician (TAP) in many communities decreased
the gap in coverage by about 1.5 million people. Moreover, mobile health units, an
increased offer of specialized medical services, and training benefited an unquantifiable
number of clients, and the new up-to-date equipment provided hospital services to about
300,000 additional patients. The three public health laboratories financed through the
project in Hidalgo, Chiapas and Oaxaca serve the population of those states.
Overall, qualitative surveys indicate that the community in the project areas
perceive improvemnents in the quality of care and staff willingness to serve (about 30
percent higher than the results for the whole country). Yet, in spite of these favorable
perceptions, service utilization was slightly lower (4.8 percent) than the national average
(5.8 percent) due in part to the highly scattered population, and perhaps reflecting
effective prevention prograns. The evaluation also revealed that while targeted
communities remain dependent on public health services (72 percent of sick persons
attend SSA facilities), many people are willing to use private practitioners (16 to 30
percent) when available, despite out-of-pocket expenses.



ix
The institutional development component lagged behind appraisal expectations.
The legal decentralization of health services from SSA to the targeted states did not
materialize -- with the exception of Guerrero, decentralized between 1982-1988.
Nevertheless, the project helped prepare the ground for future changes. In many respects,
the project states are now better equipped to tackle planning, budget and operational
issues, than many of the early legally decentralized states. Decentralization was
completed in all states, by Presidential decree in 1997. A new MIS to provide state
managers with better tools for health services administration was only partially
implemented. The SSA established a computerized system so that the states could collect
and transmit project related data in a uniform manner. Concerning project financed
research, the national evaluation concluded that, with some notable exceptions, the
studies financed by this loan were costly and often of low impact, in particular regarding
implementation of policy recommendations.
Key Lessons Learned
Even with a strong commitment by the Borrower, implementation problems are
likely to arise if sector agencies do not share project ownership; the lack of project
ownership during the project's first two years proved to be one of the largest constraints
in project implementation.
Mechanisms for planning, budgeting, and transferring funds to the local level
must be simple, transparent and easily applicable to ensure timely project
implementation. The difficulties confronted with fund transfers in this project prompted
the design and implementation of clear procedures for loan fund transfers in the Second
Basic Health Care Project.
Project flexibility is essential to accommodate revisions in project design and
priorities, as well as changes in the political environment; additionally, the rigidity of the
rules and procedures of the national implementing agencies is often a more formidable
obstacle.
Attracting qualified staff to remote areas is a continuing problem, and innovations
are needed in this area. In place of financial and/or career related incentives, some
remote areas may be better served by mixed approaches of public and private
participation and/or community health workers. Creating new staff posts may not always
be necessary, or optimal. Indeed, financing of higher recurrent costs -- without, at the
same time, experimenting with new sustainable forms of health financing -- may limit the
chances of attaining continuity of project gains after the international assistance phases
out.



x
Future Operations
The project established a strong basis for further institutional change. Mexico's
long-term health sector strategy is being supported by the Program of Essential Social
Services (PROSSE) and the Second Basic Health Care Project (BH II). Better health
resource allocation, more efficient resource use, and exploring alternative financing and
service provision continue to be major issues in gaining health improvements. Other
issues to be tackled, related to sustainability, include the need to rationalize expenditures
for hospitals and study alternatives for decentralizing and improving hospital
management, taking into account that those institutions absorb the largest portion of the
budget allocation for health in all the states.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    The Basic Health Care project was the first IBRD-fmanced health project undertaken in
Mexico. When the loan was initiated in 1990, some 40 million Mexicans of a total population of
84 million, were uninsured and lacked adequate access to health and social services. About one
third of the underserved group (or 13 million) lived in the four poorest southern states -- Chiapas,
Guerrero, Oaxaca and Hidalgo, and in the Federal District -- the targeted population for this
project. While urban centers and northern states enjoyed health indicators comparable to OECD
levels, in urban slums, rural areas and the aforementioned southern states, the poor continued to
be subject to malnutrition, immuno-preventable diseases and other common gastrointestinal and
respiratory diseases linked with malnutrition and poor sanitary conditions. Available public
resources were about US$13 per capita in the poor states, compared to a national average of
US$20 for the uninsured population. A spending squeeze that followed the collapse of oil prices
in 1982 had further aggravated this health gap and the inequity in resource allocation -- health
infrastructure notably deteriorated in the mid-to-late 1980's. But limited resources were also
unsatisfactorily administered by an over-centralized system, and rural health centers, when
accessible, were frequently inadequately staffed, under-supplied and under-funded.
2.    To ease the most prominent health problems facing Mexico's 40 million underserved, the
Government of Mexico adopted several strategies, including: targeted interventions to reach the
most disadvantaged areas in the poorest states; participation of the community in construction of
health centers; the reallocation of resources from expensive curative care to preventative health
care; the expansion of social security coverage; and the decentralization of health service
operations from federal to state authorities. To reach these objectives -- supported by the Basic
Health Care Project -- the SSA developed PASSPA (Programa de Apoyo de Servicios de Salud
para la Poblaci6n Abierta) in addition to the basic health services model for the Government's
National Solidarity Program (IMSS - Solidaridad).
3.    Although Solidaridad was a nationwide program, PASSPA -- through this project --
targeted the southern states. It sought to reduce infant, child and maternal mortality, and the
prevalence and severity of diseases common among the poor. Health service delivery was
organized at two levels: (1) primary health care, which includes health promoters, rural
ambulatory units, health posts and centers, and (2) secondary health care hospitals, which
provide support and serve as points of referral for primary health care posts. Under the PASSPA
model, health service delivery was strengthened by rehabilitating existing medical facilities (and



2
if necessary constructing new ones); by boosting management capacity at all levels; and by
providing appropriate equipment, trained staff and medical supplies.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Original Objectives
4.    The original objectives consisted of: (a) improving and extending the delivery of basic
health care and nutrition to about 13 million uninsured poor in 47 health jurisdictions, in Oaxaca,
Chiapas, Hidalgo, Guerrero, and marginal areas of the Federal District; (b) supporting
institutional improvements at the State and Federal levels that would decentralize the budget,
management and operations, enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of the health care
system; and (c) strengthening management capabilities at both the State and Federal levels.
Assessment of Original Project Objectives
5.    The objectives were sound. First, the project formed an integral part of the Bank's
assistance strategy for Mexico (CAS) and, by focusing on the basic health and nutrition needs of
the poor in Mexico's most disadvantaged states, it also supported the Government's 1989
poverty alleviation program (Solidaridad). The targeted population for the project was correctly
selected. Indeed, the four project states have similar socioeconomic characteristics: over 50
percent of the population live under precarious conditions, with 75 percent of those employed
receiving less than two minimum salaries and the uninsured population reaching almost 80
percent of the total. Second, the project was based on the correct assumption that greater
autonomy for the states was an effective means of improving the efficiency of health service
delivery in Mexico. This required managerial improvements at the Federal and, especially, State
level -- improvements that the project emphasized. Third, the project was designed to reallocate
more equitably central resources for health among the states towards basic and preventative
health care, to realize worthwhile goals of equity and efficiency gains. On the other hand, the
objectives did not include provisions for reform of health strategies, staff incentives, health
financing, or other innovations that could have implied a larger role for the private sector and/or
non-governnental organizations (NGOs). Innovations along these lines are being implemented
by the Second Basic Health Care Project. Experiences in other countries, however, have shown
that successful pursuit of these concerns usually requires a receptive social and political climate,
a thorough awareness of the means and consequences of structural changes, and a momentum
created by sectoral changes elsewhere. In 1989-1990, when this project was developed, none of
these circumstances were strong enough to warrant an all out health reform effort through an
externally financed project.



3
Original Project Design and Organization
6.    The Health Services Development Component (89 percent of total cost, including
contingencies) would, specifically: upgrade and expand a deteriorating health network; develop
a maintenance plan for facilities and equipment; provide resources for the purchase of
equipment, furniture, vehicles, and basic medical supplies; hire, reassign and re-grade personnel
according to PASSPA needs; improve the training of health care personnel; improve the
supervision system; and, produce and distribute operational manuals and materials. The
Institutional Development Component (11 percent of total cost), would support the Federal
Government in its efforts to speed up the decentralization of health services. At the Federal
leveL this component would: assist in the decentralization process of the SSA; conduct
operational research on ways to improve service delivery, provide software and technical
assistance to improve planning and management; conduct studies on health policy and project
evaluation; and, find ways to mobilize additional resources for health care. At the State level,
this component would: improve the administrative and technical capacity of the state health
authorities to deliver PASSPA basic health services; improve the MIS; improve personnel
policies; provide training for managerial and administrative staff; and provide legal support for
the decentralization process.
Agreed Changes
7.    At the MTR in 1993, a more equitable reallocation of resources was made on the basis of
new inventories, to strengthen achievement of objectives. The share for the Federal District was
decreased in favor of the four poorer states that, as a result of those revisions, received 80
percent of the funds, instead of the originally apportioned 64 percent. In addition, new
construction and rehabilitation of health centers and hospitals in the Federal District were scaled
down. A total of 895, or 63 percent of existing health care facilities were rehabilitated in the
project areas by 1990. Of these, 870 were primary health centers (90 percent of which were
located in the four states), one office, 15 hospitals, and 9 specialty clinics; also 172 new primary
health centers were built. New construction was also reprogrammed and the implemented
program included, in addition to the 172 new primary health centers, three warehouses, three
public health laboratories, and one anti-rabies laboratory.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
8.    With the change of Government administrations between appraisal and implementation,
initial high-level Government support for the project was weak; there was a lack of ownership on
the part of the new health authorities, due to the change that took place in 1990. Indeed, during
the 1993 MTR, the SSA informed the Bank that no legal decentralization would take place
during the then current administration. After a slow start, The PCU played an important role in
maintaining project stability in the face of high rates of staff turnover at both the central and
state levels and monitored carefully the implementation of project objectives, priorities, and
programs, as agreed with the Bank. Difficulties related to transfer of funds to the states were



4
reviewed during the MTR and improved in 1995, when new procedures were established,
including: (a) creation of a budget fund in NAFIN to channel funds directly to the state project
offices and contractors, through regional banks; and (b) giving greater responsibility for
executing project activities to the state health departments.
Procurement
9.    One of the most important gains of the project was to delegate procurement activities to
the states, although the degree of success varied among states depending on the willingness and
the capacity of the state authorities to implement new and transparent procurement procedures
and to delegate functions to the jurisdictions. Two states made great strides toward independent
action and efficiency in procurement. Hidalgo showed original thinking by involving the
municipal presidencies and the communities as executing agencies; although the results were
mixed due to variations in local capacity, it provided a model to work on and improve through
training and technical support. In Oaxaca, almost all jurisdictions organized its procurement
through committees that participated from the budgeting stage to the purchase of equipment or
furmiture or the execution of construction. On the other hand, in Chiapas, only one jurisdiction
participated in procurement of medicines and rehabilitation of health centers, and in Guerrero,
the only state legally decentralized, there was no delegation below the state level. Many
procurement related experiences that were acquired under this project were of great relevance
for the Second Basic Health Care Project: (a) SSA officials at the central and state levels became
familiar with Bank regulations; (b) cross-fertilization between experienced and new project states
takes place providing an opportunity for systematic hands-on training; (c) annual joint state-
federal procurement planning has evolved as standard practice; (d) local shopping procedures,
used for small, rural civil works has yielded positive results. More research and dialogue will be
needed, however, with regard to cost-effective procurement practices in the light of fiscal and
administrative decentralization, currently under implementation in the SSA.
Disbursements
10.   At the State level, unfamiliarity with Bank procedures slowed disbursements, although
better progress followed the MTR. While by October 1992, disbursements had only reached 23
percent of appraisal targets, in June 1995, they were $127 million, or 80 percent of original
targets. By the end of the project, disbursements reached US$136.2 million which is 97 percent
of the total loan amount. Another problem tackled by the project was the outdated budgeting
system, consisting of allocating funds to states on an historical basis, according to program
targets that did not provide proper incentives to improve efficiency. New budgetary procedures,
started in 1995, increased flexibility and transparency in the transfer of funds from Federal to
sSate levels, so speeding project execution. These procedures are continued in the second
project, resulting in the implementation of a new health budget allocation, based on a risk-
adjusted per capita formula in 1996.



5
Civil Works
11.   Progress in civil works during the first three years of the project was slower than
estimated at appraisal due to delays in releasing budgetary funds, transfer of funds from the
central Government, frequent management changes, lack of experience, and training in
procurement and in supervision of civil works by the states. There were several instances of
problems with contractors due to non-compliance and low quality of the works. This was mainly
due to the procurement process, through which large construction firms from Mexico City and
other large urban areas were awarded the contract, but subsequently did not carry out the work
because of the unexpected high mobilization costs. In some cases legal proceedings had to be
initiated, contracts had to be canceled and new contractors selected. Improvements followed
when in 1994-1995, the PCU hired local consultants with long experience in supervising
construction in the private sector, to review designs and supervise civil works. This procedure
produced good results and is being carried forward to the second project. The states of Guerrero
and Hidalgo were successful in introducing community participation for construction of
facilities, resulting in shorter construction times, cost reduction, and a closer identification of the
community with its health center.
Vehicles and Equipment, Drugs and Supplies
12.   During the first half of the project, the use of outdated technical manuals in the Federal
District led to the purchase of inadequate equipment (X-rays and dental equipment), which then
had to be redistributed by the PCU to other project sites (e.g. Hidalgo). New catalogues were
subsequently prepared by Oaxaca and Hidalgo and adopted by other states. Otherwise, suitable
purchases of drugs, vehicles, computers and audiovisual equipment (for use in training) reached
and often exceeded appraisal targets. Irregular schedules in the distribution of medicines and
materials continue to affect service delivery. Most of the health facilities in the evaluative sample
did not have a complete and timely provision of basic medicines (for instance, almost 70 percent
experienced delays in receiving antibiotics). Although the problem is partly a result of a
deficient distribution system, there are also budgetary constraints affecting the availability of
these items. At least in two states, the current budget allocations were not enough to cover
adequate supplies of medicines and materials. Corrective actions are being sought through the
second project decentralizing pharmaceutical procurement to the states, leaving it to the state's
discretion to participate in central procurement.
Maintenance
13.   The project provided for the financing of a permanent maintenance program, and the use
of private contractors for specialized maintenance, but progress under this approach was slight.
A maintenance manual developed by consultants and reviewed by the Bank, was distributed to the
states but enjoyed only limited use. There was more success when maintenance was delegated to
the jurisdictions, but continuity of this approach was jeopardized by lack of allocations for this
purpose in the annual budgets. For example, in Chiapas and Guerrero, the program functioned
satisfactorily up to 1995, but after that year there were cuts in the budget for maintenance due to



6
the economic crisis. In Oaxaca, the maintenance plan has been fully adopted by the jurisdictions.
There are still shortcomings in fund availability and local staff capacity to do more sophisticated
maintenance. In sum, the most useful outcome from the project regarding maintenance has been
the concept that responsibility for maintenance of health facilities should be delegated to the
jurisdictions in most project states.
Human Resources
14.   Hiring. Identifying appropriate incentives for employing and retraining qualified health
professionals in rural areas remained unresolved. The SSA created 5,464 positions for health
professionals, representing 96 percent of the revised target (and 20 percent below the over-
dimensioned original target). Ninety five percent of these positions were distributed among the
four project states and 5 percent were assigned to the central level. The project financed the
salaries of the newly recruited staff on a declining basis and these additional recurrent costs have
been absorbed by the Government budget. From the total new positions, 979 were physicians,
926 nurses, 578 health technical and auxiliary personnel and 903 TAPS. These additional
positions enabled the four states to increase by 23 percent the health staff working in direct
contact with the communities, although there are still shortages of doctors and other health staff
in the districts that were being targeted by the project. Although service coverage increased, there
are still unmet needs in many communities. The results of a sample survey carried out in 82
facilities indicated that 32 percent did not have a physician or a ''pasante"'l in its staff and 15
percent did not have a nurse. The project also created 2,057 administrative positions, 6 percent
above the re-dimensioned target.
15.   Training. By project completion, 71,152 health services staff and 4,239 management
staff had received various forms of training, well above targeted plans. The project also
complemented regular training by placing 28 training coordinators at the jurisdictional level, and
by providing materials and equipment. While during the first half of the project training was
focused on health service providers, during the second half emphasis shifted to management
training, with teaching provided by consultants, universities and technological and public
administration institutes. The project's financial support for the "Data for the Decision Making"
project was particularly successful.
Research
16.   The loan financed a number of studies aimed at identifying specific issues hampering
institutional development, management and delivery of services, and monitoring and evaluation.
The decisions to include a research sub-component in the project and to try to involve the states
in defining research needs and administering its execution were forward looking and
commendable. But there were many problems with this part of the project. The definition of
research themes was flexible to provide the SSA with the opportunity to define studies relevant
A doctor fulfilling social services requirements before graduation.



7
to their needs, during the life of the project. However, there was no proper direction, supervision
and technical assistance, and the assessment of proposals lacked the necessary rigor to ensure a
useful product. The initial objective was to undertake 34 study initiatives during the five years of
the project. In the first two years of the project, however, there were no funds for studies in the
budget. During the MTR the goal was redefined to 11 studies. Although 25 studies were finally
financed, only 21 were finished. Almost all research studies were carried out at the central level
(80 percent), only Hidalgo and Oaxaca proposed and undertook their own research. In 1995-
1996 the National Institute of Public Health (INSP) conducted an evaluation of the relevance,
methodological quality and potential impact of the studies and concluded that, in general, the
results were of uneven standards. Also, there was little dissemination, with the exception of the
National Health Survey II (ENSA II) that received partial funding from this project. ENSA II
produced a wealth of information, which was used in project evaluation and for the definition of
the second project. Despite their technical and methodological soundness and the relevance of
study topics, many studies lacked translation of recommendations into new policy.
ACHIEVEMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES
Improving and Extending Health Service Delivery in Poor Areas
17.   To what extent did the resources received by the states from this project benefit the
districts most in need? Answers to this question were sought by the national evaluation study.
The general conclusion was that the new and rehabilitated facilities benefited a large proportion
(over 80 percent) of the poorest districts. The network of physical facilities increased by 12
percent, and 63 percent of the existing facilities were rehabilitated. For example, in Chiapas, the
state with the worst socio-economic indicators, 56 percent of the new construction (39 primary
care centers, one warehouse and one public health laboratory) was located in areas of high or
very high poverty. In that state, the new services benefited 260,000 people which previously did
not have access to any health service (or eight percent of the uninsured population). The states of
Hidalgo and Guerrero experienced similar results. On the other hand, in Oaxaca, a large part of
the new construction was located in areas with medium to high socioeconomic conditions (about
40 percent of the new construction took place in poor or very poor localities). However, during
the last two years of the project efforts were made to give preference to low income areas for
remodeling and for allocating other resources. Regarding construction costs, in a comparative
analysis it was concluded that over 90 percent of the new construction under the project had
lower costs than the regular civil works programs of the SSA or the Mexican Social Security
Institute (IMSS).
18.  In spite of the significant strengthening of manpower, there was little success in
motivating medical and nursing staff to take assignments in poor rural or semi-rural areas, which
continues to affect the provision of services in those areas. The increase in coverage with TAPS,
although impressive and useful in terms of lessening the inequities in access to services, is
considered by the Government only a first step towards more comprehensive and higher quality
availability of services to the areas targeted by the project. There were other forms of services



8
generated by the project that contributed to enhanced health services. These included the use of
mobile health units that visit communities where there are no established health facilities,
although they may have a TAP. Also, the increased availability of specialized medical services
and the additional new equipment available through this project, as well as the strengthened
training of the medical and paramedical staff led to a higher level of resolution for medical
treatments. In all, about 300,000 persons have benefited from services of higher complexity in
hospitals in the project states (not included in the total increase of population covered).
19.   Between 1990 and 1995, the uninsured population which relies mainly on SSA's system
for health care increased in the four states from 8.1 million to 9.3 million as a result of
population growth. Expansion of service coverage through the project, is estimated at 1.8
million (from 3 million of the uninsured population in 1990, to 4.8 million in 1995). Thus, the
project helped increase the coverage of the uninsured by 15 percent (from 37 to 52 percent).
New construction benefited 315,500 people, two thirds of which live in areas of high or very
high poverty. In addition, the continued presence of a TAP in many communities of difficult
access contributed to provide basic health services for about 1.5 million people.
20.   Overall, the evaluation surveys indicate that the community in the project areas perceive
improvements in the quality of care and in the relationship between the health professionals and
the patients. Users' perception of a better quality of medical attention and of the services
offered by the health facilities were 24 percent and 30 percent, respectively higher than the
figures of the national health survey. Notwithstanding these favorable perceptions, service
utilization in the project states was slightly lower than the national average -- 4.8 per 100
population compared to the national average of 5.8, perhaps reflecting the lower level of income
and education of the communities and the highly scattered population in the project areas.
Among those who were sick during the two weeks preceding the health survey (ENSA II) in the
four states it was found that between 55 and 72 percent went to a SSA facility, 7 to 20 percent
went to an IMSS or the Public Sector Employees Social Security Institute (ISSSTE) facility, and
16 to 30 percent sought the services of a private practitioner. While the targeted communities
remain dependent of the public health services, people are willing to seek assistance from the
private sector when it is available. Although no information is available regarding willingness or
capacity to pay private doctor fees, when asked about the charges the patients had to pay in some
SSA facilities (the average charge is N$10.00) all responded that the cost was not significant.
The percent of patients who paid for consultations varied between 22 and 55 of those attending
the SSA centers.
Institutional Strengthening
21.   The second component was intended to address issues of decentralization, including
program budget, planning, management and operation. However, despite a thorough MTR in
October 1993 that sought to bring institutional development up to speed, it lagged behind
appraisal expectations. The legal decentralization of health services2 from the SSA to the
2 All thirty-two states became legally decentralized by presidential decree in 1997.



9
targeted states never occurred-- with the exception of Guerrero, which was among the 14 de-
centralized states during the 1982-1988 administration. Yet, in many respects, the project states
are now better equipped to tackle decentralization issues than many states that have been legally
decentralized. There were also improvements in client responsiveness. Moreover, a greater role is
now played at the state and jurisdictional levels in conceptual design and policy formulation,
supervision and training of staff, planning of annual work plans and budgets, and in procurement.
22.   Although the project financed computer and communications equipment for a MIS, this
never materialized as an integrated system. Instead, a computerized system, developed by the
PCU, was established so that the states could collect and transmit to the PCU, project-related
data in a uniform manner, including control of disbursements. This was useful, but did not meet
the requirements sought by the project, i.e. to provide state officials with a tool to manage health
services more effectively.  Concerning project financed research, the national evaluation
conducted by the INSP concluded that, with some exceptions, the studies financed by this loan
were costly and of uneven quality.
23.  In sum, the institutional component achieved much less than expected at appraisal, but
the improvements just mentioned are significant as preparatory steps for current, renewed efforts
in this area under new projects.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Subject to Government Control
24.   The most important factor which affected the project, with no direct connection with
project management, was the 1995 peso devaluation and the ensuing economic crisis faced by
the country. These circumstances affected fund availability and continued to cause delays in the
release of funds; as a consequence, targets for 1995 and 1996 had to be redefined. Another factor
beyond Govermnent control were the problems and delays in construction caused by failure of
contractors to meet agreed contractual terms.
Factors Subject to Government Control
25.   Potentially preventable or avoidable factors delaying the project included rigid budget
processes and perennial delays at the Federal level in releasing funds to the states. Changes
adopted in 1995 in the budget system somewhat improved transfer of funds to the states.
Another issue was related to the way the Federal level handled the Special Account as a macro-
economic instrument, rather than to the benefit of the project. This, however, does not only
pertain to this project.



10
Factors subject to implementing agency control
26.   The main factors that affected the project subject to the control of the SSA central level
and/or the state public health authorities were: (a) complicated bureaucratic requirements for
programming and often conflicting norms and regulations; (b) initial inexperience with
procurement at the state level; (c) awarding of bids to large contractors well qualified to perform
in large urban areas, but experiencing overwhelming problems in carrying out the agreed
contracts for construction in remote rural areas; and (d) frequent changes in staffing at both
federal and state levels, and within the PCU.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.   The project established a strong basis for further institutional change, in support of
Mexico's long-term health sector strategy. It also increased local participation, to the extent that
jurisdictions are now capable of preparing investment proposals under the second project.
Political commitment in support of the health sector is likely to remain high at all levels.
Extending and consolidating basic health care services throughout Mexico remains a national
priority, as demonstrated by the Second Basic Health Care Project. But the project also
increased recurrent costs and this may pose significant long-term problems. While further
rationalization will provide budgetary savings, and some beginnings have been made in
establishing meaningful user-fee mechanisms as of the MTR, the regular SSA budget had
declined in four out of five project areas, indicating that project funds were partially acting as
substitutes for original contributions of the SSA, rather than complements. This has recently
been reversed again due to implementation of the PAC component (Programa de Ampliacion de
Cobertura) of the Second Basic Health Care Project.
28.   Although regular budget allocations improved in 1995 and 1996, Federal fund
availability to reforn the health system and keep up with the population growth and demand is
an issue. More needs to be done regarding new approaches to resource allocation, more efficient
resource utilization, and a better grasp on alternative sources of financing. Other issues to be
tackled toward increasing sustainability include the need to rationalize expenditures for hospitals,
improve the quality of care  and study alternatives for decentralizing and improving,
management, taking into account that curative health care institutions absorb the largest portion
of the budget allocation for health in all the states. This will be done in the Second Basic Health
Care Project.
BANK PERFORMANCE
29.   Preparation and Appraisal  The Bank correctly highlighted sector policy issues,
properly addressed the serious constraints limiting efficient health service delivery, and paid



11
attention to the need of training programs, particularly management training. However, the Bank
did not adequately assess potential demand for health services and the dimensions of the
expansion of the health network. In addition, while the Bank correctly foresaw many of the risks
associated with the project, such as a lack of administrative capacity, it may have underestimated
the obstructive role that such risks did finally play, especially with regard to the mechanism for
transferring funds from the central to state levels.
30.   Supervision. The majority of staff that carried out the appraisal also supervised the
project. The Bank acted properly and flexibly in response to the client's requests and quickly
resolving several implementation problems that arose after project effectiveness, in conducting a
thorough mid-term review and in re-dimensioning certain project subcomponents in order to
better meet objectives of a more equitable resource allocation among states and in addressing
program effectiveness.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31.   While the PCU was in general of high quality, initial problems were due to a lack of
commitment of the state health agencies and a training gap on project process for state level staff.
This situation was further aggravated by a high turnover of management staff at the Federal and
State level, which in turn led to a need for constant efforts by the PCU to provide orientation to
new staff. There were problems throughout project implementation regarding timeliness of
transfer of budget funds to the states and the implementing jurisdictions. During the first half of
the project, the mechanisms for planning and budgeting were complicated, confusing and very
difficult to apply. During the project's second half, the transfer mechanism for funds allocated to
the states improved somewhat. This mechanism also provided the opportunity to decentralize
planning and budgeting to the states. In spite of these constraints, the project was completed
within reasonable expectations, albeit with some under-spending, mainly as a result of a slow
start, complex budgeting (with over 20 steps prior to budget approval), and the 1995 peso
devaluation. The Government maintained a record of timely submissions of audits of project
accounts, indicating no major breach of accountability. In addition, this first Bank experience in
the health sector in Mexico did lay the ground work for the successful preparation and
implementation of the Second Basic Health Care Project.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.   Health, Population and Nutrition (HNP) projects, incorporating many complex elements,
are more likely to fall short of original, expected targets. Nevertheless, the project achieved most
of its objectives and, overall, provided a flexible model for improving health care in the targeted
states. The project demonstrated that even the weakest states could become adept at managing
decentralized functions. Many of the targets not met, or issues not properly addressed, include:
continuing public sector problems such as inadequacy of sustainable financing, lack of staff
incentives, uneven quality of services, and indifference towards health care demand of the



12
beneficiaries. Greater concern for these issues, coupled with financial and administrative reform,
should lead to greater flexibility, responsiveness and quality in the Mexican health care system.
In the final analysis of all project results, the overall outcome of this project is rated satisfactory.
LESSONS LEARNED
33.   The following were lessons learned from the First Basic Health Care Project, which were
taken into account in designing subsequent related projects, in particular the Second Basic Health
Care Project:
a) The institutional capacity of executing agencies at all levels has to be assessed carefully at
appraisal and incorporated into project design, implementation and disbursement schedules.
b) Baseline and follow-up surveys are essential in order to measure credibly project outcome.
c) The MTR, planned and conducted jointly by the PCU, the States and the Bank, was
perceived by all parties as a valuable contribution to institutional capacity-building.
Moreover, it was a valuable model of cooperation and increased the sense of project
ownership by both the SSA and state authorities.
d) Mechanisms for planning and budgeting, as well as for transferring funds to implementing
jurisdictions, must be simple, transparent and easily applicable to ensure timely project
implementation. The difficulties confronted with fund transfers in this first project prompted
the definition of new procedures for loan fund transfers in the Second Basic Health Care
Project.
e) Project flexibility is essential to accornmodate revisions in project design and priorities, as
well as changes in the political environment; additionally, the rigidity of the rules and
procedures of the national implementing agencies is often a formidable obstacle for smooth
implementation.
f) Even with a strong commitment by the Borrower, problems will arise if sector agencies do
not share a sense of project ownership; projects may be reformulated and personnel
arbitrarily moved, resulting in efficiency losses. The initial lack of project ownership by the
SSA proved to be one of the largest constraints in project implementation.
g) Although the inclusion of studies is essential in this type of projects in which various new
approaches are being tested, it will be important to ensure clear definition of topics,
substantive terms of reference, strong management, and thorough evaluation of the capacity
of institutions, researchers and methodology. Appropriate technical assistance and sound
research strategies will generate proposals that ensure geographic diversity, timely
dissemination of results and finally induce policy change.
h) Local construction projects consisting of remodeling or building modest facilities are not
always well served by larger national contractors. Using local contractors instead can, with



13
adequate (often private) supervision, provide better quality construction; Bank procurement
procedures have taken this into account, giving more responsibility to communities for small
works.
i) Attracting qualified staff to remote areas is a continuing problem, and innovations are needed
in this area. In place of a system of financial and/or career related incentives, some remote
areas may be better served by mixed approaches of private contracting with NGO's, in
addition to training and recruiting TAPS.
j) Creating new staff posts may not always be necessary or optimal; indeed, financing increased
recurrent costs -- without, at the same time, experimenting with new forms of health
financing -- may limit the chances of attaining continuity of project gains after the
international assistance is phased out.
k) Decentralized procurement and investment planning requires a high level of local
management capacity but results in a greater sense of ownership in the states, more
appropriate planning, faster procurement and a more timely release of funds.
1) Community participation --especially in more remote areas -- is an essential requirement for
the demand for public health services, for the extension of coverage, as well as for effective
supervision and monitoring or project implementation.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
34.   A  Second Basic Health Care Project has built upon the lessons learned from the First
Health Care Project in Oaxaca, Hidalgo, Guerrero and Chiapas, and extended a redefined model
of services to risk areas in 14 additional states. The Bank also financed the PROSSE project,
which seeks to protect and strengthen essential social services threatened by the financial crisis in
late 1994. The latter also includes financing for development of new health budget indicators for
the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP). Lessons applied in new operations include
emphasis on: building institutional capacity at a local level, building efficient management
practices, locally-led investment programs, new approaches to resource allocation, and testing
incentive schemes for professional medical staff assigned to remote areas. Further, the Second
Basic Health Care Project was designed, through its component on policy and operational studies
and pilot testing, to spawn a dynamic process regarding enhancement of state ownership and
responsibility for coordinating health services, measures to encourage a more efficient use of
resources, improvements in management and service decentralization as a means to rationalize
expenditures and liberate funds for basic health care, as well as designing and testing alternative
sources of financing health services. The first annual review of the Second Basic Health Care
Project, carried out jointly by the Bank and the Government in February 1997, demonstrated a
successful incorporation of lessons learned during the first project.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 3272-ME)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Table 5:     Key Monitoring Indicators
Table 6:     Studies included in Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Missions



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro policies                                                                                                    V
Sector policies                                                    /
Financial objectives                            /
Institutional development                                           V
Physical objectives                             /
Poverty reduction
Gender issues                                   /
Other social objectives                                            /
Environmental objectives                                                                                          /
Public sector management                                           V
Private sector development                                                               V/
Other (specify)
.. Pr ......h....iel....ey.......... a       L
Sustainability                                 V
C~~~ R~~~wk perI~~~~~~rm~~inci~~~~  High~~~~~y  S~~~~.................
Identification                                                     V
Preparation assistance                                             V/
Appraisal                                                          V
Supervision                                    /
.     erf.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......                     ......A.  U.
..~~~.: ...:.........:.......,.:,.......:... ........................ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ............    ..
.r.. :......... : ..  .:.:.
Wl.'.~ ~ ~~. St       ...........
Preparation                                                                             V
Implementation                                                      V
Covenant compliance                                                /
Operation                                                           V
Assessmen  ..........
Assssen  of OvrllOtcm.



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Agricultural    Pilot rural nutrition program  1991      Completed
Sector Adjustm.
Loan
(Ln. 3357-ME)
Second Basic   Following the first basic health  1995     Ongoing
Health Care    care project, to improve and
Project        extend access to basic health
services in eighteen targeted
states
Program of    Maintain financing of ongoing,   1995       Ongoing
Essential Social high priority, social sector
Services      programs



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
.,c.',''''-   'vg .................... .,.1,, ....... m
....,. ....,... ...... ,... ..,,...... ,
1. Preparation                                                       06/87                 05/87
2. Appraisal                                                         04/88               06/06/90
3. Negotiations                                                      07/88                10/09/90
4. Board presentation                                                08/88                11/29/90
5. Signing                                                           09/88               04/12/91
6. Effectiveness                                                   07/12/91              09/18/91
7. Project completion                                              06/30/96               12/31/97
8. Loan closing                                                    09/30/96              04/30/97
Project Timetable
24-Jul-98
28-Oct-95 -
31-Jan-93
Dates
7-May-90
11-Aug-87
1 4-Nov-84                            _  
1      2      3      4      5       6      7      8
Processing Steps



18
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
..R   . ... .              ,            Y     ..........Y9 .  ,...7
Appraisal estimates    13.00          39.50      83.50      129.50   161.50    180.00
Revised Appraisal          13.00      39.50      83.50      129.50   130.00    140.00i
estimates
Actual                      ---       10.00    47.34        94.74       127.29    128.23           136.2342/
Disbursements
Actual as %  of             ---       25         56.7       73.2       97.9         91.6
Revised Estimate
Date of last
Disbursement               May 14, 1997
11US$ 40 million were canceled from the total loan of US$180 million on July 1995.
2/ There is a balance of US$3.766 million that will have to be canceled.
Disbursements
200
r  150
100  .<Ct=f8oiD8 81 m,               -40-Appraisal
Estimates
M   50                                  -U--Revised
Estimates
0                                  -a-Actual
C'4  co  ~~LO)  CD   r
cla  N   n   t   a)  a)  al   Disbursements
LL  IL  IL  IL L U.L   LL
Bank Fiscal Year



19
Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators
.......             .. .g..:.*.      ...n....g..........................
I. Civil Works
A. Rehabilitation
1. Rehabilitated Primary Health        1,141       928          870                  94
Facilities
2. Rehabilitated office                  -          1             1                  100
3. Rehabilitated Hospitals              25          17           15                  88
4. Rehabilitated Outpatient Specialty    -          9            9                   100
Clinics
Total, Rehabilitated Facilities    1,141   945           895                  95
B. New Construction
5. Primary Health Care Facilities      267         172          172                  100
6. Warehouses                            -          3            3                   100
7. Public Health Laboratories            -          3            3                   100
8. Antirabies Laboratories               -          2            1                   50
Total, New Buildings            292        180           179                  99
Total, Rehab. & New Facilities    1433      1,125        1,074                 95
New Staff Positions
1.Doctorsa/                            1,760       882          979                  110
2. Nurses                              982        1,086         926                  85
3. Prof/Tech/Aux staff b/              712         746          578                  77
4. TAPS c/                             965        1,034         903                  87
5. Managing Staff d/                    99         35            21                  60
6. Administrative Staff e/             2,320      1,935        2,057                 106
Total new staff positions:      6,838       5,718        5,464                 96
Training
1. Managing Staff                      NA          NA          4,239                 NA
2. Operational Staff                   NA          NA          71,152                NA
Vehicles
Total vehicles (ambulances, Jeeps,     250         354          396                  112
mobile units, combis, trucks, sedans,
pick-ups)
a/: includes regular appointments and doctors in social services (medico pasante
k/: includes health and sanitation promoters; lab technicians, attendants; auxiliary nurses
c/: A total of 1015 TAPs will be posted, with the expected addition of 112 TAPs which recently completed
trained and will be posted by state Governments in 1997
d/: hospital and health center directors, jurisdictional and state level directors and chiefs
c/: accounting staff, personnel and office support staff, and federal services staff.



20
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
~~~~~~~~...........                      ........ ... vm
1. Operational Evaluation of PASSPA   Evaluation of Program and  Completed       Quality: average
- SOLIDARIDAD-SSA:                project                                        Impact: average
a. Health & nutrition profile of  Define health and nutritional  Completed       Quality: average
indigenous groups                 profile of indigenous population
within PASSPA program
b. Evaluation of medical care-2nd  Evaluate medical care in     Completed        Quality: average
level                             PASSPA states hospitals
c. Impact evaluation of PASSPA -  Evaluate the program's impact   Completed      Quality: average
primary level                     through availability and
accessibility indicators
2. Coverage and Utilization of Health   Examine patterns of demand  Completed    Quality: average
Services in the Fed. District     and supply of health services in
PASSPA states
3. Survey of Managers and Health  NA                           Completed         Not assessed
Centers in Hidalgo State
4. Factors Affecting the Demand of    Identify factors related to the  Completed  Not assessed
Primary Health Services in        demand of primary health care
Aguascalientes, Chiapas, D.F.,    services in PASSPA states and
Guerrero, Hidalgo and Oaxaca      Aguascalientes
5. Analysis of Second National    Evaluate national health needs,   Completed    Quality: good
Health Survey (ENSA II)-          and delineate future health
Households                        polices
6. Analysis of data from ENSA II,    Explore alternative sources of    Completed  Not assessed
representative at state level -   financing and cost recovery for
Aguascalientes: Financial Resource    health
Mobilization for Health
7. Analysis of Data from ENSA II on  Finding out the causes of low  Completed    Quality: average
determinants and use of health    utilization of public health
services in Aguascalientes, Coahuila,  services
Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo,
Michoacan, Veracruz and Yucatan
8. Modernizing the organizational  Finding new organizational   Completed        Not assessed
model of coordinated public health    models for public health
services in Hidalgo               services at state level
9. Strategies for further improving the  Addressing quality issues in the   Completed  Quality: good
quality of primary health care    primary health services
10. Effects of home treatment of  Examine strategies for reducing  Completed     Not assessed
diarrhea among pre-schoolers in two   infant mortality
PASSPA states - D.F and Oaxaca
11. Risk of sludge and its effect on    Improve strategies for  Completed        Quality: average
health in the Southwest of the    controlling environmental
Mezquital Valley                  factors affecting health



21
12. Poverty Indexes in the 570     Poverty Indexes in 570        Completed         Quality: poor
municipalities of Oaxaca and       municipalities in Oaxaca in
relationship to health problems 1980-  descendent order
1990
13. My Health and Myself (public               NA                Completed         Not assessed
education campaign)
14. Measurement and geographic                 NA                Completed         Not assessed
location of poverty in the Federal
District - First Phase
15. Id. - Second Phase                         NA                Completed         Not assessed
16. Health Expenditures in four states  Propose financial alternatives  Completed  Quality: good
with high levels of poverty (1987-93) for PASSPA program entities
- Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo and
Oaxaca
17. Evaluation of infrastructure and           NA                Completed         Not assessed
quality of the emergency medical
services in D.F. and Metropolitan
Area
18. Evaluation of the process disease-  Define an environmental  Completed         Quality: good
care and death from diarrheal disease   assessment of mortality due to
in children under 5 years, applying  diarrhea among children under 5
the technique of verbal autopsy -  years old in PASSPA states
Chiapas, D.F., Guerrero, Hidalgo y
Oaxaca
19. Timely detection of Uterine-  Identify and quantify the      Completed         Not assessed
Cervical Cancer: an evaluation of the   principal indicators of
quality and accessibility of the   accessibility and quality of DOC
program                            program in D.F.
20. Development and evaluation of    Developing effective strategies   Completed   Not assessed
four strategies of integrated nutrition   to offer nutrition services
care for children aged 6 months to 4
years and pregnant and lactating
women
21. Impact of mothers' training on  Examine strategies for reducing  Completed     Quality: poor
handling diarrhea cases in the home    infant mortality
22. Qualitative study: Assessment of  Identify factors related to the  Completed   Not assessed
factors affecting the demand of health  demand of health care services
services in Aguascalientes, Chiapas,   from the users perspective
D.F., Guerrero, Hidalgo and Oaxaca



22
Table 7A: Project Costs (US$ Millions)
Appraisal Estimates (US$M)           Actual costs (US$M)
,Xii,,i,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... .,,,,,JW
Civil Works          30.0    9.8      39.8       24       29.5    9.3    38.8       24
Equipment and        29.8    9.9      39.7       25       20.6    6.9    27.5       25
furniture
Vehicles              3.9    0.2       4.1        5       5.9      0.3     6.2       5
Training TA &        18.3    2.8      21.1      21        9.8     2.5    12.3       20
Studies
Incr. Salaries and   102.0   9.9    111.9        9       114.4    6.0    120.4      5
op.costs
Unallocated          28.1    5.3      33.4       16
tZOSTh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ..M
_*ES~~~~~~~~.                   .......
Table 7B: Project Financing (US$ Millions)
Appraisal Estimates            Actual Costs
IBRD         142.1         37.9       180.0      110.0         25.0       135.0
Government       70.0          -          70.0      70.2                     70.2
....  ...   ........ ...... ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  ~  ~  20.2



23
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan
Agreement
2.02(b)    Borrower to open and maintain in dollars a special account  3       C
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with provisions of Schedule 5 to the Loan
Agreement
4.01(b)(ii)   Have records and accounts audited once a year by        I        CD      Annuall
independent auditors and forward audit report to Bank no                      y
later than 6 months after close of fiscal year.
4.01(b)(iii)  Furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the  I     C       Monthly
Special Account
6.01(c)    Maintenance Plans, satisfactory to the Bank, to be presented  5     C
to Bank for at least three of the Project States.
6.01(d)    Human Resources Training Plans, satisfactory to the Bank,  5        C
to be presented to the Bank for at least three of the Project
States
60.1(e)    Draft contracts and a short list of consultants, satisfactory to  5  C
the Bank, for preparation of Institutional Development Plans,
to be presented to the Bank for each Project State
Guarantee
3.03     Guarantor, through SSA, to maintain a Federal PCU, with    5         C
the characteristics specified in the October 11, 1990 letter,
regarding the Federal PCU and Project State PCUs,
furnished to the Bank by the SSA
3.04     Guarantor, through SSA, to maintain Project State PCUs,    5         C
with the characteristics specified in the October 11, 1990
letter mentioned above
3.05(b)(ii)   Guarantor to furnish to the Bank not later than six months  I
after the end of each fiscal year, a certified copy of audit
report
3.05(b)(iv)  Guarantor to cause SECOGEF to comply with obligations     I        C
set forth in agreement between the Bank and SECOGEF
referred to in Section 3.06 (b)(ii) of the Guarantee
Agreement
3.06     Guarantor, through SSA and SPP to enter into separate                C
Participation Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each
6.01(a)    of the Project States, whereby each of those Project States
agrees to:
3.06(b)    -perform, or cause to be performed, in collaboration with  I        C
SECOGEF, the obligations with regard to such records and
accounts as set forth in the agreement between the Bank and
SECOGEF entitled Providencias de Auditoria Externa para
la Ejecuci6n del Programa Solidaridad-SSA por parte de la
Secretaria de Salud y los Estados Participantes (External
Auditing Arrangements Regarding the Health Secretariat's
and Project States' Execution of Solidaridad-SSA)



24
dpLihn C:w~n~rn.
3.06(d)    -provide or cause to be provided, in a timely manner as   3        CD
needed, a portion, consistent with the Decentralization
Action Plan, of the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required to carry out the Project in the project state
in question
3.07     Participation Agreement entered into with state of Guerrero         CD
pursuant to 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement to include
additional provisions, whereby state of Guerrero agrees to:
3.07(a)    -maintain a Project State PCU within SESA; such Project   5         C
State PCU shall in all other respects be governed by terms
identical to those set forth for other Project State PCUs in the
letter referred to in Section 3.04 of the Guarantee
Agreement;
3.07(b)    -contribute data required for proper operation of HMIS and  5       C
for proper compilation of data regarding Monitoring and
Evaluation Indicators;
3.07(c)    -prepare and carry out, in conjunction with SSA, the SESA  5       CD       6/30/91
Maintenance Plan and SESA Human Resources Training
Plan, to be presented no later than either the Effective Date
or June 30, 1991;
3.07(d)    -contract, no later than June 30, 1991, with a consultant to  5    CD       6/30/91    12/6/92
prepare the SESA Institutional Development Plan,
satisfactory to the Bank
3.07(e)    -participate through SESA, in annual reviews              5         C
3.08     Upon entering into an agreement similar to the Acuerdo de
Coordinacion, pursuant to Decentralization Action Plan, with
a Project State other than the state of Guerrero, Guarantor to
simultaneously amend Participation Agreement for that
Project State, so as to add the following provisions:
3.08(a)    -that the Project State PCU for the Project State and continue  5   C
to cooperate with the Federal PCU in coordinating execution
of the Project
3.08(b)    -that the Project State adopt and carry out, in conjunction  5     CP
with SSA, the Maintenance Plan, Human Resources Training
Plan and Institutional Development Plan already existing
with regard to that Project State
3.08(c)    -that the project State contribute data required for proper  5      C
operation of HMIS and for proper compilation of data
regarding the M&E Indicators; and
3.08(d)    -that the Project State participate, through its SHA, in the  5     C
annual reviews referred to in Section 3.16 of the Guarantee
Agreement
3.10     No later than July 31, 1991, Guarantor shall present to the  5       C      7/31/91    7/31/91
Bank Maintenance Plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for each
of the Project States of Chiapas, Hidalgo, Oaxaca, or the
Distrito Federal for which no maintenance plans were
presented as of the Effective Date
3.10     Guarantor, through SSA, shall carry out the Maintenance    5         C
Plans with regard to all those Project States, and assist any
Project State in carrying out their Maintenance Plans.
3.11     Guarantor shall carry out the measures referred to in the  5         C
Staffing Normalization Letter with regard to SSA personnel.



25
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tp S*fiu ftzfi L                                                  i*Iif
3.12     No later than June 30, 1991, Guarantor shall present to the  5      C       6/30/91    6/30/91
Bank Human Resources Training Plans, satisfactory to the
Bank, for each of the Project States of Chiapas, Hidalgo,
Oaxaca or the Distrito Federal for which no Human
Resources Training Plans were presented as of the Effective
Date
3.12     Guarantor shall carry out the Human Resources Training    5         C
Plans with regard to all those Project States, and assist any
Project State in carrying out their Human Resources Training
Plans
3.13     Guarantor shall, no later than June 30, 1991, enter into  5         CD      6/30/91
contracts, satisfactory to the Bank, with consultants for the
preparation of Institutional Development Plans satisfactory
to the Bank, for each of the Project States of Chiapas,
Hidalgo, Oaxaca and the Distrito Federal.
3.13     Such Institutional Development Plans shall be prepared to  5        CD      12/31/91
the Bank no later than December 31, 1991
3.13     Guarantor shall carry out the Institutional Development   5         CD
Plans with regard to all those Project States, and assist any
Project State in carrying out their Institutional Development
Plans
3.14     Guarantor, through SSA and in conjunction with SESA,      5         CD      12/31/91
shall review the operation and shall prepare an HMIS Plan
for its improvement, satisfactory to the Bank, and deliver
such HMIS plan to the Bank no later than December 31,
1991
3.14     Guarantor shall carry out the HMIS Plan.                  5         C
3.14     Throughout Project execution, SSA shall use he HMIS to    5         C
gather data regarding the Monitoring and Evaluation
Indicators.
3.15     Guarantor shall carry out the Decentralization Action Plan  5      CD
3.16(a)    Guarantor, through SSA, shall conduct annual reviews,     5        C         9/91               Annually
beginning September 1991.
3.16(b)    As part of the annual review procedure, by August 30 of   5         C        8/30       8/30    Annually
each year, beginning in 1991, Hospital Infantil and any other
research institutions carrying out studies, and each Project
State PCU, shall deliver to the Federal PCU draft annual
plans containing targets and a description of activities for
Project implementation proposed for the subsequent calendar
year
3.16(b)    By June 30 of each year beginning in 1993, the Federal PCU  5       C        6/30       6/30    Annually
shall submit to the Bank in terms acceptable to the Bank,
annual reports on the Project status.
3.17     Guarantor, through SSA and with the assistance of         5         C                 10/28/93
consultants, shall complete a mid-term review of the Project
no later than three, but no earlier than two and a half years
after the effective date
3.17     Federal PCU shall prepare terms of reference, satisfactory to  5    C       11/30/93
the Bank for the consultants involved in the Mid-Term
Review, and shall present the results of the mid-term review
to the Bank immediately upon its completion
3.19     No civil works for new health centers under Part A. I of the  5     C
Project shall be undertaken without taking into account the
results of an environmental impact study, satisfactory to the
Bank, regarding such works.



26
XmXSM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .      i  .   ....................
3.19     For civil works under Part A. 1 of the Project involving  5        C
expansion or rehabilitation or already existing hospitals and
health centers, it must first be determined by SSA, to the
Bank's satisfaction, that increased waste disposal generated
by such facilities would not have negative environmental
impact.
3.19     Such environmental impact studies and waste disposal     5         C       7/31/91     4/92
analyses shall be prepared based on environmental
assessment guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
prepared by SSA no later than July 31, 1991
3.19     Results of such studies and analyses shall be examined   5         C
during the course of the annual reviews
3.20     No later than July 30, 1992, Guarantor, through SSA, shall  5      C       6/30/92
present to the Bank for comments the results of a review
performed by the SSA of the efficiency and adequacy of the 
purchase and distribution of drugs and medical supplies by
the SSA and SHAs in the Project States; such results shall
include an action plan, to he carried out by SSA and SHAs
during the course of Project implementation, for the purpose
of improving such purchase and distribution practice.
3.21     Guarantor, through SSA, shall, no later than June 30, 1992,  5    CD       6/30/92    10/94
complete the health sector resource allocation and
mobilization study, present its results to the Bank and
exchange views with the Bank regarding such results
3.21     On the basis of the results of the study and such exchange of  5  CD      12/31/92    10/94
views, Guarantor shall, by December 3 1, 1992, prepare an
action plan satisfactory to the Bank
3.21     Guarantor shall implement such action plan in accordance  5       CD
with the implementation schedule included in the action
plan.
Covenant types: I = Accounts/audits; 2 = Financial performance/review; 3 = Flow and utilization of Project Funds;
4 = Counterpart funding; 5 = Management aspects of the project.
Present Status:   C = Covenant complied with; CD = Complied with after delay; CP = Complied with partially



27
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
_   ~~~~ Avwd
Preparation to Appraisal                   102.5                 178.4
Appraisal                                   74.0                 139.0
Negotiations through Board Approval         65.1                 134.6
Supervision                                166.0                 538.6
Completion                                  13.1                  29.4
'. .  ...



Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Through Appraisal
Identification      01/87       5        12.0   B,D,H,I,O                 n/a           n/a             n/a
Preparation         05/87       5        13.0    A,B,D,K                   n/a           n/a            n/a
Preparation          11/87      4        4.8    A,B(2),J                   n/a           n/a            n/a
Preparation          12/87      1        2.0     B                         n/a           n/a            n/a
Preparation         02/88       6        6.6    B,C,D,I                    n/a           n/a            n/a
Preparation         04/88       1        2.4     B                         n/a           n/a            n/a
Preparation         06/88       1         1.4    B                         n/a           n/a            n/a
Preparation         08/88       2        2.8    B,J                        n/a           n/a            n/a
Preparation         01/89       1         1.4    B                         n/a           n/a
Preparation         06/89       7        21.0    A,B(2), C(2), I,J         n/a           n/a
Preparation         03/90       9        27.0    A,B(2),C(3),I,J(2),L      n/a           n/a
Preparation         05/90       1        0.4     E                         n/a           n/a                                        
Appraisal Through                                                                                          n/a
Board Approval
Appraisal           06/90       7         8.0    B(2), C,I,J,L,M           n/a           n/a
Post Appraisal       11/90      2         1.4    C,L                       n/a           n/a
Post Appraisal      03/91       2         .4     G(2)                      n/a           n/a
Supervision
Supervision 1       03/91       5        7.8    C,G,I(2),N                 1             1
Supervision 2       04/91       1        0.4    E                           1             1
Supervision 3       04/91       1         1.0    G                          1            1
Supervision 4       06/91       6        8.4    A,C,F,G,I,N                2             1              P,S
Supervision 5       09/91       1        0.6     E
Supervision 6       01/92       1        0.2    E                                                        F
Supervision 7       02/92       1         1.0    E                                                       F
Supervision 8       04/92       4        6.0    A,B,C,I                    2             1               P
Supervision 9       08/92       1        0.6    E                          2             1               P



Supervision 10      09/92       1         I      G
Supervision 11      10/92       1         1.6    I
Supervision 12      02/93       1        0.4    E
Supervision 13      03/93       1         2      C
Supervision 14      05/93       1         1      B                          1             1
Supervision 15      10/93       8        12.8    A(2),B(3),C,G,J           2              I              p
Supervision 16      11/93       1         2      E                         2              1              F
Supervision 17      11/93       1        0.4    B                          2              1
Supervision 18      04/94       5        8.0    A,B,C,G,P                  2              1           F,P,T,E
Supervision 19      05/95       1        0.4    E                           1             1
Supervision 20      07/95       4        6.4    A,B,C,I                   HS             S               F
Supervision 21      11/95       1         1.4    A                        HS             S               F
Supervision 22      02/96       1         1.0    A                        HS             S
Completion             10/96       2        1.6    C(2)
"A=-Public Health; B=Economist; C=HR Specialist; D-Hosp.Admin.; E=Auditor; F=Health Educ.; G=Procurement; H-Systems Analyst;
I=Architect; J=Operations Analyst; K=Financial Analyst; L=Management; M=Laywer; N=Operations Ass.; O=Communications;
P-Implementation Spec.
hI 1=Problem Free; 2=Moderate Problems; 3=Major Problems; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory
q/ M=Management; F=Financial; P=Procurement; S=Studies; E=Monitoring & Eval.; T=Technical Ass.; Tr=Training.



30
APPENDIXES
i



APPENDIX A
MISION DE EVALUACION BANCO MUNDLAL
REVISION DE LA EVALUACION FINAL DEL PROGRAMA DE APOYO A LOS
SERVICIOS DE SALUD PARA POBLACION ABIERTA
(PASSPA)
Fecha: 25 de octubre de 1996
Hora: 11:30
Sede: Nacional Financiera
Instituciones participantes:
.Banco Mundial
Nacional Financiera
Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Puiblico
Secretanra de Salud
ORDEN DEL DIA
1.- Bienvenida a los participantes. Lic. Rodrigo Ares de Parga
2.- Presentaci6n de los objetivos de la misi6n. Nydia Maravigilia
3.- Informe de los trabajos de la misi6n. Nydia Maravigilia
4.- Presentaci6n de la Evaluaci6n Integral del Programa. Lic. Rodrigo Ares de Parga
5.- Presentaci6n de los resultados de la Evaluaci6n Integral del Programa. Lic. Oswaldo
Urdapilleta GonzAlez. Secretarna de Salud.
6.- Preguntas y comentarios.
7.- Terminaci6n de la reuni6n



Banco Mundial
lWia6n de Evaluaci6n Final de Terminaci6n de Proyecto
Proyecto: Programa de Apoyo a los Servicios de Salud para Poblaci6n Abierta (PASSPA)
Periodo: Del 21 al 25 de octubre de 1996.-:
GRUPO DE TRABAJO:
* Anna San't Anna         Banco Mundial
* Nydia Maraviglia        Banco Mundial
* Enrique Alba           Nacional FFmanciera
* Agustin Mercado         Direcci6n General del Programna de Ampliaci6n de Cobertura
* Alfonso Cafnedo         Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n
* Rodrigo Ares de Parga    Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n y Seguirriento
* Oswaldo Urdapilleta     Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n y Seguimiento
* Francisco Baiiuelos     Direccion General de Evaluaci6n y Seguiniento
OBJETIVO:
Realizar la revisi6n del Inforne Fmal de Evaluaci6n Integral del Programa de Apoyo a los Servicios
de Salud para Poblacion Abierta (PASSPA) elaborado por la Secretaia de Salud de Mexico;
Actualizar y dar seguiniiento a la informaci6n de la V Evaluaci6n del Programa: Elaborar el ayuda-
memoria de esta rnisi6n del Banco Mundial.
REUNIONES
Se revis6 el contenido del inforne en extenso de la Evaluaci6n Integral del Prograrna, se
comenetaron los resultados del mismo, se actwalizaron los datos al 31 de diciembre de 1995
(termninacion operativa del programa), se elaboro y revis6 el informe ejecutivo pam esta mision del
Banco Mundial.
COMMNTARIOS
Aunque no se ha efectuado el cierre financiero del programa debido principalmente a que a la fecha
continuan los desembolsos por las obras de dos laboratorios de salud Niblica ( Oaxaca y Chiapas)
esto no impide considerar los resultados de la evaluaci6n como definitivos, toda vez que la variacion
que pudiera presentarse sena miniia y focaizada a las acciones de obra ciil y recursos financieros,
informacion quo podria ser actmalizada mas adelante. Por eUo es que el grupo de trabajo considera
pertinente y de utlidad, la difijsi6n de los resultados de esta evaluaci6n los que podrian representar
un valioso intrumento de retroalimentaci6n a la gesti6n de los estados participantes en .1 acual
Programa de Ampliacion de Cobertum
*                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



APPENDB
SECRETARIA DE SALUD
PROGRAMA DE APOYO A LOS SERVICaOS DE SALUD
PARA POBLACION ABIERTA
(PASSPA)
EVALUACION INTEGRAL
SV4TESZJS JCUTWVA
Di;rcci6 Gelleral de Eva     y S _
Mw6n de EviIuiad6 de TuhabeM. de ?
M6zlco D.P, 25 dX Octubre de 1H



PROGRAMA DE A1?OYO A LOS SERVICIOS DE SALUD
PARA POBLACION ABEERTA
(PASSPA)
EVALUACION ITEGRAL
SUMSIS EIECUIIVA
Las condiciones generales de salud en Mexico al iniciar la decada de los noventa expresaban de
manera muy clara un rezago cronico. La magnitud de las necesidades de salud, las diferencias
socioecon6micas y la inequitativa distribuci6n del gasto en salud entre los estados justificaban de
manera muy clara la necesidad de apoyar de manera especial a ciertas areas del pais, por presentar
estas rezagos muy importantes.
Hist6ricamente las regiones del pais que mas recursos para la salud recbian fueron la centro y la
norte. En el periodo 1985-1995 la distribuci6n de los recursos de la Secretaria de Salud para la
reagon gqe integro los 4 estados PASSPA fue del 14.78% de su presupuesto, s6lo por amiba del
Distrito Federal que recibi6 el 13.05%.
Los carnbios macroecon6micos que aparecieron en los iMtimos afios de la decada de los ochentas y
principios de los noventas, fueron vistos como signos de crecimiento econ6mico del pais, lo que
facilito la contrataci6n del credito que financi6 parcialmente el PASSPA.
Los criterios imnplicitos -magnitud de las necesidades de salud y capacidad de respuesta de los
sistemas estatales de salud- utilizados para seleccionar a las entidades de Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo
y Oaxaca como participantes en el Programa eran razonables. Sin embargo, bajo estos terminos, la
incorporaci6n del Distrito Federal al PASSPA no estaba justificada ni desde el punto de vista
econonico, ni de salud.
ECONOMIA Y ADMNEISTRACION
El monto del programna fue entonces estimado en 249.8 millones de d6lares: 180 millones el 72%
serian financiados por el credito del IBRD y 69.8 millones correspondientes al 28% serian aportados
por el gobierno mexicano. La duraci6n del prografi se fiJ6 en cinco aiios: de enero de 1991 a
diciembre de 1995.
Hasta marzo de 1996 el costo financiero del credito habia sido de 19.25 millones de d6lares
corrientes. Los recursos necesarios para cubrir las obligaciones futuras podrian variar debido a la
volatilidad del tipo de cambio. Sin embargo, la estabilizaci6n de la economia y la utilizaci6n de
instrumentos financieros -como las coberturas cambiarias- podrian reducir considerablemente este
riesgo. Se ha calculado, bajo un escenario medio, que el costo financiero del progrania ascenderi a
80 millones de d6lares corrientes, equivalentes al 57%/ del prestamo. La cancelaci6n de una parte del
cr6dito determin6 modificaciones a los porcentajes de participaci6n entre el MBRD y el gobiemo
mexicano 67% y 33%. Al finalizar el programa y considerando las cifras dispomnbles al 30 de
septiembre de 1996 de los recursos realmente ejercidos, se observ6 que la participaci6n del IBRD
disminuyo al 60%, mientras que la del gobierno mexicano se increment6 al 40%, sin que esto
significara un incremento en nuimeros absolutos de sus aportaciones.



Por otra parte no obstante, el compromiso de los gobiemos estatales por participar con recursos
econ6micos en el programa, no se logro concretar la participaci6n de estos en el financiarniento de
las actividades, por lo que seria recomendable el establecirniento de acuerdos que periitieran
consolidar la participacion estatal en el fuituro.
Por lo que respecta a los recursos financieros del Programa, estos se distribuyeron
presupuestalmente de manera equiibrada a lo largo de los cinco anios. Sin embargo, el ejercicio
presupuestal en los dos primeros anos registr6 baJos porcentajes de cumplimiento, lo cual muestra
las compficaciones derivadas de una presupuestaci6n a cinco afios. Por otra parte, la distribuci6n
original por estado fue poco equitativa, observandose que los recursos absolutos y per capita
originalmente asignados al Distrito Federal fueron muy superiores a los recursos asignados al resto
de los estados. Estos dos problemas se resolvieron con la reasignaci6n de finales de 1993.
El grado de cumplimniento del ejercicio en los estados fue distinto entre ellos y entre cada afno,
observandose que el Distrito Federal tuvo el menor cumplimiento presupuestal, mientras que
Chiapas e IEdalgo fuieron las entidades con un mayor uso de sus recursos presupuestados.
Comparaci6n entre el Gasto Asignado y el Gasto Ejercido por Estado*
1991-96
Chiapas                44.90        51.59         50.28        111.98        97.46
Guerrero               37.80        49.90         42.39        112.14        84.95
Hidalgo                40.60        39.20         37.16        91.52         94.79
Oaxaca                 36.70        39.96         36.89        100.51        92.31
Distrito Federal       64.80        42.12         22.46        34.66         53.31
UCP                    25.00        27.04         15.66        62.64         57.91
Total                 249.80        249.80       204.84        82.00         82.00
Recursos en millones de dolares
Por otra parte, las categorias de salarios y obra civil concentraron la mayor parte de los recursos del
Programa, lo que pernute concluir que este fue disehiado sobre todo como un programna de provisi6n
de recursos humanos, y de construccion, rehabilitaci6n y equiparniento de infraestructura.
Dentro de los principales obstaculos para una mejor operaci6n y uso de los recursos se detectaron:
el inicio tardio del programa, la excesiva regulaci6n en la programaci6n y ejercicio de los recursos, la
nrgida asignaci6n del presupuesto, inexperiencia estatal en el manejo de las ficitaciones y
significativos retrasos en la radicaci6n de los recursos. Los problemas de asignaci6n y el inicio tardio
del programna pueden considerarse deficiencias de planeaci6n. Por su parte, la radicaci6n tardia, la
inexperiencia en el manejo de las [icitaciones, y el incremento en costos se consideran problemas de
operaci6n.



FORTALEClMIENTO DE LA RED DE SERVICIOS
Uno de los mayores logros del PASSPA fue su contribuci6n a la ampliaci6n de la red fisica del
primer nivel de atenci6n en los estados participantes, que se increment6 en un 12% (172 nuevas
1iude -) respecto del rivel que se teni- en 1990. Este programa tambi6n contnbuy6 a la
rehabilitaci6n de 882 unidades lo que equivale al 63% de las de primer nivel ya existentes.
En los estados de Hidalgo y Guerrero se introdujo con gran exito la participaci6n comunitaia en la
construcci6n de unidades, esta accion resulto en una disminuci6n de tiempos de entrega y costos de
construcci6n, provoc6 una derrama econ6mica para la comunidad (empleos directos e indirectos), y
quiza una mayor identificaci6n entre la comunidad y su centro de salud.
Se puede decir en terminos generales que en la construcci6n de obra nueva, el Programa hizo un uso
aceptable de los recursos, como lo demuestra el hecho de que el 76% de las unidades de primer nivel
construidas presentaron costos per capita inferiores a los costos definidos como estandar.
De manera general la inversi6n en obra nueva result6 exitosa, a juzgar por los resultados de la
comparaci6n de los indicadores de desempefio de las unidades PASSPA con los indicadores de los
programas regulares de obra de la SSA y el IMSS, y con los indicadores de las unidades construidas
por PRONASOL en el estado de Oaxaca.
El PASSPA tambien permiti6 mejorar la infiaestructura de la red de laboratorios de salud puib&ca
mediante la construcci6n de este tipo de unidades en Chiapas, Hidalgo y Oaxaca. Sin embargo habra
que seialar que hasta el 30 de septiembre de 1996 los laboratorios de salud publica de Chiapas y
Oaxaca no se habian concluido por diversos problemas contractuales. De igual manera se
construyeron tres alnacenes en los mismos estados que mejoraron las actividades de abasteciriento
y distribuci6n de insumos en el nivel estatal. No obstante, esta intervenci6n no estuvo acompalada
de una modernizaci6n del sistema de abasto de insumos y medicamentos; de esta forma, a pesar del
apoyo otorgado por el Programa, en las unidades de primer nivel de atenci6n persiste un importante
desabasto de medicamentos y material de curaci6n basicos que influye de manera directa en la
demanda de servicios. Esta situaci6n se debe, al menos en parte, a que el Programa no tenia como
objetivo modificar los procesos estructurales de la compra consolidada y de abasto a nivel nacional.
Con recursos del Programa se equiparon en distinta magnitud 1,096 unidades de salud. De acuerdo
al estudio de verificaci6n, el 100% de las unidades nuevas, el 79.3% de las unidades rehabilitadas y
el 72.90/o de las no intervenidas por el programa presentaron un equipamiento aceptable.
Las actividades sustantivas que realizan los servicios de salud se vieron fortalecidas por el
incremento del parque vehicular (390 unidades en los estados y 6 en la UCP central). Esta inversi6n
impacto sobre todo los programas de supervisi6n, fomento a la salud, abasto de insumos,
conservaci6n y mantenirniento y traslado de pacientes.



DESARROLLO DE RECURSOS HUMANOS
A trav6s de PASSPA se incorporaron 5,464 plazas, distnibuy6ndose el 94.5% en los estados de
Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo y Oaxaca y el 5.5% restante en el Distrito Federal. De este total de
plazas 979 correspondieron a personal m6dico, con lo que se supero en un 11%  la meta
redimefLiutada en l993, 926 se Qworgaron a personal de enfermeria con un cumplimi-cao del 853%
de la meta; 578 plazas se destinaron a personal tecnico y auxiliar, es decir, s6lo el 77.5% de la meta
esperada; para personal directivo se asignaron 21 plazas que corresponden al 60% de la meta; para
personal administrativo se ocuparon 2,057 plazas, 6.3% por arriba de la meta redimensionada.
Este incremento absoluto de recursos humanos permiti6 de manera general aumentar la plantilla que
labora en contacto directo con el paciente en un 23%. Casos significativos se observaron en los
estados de Chiapas y Oaxaca que incrementaron su personal en contacto con el paciente en un 66%
y 43% respectivamente. Sin embargo habra que senalar el deficit de medicos y enfermeras en las
unidades sigue siendo aun considerable.
Una estrategia implementada por el programa para atender la escasez de personal de salud en la
regi6n fue la formaci6n e incorporaci6n de los tecnicos en atenci6n primaria a la salud (TAPS), en
esta categonia la meta programada fue incorporar a 1034 TAPS a lo largo del programa, al 30 de
septiembre de 1996, 903 TAPS desarrollan en los distintos estados las funciones de atenci6n medica
elemental y promoci6n y prevenci6n de la salud, las que se cumplen cabalmente. No obstante, el
impacto real de su actuaci6n esta ligado a las condiciones cultuales, econ6micas y politicas de las
localidades, al apoyo institucional que reciben y a sus caracteristicas personales de capacitaci6n y
fiderazgo. Para 1997 podran incorporarse a la atenci6n de la poblaci6n 112 TAPS mis, los cuales se
encuentran aun en periodo de formacion. Habra que mencionar que este esquema esti permitiendo
extender los servicios a areas que tradicionalmente no contaban con servicios fomnales de salud. Uno
de los grandes riesgos de este programa de TAPS es la posibilidad de que sus fimciones se
confundan con las del medico. De esta forma, es necesanio prestar atenci6n a esta circunstancia, ya
que su preparaci6n no esti orientada a este fin y podria fomeniarse una mala praxis.
La percepci6n generalizada es que las areas fhvorecidas con recursos humanos aumentaron su
capacidad de gesti6n y de respuesta local, y que tuvieron un incremento notable en la productividad
y la calidad de los servicios de salud.
En cuanto a las actividades de capacitaci6n se otorgaron 217 cursos para personal directivo con un
promedio de 19.5 asistentes por curso, de igual formna se otorgaron 2902 curs.os a personal
operadvo con un promedio de asistentes de 24.5. Lo mas destacable es que los cursos fueron
considerados por los participantes como de buena calidad y apegados a las necesidades y
problemiticas especificas, proponiendo su diversificaci6n hacia las areas y temas menos favorecidos.



INVESTIGACION
La inclusion de un componente de investigaci6n paralelo al perfeccionamiento de los servicios de
salud fue un acierto del Prograrna. Ademis, la decisi6n de estimular la investigaci6n aplicada,
ejecutada diructanente en las comunidades y con la intervencion de los servicios de salud, constituia
una garantia de que los resultados podrian usarse para promover el mejoraniento de la calidad de
los servicios de salud.
Los diversos errores que se presentaron en su conducci6n impidieron que los resultados faesen los
6ptimos. En el origen de estos problemas se encuentran la ambiguedad tematica; la decisi6n de
ubicar inicialmente la coordinacin de ]as actividades de investigacion en un centro de investigaci6n
clinica; la falta de rigor en la evaluaci6n inicial de los trabajos, y la escasa supervisi6n y asesoria
durante su desarrollo.
La meta inicial del PAS SPA fuie desarrollar 34 proyectos de investigaci6n en los cinco afios. Sin
embargo, durante la Evaluaci6n de Medio Camino la meta fue redefinida a 11 investigaciones. Al
finalizar el programa esta meta se habia rebasado considerablemente, alcanzando un total de 25
proyectos financiados, de los cuales 21 se reportaron como concluidos y 4 en fase de elaboraci6n del
reporte final.
Al analizar el origen de las instituciones que participaron se concluye que en el centro se realizaron el
80% de las investigaciones. De los estados s6lo Hidalgo y Oaxaca propusieron proyectos propios.
Al clasificar las investigaciones por las lineas tematicas propuestas por el PAS SPA, en aquellas en las
que se dispuso de resultados (14 investigaciones) se observa que la mayoria queda inscrita en el
rubro de investigaci6n en servicios de salud (36%), seguida de movilidad, disponibilidad y calidad de
los recursos (29%) y transici6n epidemiol6gica (21%), investigaci6n orientada a la evaluaci6n de
intervenciones novedosas (7%) y el uso de los sistemas de informaci6n (7%).
Los resultados del dictarnen tecnico efectuado por el Instituto Nacional de Salud Publica sobre la
pertinencia, relevancia, calidad metodol6gica e impacto potencial de los proyectos aceptados indican
que las investigaciones fueron de calidad regular. Observandose que los proyectos de sistemas de
salud y los relacionados con la tansicion epidemiol6gica fuieron los que mejores restdos
obtuvieron.
En terminos generales, los resultados de las investigaciones financiadas por el programa pueden
considerarse pobres y, sobre todo, poco aprovechados. No obstante, algunos proyectos
especialnmente la Encuesta Nacional de Salud II (ENSA 11) present6 un potencial extraordinario.



FORTALECIMIENTO Y DESARROLLO INSTITUCIONAL
Es indudable que una parte significativa de los avances que el programa promovio entre la poblacion
beneficiada se debe al fortalecimiento de los procesos administrativos en los que se sustenta la
prestaci6n de los servicios de salud. La experiencia PASSrPA indica la enorme conveniencia de
diseniar los programnas de salud considerando el desarrollo que las instituciones participantes
requieren para garantizar el 6xito de los proyectos.
Los resultados indican que la decisi6n de otorgar mas autonomia financiera y administrativa a los
estados les permiti6 definir prioridades y tomar decisiones con mayor frecuencia y calidad. Sin
embargo el Desarrollo Institucional promovido por el PASSPA se vio afectado por diversos
factores como la radicacion tardia de recursos y la gran movilidad del personal, lo que determin6 un
desarrollo heterogeneo. Ejemplo de ello fue el disefno y operacion del sistema de informaci6n
administrativa que aunque logr6 automatizar parte de sus componentes, haciendo mas igil el flujo de
datos y favoreciendo la simplificaci6n de los procesos administrativos, sigue siendo todavia un
carnpo con graves dificultades. La escasez de equipo, la falta de organizaci6n de los sistemas y la
deficiente capacitaci6n de los recursos humanos no fueron solucionados por el programa.
Las actividades de supervisi6n aunque mejoraron con el apoyo del PAS SPA, siguen presentando
enorTnes lagunas y careciendo de una adecuada sistematizaci6n. Sin embargo, hasta este momento,
en el pais s6lo existen propuestas para la implantaci6n o modificaci6n del sistema de supervisi6n
existente (propuesto por SILOS).
La supervisi6n mejor6 en t6miinos de infiaestructura, pero su periodicidad y sistematizaci6n sigue
siendo insuficiente. Ademas, es urgente la revisi6n de las experiencias estatales en este rubro para el
desarrollo de guias de supervisi6n uniformes y actualizadas.
COBERTURA
Los estados experinentaron un aumento considerable en su capacidad de oferta de servicios. En
numeros absolutos, los estados PASSPA pueden ahora atender a 1'850,000 habitantes mas de los
que se atendian en. 1990. Esto representa un aumento del 61% respecto de la poblaci6n
potencialmente cubierta en 1990 y una disminucion de la brecha del 15 % en la cobertura potencial
para poblacion abierta en los cuatro estados intervenidos.
Los contenidos de esta ampliacion de cobertura son diferentes de acuerdo con la estrategia
desarrollada. La entrega de una unidad nueva implica la dotacion inmediata de un variado numero de
servicios a los que antes no teria acceso. Estos son de mediana a alta complejidad y poseen una
grado de resolucion importante. Con esta estrategia se beneficiaron 315,500 personas.
La presencia regular de un tecnico en atenci6n primaria representa un esfuerzo imnportante para
disminuir la brecha que el pais debe resolver en aquellas comunidades donde no es posible o
conveniente construir centros de salud. Con esta estrategia se beneficiaron 1'521,000 habitantes.



Aunque es claro que resulta auin insuficiente en trrninos de calidad y equidad en la atenci6n,
constituye un importante avance, sobre todo cuando aun resta proporcionar servicios fimdamentales
a 4.5 rnillones de personas, solamente en la regi6n PASSPA.
IMACTO EN SALUD
Las actividades de robustecimiento de la infraestructura fisica, reforzarniento de las plantiltas
laborales y mejoria de los procesos gerenciales y administrativos de la SSA en los estados,
constituyen un paso previo e imprescindible para modificar los riesgos de enfermar y morir de la
poblaci6n. La consolidaci6n de estos detemrinantes y su aceptaci6n por parte de los usuarios
requieren de un tiempo razonable para dar fiutos, el cual se plantea no ha sido suficiente en el caso
del PASSPA, mis ain si se considera que las acciones tuvieron un inicio tardio e irregular y
tendieron a concentrarse en los ultimos dos o tres anlos del programa. El 55 por ciento de las obras,
por ejemplo, se concluyeron entre 1994-y 1996, y el 58 por ciento de los cursos de capacitaci6n para
auxiliares de salud se impartieron despues de 1994.
Varios factores impiden evaluar de manera precisa el impacto del PASSPA sobre las condiciones de
salud de la poblaci6n blanco. Entre ellos destacan ia ausencia de una medici6n basal al inicio de la
intervenci6n; la naturaleza amplia e inespecifica de la intervenci6n, y su combinaci6n con las
acciones de otros programnas verticales; la calidad de la informaci6n disponible tanto al inicio comoa
al final de la intervenci6n, y el efecto gradual de las actividades del programa, disefiadas para
implementarse paultinamente a lo largo de cinco anios.
De ello, hay que seiialar que la utilizaci6n de servicios de salud se ha mantenido baja y estable en los
estados del programa comparada con las tasas de utilizaci6n reportadas por la ENSA II en otras
regiones del pais. En apaniencia esto no parece obedecer a problemas derivados de la accesibilidad
geogrifica ya que los tiempos de traslado y espera -en promedio de 30 minutos- asi como los
tiempos de consulta no han variado respecto de la informaci6n con la que se contaba previamente.
Esta situaci6n puede relacionarse mis con problemas de abasto de medicamentos, disponibilidad de
equipo medico basico, promoci6n de los servicios y, en algunas unidades, a la ausencia de personal
medico y de enfermeria
La calidad de la atenci6n medica, medida tanto con indicadores de proceso como a trav6s de la
percepcion de los usuarios es en general buena. Algunos de estos indicadores mostraron mejoria
respecto. de los resultados de la ENSA II, como la medici6n antropom6trica en menores de cinco
ahios, la explicaci6n del diagn6stico y tratarniento, y la prescnpci6n de medicamentos, entre otros.
No obstante, conocido el subregistro de las definciones infantiles, sobre todo en las ireas rurales, en
los cuatro estados del programa, la Tasa de Mortalidad Infantil (TNT estimada en 1990 como la
reportada en 1993 excedieron la tasa promedio nacional.
Sin embargo la reducci6n porcental de la mortalidad infantil en los estados PASSPA entre 1990 y
1993 oscilo entre 17% y 39%. El camnbio mas notable en el peniodo correspondio al estado de
Guerrero, que redujo su mortalidad infantil en 39%.



El peso relativo de la mortalidad infmntil en la mortalidad general tambien ha disminuido. En 1990 la
mortalidad infantil explicaba el 15.5% de la mortalidad general, cifra que disminuyo a 12% en 1993.
A::r.u_e 1as causas irifecciosas y las deficienciae la nutrici6n siguen dentro de lzs. prineras 10
causas de muerte en esta poblaci6n, las afecciones originadas en el periodo perinatal y las anomalias
congenitas ocupan los dos primeros lugares de la lista. Este fen6meno indica una sustituci6n gradual
de la patologia infecciosa por la no infecciosa.
Muchos factores pueden explicar el descenso de la mortalidad infantil, desde las intervenciones de
salud hasta las acciones sobre el ambiente socioecon6mico, cuyo fin primario no es producir salud
pero indudablemente influyen en ella (como son el sanearniento basico, el mejoramiento de la
vivienda, la disponibilidad de agua potable y la educaci6n de los padres, entre otros). El efecto del
PASSPA en esta reducci6n se puede encontrar en el apoyo y fortalecimiento que brindo a los
programas prioritarios y al aumento de la cobertura de los servicios.
Las coberturas de vacunaci6n se incrementaron en todos los estados y para todos los biologicos, con
lo que disminuy6 el volumen de susceptibles a estos padecimientos. En consecuencia, el impacto
potencial del programa -en conjunto con el resto de acciones concurrentes, nacionales y estatales- se
utadujo en una disminuci6n sustancial de la morbi-idad y mortalidad secundaria a dichos
padecimientos.
En materia de salud materna, a pesar de las graves dificultades para disponer de infonnaci6n
oportuna y confiable, las cifas disponibles indican que las tasas de mortalidad materna dismninuyeron
en todos los estados. La brecha que oxiste entre los estados intervenidos y el resto del pais (1.4
muertes maternas por cada 10,000 nacidos vivos registrados), sigue siendo un reto por enfrentar.
Los indicadores de .atenci6n prenatal se mantuvieron invariables durante el periodo de intervenci6n
del programna y, como resultado, los medios tecnicos actualmente disponibles para detectar y
corregir posibles problemas de la madre y el niiio durante ei embarazo siguen aprovechandose a
menos de la mitad de su potencialidad.
La atenci6n del parto mejor6, pero todavia no se atiende el numero de partos institucionalcs que,
segt6n el promedio nacional, debenian atenderse en los estados PASSPA. Aqui cabe hacer nueva
mencion del relativamente alto porcentaje de partos que se atienden en los servicios privados.
Por lo que respecta al cancer de cervix y de mama, si bien es cierto que las cifras han bajado, los
datos de morbilidad disponiblqs deben interpretarse con cautela, ya que los factores de riesgo no se
han modificado de manera sustantiva en la regi6n y las acciones preventivas no se han incrementado
lo que se esperaba.



GASTO EN SALUD
Los recursos federales para atender las necesidades de salud de la poblaci6n abierta de los estados
mis rezagados del pais se han incrementado de manera importante en los ultimos afnos, incluso a una
tasade crecimiento mayor que la-del resto de las3rcgiones ICI pais.
A los recursos federales asignados a las entidades mis rezagadas se sumaron los recursos PASSPA,
que lejos de constituirse en recursos sustitutos, se adicionaron a unos recursos federales crecientes.
Dado que el principal componente financiero del programa (gasto en salarios) esti asegurado, las
obligaciones generadas por el PASSPA pueden considerarse sstentables. Sin embargo es posible
prever problemas en Hidalgo y Gueffero con el mantenirniento de la infraestructura.
Por otra parte, es importante seialar la necesidad de considerar en la asignaci6n presupuestal
montos mayores que los observados para asi cubrir los gastos adicionados por el proceso
inflacionazio y los gastos dinigidos a abatir los rezagos persistentes.
El aumento del gasto en salud dingido a la poblaci6n abierta se reflej6 de una manera muy clara en el
gasto per cipita en salud. A su vez, los recursos del PASSPA le permitieron a Hidalgo y Chiapas
superar el gasto per cipita nacional para poblaci6n abierta a partir de 1992 y a Oaxaca en 1993. Sin
embargo, Guerrero aiin no la supera.
A pesar del aumento del gasto general y del gasto per capita en los estados PASSPA, estos
presentan un rezago hist6rico cuya soluci6n requerira de la inyecci6n creciente y sostenida de
recursos.
A juzgar por la distribuci6n de los recursos -monto de la inversi6n y unidades construidas- y la
poblaci6n beneficiada por niveles de marginacion, en los estados de Guerrero, Chiapas e Hidalgo
hubo una clara preocupaci6n por hacer Ulegar los recursos PASSPA a los municipios mas rezagados,
en contraste con lo que sucedi6 en el estado de Oaxaca.



APPENDIX C
C. G.-3
F.- !E-t ~~~~~DPNDuNbC.A  In_ECM  GEER   i
A s                                                                   A
EMTFNsln f I  CtS,nY 1p-
*j~ynitzNo. 14. 4to Disc. Ccl. Anzures
C.P. 11 590, WAClO D.F.
SF:CnWTARIA
NuM4gAO Ozi. .PPIe.g
or
DE                            nuo c=; o~~~~OWOIWle  Mo
SALUBRIDAD Y AYISiENCIA                         ___             ____
ASUNTO:
Proyecto PASSPA 3272ME
M6xIco D.F., a 1S de mayo de 1997
DR. ARMIN FIDLER
BANOO MUNDIAL
PRESENTE
En atencl6n a su sollcitud relativa a comentar el Informe de terminacl6n del proyecto
PASSPA-pr..tamo 3272ME, me permito comunicarle, quo no exiuten comentarlos por
nuestra parts, toda vez, quo en eI documento do referencia, fueron incorporados
todos aquellos aspectos quo nuestras Instituclones trabajaron de manors conjunta.
Sin mks por el momenta, aprovecho la ocasl6n para enviarle un afectuoso saludo.
ATENT    ENTE
El Directo  oneral
Llc. A. R    o A
c.c.p. Uc. Juan Manuel lzqulerdo Sosa.- Gwute de Flnancimentoe Multilateral. Nacional
6 !    Financiera. Insurgent" Sur 1971, Torre 4. 8vo. Plea, C.P. 01020, M6xIco D.F.
c.c.p. Anna Sent Anna Coordinadora Sectorlal, Doepartam.ntc do Midco, Banco Mundlal.
Insurgentes Sur 1605, piso 24, Son JosO Insurgents, C.P. 03900, M6xlco D.F.






MAP SECTION



IBRD 22425R
INSET'A                      ~~~~~~~~~~99-00'
Son Luis AQos
AGASCA  AgENTESht                       SA          PTSi    VIe                      oI
ZAC   CMS.....AIT                                                                                                                                                            ARAlf-4~
GUANAJUATO                                                                                                                 k      o   o  o*I92
Gonaluoto
Good   ore  (  rap~~~~                      QUERE  RO         4A.                                                                                         od
Queretoro                                                                                                _____              lod
-                                      Soni~~~~~~~~~~~C u6    Ri                                                                                                                 ~              0        1 0 KILOMETER
Priority Deletio      io
lapa                                                                                                 99- 00,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~990
61~~~~~-- m
161
EXICO-                                                                                                                                                                                                       GUATEMALAr-ooP199



