Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AAJ S27Z_Aif
Report No. 8927-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
November 8, 1990
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Thbi document has a restriced distributloG and may be used by recipients only in the perrormance of
their ofdkia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank waubori2stion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Peso (X6X$)
US$1.00              =   2,894 Pesos (October 1990'
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                   British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)          2   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)         0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)      =   2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton) =   2,250 pounds
1 liter (1)          =   0.26 gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter (m3)  =   1,000 liters
ACRONYMS
CECADE            Training and Development Center of the SSA
CONALEP           National College for Professional and Technical
Traintng
COPLADE           State Planning and Development Committee
CSRC              Concentrated Rcral Health Center
CSRD              Dispersed Rural Health Center
CSU               Urban Health Center
DIP               Family Social Welfare Agency
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
IMSS              Social Security Institute for Private Sector
Employees
IMSS/COMPLAMAR    Special Basic Health Program f r the Uninsured
Population
IMSS/SOLIDARIDAD  Program that Replaced IMSS/COMPLAMAR
INI               National Institute for Indigenous 'opulation
ISSSTE            Social Security Institute for Public Sector
Employees
ISSSTECH          Social Security Institute of State Employees of
Chiapas
LICONSA           Subsidized Milk Distribution Program
MIS               Management Information System
NAFIN             National Financing Company
PASSPA            Health Care Program for the Uninsured Populatio
SSA/National Solidarity Program
PCU               Project Coordination Unit
PEMEX             Mexican Petroleum Company
PIDER             Integrated Rural Development Program
PRONASOL          National Solidarity Program
SCSP              SSA's Coordinated Health Services at State Leve
(for states not yet decentraiized)
SHCP              Federal Secretariat of Finance
SIC               State and International Coordination of SSA
SPP               Federal Secretariat of Programming and Budgetin
SSA               Federal Secretariat of Health
UIHIM             Research Unit of the Hospital Infantil de Mexic



FOR OMCLL USE ONLY
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table of Contents                           Paae
LOAN SUMMARY ....................                                        *iii
BASIC DATA                                                    ............ vi
DEFINITIONS .......................                      ..............vii
I .           INTRODUCTION  ............
II.           SECTOR ORGANIZATION, ISSUES, AND STRATEGY ........2 .2
A.  Sector Organization ............................ 2
B.  Sector Issues ..................3
C.  Government Strategy  .......................... 10
D.  Project Areas   ............................. ...12
E.  Rationale for Bank  Involvement .................13
III.          THE PROJECT  ............4...  1
A.  Project Concept and objectives ................14
B.  Project Components ............................ 14
C.  Project Description ........................... 15
IV.           PROJECT COSTS, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT,
AMX AUDITS              2
A.  Project Costs and Financing ...................24
B.  Procurement .................................. 26
C.  Disbursements ........................ .......
D.  Accounts and Audits   ..........................29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Mexico in June 1990. The mission was composed of Ms. C.
Hamann (mission leader), Ms. Ana Maria Arriagada (economist), Ms.
Maria Elena Anderson (operations assistant), Mr. Ferenc Molnar
(counsel), and Mr. Alberto Zuniga (architect, consultant). Mr.
William McGreevey (unit chief) and Mr. Kye Woo Lee (projects
advisor), participated in part of the mission. Mr. Darren Dorkin
provided editorial and preparation assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
V.          PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................... . .. ....30
A.  Status of Project Preparation ................30
B.  Project Organization, Implementation, and
Management .................................. 31
C. Planning and Reporting ........................ 33
D. Project Monitoring and Evaluation  ............ 34
E.  Annual Project Implementation
and  Mid-Term  Review    .............................. . 35
VI.         PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................ 36
A.    Project  Benefits    ............................ . 36
B.  Impact on Women  .............................. 36
C. Environmental Impact       ........................37
D. Project Risks  ................................ 37
VII.       AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ........ 37
ANNEXES
1 - Country and States Health Status
2 - P"blic Health Expenditures and Financing
3 - F jctor Organization and Coverage
4 - Sector Strategy - Programa de Apoyo a los Servicios de Salud
para la Poblaci6n Abierta (PASSPA)
5 - The Project Areas
6 - Project Description
7 - Project Costs and Disbursement
8 - Disbursement
9 - Implementation Schedule
10 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD - 22425R: Mexico: Project States and Priority
Jurisdictions



- iii -
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:   Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
(NAFIN)
Guarantor:  United Mexican States
Executing   Secretariat of Health (Secre7qria de Salud - SSA)
Acwencies:   and State Health Authorities-'
Amount:      US$180.0 million equivalent
Terms:      Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect     The project would:  (a) strengthen and extend basic
Objectives: health care services and targeted nutrition assistance to
about 13 million uninsured poor in 47 health jurisdictions
in Oaxaca, Chiapas, Hidalgo, and Guerrero and in the Federal
District (Project States); (b) support institutional
improvements to strengthen management capability to enhance
the efficiency and effectiveness of the health care system;
and (c) strengthen the implementation of sectoral reforms to
decentralize budgetary, management, and operational
responsibilities from the federal level to the states.
Attainment of these objectives would support a broader
government policy for poverty alleviation and contribute to
improved health and nutritional status of low-income
residents in Mexico's poorest states.
Proiect     The project consists of two major components:  (a)
Description:Health Services Component (89 percent of total project cost
including contingencies), which would focus on improving and
extending delivery of basic health care and nutrition
assistance (PASSPA program) for.13 million uninsured people.
Specific actions include: (i) rehabilitating, upgrading,
and expanding the health network and developing a
maintenance program for facilities and biomedical equipment;
(ii) providing equipment, furniture, vehicles, and basic
1/ State Health Authorities include: SSA's Coordinated Health
Services of the States of oaxaca, Chiapas, and Hidalgo
(Servicios Coordinados de Salud Publica); Secretariat of
Health of the State of Guerrero (Servicios Estatal de Salud);
and Public Health Services of the Federal District (Direcci6n
General de Servicios de Salud Publica en el Distrito
Federal).



- iv -
medical supplies; (iii) hiring, reassigning, and regrading
personnel to fit the PASSPA program; (iv) improving the
supervision system and technical training for professional
and auxiliary health staff; and (v) producing and
distributing operational manuals and materials; and (b)
Institutional Development Component (11 percent of total
project cost). At the federal level, it would: (i) provide
assistance to facilitate the decentralization process; (ii)
conduct operational research to improve services delivery,
to set policies and priorities, to mobilize additional
resources for basic health care, and to carry out
operational research and impact evaluation; and (iii)
strengthen management information systems to improve
planning, analysis, aihd management capacities. At the state
level, this component would assist in improving: (i) the
management, administration, and planning capacities of the
State Health Authorities; (ii) personnel policies and
management; and (iii) training opportunities in management
and administration for managers and administrative staff.
Project     Benefits of the project would include:  improved health
Benefits:   among the 13 million uninsured poor in the project states,
and reduction in the prevalence of infectious and
communicable diseases and malnutrition, particularly among
the three million women of childbearing age, and 1.7 million
infants and children under age five. The project would alBo
contribute to improvements in the management,
administration, client responsiveness, and overall
efficiency of public health services in the project states,
partly as a result of system decentralization. The project
would increase the proportion of overall public health
resources going to preventiv.. health care and nutrition
assistance for vulnerable groups in the poorest states.
Proiect     Main project risks are associated with:  (a) weak
Risks:       capacity of State Health Authorities to manage this expanded
program of health services delivery; and (b) uncertainty
about the government's fiscal capacity to assign sufficient
resources to sustain the project's recurrent spending.
These risks have been reduced, however, by: the high
priority of project objectives in government social policy;
the experience gained by the states during project
preparation; the concentration of the project efforts on key
service elements; the provision of Bank loan funds on a
declining basis so that each state would have time to
increase user fees, state revenues, and federal
contributions; establishment of data gathering and
monitoring mechanisms; annual implementation and work plan
reviews with the Bank; and the better prospects for renewed
growth of the Mexican economy.



l                         ~~~~~~~~- v -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST a/
Proie(t Components                            Local    Foreign   Total
-      US$million-------
Health Services Development                   163.0      28.9    191.9
Health Network Improvement and Expansion   75.2        27.5    102.7
Health Network Operation and Management    81.9         -       81.9
Human Resources Development                   5.9       1.4      7.3
Institutional Development                     20.9        3.7     24.6
Strengthening Organization and              16.4        2.4     18.8
Management
Management Information System                 2.3       0.8      3.1
Operational Research and Studies              2.2       0.5      2.7
TOTAL BASE COST                               183.9      32.6    216.5
Physical Contingencies                       4.7        1.5      6.2
Price contingencies                         23.3        3.8     27.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           211.9       37.9    249.8
Financing Plau                                 Local    Foreign   Total
-------US$million-------
Federal Government                             69.8       -       69.8
IBRD                                         142.1       37.9    180.0
TOTAL                                        211.9       37.9    249.8
Estimated Disbursements                      Bank Fiscal Year
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
------------US$million------------
Annual                          13.0 b/26.5   44.0   46.0   32.0   18.5
Cumulative                      13.0   39.5   83.5  129.5  161.5  180.0
a/:    Excludes taxes and duties (estimated at US$37.0 million).
b/:    Includes Special Account deposit of US$10.0 million to cover
retroactive financing of US$8.0 million, for expenditures
incurred after June 15, 1990.



- vi -
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Mexico       Year
A. General Country Data
GNP Per Capita (US$)                                   1,830        1987
Area (Thousand Square Kilometers)                      1,973
Population Estimate (Millions)                            82        1987
Urban Population (% of Total)                             72        1987
Population Projection (Millions)
Population for Year 2000                              107       1989
Stationary Population                                 170       1989
Assuming that in Year 2000 a Net Production
Rate of One is Reached
B. Social Indicators
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                              29        1987
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                               6        1987
Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)                       2.2      1987
Total Fertility Rate                                       3.6      1987
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                         48       1986
Maternal Mortality Rate (per 100,000 live births)         92    1980-87
Babies with Low Birth Weights (%)                         15        1985
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                          68        1986
Population Age Structure (%)
0-14  years                                             44.7     1981
15-64  years                                             51.8     1981
65+ years                                              3.4     1981
Adult Illiteracy Rate (% of persons 15 and over)          17        1982
Primary Enrollment Rate (%)                              114        1986
C. Health Sector Resources
Population per Physician                               1,240        1984
Population per Nursing person                            880        1984
Population per Hospital Bed                              870        1981
D. Coverage
Population with Access to Health Services (%)             45        1985
Population with Access to Drinking water (%)              75        1985
Fertile Women Using Contraception (%)                     53        1985
Sources:   World Development Report, 1989, World Tables (Third
edition); The State of the World's Children, 1988.



- vii -
DEFINITIONS
Crude Birth Rate            :  Number of births per 1,000 population
in a given year.
Crude Death Rate            :  Number of deaths per 1,000 population
in a given year.
Infant Mortality Rate       :  The number of deaths of infants under
one year of age in a given year per
1,000 live births in that year.
Life Expectancy at Birth   :  The average number of years an infant
would live if the current age/sex-
specific mortality trends prevailing at
the time of birth were to continue.
Naternal Mortality Rate    :  The nu.nber of deaths to women due to
pregnancy and childbearing
complications in a given year per
100,000 live births in that year.
Rate of Natural Increase   :  The rate at which a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a given
year due to a surplus (or deficit) of
births over deaths, erpressed as a
percentage of the total population.
Total Fertility Rate        :  The average number of children who
would be born alive to a woman during
her lifetime if she were to pass
through her childbearing years
conforming to the age-specific
fertility rates of a given year.



1.  INTRODUCTION
1.01   Between 1960 and 1986, life expectancy at birth increased
from 58 to 68 years, infant mortality declined by a third (from
74 to 48 per 1,000 live !,irths), and maternal deaths fell by
almost half (from 140 tc 80 per 100,000 births). Among the rural
poor, however, the diseases of underdevelopment (gastroenteritis,
acute respiratory disease, and immuno-preventable diseases),
which are linked to undernutrition and poor sanitary conditions,
remained the major causes of death (see Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2).
About 53 percent of fertile women use some contraceptive method.
Among the rural poor, however, a third of reproductive-age women
have their two most recent pregnancies less than 24 months apart.
Such short intervals are linked to anemia, undernutrition, and
high rates of maternal and infant mortality.
1.02   In the 1980s, progress in public health services
stagnated. Mexico's National Health Survey of 1988 showed that
13 million of the country's 82 million people missed work or
school because of illness, in the two-week reference period prior
to being interviewed. Anot.er aix million suffer from chronic
diseases, and 1.6 million have chronic disabilities. The same
survey found that one-third of pregnant women and nursing mothe=s
are underweight, and 17 percent of newborns weigh less than the
minimum safe weight of 2.5 kilos. About 14 percent of children
under age five suffer from moderate or severe malnutrition, as
measured by low weight for age.
1.03   In recent years, inequality in health conditions, between
regions and income groups, has grown markedly. Today, life
expectancy is 55 years in rural areas versus 71 years in urban
areas; and it is 53 years among the poor compared with 73 years
among the wealthy. The infant mortality rate varies widely
between states, ranging from less than 20 per 1,000 in Zacatecas,
Veracruz, and Quintana Roo, to over 50 per 1,000 in Chiapas,
Guerrero, Guanajuato, Mexico City (squatters), Oaxaca, and
Tlaxcala. The incidence of undernutrition is particularly high
among the poor living in rural southern Mexico, where measured
undernutrition is nearly four times higher than it is in the
north of Mexico. In the States of Chiapas and Oaxaca, about 70
percent of pre-school-age children suffer from some degree of
malnutrition.
1.04   One reason for the inequality in health conditions is that
health services are virtually inaccessible to many of the 40
million Mexicans who lack health care insurance and cannot afford
private providers. About a third of the uninsured poor live in
four states, Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Oaxaca, and the Federal
District (referred to hereafter as the project states) (see Annex
1, Table 3 for current population and projections for the project
states). These 13 million uninsured persons, especially the
women and children, are the main target group of the proposed
project.



- 2 -
1.05   With the collapse of oil prices in 1982, Mexico began an
austerity program that included severe reductions in expenditures
for health, educa*ion, and social security. Mexicans spend about
US$60 per capita, or 3.4 percent of GDP, on public and private
health care, which is somewhat less than that spent in other
countries with comparable levels of development (see Annex 2,
Table 1). Public health expenditures peaked in 1982 at 2.3
percent of GDP, then declined in 1984 to 1.8 percent of GDP (see
Annex 2, Table 2). Per capita resources are still far below pre-
crisis levels; few resources are now being allocated to
investments and essential supplies (see Annex 2, Table 3).
Salaries of health service employees in 1988 were down 22 percent
in real terms compared to their 1980 level, causing a high
turnover in staff. In 1989, public expenditures in the project
states on the uninsured population totalled US$150.0 million (see
Annex 2, Table 4 for details by state). Available public
resources were about US$13 per capita in these states, compared
with a national average af US$20 per capita for the uninsured
population (see Annex 2, Table 5).
1.06   As part of its poverty alleviation policy, the government
has developed a strategy to provide basic health care services to
low-income groups. This objective has been pursued through
increasing the coverage of the social security system,
strengthening the mandate of the Secretariat of Health to
determine sector priorities, shifting resources from curative to
basic health care, and transferring decision making power from
the federal to the State Health Authorities (see paras. 2.22 to
2.29).
II. SECTOR ORGANIZATION, ISSUES, AND STRATEGY
A. Sector Organization
2.01   The 1988 National Health Survey found that 15.4 million
people sought formal health care from the following sources:
private-sector providers (5.6 million); Social Security Institute
for Private Sector (IMSS) (4.7 million); the Secretariat of
Health (SSA) (1.9 million); Social Security Institute for
Government Workers (ISSSTE) (1.1 million); IMSS/Solidaridad (0.4
million); and others (1.7 million).
2.02   Principal Institutions.  The Secretariat of Health (SSA),
which sets overall sectoral norms, provides some services,
especially in high-quality teaching hospitals, and coordinates
the work of specialized health organizations. These include:
(a) IMSS and ISSSTE, the social security institutes that provide
health care services to their affiliates and the families of
private and public sector employees, respectively, which together
constitute about half the population; (b) the state health
services that have responsibility for coordinating and providing



- 3 -
services to the uninsured in their states; (c) IMSS/Solidaridad,
a unit of the Mexican Social Security Institute that provides
basic health care in rural areas of 17 states; (d) INI, which
provides services to selected indigenous populations; and (e)
DIF, a welfare organization providing some health care to
selected families of the urban poor.
2.03   Facilities and Staff.  There are 9,352 health centers and
hospitals in Mexico, providing a total of 28,211 ambulatory
services and 57,487 hospital beds; the private sector has some
20,000 beds. These facilities are used for coordinated deliverl
of family planning, health, and, in selected cases, nutrition
services. Overall, Mexico has one hospital bed per 1,000 people,
but the distribution is inequitable: only 0.3 public hospital
beds per 1,000 are available to the uninsured poor in the project
states (see Annex 3, Table 1 for data on health facilities in the
project area). Mexico has a sufficient number of doctors (one
for every 1,200 persons), but too few less-skilled health
professionals; the ratio of nurses to population (about one nurse
per 900 people), for example, is half that of the average for
middle income countries.
2.04   Some 70,000 physicians, 3,000 dentists, and 100,000 nurses
and auxiliary nurses work for government institutions; about 70
percent are employees of IMSS end ISSSTE and serve the half of
the Mexican population that ie insured by these institutes. The
other 30 percent of health workers are employed by the SSA and
State Health Authorities; these workers provide fewer services
per capita to the uninsured population than are available to
social security affiliates. The main providers of health
services and their coverage are presented in Annex 3, Table 2,
and are summarized as follows:
Table 2.1:  MEXICO:  PRINCIPAL PROVIDERS AND HEALTH CARE COVERAGE
(Percentages)
(1988)
Social security affiliates (IMSS, ISSSTE, others)  6S.1
Pr1voto sector providers                   4.2
IMSS/Sol iderldad                         12.6
Federal and Stat. Hoalth Authorities, DIF, INI  22.9
Noncovered population                      6.2
TOTAL POPULATION                         iU.0
Source: Mission Estimates, April 1989.
B. Sector Issues
2.05   Seven factors pose obstacles to achieving the government's
objectives of reducing mortality, morbidity, and malnutrition in
the project states: (a) many Mexicans lack access to basic
health care; (b) the quality of services in rural areas fails to
provide an adequate response to client needs; (c) management
constraints hamper delivery of services; (d) the health network



- 4 -
is deteriorating; (e) personnel and human resources available to
the State Health Authorities are inadequate in number and lack
the skills to deliver expanded basic health care services; (f)
financial resources for the sector are neither allocated
equitably nor efficiently and depend too much on federal budgets;
and (g) the severe nutritional deficiencies among the poor need
to be addressed and made an integral part of maternal and child
health care service delivery.
2.06   Access.  In principle, public health care services are
available to all Mexicans. However, only half the population is
guaranteed access to services through the social security
institutes, and private health insurance schemes cover only a
tiny share of the population (see Annex 3, Table 2). For the
uninsured half of the population, which depends on public health
care, access to services is blocked for either or both of two
reasons: (1) people are geographically isolated from the nearest
point of service; and (2) health centers are prevented from
providing services because of limited financial and human
resources. Geographic isolation is typical of the remote rural
parts of the project states, and the Federal District and urban
areas frequently lack financial and human resources.
2.07   Some 10 percent of the population of Mexico lacks
effective access to public health care because they live in
isolated rural areas hours away from a health center or hospital.
(Effective access is defined as living within 90 minutes by foot,
bus, or car, of a functioning public health facility.) Over 70
percent of the people in the project states live in rural
communities of less than 2,500 inhabitants where there are
traditional healers and birth attendants, but few have modern
health services. The proposed project would address this problem
through expansion of the basic health care network, particularly
in the rural areas.
2.08   Quality of Services.  The quality of public health care is
generally poor in rural Mexico, and thus it is often unused by
potential clients. A study in the State of Mexico, the only
study of its kind in Mexico, found that most of the rural poor
were bypassing local health centers and seeking care in Toluca,
the state capital, or in Mexico CWty. The centers that were
studied were operating at less tl.an 20 percent of capacity. As
rural health center budgets eroded in the 1980s, and the number
of medical school graduates who are required to provide one year
of rural service declined, people discovered that public health
centers had neither adequate personnel nor medical supplies, and
thus turned elsewhere, usually to private-sector providers for
health care, or suffered without medical care. Today, even urban
health centers often lack staff and supplies, creating
ineffective access for the uninsured, particularly in the project
states. To address this problem requires that existing
facilities must be made to function properly, through



-5-
rehabilitation, adequate staffing and medical supplies, and an
effective outreach program to inform the community of the
availability of basic health care services.
2.09   Health center consultations per hour varied in a recent
year between 1.2 in Zacatecas and 5.3 in Sinalo. and discharges
per bed-year ranged from eight in Michoacan to L. in San Luis
Potosi. Hospital occupancy rates were below 65 percent in all
states except one, compared with 75 to 85 percent in well managed
systems. Ambulatory consultations per capita varied from 0.2 in
Chiapas, and 0.3 in Guerrero, Hidalgo, and Oaxaca, to 2.0 in Baja
California Sur y Nuevo Le6n; the range of hospital utilization
rates was even wider: 4.4 to 82 discharges per 1,000 population.
These differences, which were particularly notable during the
crisis in the mid-1980s, were linked to the absence of key
complementary inputs, especially pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies. Although procurement and distribution of medicines
have improved, some areas still lack enough pharmaceuticals to
satisfy demand. These variations offer substantial opportunities
for efficiency gains with more effective mnanagement of resources.
2.10 Managaement Constraints. It is now widely believed that
the poor quality of services is partially due to
overcentralization of health services management. Critical
management staff at the federal level often have not been aware
of local needs or have been limited in their ability to act, due
to bureaucratic requirements and processes. Moreover,
geographical distance and several levels of administration
delayed the implementation of remedial actions at the local
level. A decentralization plan was formulated in the early 19808
and is gradually transferring service delivery responsibilities
to State Health Authorities. To date, 14 states have followed
this plan. Within the scope of the proposed project, only
Guerrero has been decentralized; in the other three states and
the Federal District, public health services are provided through
centrally funded and centrally managed programs. As a result,
the system does not easily respond to local needs, which hinders
efforts to introduce mechanisms aimed at more efficient uses of
facilities and services. At the same time, administrative
practices are archaic in many respects and characterized by
redundancy and duplication. The Federal ziealth Secretariat is
aware of the advantages of decentralizing management, budgeting,
and planning responsibilities, and a program to gradually
delegate such tasks is underway. However, this would require:
additional training to ensure the availability of personnel with
appropriate managerial ability and professional skills; and
information systems that would allow staff to effectively use the
resources at their disposal and to monitor and evaluate the
effects of their interventions. Such skills are scarce at the
state level, and the proposed project would address this problem
within the context of the Institutional Development Component.



- 6 -
2.11   Another management issue that hinders the decentralization
program is the division of responsibility for public health care
services between SSA and IMSS/Solidaridad. Although the health
services offered by the two agerncies are similar and their
operational programs have been increasingly better coordinated at
the state level, health services of IMSS/Solidaridad have been
better financed and staffed, and have generally been of higher
quality. In the project states, especially Chiapas and Oaxaca,
programs managed by IMSS/Solidaridad account for 75 and 64
percent, respectively, of the statewide basic health services
network (see Annex 3, Table 1). Merging such a health services
network with the basic health care of the SSA or the State Health
Authorities, once the health program has been decentralized to
the states, would require additional federal and state health
funding, which is not readily available because of the
government's austere fiscal policy.
2.12   Deterioration of Health Network.  Because of a lack of
funding and managerial constraints, deficiencies in the delivery
of health care at all levels have developed. Pressure on
hospitals to provide routine preventive and curative care has
increased because of the deficiencies at lower levels in the
system. Also, hospitals and medical equipment have not been
maintained, and the use of budgeting resources to new
infrastructure (mainly to serve the growing population, which has
increased by about 25 percent in the project states since the
early 1980s) has resulted in the deterioration of existing
facilities. Only very limited funds have been made available for
major repairs, renovations, operations, and extension and
improvement of the ambulatory care network. In the project
states, basic services are inadequate in most but the largest
hospitals, because of the lack of proper care and maintenance of
biomedical equipment, and failure to replace obsolete and damaged
equipment on a regular basis. The effort to keep hospitals
operating, even with lower levels of productivity has, in turn,
drained resources from primary health care services.
2.13   The SSA is aware of the immediate need to rehabilitate the
existing facilities and to rationalize services within the health
system. Plans for the rehabilitation of health infrastructure on
a priority basis have been developed, and rationalization of
health services with the dual objectives of improving efficiency
and effectiveness in service delivery would be a critical feature
of administrative reforms in the project states. Furthermore,
under the project, the State Health Authorities would develop a
comprehensive maintenance plan and would allocate resources to
assure that buildings and equipment would be kept in good working
condition.
2.14   Human Resources:  Personnel and Training.  As in most
other countries of the Latin American and Caribbean region that
suffered through the crisis of the 1980s, cuts in Mexico's social



services were achieved by reducing expenditures on salaries,
maintenance, new investment, and supplies. The Secretariat of
Health did not reduce its staff but rather reduced salaries,
investment, and maintenance. In doing so, the number of
personnel has remained constant, or even increased, due to
political or unauthorized appointments. In reviewing its
staffing pattern in the project states, the Secretariat of Health
found that it employs about 22,400 persons, 2,400 of which have
been appointed outside the norms of the federal civil service
system. The current functions and tasks to be performed by the
occupants of many positions often differ considerably from the
tasks required for the delivery of the basic health care package,
and these, in turn, are from the skills and abilities of the
current occupants of these positions. The SSA has implemented
measures to solve this problem by retraining and redeploying
existing staff outside the civil service system, or allowing them
to retire. An estimated 6,800 additional staff would be needed
to deliver basic health services in the project states as a
result of the project. The new staff would receive essential
training and supervision in basic health care services as part of
this project. The influx of health technicians (to be trained by
CONALEP (see para. 3.17) would change the skills mix within the
State Health Authorities: In the future, once basic positions
are filled, there would be relatively fewer medical doctors and
more auxiliaries, technicians, and promoters delivering basic
health care services in rural and periurban areas.
2.15   Malnutrition.  Nutrition programs fail to reach the most
needy, the rural poor, who do not benefit from either the general
food subsidy implicit in food price controls or from the
Tortibono or Liconsa programs. Experience has shown that it is
not %asy to target nutrition assistance to the poorest groups,
because they are dispersed in the countryside and are hard to
reach. About 97 percent of the localities have less than 2,500
people. Moreover, the rural poor have little political power
compared to urban groups. The 1988 nutrition survey found that
Secretariat of Health nutrition assistance reaches only about
55,000 families, or less than 2 percent of the families that need
to consume more food. Two percent of mothers and young children
take iron supplements; only 27 percent of children and 13 percent
of women receive basic health care; and only 18 percent receive
any food assistance at all. Two urban-oriented food subsidy
programs operated by another secretariat, Tortibonos, which
provides tortillas to low-income families, and Liconsa, which
provides whole milk, have considerable utility, but they do not
reach the poorest groups, those living in rural southern Mexico.
In recent years, the only food assistance available to these
groups has come through rural stores of CONASUPO, a government
food-marketing chain that distributes basic food at prices that
offer a savings of up to US$24 per annum per family, or the
equivalent of 1 percent their income. This amount is probably
too small to have any real impact on undernutrition, especially



among young children who are often the least protected members of
a ru.al family. Had the rural poor, which constitute one-fifth
of the population, received adequate food assistance in 1989, the
cost would have been one-tenth of the US$500.0 million spent on
the Tortibono and Liconsa programs that year, and malnutrition
among the rural poor -in the project states would have been
considerably reduced.
2.16   The Secretariat of Health, through its maternal and child
health service, has developed a new plan for delivery of a basic
basket of food, twice a month, to the needy client population,
and has implemented the plan on a pilot basis in the State of San
Luis Potosi. Beneficiaries of food distribution are selected by
the health network according to biological and nutritional risk,
and receive a ration card redeemable for a basic basket of food
available through CONASUPO/DICONSA stores. This basket amounts
to an annual subsidy of about US$75 for each family that includes
an undernourished mother or child; when fully implemented in the
project states, the plan would cost about US$30.0 million
annually. It would be targeted on, and should reach, the most
vulnerable members of the poor rural families (see Annex 4,
Attachment 2). The implementation of this food/nutrition
program, or a variation, would be done through the project in the
project states. The Bank, in the context of the Agricultural
sector loan (AGSAL II), is currently conducting a policy dialogue
with the government on the need to launch targeted nutrition and
food assistance programs on a broader scale. To test targeted
food/nutrition interventions a pilot nutrition program would be
implemented by the health network in the project states.
2.17   Financing Issues.  Health spending in Mexico is below that
of other middle-income countries of comparable levels of
development (see Annex 2, Table 1). These comparisons suggest
that the Government of Mexico may be under-spending on health
care. The government's ability to increase health spending is
constrained, however, by the requirements of its adjustment
program, which implies tight control over public spending. It is
therefore essential for the government to: (i) improve equity
and efficiency in the allocation of health spending; and (ii)
seek alternative sources of finance for health care, including
the possibility of privatizing health sector acti.vities such as
curative services.
2.18   Misallocation of health 8p-nding constrains adequate
quantity and quality of health services for the uninsured
population and prevents improvements in health indicators. The
Mexican health sector is strongly biased towards the least cost-
effective interventions to reduce mortality and morbidity:
spending on curative care represents 85 percent of total public
spending on health, and less than 2 percent of families that need
nutrition assistance receive it. To improve the health status of
the poor, allocation of resources to the neglected areas must be



- 9 -
increased and past trends must be reversed. IMSS, by far the
larger of the social security institutes, experienced a decline
in its real income by 32 percent between 1982 and 1987, yet was
able to provide 25 percent more medical consultations, 9 percent
more deliveries, and 23 percent more hospital operations, thus
demonstrating a capacity to respond to a crisis by improving
efficiency.
2.19   There is an increased awareness in the government that
additional ways must be found to generate greater revenues
through user charges, improved service efficiency, and the
mobilization of community resources in support of local health
care services. There is also awareness within SSA that sector
financing depends heavily on the central government budget. Most
investment and operational resources for health care of the
uninsured population come from federal funding. In 1989, federal
funds financed between an estimated 90 and 100 percent of SSA and
IMSS/Solidaridad overall health care spending on the uninsured
population in the project states (see Annex 2, Table 4). State
and municipal governments do not contribute significantly to the
health sector. The SSA recognizes that mobilization of
additional resources would be critical, not only to ensure the
operation of the existing health network, but also to expand the
system in the future.
2.20   Increased user fees, or recovery of costs from the
beneficiaries of health care services, may be an attractive
option for such commodities and services as hospital care,
pharmaceuticals, _.nd curative attention. About a third of all
health consultations identified in the 1988 national health
survey were offered by private providers to persons who paid for
this service. Because the quality of public health care is
inhibited by a lack of funds, many people seek private care even
if they are insured or have access to free services. This
suggests that, if the quality of public services can be enhanced,
there is considerable opportunity for cost recovery from patients
and their families for the use of hospital rooms, medicines, and
supplies. Charges for such items could be imposed on social
security beneficiaries to restrain unnecessary use of services.
The Secretariat of Health does receive payments (cuotas de
recuperaci6n), but they constitute only about 5 percent of public
health finance at the national level. Among the beneficiaries of
the proposed project, however, cost recovery has limited
applicability because of their poverty. In the project states,
payments for health care represent less than 3 percent of public
health sector expenditures. Fees might inhibit the poor from
seeking health care and thus hamper efforts to improve health
conditions, and price elasticity of demand for various health
services among different beneficiaries. Charging fees might
enrdnce user's confidence in the public health services.
Alternatively, health objectives might best be served by
providing free basic health care to the uninsured population in



- 10 -
the project states financed in part from recovery of costs from
beneficiaries in the richer parts of Mexico.
2.21   The above considerations suggest the need for a study (to
be conducted under the project) of resource mobilization
alternatives, in order to identify specific recommendations, and
take into account the need to improve the efficiency, equity, and
effectiveness of health care finance.
C. Government Strateqy
2.22   The Government of Mexico is working to promote the spread
of basic health care services to low-income groups as part of a
strategy to assure health for all by the year 2000, an
internationally accepted goal of the World Health Organization.
This objective has been pursued through increasing the coverage
of the social security system and expanding services for the
uninsured poor. In this framework, the government has
strengthened the mandate of the Secretariat of Health to
determine sector priorities and coordinate programs; shifted
resources from curative to basic health care; transferred
resources and decision-making powers from Federal to State Health
Authorities; and consolidated services of the Health Secretariat
and IMSS/Solidaridad for the uninsured in some states.
2.23   The government has charged the Secretariat of Health with
the responsibility for coordinating and rationalizing resource
use and for expanding coverage to the needy.  To discharge its
expanded responsibilities, the Secretariat of Health undertook a
major reorganization, which included: (a) reducing from 52 to 21
the number of its headquarters' units based on programmatic
areas; and (b) relieving headquarters' units of their direct
operational roles, giving them instead policy, supervision, and
technical support responsibilities. The most important
responsibilities were entrusted to the Planning Under-
Secretariat, which was made responsible for planning,
programming, budgeting, monitoring, and evaluation.
2.24   As a result of the rationalization and decentralization
process, a streamlined SSA, divested of operational
responsibilities, would focus on overall policy and planning
issues and would be able to provide technical, managerial, and
logistical support to the State Health Authorities. In fact, the
SSA, in addition to enhancing its planning capabilities, has
begun preparing protocols for the operation of the health
services delivery system, and improving the health information
system, the sector's human resource development, and logistics
and procurement procedures.
2.25   Consistent with current government priorities for the
social sectors, the Secretariat of Health has developed PASSPA
(Programa de Apoyo de Servicios de Salud para la Poblaci6n



- 11 -
Abierta) (see Annex 4), a targeted approach to the delivery of
basic health services for the uninsured poor, that would
rationalize basic health care within a framework of strengthened
social programs as a whole. PASSPA has become the basic health
services model of the government's National Solidarity Program
and would coordinate all basic health care services delivered
through or by State Health Authorities and IMSS/Solidaridad. The
National Solidarity Program is the poverty alleviation program
that was launched by the new government in 1989; it emphasizes
community participation projects aimed at improving the living
conditions of the poor. The government spent US$640.0 million
(MEX$1,600 billion) in 1989 on Solidarity programs, and is
expected to spend double in 1990.
2.26   PASSPA is an integrated approach to basic health care; it
aims to reduce infant, child, and maternal mortality, and the
prevalence and severity of diseases common among the poor.
PASSPA seeks to improve children's growth and development, and to
reduce the incidence of diarrheal and respiratory diseases,
through health education, immunization, growth monitoring, and
oral rehydration therapy. Efforts to improve women's health are
heavily focused on their reproductive health, and include
education activities on sexually transmitted diseases, prenatal
care, family planning, and screening of breast and cervical
cancer. To reduce maternal mortality, the PASSPA package
includes prenatal, delivery, and postpartum care, and provision
of a variety of contraceptive methods. PASSPA also includes
screening and treatment, and referral for other common diseases
(diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and alcoholism) in the target
population. Health and nutrition education programs are carried
out with mothers and communities through meetings, campaigns, and
demonstration programs, using mass media, group, and
interpersonal contact methodology. In addition, PASSPA would
also deliver basic nutrition activities: monitor the nutritional
status of pregnant and lactating women and growth monitoring for
children under age five; promote food production to increase and
diversify the family diet; and identify undernourished or
vulnerable groups for food distribution programs.
2.27   PASSPA is organized to deliver its services at three
levels: (1) Basic, which includes the health promoter, rural
ambulatory medical units, and health posts and centers without
hospital beds; (2) Secondary, which includes hospitals with 30 to.
180 beds offering general medicine, surgery,
obstetrics/gynecology, and pediatrics; and (3) Tertiary, which
includes the national institutes of health and specialized
hospitals for oncology, cardiology, neurology and neurosurgery,
nutrition, pediatrics, and perinatology. Referral between levels
is the key to sector efficiency (see Annex 4, Matrix 1).
Facilities in each jurisdiction are organized in a modular and
hierarchical design that includes health posts, health centers,
and a regional hospital, with all offering basic medical



- 12 -
treatment, and health prevention and promotion services (see
Annex 4, Figure 1). staffing norms, work schedules, operational
manuals, procedures, and equipment lists have been developed for
each type and size of health facility.
2.28   Effective operation of health centers is a critical factor
in community health and cost containment. The community health
worker who would staff the health center could be expected to
have up to 100 consultations weekly and to resolve 80 percent of
those consaltations without need for referral to higher, more
expensive levels of service (see Annex 4, Attachment 1). The
greater the capacity of the community health worker to
anticipate, identify, prevent, and resolve health problems, the
more efficient and effective the health services would be.
2.29   Although PASSPA is a nationwide program, the government's
strategy is to focus its application on the southern states,
where the poorest groups are concentrated. In these states,
pro ject priority is being given to rehabilitation of the existing
basic level health network in the rural areas by providing
adequate equipment, trained staff, and operating expenditures for
facilities, maintenance, pharmaceuticals, medical and office
supplies, and supervision, to ensure daily operation of PASSPA.
Construction of new health centers would be held to a minimum.
The project would also place emphasis on strengthening the
planning, managerial, and administrative capacity of State Health
Authorities, so that decentralization of public health services
can be accelerated for the provision of quality, basic health
services. The project would leave some issues on health sector
financing to be implemented. However, the government would
conduct a study on health care financing options during the first
year of the project (see para. 3.29).
D. Proiect Areas
2.30   The project would be implemented in the States of Oaxaca,
Chiapas, Guerrero, and Hidalgo and in low-5ncome areas of the
Federal District, inhabited by a total of about 22.6 million
people. Some 13 million, of more than 20 million Mexicans with
incomes below the poverty line (US$220 per annum), live in the
project areas and most are uninsured. The project is expected to
directly benefit about 400,000 pregnant and lactating women and
1.7 million infants and children under five years of age. Given
the low levels of health services utilization among these groups,
extension of services through the proposed project would have a
profound impact on the health status of the rural poor.
2.31   The four states and the Federal District are divided for
administrative purposes into 47 health jurisdictions. For
example, each jurisdiction covers an average of 630 and 755
localities in the States of Guerrero and Oaxaca, respectively,
and is responsible for providing health care services to 485,000



- 13 -
and 433,000 people in the States of Guerrero and oaxaca,
respectively, and to 670,000 people in the Federal District.
Over 70 percent of the population in the four states live in
localities with less than 2,500 inhabitants, meaning the target
population is widely dispersed (see Annex 5, Table 1). The
proposed project wculd concentrate most of its civil works,
especially in the early years of project execution, in the
fifteen poorest health jurisdictions (see Annex 5, Table 2).
Institutional development and training, as well as statewide
planning, budgeting and supervision, would benefit uninsured
populations throughout each of the states. The map highlights
the priority jurisdictions and Annex 5, Table 2 presents the
estimated target population by state and the number of priority
health jurisdictions. The project would be implemented by the
State Health Authorities in each of the states and in the Federal
Distr ct. !E
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.32   Bank assistance to the Mexican health sector has been
provided through health components of rural development projects
(PIDER), as well as through the social security (IMSS) health
care component in the ongoing EarthquaWq Reconstruction, and
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2665-ME).-
2.33   The Bank's involvement in the proposed project is
justified on three grounds: First, the proposed project is an
integral part of Bank assistance strategy for Mexico in support
of structural adjustment and poverty alleviation. Together with
Low Income Housing loan, and the Water, Women, and Development
loan, the proposed Regional Decentralization and Development loan
and Basic Education loan that would all focus on the same poor
states, the proposed project would address the basic health and
nutrition needs of the poor in the most disadvantaged states, and
thus support the government's poverty alleviation program
(solidarity). Second, the proposed project would help the
2/  State Health Authorities include:  SSA's Coordinated Health
Services of the States of Oaxaca, Chiapas, and Hidalgo
(Servicios Coordinador de Salud Publica); and the
Secretariat of Health of the State of Guerrero, and Public
Health Services of the Federal District.
3/  Several sector analyses provide background information used
in preparation of this project: "Population and Health
Sector Strategy Report," 1987; "Mexico Health Sector
Expenditures and Financing," Report No. 7802-ME, May 1989;
and "Nutrition Sector Memorandum," July 1990. A report on
Mexican social security and health care was prepared as part
of background to an economic report. These reports are
available in the project file.



- 14 -
government reallocate public expenditure towards basic and
preventive health expenditures and away from curative care.
Third, the proposed project would facilitate implementation of
the government's constitutionally mandated decentralization
program and strengthen the institutional and administrative
capacity of state and local governments, to improve equity and
efficiency of health service delivery. At present, there are no
other external aid agencies involved in the policy and
institutional reform areas; the Inter-American Development Bank
is financing a health project, but it focuses mainly on health
infrastructure.
III . THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and objectives
3.01   Obiectives.  The project would assist the Government of
Mexico in improving health status of urban and rural poor
families by providing the basic health care and nutrition
services to about 13 million uninsured people in four states and
the Federal District. More specifically, the proposed project
would: (a) strengthen and extend basic health care and nutrition
services to the uninsured poor; (b) support institutional
improvements to strengthen management capability and enhance the
efficiency and effectiveness of the basic health care system; and
(c) facilitate the implementation of sectoral reforms and the
decentralization process from the federal level to the states.
B. Proiect Components
3.02   The project consists of two major components:
(a)    The Health Services Development Component (89 percent of
the total cost including contingencies) would improve and
extend delivery of basic health care and nutrition
assistance to 13 million uninsured persons, through the
PASSPA model (Programa de Apoyo a los Servicios de Salud
para la Poblaci6n Abierta) (see Annex 4). The project
would: (i) rehabilitate, upgrade and expand the health
network and develop a maintenance program for facilities
and equipment; (ii) provide equipment, furniture, vehicles
and basic medical and office supplies; (iii) hire,
reassign and regrade personnel according to PASSPA needs;
(iv) improve the supervision system and training of health
care personnel; and (v) produce and distribute operational
manuals and materials.
(b)    The Institutional Development Component (11 percent of the
total cost). At the federal level, it would: (i) assist
in the decentralization process; (ii) conduct operational
research to improve service delivery, set policies and



- 15 -
priorities, find ways to mobilize additional resources for
health care and carry out project impact evaluation; and
(iii) complement resources (software and technical
assistance) needed by the existing management information
system to improve planning and management capacities. At
the state level, this component would: (i) improve the
management, administration and technical capacity of the
State Health Authorities to deliver PASSPA basic health
care and nutrition services; (ii) strengthen and implement
an improved management information system to enhance
planning, analysis and management capacities; (iii)
improve personnel policies and management; and (iv)
provide training opportunities for managerial and
administrative staff.
C. Project Description
1. Health Services Development Component (US$222.4 million)
3.03   The project would provide the resources required to
implement the PASSPA model in the States of Oaxaca, Chiapas,
Guerrero, and Hidalgo and in the Federal District. The model's
organization and staffing pattern and the population to be served
are defined in Annexes 4 and 5. To optimize the use of
resources, particularly infrastructure and the operating budget,
emphasis would be placed on improving services and outreach
coverage through renovation, repairing, and rriquipping existing
facilities rather than on expansion of the service delivery
network through construction of additional facilities. An
inventory of health facilities, which was reviewed by the Bank,
provided the basis for the investment plans. Building and
medical equipment maintenance systems would be reinforced as part
ot the effort to improve and sustain the productivity of the
health services.
3.04   The project would strengthen the operation of the health
network by: designing measures aimed at increasing state and
jurisdictional responsibility for health services planning,
personnel management and training; improving the use of budgetary
resources; and defining a supervision system to adjust to the
needs and conditions of each state.
(a)    Health Network Improvement and Expansion
3.05   The project would provide financing and technical
assistance for the improvement and expansion of physical
facilities, maintenance, vehicles, and staff in  for basic health
care network. The number of facilities to be built or renovated
was determined by: (a) the size of the local population; (b)
observed health demand; and (c) the quantity, quality, and
capacity of existing facilities. Facilities in the project area



- 16 -
would also be equipped or reequipped, as necessary, to permit
health workers to carry out PASSPA activities.
3.06   PhysicU,l Facilities.  The project would provide funding to
rehabilitate and upgrade 1,169 existing facilities and to
construct 267 new facilities. The civil works program (see Annex
6, Table 1) is summarized in Table 3.1:
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF CIVIL WORKS BY STATES AND BY FACILITY TYPE
URBAN a/    RURAL b/
STATES           HOSPITALS     CENTERS      CENTERS       TTL
CHIAPAS    7            8~     ~    ~~~~~~~4 12816
Ow                 -            12           s6           6o
Rehab. or Upgrading  7         22           72           101
D.P.                            221           -           22
NM                 -             a                         a
Rhabb. or Upgrading  6         218                       224
_0ERRE             a            87           410          460
Now                     ~     ~     ~~     ~~~~~7 76  es
Rehab. or Upgrading  a         a0           U42          876
ID^ALOO            6             26          01           81
Nw                 -             4           48           47
Rehab. or Upgrading  6         21           258          284
OWXCA              7             7           27           25
NOW                -             4           62           PA
Rehb. or Upgrading  7           8           175          185
POC TTAL          28            824         1,084        1,43J
New                -            80          237           26?
Reheb, or Upgrading    28     294           847         1,169
a7: Includes urban honith centers and other support facilities, such as warehouses, maintenance
shops, end one antirabic center.
b/: Includes concentrated and dispersed health centers, auxillary health unite, and rural medical
units.
3.07  All new facilities would follow prototype designs that
have been reviewed and accepted during appraisal, and final
working drawings would take into account regional climatic and
topographic conditions. In addition, the project would
rehabilitate and refurbish about 18 hospitals and upgrade,
furnish, and equip 10 additional hospitals. These hospitals are
strategically located in localities within the jurisdictions and
are part of an efficient referral system for the primary health
care service. Funds have been included for technical assistance
to design a new prototype for a predominantly rural, highly
space-efficient hospital, with 30 fixed beds. Other support
facilities include about 15 local warehouses for storage of
essential drugs, and medical and office supplies, with office
space for administrative purposes. The acquisition of new
furniture and equipment under the project would follow prototype
lists per facility type which have been reviewed aad accepted by
the Bank. The upgrading program would repair, substitute, and/or
expand the existing stock to comply with the approved lists.
3.08  The SSA has provided evidence that all sites for new
construction for the first year of project implementation (1991)



- 17 -
have been donated or acquired by SSA or by state governments.
For the subsequent years, evidence regarding donation or purchase
of land for new construction would be part of the annual work
plan reviews (see para. 5.01).
3.09   Vehicles.  The project would provide about 250 vehicles,
including 20 trucks and pick-ups for distributing drugs and other
medical supplies: about 25 pick-ups adapted as mobile shops for
the maintenance program; 20 ambulances; and 185 vehicles for
supervision and administrative activities at the state,
jurisdictional, and local levels. Most of these vehicles would
replace or complement the old fleet. Because of government
policy on procurement of vehicles, only ambulances and all
terrain, four-wheel drive vehicles would be financed with
proceeds of the loan (see Annex 6, Table 2).
3.10   Maintenance Program.  The maintenance program to be funded
by the project for facilities, furniture, and biomedical
equipment would consist of: the construction and equipping of 15
workshops mainly located in strategic points within the
jurisdictions; repair of equipment; vehicles (see para. 3.09);
and training of staff for the workshops. In addition to
maintenance workshops, annual allocations for a permanent
preventive and corrective program, estimated at about 1 percent
per year for infrastructure costs and about 4 percent per year
for equipment costs, have been included in project costs. The
project would provide financing for the incremental maintenance
cost on a declining basis. Wherever possible, specialized
maintena,nce work would be done by private contractors; a
specially trained driver ("polivalente") with a mobile shop would
carry out routine maintenance of electrical and plumbing systems
and minor equipment repairs during regular supervision visits
(see para. 3.15).
3.11   As a condition for loan effectiveness, at least three
project states would present an infrastructure and biomedical
equipment maintenance plan (includina routine maintenance
activities).  The remaining statee vo' ld present the plan by June
30, 1991 (see para. 7.02 (a)).
3.12   Druqs and Supplies.  In addition to warehouses, equipment,
and logistical support (see paras. 3.07 and 3.09), the project
would finance about 40 percent of the incremental costs of the
acquisition of basic drugs and medical and office supplies, as
well as their distribution, to ensure their availability,
especially in the facilities that are rehabilitated or new
constructed under the project. The SSA would review the
efficiency and adequacy of the purchase and distribution of drugs
and supplies by the SSA and each of the Project State Health
Authorities, and submit to the Bank, for comments, the results,
including the action plan to be carried out by the SSA and the



- 18 -
State Health Authorities in the project states, by no later than
July 30, 1992 (see para. 7.01 (a)).
(b)    Health Network Operation and Management
3.13   Staffins.  The project would cLver the cost of
approximately 6,800 new staff to fill current vacancies and
upgrade and expand the health network and its local or
jurisdictional administration. Approximately 2,700 new higher-
level health professionals (doctors and nurses), about 1,700 mid-
level staff (tdcnicos de salud, laboratory technicians, auxiliary
nurses, and health promoters), and 2,400 administrative staff
(office support staff, maintenance program, warehouse management,
and general services) would be employed under the Health Services
Development Component (see Annex 6, Table 3).4' About 40 to 50
percent of approximately 2,400 people currently employed in the
State Health Authorities have qualifications, categories, or
functions that have not been approved or incorporated by the
federal civil service, because of mismatches between job
requirements and their qualifications; these staff members would
be retrained, upgraded, or redeployed in the PASSPA program.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the SSA would carry
out the measures referred to in the Staffing Normalization Letter
(September 21, 1991), with regard to SSA personnel including such
personnel working in the State Health Authorities in the project
states. Health workers for community health posts (casas de
salud) would be jointly selected by the community and health
services and paid, in the future, by local or municipal health
committees. Initially, these personnel would be financed by
National Solidarity's Program through the Municipal Solidarity
Fund, by the State Health Authorities, or by the municipalities
as an interim measure to allow time for the State Health
Authorities to organize local payment mechanisms.
3.14   The SSA and the State Government of Guerrero would:  (i)
annually employ additional staff for project operation as
required by the results of the annual implementation review; (ii)
restructure or retrain the personnel outside the approved
staffing plan according to the staffing normalization letter; and
(iii) take action for salary costs of new personnel annually
hired under the project.
3.15   Supervision.  Current supervision systems differ among the
project states and are constrained by lack of resources (staff,
transport, and allowances). To improve the supervision system,
the project would finance incremental staff, transport, travel
4/ This new staff added over five years would represent an
increase of about 30 percent over the existing work force of
22,600 in the project areas and would redress the imbalance
in availability of health manpower in the poorest states.



- 19 -
allowances, and materials. Supervision visits would be scheduled
on a fortnightly or monthly basis to community health posts, and
on a morn_.hly basis to health units and centers, and would be
carried out by "multidisciplinary teams" including health
personnel and a "polivalente" driver (see para. 3.10).
Guidelines and procedure manuals would be reviewed or prepared
jointly by specialized staff from SSA, State Health Authorities,
and IMSS/Solidaridad, with assistance from consultants, during
the first year of project implementation. Educational
activities, incentive plans, and feedback from staff would be
included in the supervision plan. Training or continuing
education opportunities for supervisory teams would be provided
according to staff training needs. Travel allowances, to enable
supervisory teams from the federal level to visit the states,
would also be financed by the project with funds allocated under
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The project would provide
about 30 person/months of technical assistance to State Health
Authorities to improve the supervision system.
Human Resources Development
3.16   The project would finance development and training of
existing and new staff, technical assistance, (about 70
person/months) travel and allowances for participants and
trainers, equipment, and training materials. The training
program would consist of:
(a)    irluction training for about 100 senior staff from
central, state, and jurisdictional levels on project
objectives, procedures, and implementation of PASSPA;
(b)    pre-service trainina for about 3,300 health professionals
(doctors and nurses) and auxiliary health workers;
(c)    in-service training for about 3,400 auxiliary health
workers, and maintenance program staff;
(d)    continuing education workshops for about 900 health
professionals, supervisory staff, and trainers;
(e)    trainina for about 23,000 community health workers,
community leaders, volunteers, and midwives to carry out
the promotional and educational activities on basic health
care, and to ensure correct referral of high-risk
pregnancies to properly equipped units; and
(f)    fellowships for M Sc. degree for five doctors and special
courses for about 170 health professionals on
epidemiology, health statistics, nutrition, and other
courses related to PASSPA.



- 20 -
3.17   Due to the scarcity of newly graduated medical doctors or
interns to work at centers in remote rural areas, about 240 mid-
level rural health technicians would be trained by CONALEP to
carry out basic health care activities. The candidates would be
selected from rural communities by the State Health Authorities
and would receive a scholarship financed by the project, with
their commitment to work in their communities after the training.
This approach is functioning adequately in the State of Guerrero
and would be adopted by the other states.
3.18   Most of the training program would be carried out at the
state and jurisdictional or local levels to ensure relevance to
local conditions. The SSA's Centro de Capacitaci6n y Desarrollo
(CECADE) would provide assistance to each state in curricula
development, preparation of teaching materials and manuals, and
delivery of training courses, particularly trainers of State
Health Services. An indicative five-year training program was
prepared by the SSA/CECADE in collaboration with the states.
However, this training program would need fine-tuning to adjust
it to the PASSPA objectives and individual health workers
training needs.
3.19   For loan effectiveness, at least three project states
would present a Human Resources and Training Plan, satisfactory
to the Bank, according to identified staff training needs and
PASSPA requirements (Other project states would comply with these
conditions by June 30, 1991.) Such Human Resources and Training
Plans would specify actions and regommendations to be implemented
through SSA, CONALEP and CECADE, over a five-year term beginning
in January 1991 to meet the professional training needs of SSA
staff in each of those project states (see para. 7.02 (b)).
2. Institutional Development Component (US$27.4 million)
(a) Strengthening of Organization and Management SVstems
3.20   Institutional development activities would be financed for
both SSA and the State Health Authorities. The project would
support the federal government in its effort to speed up the
decentralization of health services in the states of Hidalgo,
Oaxaca, and Chiapas and in the Federal District according to the
"Decentralization Action Plan" contained in the September 21,
1990 letter to the Bank, by: (i) implementing further
decentralization of planning, management, financing, and
personnel responsibilities to the states and jurisdictions; (ii)
providing support for the preparation by State Health Authorities
of operational manuals, the implementation of improved
supervision schemes, training programs, and the proposed civil
works and maintenance program; (iii) carrying out studies needed
to recommend policies and programs to improve the delivery of
basic health care services, to monitor, and evaluate project
impact and to support decentralization efforts; (iv) reviewing



- 21 -
and improving the Management Information System (MIS); and (v)
providing legal support to the states to implement the
decentralization process.
(b)    Strengtbening Management of State Organization and
Administration
3.21   At the state level, the project would strengthen the
existing organization, management, and administrative systems of
the health network. This would include improvement of
organization and management processes; improvement of management
of financial and physical resources; and training of managerial
and administrative staff.
3.22   Improvement of Management Processes.  The SSA and state
staff, assisted by consultants (about 270 person/months during
five years), would prepare an action plan for strengthening the
organization, management, and operations of each of the State
Health Authorities for:
(i)    improvinq organizational structure and managerial
capabilities by preparing policy guidelines on health
services delivery, manpower development, health
infrastructure, and technology development; strengthening
the planning process with efficient planning
methodologies; reviewing present state, jurisdictional,
and local organization and recommending required
modifications; streamlining clearance procedures; and
improving communications at different organizational
levels;
(ii)   improving management of human resources by reviewing job
descriptions and salary structures; updating staff
selection and recruitment criteria; improving manuals on
supervision and training of personnel; training staff in
the appropriate use of these manuals; assessing staff
performance on assigned jobs; and proposing training
activities for improving job performance and promotion
mechanisms;
(iii)  preparing or updating administrative and operational
manuals for management staff (using existing manuals for
Wealth centers and health posts), and for maintenance of
facilities and equipment;
(iv)   improving manaaement of financial and physical resources
by streamlining and implementing improved budgetary,
accounting and control systems at state, jurisdictional,
and local levels; and preparing an improved inventory
control system to monitor stocks, purchases, and
distribution of drugs; medical and office supplies; and
provide training in accounting, finance, and in



- 22 -
appropriate computer software to those staff directly
involved in accounting, budgeting, and control activities;
and
(v)    strenathenina the legal basis for administrative
decentralization by preparing specific recommendations on
legislation required for the decentralization process
related to health services, inter-institutional
arrangements, and patient referral in project states.
(c)    Improvement of Staff Management, Knowledge, and Skills
3.23   About 1,400 service, administrative, and managerial staff
(including directors of health centers and hospitals) in the four
states and the Federal District would be trained in planning
methodologies, administration and management of services and
personnel, and the delivery of the PASSPA package. The training
programs (curricula, methodologies, and types of training) would
be jointly developed by the SSA, the states, and specialized
management and public administration institutions, taking into
account the specific training needs in each state and the Federal
District identified during the institutional analysis review (see
paras. 3.22 (i) and (ii)). Improvement of management processes
and management of financial and physical resources would start
with an institutional analysis review of existing organizational
and administrative structure, norms and procedures in the project
states.
3.24     As a condition for loan effectiveness, the SSA would
submit to the Bank the draft contracts and a short list of
consultants and terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for
preparation of Institutional Developmeni Plans, for each of the
project states (see para. 7.02 (c)).
3.25   At neqotiations, assurances were obtained that the SSA
would, no later than March 31, 1991, enter into contracts,
satisfactory to the Bank, with consultants for the preparation of
Institutional Development Plans, satisfactory to the Bank for
each of the project states. Such Plans would be presented to the
Bank no later than December 31, 1991. The Plans would specify
actions and recommendations to be implemented to ensure that SSA
develop sound administration, planning, budgeting and inventory
control procedures in each of the project states. The SSA would
carry out the Institutional Development Plans with regard to all
those project states and assist the State of Guerrero to
implement the Plan (see para. 7.01 (b)).
3.26   Health Management Information System (MIS).  In 1986, the
SSA implemented a management information system to standardize
health statistics and to generate information needed to manage
the national health system. This system has suffered from a lack
of resources, high staff turnover, and unreliable data. The SSA



- 23 -
is revitalizing the existing system to standardize essential
health and epidemiological statistics and measurements of
production and productivity. The project would finance some
additional equipment and about six person/months of technical
assistance to improve the SSA MIS.
3.27   The strengthening of the MIS in the project states, which
would be part of the Institutional Development ComDonent, would
be reviewed by consultants to adjust the system to the
information requirements of the individual state Health
Authorities, jurisdictions, and the centers or units at the local
level. By the end of the project, the system would be capable of
producing the required information for continuous programming and
monitoring of the PASSPA program at the state level. The flow of
information from the health posts and centers up to the State
Health Authorities and to the SSA would be complemented by a
feedback mechanism that would provide analyzed data to state,
jurisdictional, and local staff. A nutrition growth monitoring
system would also be an integral part of this management
information system. About 18 person/months of technical
assistance would be provided to the State Health Authorities to
improve the MIS.
3.28   At negotiations, assurances were obtained that each of the
project states and the Federal District would review the
operation of the management information system (MIS) with the
assistance of consultants, prepare plans for its improvement,
satisfactory to the Bank, and deliver such MIS plans no later
than December 31, 1991, and carry out the MIS plans throughout
project execution, including the gathering of data for monitoring
and evaluating indicators (see para. 7.01 (c)).
3.29   Operational Research and Studies.  The proposed project
would finance operational research and studies to be carried out
jointly by the Research Unit of the Hospital Infantil de Mexico
(UIHIM), the states and other research institutions. Research
would be aimed at improving health delivery systems, management
of services, and monitoring and impact evaluation. The following
topics have been jointly selected by the SSA and the Bank for
project preparation: (a) health resources allocation and
mobilization study, including cost recovery mechanisms and
privatization of some health sector activities; (b) evaluation of
new and innovative health care and nutrition interventions being
tested in several states throughout the country; (c) demand and
supply of health sector human resources and their quality; (d)
the epidemiological transition in Mexico; and (e) efficient use
of information, education and communication system (IEC). The
selection of additional studies to be conducted each year and the
research institutions responsible to carry out the studies would
be agreed upon with the Bank during the annual work plan and
project implementation review. The UIHIM would be responsible
for preparing, and submitting to the Bank for approval, the terms



- 24 -
of reference for the studies to be conducted each year, including
objectives, the time table for initiating and completing the
studies, the estimated costs, and the proposed executing agency.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDITS
A. Project Costs and Financinq
4.01   Proiect Costs.  The total project cost, including physical
and price contingencies and excluding taxes (approximately
US$37.0 million), is estimated at about US$250.0 million
equivalent, of which about US$38.0 million would be foreign
exchange. Investment costs amount to 48 percent of base costs
and incremental recurrent costs amount to 52 percent of batse
costs (see Table 4.1 below and Annex 7, Tables 1-4). Project
costs were estimated at June 1990 price levels and include
physical contingencies of 10 percent for civil works and 5
percent for equipment, furniture, and vehicles. Price
contingencies assume: (i) that the exchange rate of the Mexican
peso versus the US$ dollar would be periodically adjusted for the
difference in internal and external inflation; and (ii) a
projected inflation rate of 4.4 percent per year for 1990-1995.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
(USlS MILLION)             YOTAL 9
X FOREIGN   BASE
LOCAL    FORE1GN   TOTAL   EXCHANGE   COSTS
A. Wealth Services Developament
Hoalth Network Improvemt  76.2    27.5   102.7     27        47
and Expanalon
aoith Network Opemration  01.9    0.0    81.9       0        88
and Management
Human Roeourcas Dovelopment  6.9   1.4     7.8     19        a
Sub-Total              168.9      28.9   191.9     15       89
3. ZmtItotIaol Development  18.4    2.4    18.8      18        9
Strongt*ining Orgonizotion
and Mnagement          2.8       .0.      8.1     28         1
Oporottonal Research end Studioe  2.2  0.6  2.7    20        1
Sub-Total               20.9      8.7    24.0      16        11
TOTAL BASELVE COSTS      13.9       82.0   210.6     16       103
Phycical Contingonceoo  4.7        1.6    0.2      24        8
Price Contingencleo    28.8       8.8    27.1      14        18
TOTAL PROCT COSTS        211.9     87.9   249.8      15       118
4.02   Estimated construction costs for the project area are
based on unit prices derived from current contracts and cost
analyses for similar standards of construction in equivalent
facilities. Estimated health center rehabilitation costs are
based on unit costs presented by CEPADIS. Estimated costs of



- 25 -
equipment, furniture, and vehicles are based on current c.i.f.
unit prices, adjusted to include local transportation costs.
Estimates for technical assistance and studies are based on
current rates for local and foreign experts. Cost estimates for
training, salaries, and operating costs are based on current unit
costs or costing standards used by SSA (see unit costs in project
file).
4.03   Incremental Recurrent Costs.  During the implemenitation
period, the project would add an average of about US$26.0 million
per year to the recurrent expenditures budgets of the SSA and the
State and the Federal District Health Authorities. Incremental
operating costs in the first year are estimated at US$9.1
million. In 1989, the sum of operating costs for basic health
care by the Federal and State Health Authorities, and by
IMSS/Solidaridad in the project states, was US$126.0 million in
1990 prices. Therefore, average annual incremental recurrent
costs generated by the project would amount to 20 percent of
total operating expenditures in the project states in 1989
prices, and the first-year costs would be 7 percent of the total.
The federal government is already increasing overall budgetary
allocations for the health sector (by 16 percent in 1990 in real
terms). It is expected that part of these and future additional
resources would be used to finance the proposed project and that
they would suffice to cover estimated recurrent expenditures,
without addiig an unmanageable burden to the government's budget.
4.04   Incremental recurrent costs under the project are
estimated as follows:
Calendar Year
1990/91   1992      1993       1994      1995
----------in US$ million 1/----------
9.1      20.3      27.2       33.0      39.0
1/: In 1990 prices.
These incremental operating costs would be generated by salaries
for incremental staff (74.5 percent of total incremeAtal
recurrent costs); operation and maintenance of infrastructure,
equipment, and vehicles; procurement of pharmaceuticals, medical
and office supplies; travel and subsistence costs for
supervision; and outreach activities. For the first year of
project implementation, the federal government has already
committed funding for the additional recurrent costs. For the
subsequor.t years, the availability of budgetary funds for
rclirrent costs would be examined during the annual reviews.



- 26 -
4.05   Proiect Financing.  The proposed loan of US$180.0 million
would finance 73 percent of project costs (net of taxes, duties,
and the amount of reserved procurement), which represent 100
percent of foreign exchange expenditures and 67 percent of local
expenditures. The remaining US$70.0 million would be financed by
the Mexican government. Retroactive financing of up to US$8.0
million equivalent has been approved to help cover eligible
start-up expenditures made on or after June 15, 1990, the date of
end of appraisal.
4.06   Counterpart financing for the proposed project would come
from the following sources: (i) Ramo 26 for investments. These
funds originate at the SPP federal level; and (ii) Ramo 12 for
recurrent expenditures. These funds originate almost entirely at
the federal level from SSA budget. It is estimated that the
proposed project would represent an average increase of US$26.0
million in annual recurrent health expenditures. This increase
is considered reasonable because: (i) counterpart financing from
Ramo 26 has already been secured with SPP/Solidarity and the
COPLADE in each of the project states; (ii) government strategy
to redress overall rural-urban imbalances in welfare support is
resulting in a shift of expenditures towards the poorest states;
and (iii) the government's policy is to increase the contribution
of state governments in the financing of social sectors. This
would be done gradually during the life of the project in
concurrence with advances in the decentralization process. It is
expected that resource mobilization and cost-recovery studies
which would be undertaken during the first year of project
implementation would provide specific recommendations to increase
state-level funding for the health sector.
B.   Procurement
4.07   The project would include procurement of new construction,
and rehabilitation or upgrading of existing health facilities,
biomedical equipment, furniture, drugs, medical supplies,
ambulances and all-terrain, four-wheel drive vehicles, as well as
studies and consultancy services. Standard bidding documents for
Mexico agreed with bv the Mexican authorities and the Bank in
Cuernavaca in April 1990, will be used during project execution.
All ICB and the first LCB contracts per state, both for
acquisition of goods and for civil works, would be subject to
prior review by the Bank. All other procurement documentation
would be subject to selective ex-post review; the SSA/CEPADIS and
State Health Authorities would retain documentation for these
contracts for periodic supervision by Bank staff.
4.08   All contracts that can be packaged to exceed the
equivalent of US$5.0 million for civil works, and US$250,000 for
equipment or materials would be procured on the basis of ICB
following the Bank's procurement procedures. In the case of
procurement of goods through ICB, Mexican firms would be provided



- 27 -
a preference margin equal to 15 percent or the prevailing duty,
whichever is lower.
4.09   The Bank has reviewed and found acceptable local
procurement procedures. These LCB procedures would be used to
award contacts with estimated cost below US$5.0 million and above
US$50,000 for civil works, and below US$250,000 and above
US$25,000 for goods. Local shopping based on price quotations
from at least three suppliers would be used for contracts with
estimated cost of US$50,000 or less for works and US$25,000 or
less for goods.
4.10   Civil works related to rehabilitation or upgrading of
hospitals, costing an average of US$0.5 million per unit, and
totalling approximately US$14.0 million, would be packaged and
contracted centrally by the SSA/CEPADIS through ICB procedures.
The construction of new or rehabilitation and upgrading of
existing health facilities, totalling about US$35.7 million,
would be carried out by the individual states or by the State's
Department of Works. About US$27.6 million of these works would
be carried out through LCB procedures, and up to an aggregate
amount of US$3.0 million, through local shopping with price
quotations from at least three suppliers. The works under LCB
are scattered over about 1,300 localities; the average cost
ranges from slightly over US$10,000 to US$200,000 equivalent.
These works would most likely not be of interest to foreign
bidders, although they would not be excluded from participating
in the bidding process. Packaging of works would be done
whenever possible. About US$3.0 million, representing roughly 10
percent of new construction in rural areas and less than 20
percent of rural rehabilitation works, would be implemented
through force account, with the Bank financing construction
materials only. The cost of these works range from less than
US$10,000 to US$40,000 equivalent. They would be performed in
remote and dispersed rural areas where mobilization costs for
local contractors would be unreasonably high.
4.11   Goods, furniture, and equipment amounting to about US$53.7
million would be procured by CEPADIS through ICB procedures
(about US$42.0 million in contracts over US$250,000) and up to an
aggregate of US$8.7 million equivalent through LCB. Up to an
aggregate amount of about US$3.0 million would be procured in
small contracts under US$25,000 by the individual states through
local quotations from at least three suppliers. Essential drugs
and other medical supplies, which amount to approximately US$21.8
million, would be procured by the General Directorate of Material
Resources rt SSA, with about US$17.5 million equivalent in
contracts of over US$250,00 through ICB and some US$4.3 million
through LCB procedures. At the state level, procurement, up to
an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million, would be permitted for
urgent and small purchases through price quotations from at least
three suppliers. The total cost of vehicles needed for the



- 28 -
project would be about US$4.8 million, out of which the
ambulances and four-wheel drive vehicles, totalling some
US$500,000, would be acquired through ICB procedures; about
US$4.3 million, corresponding to the procurement of vehicles
other than ambulances and four-wheel drive vehicles, would be
reserved procurement and has not been included in the project
cost, for purposes of defining the loan amount.
4.12    The selection and appointment of consultants for studies
and technical assistance would be consistent with the August 1981
Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as ExecutinQ 4-encY.
4.13    Table 4.2 showing project cost breakdown by procurement
method is presented below:
Table 4.2:  PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US$ Million)
FORCE u/
CATEGORY              ice       LCB        ACCOUNT         OTHER       TOTAL
CiVI Iworke          14.0      27.6           308  bf                  47.0
(10.5)    (20.7)         (1.8)         (2.3)     (85.8)
Furniture and
Equipment          42.0        6.7           -             8.0 b/    6B87
(87.6)     (7.4)                       (2.6)     (47.6)
Vehicles              0.5       -             -             4.8         4.8
(0.6)      -             -            (0.0)      (0.5)
Tr=ining, Suporvision    -                    -            15.1        16.1
Studies, TTchnical  -                        -           (16.1)      (15.1)
Assisance and
Coneultancy Services
Drugs and medical    17.6       4.8           -             1.0 b/     22.6
Supplies          (16)        (8.7)                       (0.6)      (20.1)
Otber Operating Costs    -                                 106.8      1S6.8
(61.4)     (81.4)
74.0      40.6           3.0         182.2      249.8
(64.4)    (81.8)         (1.8)        (02.0)     (189.0)
Note: Figures in paren-these are th amounte financed by the 8ank.
s/:   Forco Accounts to be used In some cases whore works are small and scattered or In rmoto
are. The Bank would only finnce the procurement of materials using the appropriate
procurement ethods for purchasing goods.
b/t   Works Goods and drugs to be procured through price quotations from at least threo
suppliers or contractors.
C. Disbursements
4.14    The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed during a six-
year period as follows: (a) civil works, 75 percent of
expenditures for new construction and rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing infrastructure; (b) equipment and
furniture, 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of



- 29 -
local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 85 perrent of local
expenditures for other items procured annually (,xcluding taxes);
(c) training, technical assistance, consultancy services, and
studies, 100 percent of total expenditures; and (d) incremental
salaries and operating costs, at a rate of 100 percent until an
aggregate amount of US$9.0 million has been reached; thereafter,
disbursements for this category would be made at a rate of 90
percent until the aggregate amount of US$25.0 million has been
reached; thereafter, disbursements for this category would be
made at a rate of 75 percent until the aggregate amount of
Us$43.0 million has been reached; thereafter, the disbursement
rate would be 50 percent until an aggregate amount of US$58.0
m.Llion has been reached; and the remaining funds wold be
disbursed at a rate of 25 percent of expenditures. Disbursement
for vehicles would be made for ambulances and all-terrain
vehicles. The remaining vehicles are reserved procurement.
4.15   Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against
expenditures that would be submitted to the Bank and fully
documented for contracts valued at more than US$250,000
equivalent. Claims for expenditures of lesser amounts would be
disbursed against presentation of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs), for which the supporting documentation would be retained
by the SSA and each of the State Health Authorities for periodic
inspection by the Bank and by external auditors. All
expenditures and SOEs would be transmitted to the Bank through
NAFIN. The government would set up a Special Account in U.S.
dollars with an initial deposit of US$10.0 million. Withdrawals
from the Special Account would be supported by the required
documentation at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of
expenditure. Separate project accounts would be established and
monitored by Project Coordinating Units (PCUs) in the SSA and
each of the four states and the Federal District. The Bank, in
consultation with the government, may suspend disbursement to a
project state which is non-performing under its legal obligations
(including its obligation to provide appropriate funding for
health sector recurrent costs, new staff for health facilities
built or improved under the project, and salaries for health
sector staff), and may transfer the loan funds allocated to such
project state to other project states (see para 7.01 (d)).
D. Accounts and Audits
4.16   The Guarantor would maintain five sets of separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the resources and expenditures in
connection with the execution of the Project. One set would be
maintained by the SSA/Federal PCU which would reflect the
resources and expenditures in connection with its execution of
the entire Project. The other sets, one for each of the Federal
District and the States of Chiapas, Hidalgo and Oaxaca, would be
maintained through the respective Project State PCUs, under
4.



- 30 -
supervision by the Federal PCU and with assistance from the SPP
delegation in each of those Project states, and would each
reflect the resources and expenditures in connection with its
execution of the Project in or for the respective Project State.
The Guarantor would:  (i) have the records and accounts for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards and procedures, by independent and qualified
auditors; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each year, a
certified copy of the audit reports of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank would have reasonably requested; (iii) furnish
to the Bank such other information concerning the records and
accounts as well as the audit as the Bank would from time to time
reasonably request; and (iv) cause SECOGEF to comply with its
obligations set forth in the October 12, 1990 document on
auditing agreed upon during negotiations (see para. 7.01 (e)).
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
and for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were
made from the Special Account, the Guarantor would provide to
NAPIN all records and accounts necessary to allow the SSA to
perform its obligations punctually. As a condition for loan
effectiveness, SSA and SPP would have entered into Participation
Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the project
states (see para. 7.02 (d)).
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Implementation
5.01   The project was jointly prepared by the SSA, the State
Health Authorities, and the Federal District Health Department,
with periodic inputs from Bank missions. The SSA, the states,
and the Federal District have the key staff to initiate project
implementation. The PASSPA program package is already being
implemented in all the states and the Federal District.
Prototype designs for new health facilities have been reviewed
and accepted by the Bank. Consultants would be hired to prepare
working drawings for all facilities included in the first year of
project implementation. The appraisal mission has reviewed: (a)
sample bidding documents; (b) building and biomedical equipment
maintenance plans; and (c) terms of reference for consultants to
prepare working drawings (documents in project file). The SSA
has created the Project Coordination Unit and appointed the core
staff. Site selection, and the donation or acquisition of land
for the first year (1991) has been completed (evidence in project
file) (see para. 3.08). The government, particularly SSA, SPP,
through the National Solidarity Program, and state governments
have given full support to the project.



- 31 -
5.02   The SSA and the State Health Authorities have prepared a
project proposal satisfactory to the Bank. Individual state
proposals are in the project file. The proposed training program
would be reviewed and adjusted to the training needs of health
staff in the states and the Federal District (see paras. 3.18 and
3.23).  During the March 1990 mission, it was agreed that rural
health centers located in remote areas would be staffed by rural
health technicians rather than by newly graduated medical doctors
in their year of social service, since few physicians are
available to fill such positions. About 240 rural health
technicians would be required for the four states during the
project period (see para. 3.17).
B.  Prolect Organization, Implementation, and Management
5.03   The SSA is responsible for overall coordination and
implementation of project objectives. The annual investment
plans financed under Ramo 26 would be reviewed by SPP/Solidarity
for coordination with State Investment Plans. At the state
level, the state government, and its equivalent in the Federal
District, through its designated State Health Authorities, would
be responsible for coordinating and carrying out the project.
5.04   The proposed project would be implemented over a period of
five years, and is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
The implementation schedule (see Annex 9, Table 1) would serve as
a basis for project implemi  .ation and would be updated annually
by the SSA, the four states, and the Federal District, in
preparation for the annual progress and work plin reviews (see
para. 5.16). A mid-term review would focus on the equity,
effectiveness, and efficiency of service delivery; adjustments
needed to improve implementation, including operational research
and studies, and progress achieved by SSA in the decentralization
process (see para. 5.17).
5.05   The project would be implemented within the existing
organizational structure of the SSA and the State Health
Authorities. At the SSA, however, the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) has been created at a level equivalent to that of a SSA
Direcci6n General and staffed on a full-time basis with a project
director, a health planning specialist, an infrastructure
specialist, a human resources specialist and a financial
controller. All higher-level "core" staff have the
qualifications and recognized experience in his/her field of
competence to provide technical support to the different
departments of the SSA. The curriculum vitae of each of the
staff has been submitted to the Bank for comments. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the SSA would
maintain a Federal PCU within the SSA, at a level equivalent to
that of an SSA Direcci6n General for the general purpose of
coordinating execution of the project. Such Federal PCU would
have the characteristics specified in the October 11, 1990 letter



- 32 -
regarding the Federal PCU and Project States' PCUs furnished to
the Bank by the SSA. As far as possible, the SSA would not
change the ucore" staff of the PCUs during the first year of
project implementation (see para 7.01 (f)).
5.06   The staff hired by the PCU would:  be well known in the
health field; have planning and project implementation experience
in health programs; and knowledge of and experience in
supervision, technical assistance, training, and evaluation of
health services. In addition to these qualifications, the
project director would have demonstrated experience in planning
and administration of health programs, particularly in
implementation of health care models and decentralization
schemes, and the ability to provide leadership in discussions of
project implementation with State Health Authorities and
governments. The project director would serve as the liaison
between the project and other SSA departments responsible for
technical programs, including maternal and child health care,
family planning, infectious disease control, health and nutritio.
education activities, human resource development, and
infrastructure. The project director would also be the liaison
with IMSS/Solidaridad, PRONASOL, the Research Unit of the
Hospital Infantil de Mexico and other research institutions,
nutrition institutions, and others, to ensure inter-agency
coordination of health and nutrition programs. The project
director would be responsible for ensuring that the
decentralization process, the Institutional Development
Component, and the PASSPA program package would be implemented as
planned, or adjusted in light of experience with project
implementation. Because of the Mexican health sector's lack of
experience with Bank projects, a project launch seminar would be
conducted prior to loan effectiveness, and frequent supervision
by the Bank would be required, especially during the first year
of project implementation.
5.07   To ensure timely project implementation, the PCU would:
(a) provide support to the states and the Federal District in the
preparation and implementation of annual work and investment
plans; (b) monitor project implementation and expenditures and
arrange for audits of project accounts; and (c) prepare annual
progress reports on the status of project implementation,
including quantitative analysis of annual targets. The PCU would
coordinate the provision of assistance to the states and the
Federal District for the implementation of the Institutional
Development Component and state training programs, by
identifying, selecting, and hiring consultants. For the PCUs for
each of the states, the SSA/PCU would: (a) prepare the terms of
reference and assist in the selection of the PCU staff; and (b)
assist the states through (CEPADIS) in managing procurement of
civil works and equipment and review civil works contracts
prepared by the individual states and the Federal District.



- 33 -
5.08   State Level.  The State Health Authorities would be
responsible for coordinating and carrying out the project, within
their existing structure and in cooperation with other existing
health units and agencies under the supervision of the federal
PCU. In each of the states a Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
would be organized with similar functions as the PCU in the SSA.
The SSA, each of the State Health Authorities and the Federal
District, would appoint a project director whose qualifications
and experience would be similar to those of the project director
of the SSA Project Coordination Unit. The project director would
report directly to the head of the State Health Authorities in
the States of Hidalgo, Chiapas, Oaxaca and Guerrero and the
Federal District. The project director would coordinate the
implementation of the project ;nd the preparation of annual work
and investment plans, which would include: the civil works
maintenance program, drugs and supplies, and training,
supervision, and technical assistance requirements. The project
director would be assisted by a health planning specialist and a
financial controller with procurement knowledge whose terms of
reference, qualifications, and experience would be acceptable to
the SSA. Other incremental staff would be provided by the State
Health Authority or by the SSA. Each of the State Health
Authorities have created the PCU and appointed the director and
the two specialists (curriculum vitae for each of the PCU staff
are in project file).
5.09   Each of the states and the Federal District has the
capacity to implement the project at the central level and their
ability to do so would be further strengthened through the
Institutional Development Component. The project would also
strengthen the implementation capacity at the jurisdictional
level to enable them to fully implement PASSPA. With the
evolution of the decentralization process, program coordination,
planning, budgeting, training, and personnel management would be
gradually transferred to the jurisdictional level.
C. Planning and Reporting
5.10   The UIHIM and other research institutions and each project
state PCU director would, by August 30 of each year, beginning in
1991, deliver to the Federal PCU draft annual research and
studies containing targets and description of activities proposed
for the subsequent calendar year (see para 7.01 (g)). The plans
would be jointly reviewed by the SSA and the Bank in September of
each year, beginning in 1991. The draft annual work plan
prepared by the State PCUs would provide detailed information
regarding past and proposed future implementation and budgeting
of the project and each of the Maintenance Plans, Human Resources
Training Plans, Staffing Normalization Letter, Institutional
Development Plans, Decentralization Action Plans, MIS Plans and
Procurement Plans. Plans for civil works would contain a
detailed schedule of works proposed for the forthcoming year,



- 34 -
specifying the type and timing of construction, the estimated
cost, and evidence of ownership or donation of the land.
5.11   For operational research and special studies (see para.
3.29), the SSA, jointly with the states, would enter into
contractual arrangements, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, with the Research Unit of the Hospital Infantil de
Mexico or other research institutions.  The SSA has already
submitted to the Bank a signed convenio with the Research Unit of
the Hospital Infantil de Mexico and the terms of reference for
the health sector resource mobilization and cost recovery study.
5.12   During negotiations, agreement was reached that the SSA
would, no later than June 30, 1992, complete the health sector
resource allocation and mobilization study, present its results
to the Bank and exchange views with the Bank regarding such
results. On the basis of the results of the study and such
exchange of views, the SSA would, by December 31, 1992, prepare
an action plan satisfactory to the Bank. The SSA would implement
the action plan in accordance with the implementation schedule in
the action plan (see para. 7.01 (h)).
5.13   As part of the annual reviews procedures, the Federal PCU
Director, the State PCU Directors and the UIHIM would, by June 30
of each year, starting in 1993, prepare annual progress reports
on the implementation of the project in accordance with targets
established in the annual work and investment plans. The report
would cover the period of January 1 to December 31 of each year.
This report, in addition to providing a quantitative update of
project progress during the year, would analyze the program and
budget performance of each state, progress in the
decentralization process, problems encountered, and solutions or
measures taken, as well as updates regarding each of the
maintenance plans, Human Resources Plans, Staffing Normalization
Letter, Institutional Development Plans, Decentralization Plan
and MIS plan (see para. 7.01 (i)).
D. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.14   Regular monitoring and evaluation would be based on
comparisons with the first year of project operations and changes
in indicators prepared by the SSA for review and approval by the
Bank prior to Board presentation. Physical and financial
progress would be monitored by the federal and state PCUs by
comparing the established targets with annual reports. By
providing systematic and timely data about project activities in
the states and the Federal District, the MIS would promote the
speedy identification and correction of problems. The MIS would
rely on activity, performance, and impact indicators compiled
monthly by health staff. Feedback to jurisdictions and local
levels would be provided regarding their performance in
delivering services.



- 35 -
5.15   The MIS would also collect and analyze data on recurrent
costs (including cost recovery) of the health system in priority
jurisdictions in order to disaggregate the budget to permit
specific provision for financing the services. These data would
also make it possible to assess unit costs for various services
provided by the jurisdictions and would be used to improve
efficiency. Data collected by health staff would be reviewed by
the supervisory staff who would check registers periodically for
completeness and at random for accuracy. About 24 person/months
of consultancy services (6 person/months for the SSA and 18
person/months to the states) would be used to review and
implement an improved MIS in the project areas.
E. Annual Project Implementation and Mid-Term Review
5.16   Annual Progress and Work Plan Review Process.  During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the SSA and the
states, beginning in September 1991 and again during each month
of September throughout project implementation, would conduct
annual reviews jointly with the Bank, SHCP, and NAFIN in
collaboration with IMSS/Solidaridad, SPP/National Solidarity
Program, COPLADE and the UIHIM and other research institutions,
of overall project implementation, including technical assistance
and training, adherence to the schedules of decentralization, and
the adequacy of the delivery of health services and expenditure
levels. The review would: (a) analyze the previous year's
performance based on the annual report and recurrent budget
allocation; (b) analyze the proposed work plan and budget for the
following year, with particular attention to each of the
Maintenance Plans, Human Resources Training Plans, Staffing
Normalization Letter, Institutional Development Plans,
Decentralization Action Plans, MIS plans and civil works,
including environmental impact analyses; and (c) the annual plans
submitted by UIHIM, or other research institutions, would refer
to planned research studies and terms of reference thereof, all
of which would need to be approved by the Bank in order to
proceed (see para 7.01 (j)). The SSA would also participate in
the annual review process of the Decentralization and Regional
Development Project.
5.17   Mid-Term Review.  A mid-term review would be conducted by
the SSA and the states, jointly with the Bank, with the
assistance of consultants after 2 1/2 years of project
implementation (see para. 7.01 (k)). The review would assess
project impact and performance in light of project objectives,
SSA policies, and long-term goals and implementation of the
decentralization process. The mid-term review would also assess
project organization, coordination, monitoring, equity,
effectiveness, and efficiency. The PCU would be responsible for
hiring consultants and preparing the terms of reference, which
would be submitted to the Bank for comments, to coordinate the



- 36 -
mid-tei.m review and to prepare the report with findings and
recommendations.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.01   The proposed project would support the government's attack
on poverty and inequities in health status and access to health
care by increasing the proportion of overall public health
resources going to basic health care and nutrition in the poorest
states of Mexico.  In the project area, per capita expenditures
on health care for the uninsured population 1989 were an
estimated US$12.9. Accounting for population growth, it is
estimated that the proposed project would increase annual
expenditures by 24 percent, on average, or to about US$16.0 per
capita. The provision of health services to about 13 million
uninsured poor would reduce the prevalence of gastrointestinal,
infectious, and communicable diseases, complications of
pregnancy, and malnutrition, all of which are associated with
high rates of infant, child, and maternal mortality.
Institutional development would contribute to improved planning,
personnel, and financial management; increased service delivery
capacity; and higher productivity in the sector. Improvements in
the maintenance and repair capabilities of the health network
would safeguard investments in infrastructure and equipment. The
decentralization process would focus the delivery of services on
the demands of the population in each state and improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of health services and would
substantially increase the demand for services at the first
level. These client-centered approaches should then make it
possible for basic health care providers to focus on the task of
promoting good health and nutrition practices in the community,
the only certain way to reduce the incidence of the diseases of
underdevelopment.
B. Impact on Women
6.02   About 75 percent of the population using the health
services provided by PASSPA would be women and children under the
age of five. The services would aim to improve health status and
curb maternal and infant and child malnutrition, morbidity, and
mortality. Women would also participate actively in nutrition
education and assistance, health and environmental education
programs. In addition, the project would provide training for
midwives and community health promoters. Most health care
providers at the health centers - auxiliary nurses, nurses,
social workers, health educators, and supervisors - are women who
would receive training to enhance their performance and provide
opportunities for career advancement. In the project states,
there are already several women medical doctors who actively



- 37 -
participate in the decision-making process and management of the
delivery of health services. The project would provide refresher
courses and continuing education programs to enable them to
assume their full professional role.
C. Environmental Impact
6.03   The rehabilitation of health facilities to be financed by
the project does not involve major structural changes or siting
problems. No civil works for new health centers would be
undertaken without taking into account the results of an
environmental impact study, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding
such works. For civil works, involving expansion or
rehabilitation of already existing hospitals the SSA must first
determine, to the Bank's satisfaction, that increased waste
disposal generated by these facilities would not have negative
environmental impact. For environmental impact studies and waste
disposal analyses for civil works program, the SSA would prepare
guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, no later than March 31,
1991, and the results of such studies and analyses would be
examined jointly with the annual civil works plans during the
annual reviews (see paras. 5.16 and 7.01 (1)).
D. Project Risks
6.04   The main risk would be the lack of capacity of State
Health Authorities to manage this expanded program of health
services delivery. Some uncertainty remains as to government's
ability to provide resources, including counterpart funds, at a
level sufficient to sustain the project. New and rehabilitated
infrastructure may become inoperative for lack of qualified
personnel, due to restrictive government hiring policies,
recruitment procedures, and low salaries for health
professionals. Legal and political constraints to speed up the
decentralization process may hamper the implementation capability
in the states. These risks have been reduced, however, by the
high priority given to project objectives in government social
policy, the experience gained by the states during project
preparation, the concentration of efforts on key service
elements, the establishment of data gathering and monitoring
mechanisms, the annual implementation and work plan review, and
the expectation of renewed growth of the Mexican economy.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)    The SSA would review the efficiency and adequacy of the
purchase and distribution of drugs and supplies by the SSA
and each of the Project State Health Authorities, and
submit to the Bank, for comments, the results, including



- 38 -
the action plan to be carried out by the SSA and the State
Health Authorities in the project states, by no later than
July 30, 1992 (see para. 3.12);
(b)    The SSA would, no later than March 31, 1991, enter into
contracts, satisfactory to the Bank, with consultants for
the preparation of Institutional Development Plans,
satisfactory to the Bank, for each of the project states.
Such Plans would be presented to the Bank no later than
December 31, 1991. The Plans would specify actions and
recommendations to be implemented to ensure that SSA
develop sound administration, planning, budgeting and
inventory control procedures in each of the project
states. The SSA would carry out the Institutional
Development Plans with regard to all those project states
and assist the State of Guerrero to implement the Plan
(see para. 3.25);
(c)    Each of the project states and the Federal District would
review the operation of the management information system
(MIS) with the assistance of consultants, prepare plans
for its improvement, satisfactory to the Bank, and deliver
such MIS plans no later than December 31, 1991, and carry
out the MIS plans throughout project execution, including
the gathering of data for monitoring and evaluating
indicators (see paras. 3.26 to 3.28);
(d)    The Bank, in consultation with the government, may suspend
disburse"ent to a project state which is non-performing
under its legal obligations (including its obligation to
provide appropriate funding for health sector recurrent
costs, new staff for health facilities built or improved
under the project, and salaries for health sector staff),
and may transfer the loan funds allocated to such project
state to other project states (see paras. 4.15 and 5.16);
(e)    The Guarantor would:  (i) have the records and accounts
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards and pro-edures, by independent
and qualified auditors; (ii) furnisu, to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each year, a certified copy of the audit
reports of such scope and in such detail as the Bank would
have reasonably requested; (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the records and accounts as
well as the audit as the Bank would from time to time
reasonably request; and (iv) cause SECOGEF to comply with
its obligations set forth in the October 12, 1990 documenlt
on auditing agreed upon during negotiations (see para.
4.16);



- 39 -
(f)    The SSA would maintain a Federal PCU within the SSA, at a
level equivalent to that of an SSA Direcci6n General for
the general purpose of coordinating execution of the
project. Such Federal PCU would have the characteristics
specified in the October 11, 1990 letter regarding the
Federal PCU and Project States' PCUs furnished to the Bank
by the SSA. As far as possible, the SSA would not change
the ncorew staff of the PCUs during the first year of
project implementation (see para 5.05);
(g)    The UIHIM and other research institutions and each project
state PCU director would, by August 30 of each year,
beginning in 1991, deliver to the Federal PCU draft annual
research and studies containing targets and description of
activities proposed for the subsequent calendar year (see
para 5.10);
(h)    The SSA would, no later than June 30, 1992, complete the
health sector resource allocation and mobilization study,
present its results to the Bank and exchange views with
the Bank regarding such results. On the basis of the
results of the study and such exchange of views, the SSA
would, by December 31, 1992, prepare an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank. The SSA would implement the
action plan in accordance with the implementation schedule
in the action plan (see para. 5.12);
(i)   The Federal PCU Director, the State PCU Directors and the
UIHIM would, by June 30 of each year, starting in 1993,
prepare annual progress reports on the implementation of
the project in accordance with targets established in the
annual work and investment plans (see para. 5.13);
(j)    The SSA and the states, beginning in September 1991 and
again during each month of September throughout project
implementation, would conduct annual reviews jointly with
the Bank, SHCP, and NAFIN in collaboration with
IMSS/Solidarity, SPP/National Solidarity Program, COPLADE
and the UIHIM and other research institutions regarding
past and proposed future implementation and budgeting of
the Project. The review would analyze each of the
Maintenance Plans, Human Resources Training Plans,
Staffing Normalization Letter, Institutional Development
Plans, Decentralization Action Plan and MIS Plan. The
Annual Research and Studies Plan would include the terms
of reference which would need to be approved by the Bank
in order to proceed (see para. 5.16);
(k)    A mid-term review would be conducted by the SSA and the
states, jointly with the Bank, with the assistance of
consultants after 2 1/2 years of project implementation
(see para. 5.17); and



- 40 -
(1)    For environmental impact studies and waste disposal
analyses for civil works program, the SSA would prepare
guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, no later than March
31, 1991, and the results of such studies and analyses
would be examined jointly with the annual civil works
plans during the annual reviews (see para. 6.03).
7.02   The following would be conditions for loan Effectiveness:
(a)    At least three project states would present an
infrastructure and biomedical equipment maintenance plan.
The remaining states would present the plan by June 30,
1991 (see para. 3.11);
(b)    At least three project states would present a Human
Resources and Training Plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
according to identified staff training needs and PASSPA
requirements (Other project states would comply with these
conditions by June 30, 1991.) Such Human Resources and
Training Plans would specify actions and recommendations
to be implemented through SSA, CONALfEP and CECADE, over a
five-year term beginning in Janu4ry 1991 to meet the
professional training needs of SSA staff in each of those
project states (see para. 3.19);
(C)    The SSA would submit to the Bank the draft contracts and a
short list of consultants and terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank, for preparation of Institutional
Development Plans, for each of the project states (see
para. 3.24); and
(d)    The SSA and SPP would have entered into Participation
Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the
project states (see para. 4.16).
7.03   With the above conditions and assurances, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$180.0 million
equivalent to the United Mexican States, to be repaid over a
period of 17 years, including five years of grace.



- 41 -
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
ANNEX LIST
Annex 1: Country and States Health Status
Table 1:   Main Causes of Death - National
Table 2:   Main Causes of Death by State
Table 3:   Population Projections by State
Annex 2: Public Health Expenditures and Financing
Table 1:   Health Care Expenditures in Selected Countries
Table 2:   Public Health Care Expenditures in Latin America
Table 3:   Allocation of Public Health Expenditures
Table 4:   Health Expenditures on the Uninsured Population by State
Table 5:   Health Expenditures Per Capita on the Uninsured Population
by State
Annex 3: Sector Oraanization and Coverage
Table 1:   Existing Health Facilities by State
Table 2:   Principal Providers and Health Care Coverage
Annex 4: Sector Strategy - Programa de Apoyo a los Servicios de Salud
Para la Poblaci6n Abierta (PASSPA)
Programa de Apoyo a los Servicios de Salud para la Poblaci6n Abierta
(PASSPA)
Matrix 1:  Basic Health Care Model, Levels, Functions, Staffing and
Supervision Patterns
Figure 1:  Type of Health Unit by Level and Population
Attach. 1: Epidemiological Assessment for Organizing Basic Health
Services
Attach. 2: Nutrition Program
Table 1:   Estimated Target Population for Nutrition Program by State
and by Year
Chart 1:   Implementation of Nutrition Program
Annex 5: The Proiect Areas
Table 1:   Project Areas
Table 2:   Target Population and Priority Jurisdictions by State
Annex 6: Project Description
Table 1:   Construction Requirements and Facility Type by State and by
Year
Table 2:   Vehicles:  Consolidated by Year and by State
Table 3:   Human Resources by Year and by State
Annex 7: Project costs and Disbursement
Table 1:   Project Components by Year
Table 2:   Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 3:   Summary Accounts by Year (Including Contingencies)
Table 4:   Summary Account by Project Component (US$ Million)
Table 74a: Summary Account by Project Component (MEX$ Million)
Annex w: Disbursement
Table 1:   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 9: Implementation Schedule
Table 1:   Implementation Schedule
Annex 10: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File



MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Ta7  1:    MAIN CAUSES OF DEATH - NATIONAL a/
(Rate per 100,000)
CAUSES                             1970                                      1981                                    1983
IMPORTANCE   DEATHS RATE    %    IMPORTANCE   DEATHS  RATE    %   IMPORtTANCE.  DEATHS  RATE    %
TOTAL)                 4-5,6  991.2   1%000 ;tM-8                           424,274  S87,6  100.0   :               41D,40   553.9  100.0
Pneumonias & Flu        1           83,676  170.8    17.2        3           33,919   47.1    1.0        5           27,246   36.5    6.6
Diarrhea                2           69,410  141.7    14.3        4           32,392   45.0    7.6        3           38,282   51.3    9.3
Gastrointestinal        3           34,784   71.0      7.2        1          69,S66   96.6   16.4         1          60,259   80.7   14.6
Diseases
Accidents &             4           33,488   68.3     6.9        2           51,M    70.5   12.2         2           49,921   66.9   12.1
Violent Causes
Heart Diseases   '      S           25,222  S.5      5.2        6           26,310   36.5    6.2        6           25,864   34.7    6.3
Malignant Tumors        6           18,415   37.6     3.8        S           28,000   31.9    6.6        4           30,678   41.1    7.4
Vascular Diseases       7           12,107   24.7     2.5        7            15,637   21.7    3.7        8           16,668   22.3    4.0
Measles                 8           11,891   24.3     2.4        -              824    1.1    0.2         -             318    OA    0.1
Cirrhosis               9           11,182   22.8      2.3       9            14,902   20.7    3.5       9            16,609   22.3    4.0
Tuberculosis           10            9,737   19.9      2.0       10           6,721    9.3    1.6        10            7,002    9.4    1.7
Diabetes Mellitus       -                -      -       -        8           15,430   21.4    3.6        7            18,880   25.3    4.6
Other Causes            -          175,744  358.7    36.2        -           128,801  178.8   30.4        -               -      -       -
Sources: Programa Nacionat de Salud 1984-1988, Mexico, 1984.
SPP, INEGI, Direccion de Estadistica Demografica y Social, Tabulacion 12, Mexico, 1983.
SPP, INEGI, Direccion de Estadistica Demografica y Social, Tabulacion 6, Defunciones Generates por Entidad Federativa do residencia
habitual del fallecido segun lista basica do cause do muerb, Mexico, 1983.
Note: 1970 based on the VII International Classification of Diseases. 1981 and 1983 based on the IX International Classificaton of Diseases.
Differences due to rounding.
at: Main causes of death ranked by importance.



MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 2:       MAIN CAUSES OF DEATH BY STATE a/
(Rate per 100,000)
(1985)
CAUSES                        CHIAPAS         GUERRERO            HIDALGO              OAXACA             FEDERAL DISTRICT
Cause#      Rate Cause#        Rate  Cause#       Rate  Cause#          Rate      Cawe #       Rate
Intestinal & Infectious         1    85.92        2    37.55          3     42.40        1       125.12            6     18.15
Diseases
Pneumonias & Flu                2     24.70       5     14.85         2     46.52        3       29.75            2    29.78
Homicides & Violeoce            3     23.53        1    45.22         -         -        2        51.70           9       9.94
Tuberculosis                    4     18.68       -         -         -         -        9        17.78            -        -
Traffic Accidents               5     16.22       3      18.53        6     18.96        8        18.63           10      9.76
Cirrhosis & Liver               6     14.25       8      12.25        1    47.21         4        24.50           3     29.53
Diseases
Bronchitis & Related            7     12.91      10      9.16         7     17.19        5        20.64            8     11.89
Diseases
Diabetes Mellitus               8     12.79       6      13.37        5     19.14        7        18.90            1    36.06
Heart Attacks                   9     12.58       7     12.63         9     15.87       10        14.49           4     21.1S
IRAs                           10    12.04        -         -         4    21.14         -           -            5      18.26
Heart Diseases                  -         -       4     17.00         8     17.02                                 -         -
Measles                         -         -       9      10.89        -         -        -           -
Malnutrition                    -         -       -         -        10    15.53         6        19.86           -         -
Nefritis & Related              -                                               -        -           -            7      12.99
Diseases
Source: SSA, Statistical Reports.                                                                                            V
al: Main causes of death ranked by importae.nc
iiX



- 44 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
MEXCO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 3:  POPULATION PROJECTIONS
By Stae
(1989- 1994)
YEAR            OAXACA       CHL4PAS   GUERRERO    HDALGO             FEDERAL    PROJECr
DISTRICT        AREA
1989            2,669,120    3,537,337      3,418,121    2,208,412    10,732,407    22,565,397
1990            2,686,968    3,633,552      3,514,589    2,263,463    10,979,252    23,077,824
1991            2,703,748    3,732,387      3,612,763    2,319,888    11,231,755    23,600,561
1992            2,719,451    3,833,908      3,712,661    2,377,719    11,490,106   24,133,845
1993            2,734,014    3,938,199      3,814,273    2,436,993    11,754,378    24,677,857
1994            2,747,353    4,045,307      3,917,640    2,497,744    12,024,729   25,232,773
1989 SSA
UnhIsured                               (745(84)7.)(7.)32)
Population (%
Source: SSA, State Health Authorities, November 1989.
Note: Figures in parentheses are SSA estimates.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 1: HEALTH CARE EXPENDITURES IN SELECTED COUNTRIES
Share of GDP and Per Capita
(1980s)
HEALTH CARE EXPENDITURES
COUNTRY                                    Share of           Per Capita
GDP(%)        US$,1984 Prices
LATIN            COUNTRA' 
Colombia                                     5.0                   70
Costa Rica                                   8.0                  104
Mexico                                       3.4                   60
Brazil                                       5.6                   96
Uruguay                                      5.0                   85
Panama                                       5.0                  105
Argentina                                    7.1                  160
gAVR E ORJ C.:TIE              ;:    :                                  .: . 0-'t  >A'.
UK                                           6.2                  531
USA                                         10.7                1,646
Source: The World Bank, Health Sector Expenditures and Financing, May 1989.



- 46 -
AN1NEX 2
Page 2 of 5
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 2: PUBLIC HEALTH CARE EXPENDITURES IN LIATIN AMERICA
(1977-1980*)
Health Care as X
Percent     Per Capita Cost          H.elth Care             of Governuent
Countries          Population   of Medical Care          as X of ODP              Expenditures
(In order of        Covered by        under
per capita           Social      Social Security       Social    Public         Social    Public
income)           Security           (USS)           Security   Health       Security   Health
Higher-Income
Countries
Venezuela              80               69               0.7        2.2           2.8       7.3
Argentina              80             n.a.              n.a.       n.s.          n.a.      n.a.
Uruguay                s0               14               0.6        0.9           2.2       2.0
B1razil               8s                28               1.4        0.7           7.4       8.1
Panama                 47               74               8.1        4.8          10.8      14.6
Costs Rica             82               61               8.8        0.6          19.4       3.2
Mexico                 so               40               1.6        0.7           0.8        1.6
AVERAGE                71               44
Lower-Income
Countries
Dominican Republic      4               78               0.4        1.2           2.6        6.5
Ecuador                 6               89               0.7        1.8           5.0       9.9
Quatemla               14               25               0.6        0.8           6.0        7.8
Colombia               10               49               0.9        0.8           8.0       8.8
Peru                   12               86               0.8        1.4           4.8        6.9
Paraguay               18             n.s.              n.s.       n.s.          n.a.      n.a.
Bolivia                18               62               1.8        1.0          10.4        8.0
El Salvador             6               62               0.6        1.4           8.9       9.8
Honduras                7               48               0.8        1.8           3.8       8.6
AVERAGE                11               5a
* Mexico, data 1988.
Source: The World Blank, Health Sector Expenditures and Financing, May 1989.
n.a.: Not available.



-47-
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
mgm2CO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 3: ALLOCATION OF PUBLIC HEALTH EXPENDITURES
(1982- 1986)
PUBLIC EXPENDITURES                1982        1983         1984        1985         1986
In Health                         87.1        84.9         86.0        88.5         91.5
(MEX$ 1980) 1/
Inotents%)           -- - 1-.:2.1  -;Z                                41.           4.6  ~: J' : : R
~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~. *7.                           -.                   .   *.  -6K.
himmisditures (%                                            ...
Source: The World Bank, Health Sector Expenditures and Fmancing, May 1989.
11: Billions of Mexican pesos.



-48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 4:   HEALTH EXPENDlTURES ON THE UNINSURED POPULATION BY STATE
(1989)
(US$ Millions)
CHIAPAS  GUERRERO    HIDALGO           OAXACA    FEDERAL          PROJECT
DISTRICT         AREA
1. Recurrent          26.6         2i.           .6          21.9 .       44.2:         125.8
a) Federal          25.7         20.8         11.5         21.7         44.2         123.9
b) State             0.9          0.7          0.1          0.2         n.a.           1.9
2.. Investmnent        -7.5         6.6                                                  23.9
a) Federal           7.5          5.3          1.2          8.3          0.1          22.4
b) State             0.0          1.3          0.2          0.0         n.a.           1.5
3. User Fees           0.           0.7          0.2         0             1.1           2.6
.4. TOTAL             34.1         28.1          13.          30.2         4.3          149.7
a) Federal          33.0         25.4         12.5         29.7         44.3         144.9
b) State             1.1          2.7          0.5          0.5         n.a.           4.8
n.a.: Not applicable.
Source: SSA, IMSS/Solidaridad statistics, June 1990.



-49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 5:        HEALTH EXPENDITURES ON THE UNINSURED POPULATION
By State
(1989)
CHIAPAS GUERRERO   HIDALGO   OAXACA   FEDERAL   PROJECT
DISTRICT       AREA
UNINSURED POPULATION a/             1.9         X0 x1.6                 .6          3.4         10.6
EXPENDITURES b/
Total c/                         34.1        28.1        13.0        30.2        44.3       149.7
Per Capita                       11.3        12.5         7.7        15.1        16.7        12.9
AVERAGE ANNUAL EXPENDffURES
WIrH EP&PA
Total c/                         42.0        34.6        19.0        36.4        56.0       189.0
Per Capita d/                    13.6        15.0        11.5        18.0        20.6        16.0
a!: In Millions. Includes population covered by SSA and by IMSS/Solidaridad.
b9: Includes SSA and IMSS/Solidaridad resources.
ci: In US$ Millions.
dt: Assumes 2.2 percent rate of population growth per year.
Source: SSA, State Priorities Proposals, November 1989



MEXICO
BASIC -HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 1:       EXISTING HEALTH FACILMIES BY STATE
Number of First and Second Level Units a/
STATES
INSTITUTION                  CHIAPAS        GUERRERO          HIDALGO          OAXACA             F.D.        PROJECT AREA
1st    2nd      Ist    2nd       1st    2nd       1st    2nd      1st    2nd       Ist       2nd
level   level   level   level   level   level   level   level   level   level   level        level
IMSS                        49       4      20        2      11        S      24       3      33       14     137         28
ISSSTE                      17       3      35        1      24        2      38       4       34      10     148         20
Sub-Total                   66       7      S5        3      35        7      62       7       67      24     285         48
IMSS/Solidlridad           463       6       b/      b/     149        4     326       7        -       -     938         17
SSA                        138       7       bl      bl    220         2     209       S      229       3    1273         25
State Sectariat              -       -     477        8       -        -       -       -        -               -          -
ISSSTECH                     2       1       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -       2          1
INI                          -       -        -       -      70        2      S7    n.a.        -       -      127         2
DIP                          -       -       -        -       -        -      14     n.a.       -       -      14       n.a.
DDP                                  -        -       -       -        -       -       -       9S      27      95         27
Odtor                        -       -        3       2       -        I       -       -                        3          3
Sub-Total                  603      14     480        6     439        9     606      12      324      30    2452         75
Source: SSA and IMSSlSolidaridad, Mexico City, June 1990.
al: First Level Unit = Rural and Urban Health Centers;
Second Level Unit = General Hospital.                                                                                       0)
bl: SSA and IMSS/Solidaridad umits were transferred to dhe State Health Secretariat as part of the decentralization.
n.a.: Not available.                                                                                                            0



MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 2:    PRINCIPAL PROVIDERS AND HEALTH CARE COVERAGE
STATES                            FEDERAL        PROJECT          MEXICO
INSTITUTION                  CHIAPAS   GUERRERO al HIDALGO              OAXACA       DISTRICT          AREA           TOTAL
TarALP     L                       3.            3.4 PO2:   ,    i,7                       10  ';        22.6            843
IMSS                            7.6           13.9          16.0          16.5          47.0           29.2            43.3
ISSSTE                          5.3            9.2           5.2           6.4           17.0          11.6             9.2
Other                           1.4            2.1           2.0           1.3          20.1           10.9             2.6
Private Provdr                  1.5            9.0          n.a.           5.0            1.9           3.1             4.2
SSA                            25.8           59.0          49.1          27.0          22.4           31.6            22.0 cl
IMSS/Solidaridad               26.1             at          21.8          31.1             -           10.1            12.5
INI/FVG                           -           0.7              -             -             -            0.1             n.a.
Patrimobio                        -             -            2.5             -             -            0.2
b digenista
Other                           3.3             -              -           0.6             -            0.6             n.a.
Source: SSA, State Priorities Proposals, November 1989.
a/: Since Guerrero consolidated its institutions, all health services for the uninsured population are carried out by the State Health Secretariat.
bl: In millions.
ci: This figure overestimates SSA coverage since it includes services provided by other institutions for which information is not available.  p
n.a.: Not available.
Note: Differences due to rounding.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 8
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Proqrama de ApoYo a los Servicios de Salud para la Poblaci6n Abierta, PASSPA
1.      In the framework of the National Health System, the SSA
has designed a Basic Health Care (BHC) model called the Programa
de Apoyo a los Servicios de Salud para la Poblaci6n Abierta -
PASSPA. PASSPA has been designed based on the lessons learned
from prior programs (PRODIAPS and IMSS/COPLAMAR). It defines
three levels of services. The first level, or entry point of the
PASSPA consists of rural ambulatory units, rural medical units,
and urban health centers without hospital beds. Those requiring
more complex care are referred to the second level, comprised of
hospitals ranging in size from 30 to 180 beds, which provide
about 15 percent of the ambulatory services, and in-patient care
for specialties: general medicine, surgery,
obstetrics/gynecology (including family planning) and pediatrics.
The third level includes the national institutes of health and
the specialized hospitals for oncology, cardiology, neurology and
neurosurgery, nutrition, pediatrics, and perinatology. Referral
between levels is the key to the effective delivery of services.
Organization of Health Services
2.      Health services are organized and managed by
jurisdictions in the states and in the Federal District, and are
coordinated at the central level in each state and the Federal
District. In the project areas, there are 47 jurisdictions that
are responsible for coordinating health services of 855
municipalities and 2,737 health centers. In each jurisdiction,
the network of facilities, including staff and services, are
organized in a modular and hierarchical design corresponding to
the three levels of service. Organization and delivery of
services are determined by the following criteria: (a) basic
health needs according to perceived morbidity in the population;
(b) selection of program packages of interventions and staffing
requirements; (c) assignment of functions to the health
personnel; and (d) organization of physical facilities and
personnel into modules of health care. Organization, staffing
norms, working schedules and procedures, equipment and supply
lists have been developed by SSA for each module. Type and size
of health facility and staffing patterns are adjusted by the
states, according to population criteria and local conditions
(see Matrix 1 and Figure 1).



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 8
Selection of Program Packages
3.      The selection of health activities to be included in the
program package depends on the epidemiological assessment for
organizing basic health program package services at different
levels: (a) identification of the most important health problems
in each age-population group; (b) listing of actions to solve the
problem; and (c) selection of actions according to safety,
effectiveness, and possibilities of standardization, which, in
turn determines the type of personnel that will carry them out
(see Epidemiological Assessment for Organizing Basic Health
Services in Mexico, Annex 4, Attachment 1).
Organization of Health Network
4.      First Level of Services
Community Health Post:   Serves a catchment area with a
population up to 2,500 people; staffed
by community health worker backed up by
the nearest health center staff;
provides simple curative care, maternal
and child care, family planning,
immunizations, oral rehydration therapy,
health and nutrition education, and
environmental sanitation, and refers
more complicated cases to higher levels
of service.
Rural Health Center:      Serves rural population of 2500 to
15,000 in catchment area; staffed by MD,
nurse, and social worker or health
promoter; provides health post services
plus, in some cases, dental treatment,
X-rays, laboratory and pharmacy
services, and screening for optical and
pulmonary problems, among others, wit 1
referral to higher levels of service.
1/  There are two types of rural centers:  (i) for scarcely
populated areas (Centro de Salud Rural Disperso - CSRD);
and (ii) for densely populated areas (Centro de S,alud
Rural Concentrado - CSRC); and one type of urban center
(Centro de Salud Urbano - CSU). Each type is designed in
modules to allow for variations related to the size of the
population served. For each type of center there is a
prototype drawing of the health facilities, a staffing
(continued...)



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 8
The centers are also responsible for the
supervision and support of community
health workers yd outreach services to
isolated areas.-   They provide
nutrition, health, and basic sanitation
education at the center.
Urban Health Center;      Serves urban population of 3,000 to
36,000. Is organized by modules with a
basic team for about 3,000 people
(medical doctor, nurse, health promoter,
dentist and specialties). There are 1 -
12 teams in urban centers. They provide
services similar to those above. They
serve as referral points for both
community health posts and rural health
centers and, in turn, refer patients to
second and third levels of services.
5.      Second Level of Services:
Hospital:                 Referral apex of the module, 30 to 180
beds serve a population of 15,000 to
100,000; hospital staffed according to
coefficients: 3 - 4 consultations per
MD/hour; an average of six days a week;
3.5 staff employed per bed; health
professionals comprise 12 - 17 percent
of staff, auxiliary staff 50 - 55
percent, and administrative staff 25 -
35 percent. Provides in-patient care,
maternity deliveries and care,
gynecology, radiological examinations;
ambulatory specialist services, chest X-
rays, laboratories, etc. Coefficients
of health professionals, auxiliary and
administrative staff, vary according to
number of population in the area of
.(. continued)
pattern and a list of supplies which is adjusted to local
conditions.
2/  WHO norms provide for two MD consultations per person per
annum. Assuming a quarter-hour per consultation, 1,500
hours of ND services, and a 30 hour work week, is required
to serve about 3,000 people.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 8
catchment and demand of referral system
from lower units.
6.      Criteria to define the type of service to be provided
are based on population density and access to services (distance
to provider by most commonly used means of transportation).
Matrix 1 and Figure 1 present a summary of types of health
facility included in the PASSPA by population size, main packages
of health activities, basic staffing pattern, and supervision.
The tasks and services to be delivered are specified on the basis
of expected patient demand at each level or source.
Models of the First Level Health Facility
7.      PASSPA establishes the following prototype first-level
health facilities, which are the basis for standardizing existing
and new facilities (see Figure 1). Their physical infrastructure
consists of: (a) Rural ambulatory unit: building provided by
the community consisting of a consultation room, a waiting room,
a multiple-uses room, and a sanitary; (b) Health unit: a
consultation room, a waiting room and a sanitary; (c) Disperse
rural health center: a consultation room, a first aid and
immunizations room, an observation room, a waiting room, quarters
for the doctor (room and bathroom), a sanitary, and a
kitchenette; and (d) Concentrated rural health center: same
physical infrastructure as (c) but could have more consultation
rooms according to the number of medical teams and a dental
consultation room if dental services are provided; Urban health
center: 1 to 6 consultation rooms, a control room, a first aid
room, an immunizations room, a waiting room, a storage room, a
multiple-uses room, two sanitaries for personnel and public use,
a pharmacy, an administration area, and a dental consultation
room, a laboratory, and an x-ray room if these services are
provided.



-56 -                                        ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 8
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Matrix 1: MATRIX OF BASIC HEALTH CARE MODEL, LEVELS, FUNCTIONS,
AND STAFFING AND SUPERVISION PATTERNS
TYPE OF HEALTH      FUNCTIONS                  BASIC STAFFING        RESPONSI8LE FOR           FREQUENCY OF
FACILITY/POPULATION  (Act)vitles)                PATTERN               SUPERVISION               SUPERVISION
Flrst Level
Community Health      -Community Assessment    1 trained comr-         Health Center             Two monthly
Posts (Cases de        of health A nutrition   munity health           Intern MD
Salud)                 status                    worker                Auxiliary nurse
Health Units          -Medical Consultations   1 Intern MD             Jurisdiction              12 x year
(Unidad de Auxiliary -Health Promotion          or health              Health professionals
de Salud, UAS)        -Medical Treatment         technician            or closest health
(ambulatory)                                   center
Pop:< 8,000           -Maternal and Child Care
(family planning, sex
education, pre-post
natal care, growth mon-
ltoring, Immunizations)
-Communicable Disease
Control
-Other Diseases Detection
and Control
-Health A Nutrition
Education
-Basic Sanitation
-Community Organization
-Referral to higher
level
Rural                 -"edical Consultations   1 MD or Intern          Jurisdiction              2-3 x year
Health Center         -Medical Treatment         1 Nurse or            supervision team
(Centro de Salud       (ambulatory)             auxiliory              or urban health
Rural Disperso,       -Maternal and Child Care nurse                   center
CSRD)                  (family planning, sex
education, pre-post
Pop:  1,000-           natal care, growth mon-
2,600            itoring, lmunizations)
-Communicable Disease
Control
-Other Diseases Detection
and Control
-Health Promotion
-Emergencies
-Health/Nutrition
Education
-Basic Sanitation
-Community Organization
-Referrals from lower
levels and to oecond
level or urban Health
Center



- 57 -                                     ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 8
tYPE OF HEALTH     FUNCTIONS                 BASIC STAFFING       RESPONSIBLE FOR          FREQUENCY OF
FACILITY/POPULATION  (Activities)              PATTERN              SUPERVISION              SUPERVISION
Concentrated Rural   -Emergencies              1-8 Physicians       Jurisdiction or          2-a x year
Health Center        -Medical Consultations   1-8 Nurses             regional supervision
(Centro de Salud     -Medical Tresa'ment       1-S Hoalth           team, or urban
Rural Concentrado         (ambulatory)             promoters        health center staff
-Maternal and Child      1  entomatology
Pop, 2,601-           Care (family planning,       Intern
14,999           sex education, pre-
post-natal care, growth
monitoring, Immunizations)
-Communicable Diseae
Control
-Other Diseases Detection
and Control
-Pharmacy Services
-Health Promotion
-Health/Nutrition
Education
-Basic Sanitation
-Community Organization
-Referrals from lower
levels and to second
level
Urban Health         -Emergencies                 1 Director        Jurisdiction             2-3 x year
Center (Centro       -Medical Consultations   1-12 MD's (general)  health team
de Salud Urbano      -Medical Treatment        1-12 Nurse.          Central state
CSU)                  (ambulatory)             1-12 Health           level
-Maternal and Child Care      promoters
Pop:) 3,000-           (family planning, sex  1-19 Administrators
86,000           education, pre-post         a guards
natal care, growth mon-
itoring, Immunizations)
-CLomunicable Dises-e
Control
-Other Disease. Detection
and Control
-Community Organization
-Referrals from lower
levels to second
level
Urban Health         -Hybrid CSO type 1        6-12 MDWs            Health professionals    2-8 x year
Center (Centro        plus: Dental Care          (general/spec),    at state level
de Salud Urbane              clinical labs    6-12 Nurse.
CSU)*                        x-ray exms        6-12 Health Pro.
1a Dentists
Pop: sae as above                               2-4 Auxiliary dentists
1-4 Lab Personnel
* Additional                                    1-2 X-ray personnel
Infrastructure                               1-19 Administrative
and Personnel                                 1-3 Maintenance
3 Guards



-58-                                       AN?NEX 4
Page 7 of 8
TYPE OF HEALTH     FUNCTIONS                 BASIC STAFFING       RESPONSIBLE FOR          FREqUENCY OF
FACILITY/POPULATION  (Activities)              PATTERN              SUPERVISION              SUPERVISION
Second Level
General              -Emergencies              1 Director           Health professionals    a x year
Hospital (Hospital   -Short-stay                 MD's               at state level
Oeneral)              hospitalized             -Nurses
30-180 Beds           care for pediatric       -Aux. nurses
obstetrical, gyneco-    -Dentist
Pop:  over             logical, A surgical     -lab personnel
20,000          problems                 -X-ray personnel
-Clinical lob A          -social workers
X-ray exams             -MD's (specialists)
-Ambulatory spectaltieos  -Adamn  personnel
(ophthalmology, chest,
gynecology)
-Dental Care
-Pharmacy Sciences
-Maternal and Child Care
(family planning, sex
education, pre-post
natal care, growth mon-
itoring, immunizations)
-Communicable Disease
Control
-Other Diseases Detection
and Control
Third Level
Specialized          -Diagnostices
Hospitals & Inst.    -Specialized Treatment
Public Health Labs
Specialized Public
Health Units
Pop:  1.5-S.0
Million
Note: The supervision team would be comprised of: technical health personnel, plus a opolivalente.a
Source:  SSA Judicadores de las Unidadades de Salud del Primer nivel segun el PASSPA.



Figure 1. Type of Health Unit by Level and Population
Diagnosis & Specialized Units
3
Specil Unfts
(Mental Health,
Specialized Specialized Public Health   RetabMation.
Hospitals  Instiutes  Laboratories Social Assistance)
L
E
E
Jurisdictional General
______________________________      _ _______  _   .Center   Hospita
.,        '  
Rural       Health      Health       Health
Heahth      Center      Center       Center
Center      Type I      Typ 2        Type 3
-~.                        ,.           .,__ _ _                        .'-_ _ _ _  _    _ _    _    _    _ _    _    _ '  .
3,000     3,000         6.000       18,000
Population    to        to            to          to       10 o 440,000                   1,5000,000 to 3,000.000
6,000      6,000       18,000       36.000     ___o_
Location    Rua        ra      1  Udn &   I Uan&           Ubn&SbuanUrban                                                             
Loca   Disperse   Sub-urban   Sub-urban    Sub-urban                                                                    co &n
Disperse            Ulban &    Urban & Sub-urban~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Epidemiological Assessment for Organizing Basic Health Services
Assessment of Basic Health Needs
1.      Identifying the population's basic health needs is one
of the critical elements in defining what health care should be
necessary; to whom should it be addressed as a priority; who can
deliver it; where (home, health facility) can it be delivered;
and when should it be delivered.
2.      The following summary of Mexico's basic health needs may
be used for defining the critical elements described above.
Also, a summary of the procedure for selecting "packages" of
health activities i.s described to help to define who can deliver
what type of care (thus providing elements for defining job
descriptions and possible training contents), and where can it be
delivered.
3.      The Mexico's National Health Survey (1988) showed that:
A. Out of 82 million Mexicans:
12.9  million experience acute diseases in a period
of tta weeks;
6.1 million suffer chronic diseases; and
1.6 million have disabilities (65 percent partial
and 35 percent total interference of daily
activities)
TOTAL: 20.6 million Mexicans have health problems
requiring some type of health care (from simple to
complex).
B. 0'it of 20.6 million Mexicans with health problems:
15.4  million demanded some type of "formal" health
care and were cared for by certified health
personnel (e.g., auxiliaries, doctors) at the
follnwing places:
0.23 million cared for at home;
0.49 million cared for in "casa de salud" or
dispensary;



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 4
5.3 million cared for in "Consultorios" or
official clinics;
1.0 million cared for in official health centers;
4.6 million cared for in private "consultorios";
3.2 million cared for in hospitals or
rehabilitation centers; and
0.2 million cared for in other places.
C.  By Provider, the 20.6 million Mexicans were cared
for as follows:
5.6   million by the private sector;
4.7   million by IMSS;
1.9   million by SSA;
1.1   million by ISSSTE;
0.4   million by IMSS/COPLAMAR; and
1.7  million by others (PEMEX, military, etc.)
4.      Different studies around the world, and in countries
similar to Mexico, have shown a pattern of perceived health needs
and possible ways to meet them. In the Mexican case, and based
on the above information, we may say that:
Out of 1,000 Mexicans:
250 h.ave health problems requiring some type of
care:
about 188 sought (and obtained) some type of care;
about 160 can be cared for a health auxiliary;
about 50 can be cared for a nurse;
about 40 require care by a medical doctor; and
about   2 need to be hospitalized
5.      The 188 persons, present with problems that can be
easily identified, can be cared for by health auxiliaries for
which there are safe, effective and standardizable actions, i.e.,
that can be performed by well trained health auxiliaries.
Examples: diagnosis of diarrhea and administration of oral
rehydration; and diagnosis of scabiosis and administration of
benzyl benzoate together with recommendations on personal
hygiene, clothes washing, bed, and house cleaning.
6.      The !0 persons, present with health problems requiring
greater diagnostic judgement, can be cared for by a nurse for
which there are applications of safe, effective, but not
standardizable actions, i.e., professional knowledge is needed to
decide what should be the best course of action among several



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 4
alternatives. Example: a person with a respiratory infection
that did not improve after three days of home care with plenty of
liquids, aspirin and adequate rest.  The nurse might decide to
administer an antibiotic and monitor the person's temperature,
respiratory frequency, etc., for two or three days, and then
decide whether to continue home care or refer the person to a
physician.
7.      The 40 persons, present with health problems requiring
more complex differentiation (differential diagnosis) and thus,
greater clinical skills, lab examinations, drugs, diets, or
additional procedures, need to be cared for by a doctor. These
are non-delegable interventions because they are not always safe
nor effective, and require professional expertise and
responsibility.
8.      The 2 persons, who need to be admitted to a hospital,
require constant bedside care (observation, clinical, surgical
procedures) that can only be applied in a hospital setting.
These interventions also require professional judgment to reduce
and monitor risks of secondary effects, and to increase the
probability of returning the person to an optimal health status.
Selection of "Packages" of Basic Health Activities
9.      A "package" of basic health activities must contain the
most essential interventions that can be defined through the
following procedure:
(a) identifying the 5-10 most important health problems
(highest prevalence or incidence) in each of the
following population age groups:
children under 6 years of age;
children 6-14 years of age;
adults 15 and more years old; and
pregnant women
(b) listing the core actions for solving each one of the
h.ealth problems identified as the most important;
(c) selecting and classifying actions according to
criteria of safety, effectiveness, and
standardization;
(d) Grouping the classified actions into th-to
categories:
category I: those safe, effective, and
standardizable;



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 4
category II: those safe, effective but not
standardizable; and
category III: the remaining ones; and
(e) each category forms a "package" of health activities
that will be the core of health services to be
delivered at home, in ambulatory or inpatient
facilities for each population group defined in 9
(a) above.
10.     The following example shows the actions proposed and
selected according to criteria of safety (s), effectiveness (e),
and standardization (st):
MEASLES: Morbidity rate of 11 x 10,000 per year.
ACTIONS: Vaccination (s, e, st)
isolation (s, e, st)
bed rest (s, e, st)
aspirin administration (s, e, st)
liquids administration (s, e, st)
calamine lotion or starch applications (s, e,
St)
antibiotics for bacterial complications (s, e)
steroids for neurological complications (e)
sedatives for neurologic complications (e)
tracheotomy for savere respiratory impairment
(e)
referral (s, e, st)
11.     All (s, e, st) actions can be done at home by a health
auxiliary, whereas those with other combinations (s, e), (e)
etc., can only be done at health facilities (health post, center,
hospital) by nurses and/or doctors.
12.     The group of (s, e, st) actions, whether promotive,
protective, preventive, curative or rehabilitative, form a
"package" of home health activities. The group (s, e) actions
form a "package" for delivery at health posts, and the rest form
a package for health center or hospital delivery.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
1.      The primary purpose of PASSPA is to improve the quality
and quantity of basic health care services offered to uninsured
populations. Nutrition is an integral part of these services and
would be conducted within the structure of the health network and
food assistance program. The nutrition program within PASSPA
would include: growth monitoring, nutrition education,
micronutrient distribution, and community activities. Food
assistance would be financed by PRONASOL and delivered through
CONASUPO/DICCOJSA stores. Beneficiaries of food distribution
would be selected by the health network according to biological
and nutritional risk, and would receive a ration card, or any
other mechanism, redeemable for a basic basket of food, available
through CONASUPO/DICCONSA stores and/or private retail outlets.
2.      To achieve PASSPA objectives, food assistance would
target pregnant and lactating women, and children under age five
who show signs of first-degree malnutrition or who are not
thriving. The nutrition program would attempt to identify,
correct, and prevent malnutrition among the poor. As the
majority of nutritional needs surface at the community level,
this component would focus on the needs of the community and on
the concept of preventing malnutrition. The attached chart (see
Chart 1), Implementation of Nutrition Program, provides more
detailed information on the nutrition activities and operational
mechanisms to take place. As these nutrition interventions would
be an integral part of the basic health care program, supervision
and evaluation would be done as part of this program.
Supervision teams would receive training in nutrition to enable
them to effectively supervise the nutrition program.
3.      A series of six basic tasks would be carried out by the
"Auxiliares Rurales de Salvd" and health staff located in rural
health posts, health units, or health centers:
(a) Monitoring of nutrition status of pregnant and lactating
women and growth monitoring for children under five
years of age;
(b) Provision of nutrition, infant feeding, and sanitary
education;
(c) Promotion of food production to increase and diversify
the family diet;



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 6
(d) Promotion of community activities such as improvements
of basic sanitation, housing, and community services;
(e) Distribution of micronutrients to pregnant and lactating
women and to children; and
(f) Food assistance for beneficiaries identified by the
health structure in the form of coupons, vouchers, or
ration cards redeemable for a basic basket available
through 35ONASUPO/DICCONSA stores and/or private retail
outlets- .
4.      Mechanisms for Food Supplementation:  Ration cards or
food coupons would be redeemable for a defined basket of foods
(according to regional preference and food availability) at
Dicconsa rural stores or private retail outlets. The exact
mechanism for distribution and the items to be subsidized are
currently under discussion. Likewise, descriptions and drafts of
agreements between the participating agencies, (i.e., SSA,
CONASUPO/DICCONSA, SPP/PRONASOL, and the state governments) would
be reviewed jointly with the Bank by December 31, 1990.
5.      The Ration:  The SSA-Maternal Child Health Department
has suggested that a Basic Food Basket be distributed twice
monthly, which is designed to provide about 25 percent of the
calorie-protein needs for a family of five:
Food                 Amt           Cost (Mex Ps)
Corn Flour            6 kgs        3990
Frijol                3 kgs        2550
Rice                  1 kg          800
Oil                   1/2 ltr      1115
8455 ps
3.13 (US$)X2= US$6.26/mo.
US$75.12 per year
6.      Food Costs  The cost of providing this basket every 15
days to pregnant or lactating women and children under age five
3/  Both the mechanism and the ration could vary from state
to state and would be analyzed in pilot programs during
to course of the project. Likewise, targeted
supplementation to MCH beneficiaries, e.g., weaning food,
would be piloted to determine the extent of its impact.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 6
in nutritional risk is estimated US$96 million between 1990 and
1994. Of an estimated 13 million persons in the basic health
target population in the four states and the Federal District,
nutrition assistance in the first year would target 452,000
familits with malnourished mothers or children.  The crude birth
rate (CBR) of 30/1000 was used to calculate pregnant women, and
the figure for malnourished children was arrived at by assuming
12 percent of the target population to be children under the age
of five. The malnutrition rate is estimated to be 40 percent,
and it is assumed that the prevalence of malnutrition would
decline in proportion to the percentage of people who improve
their nutritional status though this food assistance. Families
are assumed to have 1.7 members eligible for this assistance.
7.      Of the total potential cost of feeding 452,000 families
the first year, only 20 percent would be realized, at a cost of
US$6.7 million. Each year, a recovery rate of 50 percent is
expected, as the estimated time per beneficiary in the program is
12 months. In 1991, 430,000 families would be targeted, and 40
percent of those would be reached at a cost of US$16 million. In
1992, target population would be 410,000 families with a coverage
rate of 60% and a cost of US$23 million. In 1993, target
population would be 354,000 families, and the coverage rate would
be estimated an 80 percent, at a cost of US$22.5 million. The
final year of the project 100 percent coverage is expected for a
total of 362,000 families costing about US$27 million. Project
total cost would be near US$96 million.
8.      Financing:  The current nutrition program receives food
donations, which would be expected to continue throughout the
life of the project. Nevertheless, to ensure the availability of
food, PRONASOL has agreed to finance food delivery through rural
Dicconsa stores for access by the beneficiaries in rural areas.
9.      Community Participation:  Although there is no cost
recovery for food aid, women's participation would be required
for nutrition education sessions, the establishment of family
gardens, and other community activities developed by the health
network.
10.     Pilot Programs:  Possible alternative mechanisms for
food supply, such as coupons redeemable for an assortment of food
rather than a defined basket, would be tried on a pilot basis in
each of the four states. In Oaxaca, the use of soya-based
products would be introduced. The possibility of providing
weaning food supplements would also be analyzed. Because infants
often do not receive, and cannot sufficiently benefit from, the



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Attacjge~nt I
Page 4 of 6
calories provided from excessively bulky foods such as corn and
beans, a possible weaning ration could consist of:
Cost/kg
Weaning Food (Pre-packaged)       1280
Nilk Powder                       1000
Sugar                             1155
3435 ps
1.27 US$/1o.
11.     The  alternative to providing this package would be to
promote the preparation of weaning food by participating mothers,
supervised by the health peraonnel, and using raw materials
available in the community. In such a pilot program,
organizations, such as DIF, which are currently involved in
similar community activities could play strong roles. Each state
would develop a plan on the pilot nutrition activities with the
SSA-Maternal and Child Health Department and present it to the
Bank by December 31, 1990.



-68 -
ANNEX4
Attachment 2
Page 5 of 6
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CAURE PROJECT
Table 1:    ESTIMATED TARGET POPULATION FOR NUTRMTION PROGRAM
By Stafe and by Year
YEAR          OAXACA        CHAPIAS   GUERRERO           IDALGO       FEDERAL         TOTAL
DISTRICT
1989             119,310      181,253        160,583       101,764       206,062       768,972
1990             120,107      186,183        165,115       104,300       210,802       786,507
1991             120,858      191,248        169,728       106,900       215,650       804,384
1992             121,5S9      196,449        174,421       109,565       220,610       822,604
1993             122,210      201,793        179,195       112,297       225,684       841,179
1994             122,807      207,282        184,051       115,096       230,875       860,111



MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Chart 1: IMPLEMENTATION OF NUTRITION PROGRAM
ACTIVITY           MECHANISli          PERSON              PLACE         FREQENCY                 TARGET            EQUIPMENT          ACTION OR
RESPONSIBLE                                               POPULATION            NEEDS             REFERRAL
1. Nutrition       *Meetings          a. Volunteer        Case de Salud      2 X Mo.             - Women of         * Educational       Distribute
Education       e Demonstrations   b. Social Worker   C.S.R.D./C.                               Fertile Age        Materials         Ration Cards
*Outreach          c. Nurse           C.S.U.
* Food
distribution
2. Growth          e Weighing and      a. Volunteer       Casa do Salud      1 X Mo.             - Children < 6     * Scales            Date to be
Monitoring        Measuring        b. Social Worker   C.S.R.D./C.                             - Pregnant &       * Tape Mess.        Incorporated
o Outreach         c. Nurse           C.S.U.                                   Lactating         * Arm Bands        into MIS HP
* Compiling Data                                                               women             * Info.syst.       Info syst.
e Directing Data                                                                                   forms
I   to C.S.R./U.
3. Distribution    e Req. Clinic      a. Volunteer        Casa de Salud      2 X Mo.             - Pregnant &       * Micronutrient
of Micro-         Visits           b. Social Worker   C.S.R.D./C.                               Lactating          Packets
nutrients                          c. Nurse            C.S.U.                                   Womn
- Preschoolers
4. Selection of    * Some degree of   a. Volunteer        Case do Salud      1 x Mo.             - Children < 6     * MClH              Cards redeemed
MC"I 8enefic.     malnutrition     b. Social Worker   C.S.R.D./C.         During              - Pregnant &         Ration Card       at stores
for Food          or weight loss   c. Nurse            C.S.U.             Superv.               Lactating        * Referral to
Assistance                         d. MD/Pasante                          visitS                Women              MD when severe
S. Promotion of    * Planting         a. Volunteer        Casa de Salud      Seasonal            - All families     * Seeds
Fatmly            garden           b. Community        C.S.R.D./C.        Monthly               in community
Gardens         * Talks                                C.S.U.
6. Organization    e Selection of     a. Volunteer        Casa de Salud      Monthly             - All falbilies    * Raw materials
of Community      Members          b. Community        C.S.R.D./C.                              In coamunity
Committees      e Plan. Act.                           C.S.U.
Note:  CSRD = Entro do Salud Rural Disperso                                                                                                    **ort
CSRC = Entro de Salud Rural Concentrado                                                                                                Al rt
CSU  = Entro do Salud Urbana                                                                                                           t g
(DC 
OI-%c 
0* t-irtX



-70-
ANNEX S
Page 1 of 2
MECo
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 1:    PROJECT AREAS
Total Population, Target Population, Juisdictions, Municipalities, and Localities
OAXACA CHIAPAS GUERRERO HIDALGO FEDERAL PROJECT
DISTRICT       AREA
p                                   .  ....... .' . '.
Target Population            2.0         3.0         2.6         1.7         3.4        12.7
(million)
Jurisdictions                6           8           7          10          16          47
Priority Jurisdictions       3           3           3           3           3          15
Municipalities             570         110          75          84          16         855
Localities               4,529       15,494      4,409       2,418         n.a.     26,850
under 2,500 HAB.      4,428       15,352      4,290       2,303         na.      26,373
2,500 - 15,000 HAB.        70         120         112          96         n.a.        398
under 15,000 HAB.        31          22           7          19         n.a.         79
Urba Population(%)          40          43          42          21         100           -
Rural Ppulation(%)          60          57          58          79           0           -
Source: SSA and State Health Services, November 1989.
Note: Differences due to rounding.



-71-
AN=E  f
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE P_AOJECT
Table 2:  TARGET POPULATION AND Plj'.PrTt JURISDICTIONS
By State
STATE                  TARGET POPULATION         HATi jPRISDICTIONS a/
(minlion)
CHIAPAS                         3.0                        8 (3)
GUERRERO                        2.6                        7 (3)
HDALGO                          1.7                       10 (3)
OAXACA                          2.0                        6 (3)
FEDERAL DISTRICr                3.4                       16 (3)
Source: SSA and mission estimats, April 1990.
ai: Figues in p     refer to the number of priority jurisdictions.



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
uvaco                                              Page 1 of 3
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 1:      CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS AND FACiLIY TYPE
By State and By Year
(US$ Mion)
---- COSTS  ----
PROF      YEAR I        YEAR 2        YEAR 3       YEAR 4        YEAR S
No.  TOT   WKS   EQP  SERV    No.  Cost   No.  Cost   No.  Cost   No.  Cost
TOTAL                1436. 784  ,**    22.1    5.3   439   219  5.W    25.6   346    86    142= 7.3.
NEW                  267   22.8   16.6   4.3    1.9       6    2.9   137    8.8    75    6.6    49    4.5
Rural            237   13.4   8.9    3.4    1.1        3    0.3   130    7.1    63    3.6    41    2.4
Urbaa & Other     30    9.4    7.7   0.9   0.8        3    2.6      7    1.7    12    3.0       8    2.1
UPGRADING           1169   50.6   29.4   17.8   3.4   433   19.0   372   16.8   271   12.0    93    2.8
Hospitds          28   17.8   10.5   6.1    1.2    14    4.6        7    6.8      6    S.6      1    0.8
Rural             847   18.2   11.7   5.5    1.0   328    8.8   294    4.8   189    3.6    36    1.0
Urban & Other    294   14.6   7.2    6.2    1.2    91    5.6    71    5.2    76    2.8    56    1.0
CHIAPAS               169   15.6   103  -3.9    1.4    $3    4.9    20    2.7    S8    5.1    38    2.9
NEW                   68    6.8    5.2    0.9   0.7       1    0.9      3    0.7    32    2.6    32    2.6
Rural              56    3.2   2.0    0.9   0.3    -       -      -      -       23    1.6    2S    1.6
Urban & Other      12    3.6   3.2    -       0.4      1    0.9     3    0.7      4    1.0      4    1.0
UPGRADING            101    8.8    S.1    3.0   0.7    52    4.0    17    2.0    26    2.5         6    0.3
Hospitals          7    3.3    1.8    1.2   0.3       5    0.7      1    1.3      1    1.3    -      -
Rural             72    3.5    2.5    0.7   0.3    26    I.S    16    0.7    24    1.0          6    0.3
Urban &Othr       22    2.0    0.8    1.1   0.1    21    1.8   -         --       1    0.2    -      -
OA.5ACA,:,           25       3.6 9        4.. O.7       78.           86 4.0        42    2.3    45    2.5
NEW                   66    5.0   3.6    1.0   0.4        1    0.8    37    2.2    14    1.0    14    1.0
Rurtal            62    3.6   2.3    1.0   0.3    -        -       36    2.0    13    0.8    13    0.8  Construction
Urban & Other      4    1.4    1.3    -       0.1      1    0.8     1    0.2      1    0.2      1    0.2   Proam
UPGRADING            18S    8.6   5.3    3.0   0.3    77    4.0    49    1.8    28    1.3    31    1.5  Compieed
Hospitals          7    3.9   2.3    1.5   0.1        4    1.5      I    0.8      1    0.8      I    0.8
Rural             175    4.3    2.6    1.5   0.2    71    2.2    47    0.9    27    0.5    30    0.7
Urban&Other        3    0.4    OA    -        -       2    0.3      1    0.1    -      -      -      -
GUERRERO             4I8 15.7 -i3    3.4          1      142   3.421 8.3    97    3.8              i:   O.Z
NEW                   83    5.7   4A    0.9   0.4         1    0.1    65    3.6    16    1.8        1    0.2
Rurl              76    4.1    2.9    0.9   0.3        1    0.1    64    3.4    11    0.6    -       -
Urbn & Othcr       7    1.6   1.5    -        0.1    -     -        1    0.2      5    1.2      1    0.2
UPGRADING            375   10.0   6.9    2.5   0.6   141    3.3   153    4.7    81    2.0    -          -
Hospitals          3    2.6    1.7   0.8   0.1         1    0.4     2    2.2    -      -      -      -
Rural            342    5.6   4.0    1.3   0.3   140    2.9   142    1.8    60    0.9    -           -
Urban & Othr      30    1.8    1.2   0.4   0.2    -        -        9    0.7    21    1.1    -       -
HIDALGO      ;       -1    13.2    86     3.8      .8s   97    4.4 ;135        1     98    3.5      1   .0.2
NEW                   47    4.0    3.0    0.7   0.3       3    1.1    31    1.9    12    0.8        1    0.2
Rural             43    25    1.7   0.6   0.2         2    0.2    30    1.7    11    0.6    -        -
Urban&Othsr        4    I.S    1.3   0.1   0.1         1    0.9     1    0.2      1    0.2      1    0.2
UPGRADING            284    9.2    5.6   3.1    0.5    94    3.3   104    3.2    86    2.7    -          -
HospHals           5    2.9    1.9   0.9   0.1         1    0.9     2    1.0      2    1.0 .-        -
Rural             258    4.8    2.6    2.0    0.2    91    2.2    89    1.4    78    1.2    -        -
Urban  Odter      21    1.5   1.1   0.2   0.2         2    0.2    13    0.3       6    0.5    -      -
FEDERAL DISTRI       227   15I,3   6.9    7.0   I1.4         - 69 :  4.4   -V   SS  51    3.9    57   .1.5
NEW                    3    1.3   0.4   0.8   0.1    -         -        1    0.4      1    OA       I    0.5
Utn & Othur        3    1.3   0.4    0.8   0.1    -        -        I    0.4      1    0.4      1    0.5
UPGRADING            224   14.0   6.5    6.2    1.3    69    4.4    49    5.1    50    3.5    56    1.0
Hospitals          6    5.1   2.8    1.7   0.6        3    1.1      1    1.5      2    2.5    -      -
Urban & Other    218    8.9    3.7    4.5   0.7    66    3.3    48    3.6    48    1.0    56    1.0



MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 2:      VEHICLES
Consolidated By Year and by State a/
TYPE OF VEHICLE                QUANTITY BY YEAR                                  QUANTITY BY STATE
I  1    2    3    4    5  TOTAL   OAXACA   CHIAPAS   GUERRERO   HIDALGO   F.D.   TOTAL
Ambulance                 t8                             18                                      -           12      6         18
Mobile Unit (Quirofan)     2                             2                                       2           -       -          2
Combi  (maintenance)      16                             16                                      -           -      16         16
Four-Wheel, All Terrain    4                              4                                      -           4       -          4
Vehicles
Pick-up (maintenance)     12   13                       25            2           2              2           8      11         25
Pick-up  (1.5T)           11   13                       24            4           4              4           3       9         24
Pick-up  (1.01)           36   86                       122          is          is             18          68       -        122
Truck   (10.0T)            3    3                         6           1            1             1            1      2          6
Truck    (3.0T)            9    5                        14           3           3              3           3       2         14
Sedan                      3   16                        19           -           -              -           3      16         19
,TOTAL V     Cg          I 14  1              :  f,                  28 .'28:                   30          102     62 22
al: Only purchasing of ambulances and jeeps will be financed under the project.
Other vehicles will be purchased by government because of reserved
procurement, but maintenance of vehicles will be financed under the project.
0
D E



MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 3: HUMAN RESOURCES
By Year and by State
HUMAN RESOURCES               EXISTING        NEW STAFF BY YEAR                |             NEW STAFF BY STATE
FEDERAL
STAPF a/    1    2    3    4          5  TOTAL OAXACA   CHIAPAS GUERRERO  HIDALGO  DISTRICT  TOTAL
Medical Doctors b/                3430  296  543  413  245  263          1760         121        443          284         413         499     1760
Nurses                            4056   112  354   128  158  230         982         326         190         116         138         212      982
Technical & Auxiliary Staff c/    4902  237  763  273  206   198         1677         S45        346          203         239         344     1677
Sub-Total                       12388  645  1660  814  609   691        4419        992         979          603         790       1055    4419
W-M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Managers d/                        292  35   29    5   12    18            99          13          19          20          21          26       99
Administrative Staff el           9976  508  942  315  213   342    2320              247        634          387         435         617     2320
Sub-Total                       10268  543  971   320  225  360    2419             260         653          407        456         643    2419
TOT~g~fi88 _263f _'1 1.1>   .4i  it~~ 6138  ~   A2                                                1632        1010 e      1246        1 69 8 6838
a/: Existing staff in the project states, Federal Secretariat of Health, June 1990.
b/: Medical doctors include regular appointments and doctors in social services (medico pasante).
c/: Technical and auxiliary staff: healdt and sanitation promoters; lab technicians, altendants, auxiliary nurses.
dl: Managers: hospital and health center directors, jurisdictional and state level directors and chiefs.
e/: Administrative staff: accounting staff, personnel and office support staff, and federal services staff.
OQ
0



BASIC 1101 Ill CAl PoJCt
Project C_oests by loot
gilsm   III minon                                                 I I T Nlool  I/
BaSe o   ts        .........                                    i Costs         ..t. i .t..
1991      1992        1993       1994        n99         meS           299  t992 1993 1994  s99R IIlions
A. NIELIN AftO W11111ON SERIWCES KVEtBPittIl 
........................................ ...........................         .........       .......... ......*...a. _.
51*,i3 tt33i0     ImPo EVItUIII AN0D EXPANSION3                    38.333.8  75.22 .5  7e 984.2  St. 4t.4  39,358.5  287.386.3              13.  21. 9 27.5 20.5 14.1    102.t
tAtutr  3tI6l    OPINA110tIc NO S*1"fel,1l                        12.997.0  *8.134.6  50, 136.9  59. M.0  61.4IS. A  229?  2.7              4.6 13.8 68. 12.2 24.1          i81.9
P133S6 RtISOeuRiS DtIWtopUt                                         2.3*8.3    4.6s2.?    5.841.3   4,285.6   3249.0   20 S84.3              0.8  1.7  2.1 t .5  1.2           i.4
S&6-totsl hEAlth AND  WliSItRlt  SERVICES KVtEItOMt                .  53,651.0 11. 18338.3 133s562.3 121,11.0 110.023.2  s37.24s.8    19.2 42.4 47.1 43.3 39.3                  191.9
IL INSI 111tO11, SEVttOPRIEUI
........... .................^...*
StREN6hltnEXU  Of  *etXAflOU AND NtttiENlI SStlERS                 12.964.0  12.813. 3  tt.533.2    ?.84,.4   7,356.%   52S,03. 4            4.6   4.6  4. t  2t    2 6 ?t6.8                          I
OIIUNEINI  I310RAttION SVSUtR                                       4.964.S      4f50.2      S6  1       368.7   2.486.0 o         836.t     1.8  0.2  0. 2  0.1  0.9          3.7
011fEAtI6At RESECM t10 s 1uBe1S                                     2.545.0   2.S4S.0   2.54s.0               -. *               8*5.0       0 s . 9  0.s9       *             2.?      &
......... ......... I  ........ ......... ............ ._.__................  *-.......... ..... .... ..... .... ....  ........    Q
Stob-Iotetl lNSIlIIOU*t OESe IOItENt                                  20473.S  I5.8OA.5   4,64S5.4  86210.1   S a31.5 6S st.915e0                 .   5.6  5.2  2.9  3.5         24.6
..... ......  + ......... ......... ......... .........  .................. ..... ..... ....... **.......... ........
total  *Stiut COsts                                                     74. 30.S 134.646.6 1648. 20.?  129.379. 1 119.860.1  606.224,9    26 5 40.1 52.9 46.2 42.6                216.5
%tYsicOI Coatlnpgsclcs                                                3.061.,    5. 316.    4,578. 3    7.863.0    8.39.5    11.264.6          6.,   1.9  I.?  1.0  0.5          6.2
lee Co tIng.nl                                                        t.6s  . 6 7982   9.3731  1t7 416.0  21.541.t  25,954.8   75.833.9        0. 6  3.3  6.2  7.7  9.3         27.6
total PtOJCl COSTS                                                      73,890.3 149. 336. 7 670. 302. 5 153. 758. 8 647 185.0  699 43. 3     28.2 53.3 60. 3 54.9 52. 6          249.6
foreign~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gsl   w"st$tlg 8t$$"tS  IS$t$   sllt*ttt**  t2*  *5$ 15,** 84t$w
Iworoiplth                             Iscaig                        65,953.0  *5669.6   27,40?.?  20,561.4  16,661.3   60620,                 5.9'  9.s    0.5 1e.3  8 .4      37.9
Auut i5. i9   0W. 8
lit  tubauge Rate: US$1.00   Ie$2.800
D x
I-a.X



"Asic itattlo CARE POJicI
leMMa, ACCOdaIS COSt 5333A1*8
I total                                 I ltota
I lworig. fas$                          I foreign. soat
local    loreig.   tna3a   Itchang    Costs  local lorolga bloat talcI.es.    Coist
I. tNVtS111twt costs
A. cvii "mMs
383A8*IIAIIa* of 01 *tAi tt 11113                48. 109.9  *2.0127.16,3.              20      30   31.2      4.3  26.5        20       la
ULU c3bigttIUtItI                                 31,809.6  *1.347.0  5*. *56.5         30       8   12.8     1.S  10.2         30        a
5.4pl-tata  Civil 1031                               83X919.4  27,314.4 1*1,9M.9           21      la   30.0      9.8  29.1        25       le
8. vSn*etlC1 * 133331*38   *3*0 ItPltNt
9133*1115                                          10.947,8     118.2  *3.123.8          5       2    2.9      0.2   4.1         S        2
IQUIPUINI                                         83.385.5   l IRS?9. 2 .ll. *80. 6     25      l8   29.8      9.9  39.1        25       Is
S*rt1o*1ot 91**111  . $t39113139  AND EQIMtt*NI      94,333.0  28  130.3 322. 704. 4       23      20   33. 7    30. 3 43.8        23       20
C. 1*330111                                           8. *08. 0   3. 527',0   7. 635.0     20       I   2.2       0. 5 2.1         20        3
0. MMAA  31109011 OZvCloPlt
IleAiIII                                          le.369.7I    059.3  39,325.9           S       3    S.56    0.2 3 6.8          S       3
11*l*t**1l31                                       2. 285.S   2,961.8   b.971.6         so       I    3.3      1.1   2.1        so        I
19811*3343no LoItrlCoAtlIl IAUBtAIs               11.636.9   1.952. ?  19.598.5         30       3    6. 3    0. 17. 0          to       I
S.-'Iatal lIllAN BISUIICKI 08V10111                  38. 792.3   S.90.?  44. 894.0         is       I   *3.92    2.1  163.0        *2        I
E. ILCOIICAt ASSISAIMCI
10K13G3 113183                                                 62.1.      627.1       goo       0             0.2   0.2        300       0
LIOCAL IXPRIS                                      3,5712.2         .3,572.2             -            3.3        -    .3.        -        3                                  '
".-total ItwiugAt SStStA3*                           3,2.ST.2     621. *  4. 199. I       Is       I    3. 3     0.2   3.5         35I      I
U. SU3PERVISION ST1343*                               2,545. 0         -  2.545.0           -       0    0.9        .0.9            -       0
total 139158913  10131                                 229269.9  83.803,6 293,013.85         22       48   8* 9    2.8 3104.7         22      48
Physical Contingencies                                *3. 10.86  4. IS8.0  31,264.6        24       3    4 7      1.5   8.2        24        3
Pe m. Conal apacies                                  25. 360. 6   ?.0,%8.0  32, 408. 6     22       5    2.1      2.5  33.6        72       5
lo3.1 1311330130 CONTIINKIWCS                          287,739.2  75. 008.6 342.144.?        22       St   95. 6    26.8 372.4        22      57
A. IIEOICAI 4313 OFICIC  $311I11S                   34. 679 3 22,186.3  56,968. 2         40       0   *2.2      8.3  20.3        40       0
8. 1*1A*8315 AND2 A11533C1S                        234. 916. I        *234.9*6.7                  39   83.9           83.9         *      39
C. BPER4I1UG C0SIS
VIIIICt OII 018813  coIst                         3,393.4     378.8   3,188.2          30       3    3.2     '31.,3            t0       I
613310130 3*AINIll"Cl. 105$                       S.,338.8    311.0   2,709.1          l0       *    3.2     0.1   .3.         to       I
IQUIPIII UNt03 COils                              S. 651.4   4.138.0  133,93.4        30        2    3.4     S.5   4.9         30       2
S.-loWa  03K043*30 C0S11                             M6,85. 5   4.885,8  213,271. 3      23        4    5.9     I.? I7.8          21       4
least 31133813*  COSIS                                 285,443.4  27,873.9 313. 353.3         9      52  302.0      9.9  M3.8          9      52
Pt ice Coal Ingencelo                                40,050. 3 3,521.0  43.65153           8        7   34.3     1.3  IS. 6         8       I
total ISCIUIIOIU  13tIMNtk1C3S                         32S. 531. ?  3*.1398.9 356.128,6       9       S9  116.3    33.3 327.4          9      so
S$$.....3   ....33  333333 ... S.3333  3333333   ...33   a33.3 3333333 33333 3333334. 3333333
total 8*S1151 1051                                      534,753I.3  91,473.5 606,224.0         Is     *00  *83.8    32.? 216.5         38    *00
P"lseal Cootingoc*es                                   33,109.6   4,166.0  31,264.8        24        3    4.?      3.5 68.2         24       a
Prato Contingencies                                   68,430.9  30,572. 0  75, 983.9 2      4       33   23.4      .8 a27.0         34      13332
ioia* IlIOJCt costs                                     593,270.0a *08.20M.S 809,473.32       Is      33   713. 9    31.9 249.8        *5    33                                      0   n
August ft. *990 00tlig



Basic Nt*Ai6U CAR[ PROJECt
Stmmwy c.4tmta by year
Base Costs                                           Bose Costs
11996    I99      1993       1994      699     toals             1991 IM9  1993 19924 195 blotl
A. civil 683985S
3166*B6ltl6*6I Of P tt 61*11 C3I1ps             63. 72. 6  22. 677. I  14.469.9  7. 329, S 2.442. 2  60. 637. 3     4.9  7.9  5,12 .6  0.9  if. S
AMi cmussaucnouN                                9,794.2  16,319. 6  13. S36. 3  9. 006. 2   2. 440. 1 56. 6S6.S     3.5  5.81 4.6  3.2  0. 9  16. 3
5lub-total ..IVII 61098                           23. S S.  38.5S56, 8  28,006.2  16331. 8   4,882. 3 1  . 213. 9      B. 4 II..8 10.0  5.8  1.7I 39.7I
B. ViliICIti . OWtR 8 1006iMAMtUPNt131
WtoitI6tt                                       6. 363. 6   2.7M2,2   3. 659.?I  2.9"S. 3         11.523.a          0. 4  6. 3  6. 36. I      4. 1
190lP16161                                     13.031.5  75, 479. 2  33. 903. S  21. 135.4  01.524.9 16Il. 180. 6   4.71 9. 1 62.01. .5  6.3  39.7I
Sub-foota  V.lIlCtC  . IMIIM119 ANID EcgIPRmu      14.206. 6" 29 .224  37.5S63. 2  24,093. 7  67,624.9 121.104, 4      S.61 10.4 #3.4 8.6 6S.J 43,8
C. sIUoIIS                                         2,545.0  2.545. 0   2.545, 0        -              . 635. 0         0.9  0.9  0.9    -   -2.
IL 66161* RISOMtIC  KOItOMllIU
68813180                                        2,559. 0   4,055.3   4,602. 0   4.079.?1  3.629. 4  19. 125. 9     0. 9  6.4  6.?  6.5  6.3 6.
ItLIONS6SUIPS                                     431.6   6...40. 0   2,6107.3  1. 274. S  688.7  S. 9 16,6         0. 2  0.5S 0.8  0.5S 0.2  2.1
IkININ6s  AND EMIOIW*lB t N*1181A11             3.919.3  3.919, 3   3.989,3   J.919, 3   3, 969t.3  69,5S96.5S      1.4  1.4  1.4  6.4  6.4  7. 0
Sub-total 888*  EISOIURCE OWtOPITt3                6,909.9   9.444,6  10.819.1  9.213.5   6,8236.9  44,694.0           2.5S 3.4  3. 93. 3  2.9  I&*                          '.
E. 610C81CAL ASSISIANCI
608166  CUtUPS                                    425.S      65.6a     44.6         .                7.             0.2  0.6  0.0    -       0.2
tKIAt LIPIRIS                                     943.4  1.0610.6    7S8.7    67$4.7      684.8  3,5S12. 2         0.3  0.4  0.3  0.2  0.6   1.3
Sab-total ttcltltctt ASS6SIICE                     6. 369, 0   1, 667.4    80J.5S    614.7   664.6  4, 19. 3          0.5S  0.4  0.3  0.2  0.6   1. S
I. SUPEISISON SWHO!6                                 509.0    509.0    509.0    509.0    509.0   2. 545, 0            0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.39
total 68V16N18  Costs                                49,049.8  81,444.1  80, 256.0  50, 863.71 31,431.9 293,7.5 Of.67. 5 "9. 26.1 68.2 11.2 604.7
it. uicuuuu costs
A. 161016*1 M8 0611CC Wmit'Is                     9.607,4  60,5.9S?  16,425.0  12.022.B  13,657.7  So. 965,2         3.5  3.68 4.1  4.3  4.7  20,2
B. 5*148115 AND *IIoImNCS                        14. 105.4  39,642.5  5t8,87. 3  60,535.4  68,556. 2 234,916.1       5. 0 14.2 18. 521.6 24.5S 63.9
C. ermatiuc MIS
WInlIct OI 0613*1  COSIS                         616,4    490.6    656.5S  1,2.IS.4   6,5.Is.4   3,768.2          0.0  0.2  0.3  0.4  0,4   6. 3
BUIIDIG I*NAICN*mc1 COSIS                        224.7    592.71    656,6   9"7.6   1,042.9  3,709.1              0. I 021 0.3  0.4  0.4   1.3
iqntwius am costs                                829.9   1,0124.4   2,941.0   2,6.511   4.563.6  13,7193.4        0.3  0. 6  6.6 114  6.6  4.9
5tb-total 9PN31A863 COSIS                         1, 661.9  2,807.7   4,649. 4   S. 93175   6,708.9  21,271.3        0.4  6.0  6.7  2.61 2.4  7. 6
Woasltr   of1088  costs                              2S.080,7St 52.02,7  67.M56?  18,495.4  88,422.6 363, 153. 3         9.0 69.0 24.3 28. 031.6 Ill.6B
total B*51163  MISS                                   14. 160. S634.646.8 148,201.7 129.319.1 6 169. 80.? 606,224,9      26.5S 43.1 St 52946.2 43.8 216. 5
"'pleaf coettlO. Fe$lo                              3.06t.6   5.3166,    4.678,8a  2,838.0   6,399.5  67.264,6         6.l  6 .9  6.7  6.0 0.S   6.2
Price Comi 6nguIws               .                  6,698.2  9.313,6  11.4166,0  26,541.1 25,954.6  IS.9283,9          0.6  3.3 6.2  7.7  9. 3  27.6
total PROJCI COStS                                    78,690.  '4I36.   102S' 63,25.8 647 S8.'  99,73.                   26.2 53.3 60.85S4. 95t. 6249.6
August is, 6990 ".0:68.
II:  Echange Ratet  US$1.00 an VAX$2800



BAsIc mAtnt CA"  atns
SanwrY Accouni by Project Coww.bt
loSS 11111100 I/
at itE t U1  RUgniR 1  Ststiats oItwaog Itns                   Iusnltiwgott  t        OPtoEti
.. .|,,.,,, ,.....................,,,,....... ,,,,,............,., .,............ t.........*........ ,..... .. .. .. &
WAtINI                        SIIM0N 111IINKG or                                              Ph" IC$ I
rAt In  aitwm          mussmm          uN11         oao IArn G Vso   AND NARnAGormrI  OpiatoAtIXICn      ,'S
*3  tIPPASION    8tN*LNEIKN         KIV[t0'8813          sVShf8Is           SIsiEM         siSIOS         false    I        Amoun
t.  imusinctt costs
............. ........... .
a. cvgt "MRs
............ ......... 
111"uItIa11m  or utuit   CEutatits                                        "g'                  -                                                                    -   28.5    t0.0         2.1
Nto  c*8S13t8cilet                                                        t8.                  -              *-                                                    -      8.3    10. 0       1.8
Suab-lotal ilvii  OUSS                                                        39.1                 -                                     -                              -   39.1    I0.0         4.0
B. WhitChS . UtilEittUX  AlE  h"lPNEUtli
................................... ............................... 
YtctiCs                                                                    *. I                                                                                     -      *. I      .0      0.2
(OUIPulIt                                                                 32.2               0.0            0.3                   4.S            2.?                     39.?      5.0       2.0
..... ...... ,... ,.,......,,...... ........,...  ................ ........        ............        .     ..... ....... ... 
Stib-A to l VtmCUtts . 58M8t1       t U tA   tlQU8Pz                          3I.4              0.0            0.3                    4.5            tl                 -   43.S        .0       2.2
C, StIS                                                                                                                                                              2.1      2.?      0.0       0.0
tl. tmuna  Rtsoonco  swusem.;it
IR nttN8                                                                                    0.0            4.6                    8.9               *-    6.s                      0.0        .0
1ittten5ps5                                                                   *                -            2.1                                                           2. 1    0.0        0.0
titAIMIUG  Ast th      POAL 3UttRICtS                                                      0.1               -                   6.9                   g                  1.0     0.0       0,0
...................   ............... ...................... ....................... ..............................  .....  ..... .......
St6-lotgl oman azsoOucc Dtuopgggutt                                                              0.8            1.0                   0.9                                    i s6.0    0.0       0.0
t. I0l8E8CAt ASSISICECI
.....................
iOREiC1  tX RS                                                                -*                                                  0.2                                    *0.       0.0       0.0
toCAt CAPENIS                                                                 *                               -                    8.3                             1- .3           0.0       0.0
.....................   ................ ...........  ................   ....................   ..................  ..... . ....  ..... .......
Sab-tot8   fCtICat ASSISIACt                                                      .                *                                   '. S                                   8.       0.0       0.0
t. SuEIWSION   SvStoiN                                                                          0.9                                           _ _ _                             .       .0       0.0 
total ilVtSINENI COStS                                                           16.                1.8            1.3                   14.0            1.?             2.?   804.1      S.9       5L2
IL. RCfmnnI COSts
...............
A. ItEOICAI a0  0ot1co  SitnMticS                                           20.3                  -                                    -               -                    20.3     0.0       0.0
B. SAtARtES As AttO8 CES                                                                      Be0. a                                 3.8               -                    U3.9      0.0       0.0
C. 03tR83 t83 cOStS
...............
vt1t888t  o02*I80nl COSIS                                                 I.3                 -              -                      -              -                       .3     0.0       0.0
301tO11c IAI8INAII  COSIS                                            *  8.3                  -              -                      -                                     8.3     0.0       0.0
tOUlt8Iutl 0ltt COStS                                                     3.5              0.1 0.8                               0.8            0.-                      4.9      0.0       0.0
Stft-lotal  PEhtAllh   cosOs T.2                                                              o0.0            e.g                    0.8            0.e                -     1.0      0.0      0.0
tots# scutmltl cosIs                                                            2i.1               80.8            0.t                    3.9            0.S                .  ttt.*      0.0       0,0
leat BASUenc  COSIS                                                             t802.6              at.9            7.4                   88.8            3.2             2.1  218.5       2.6       6.2
Physical c..s tmg       8els                                                    1S.S             0.0            00                     0.2            0.1                      0.2      0.0       0.0
Pr Ice Cent In.4nc os                                                          t2.2             it.?            0. 9                   1. 9           0.3             0.2   21.8        2.3 J      . 0
lotal PRWECI CoIS 20.6                                                                             93.6             .2                  20.9             3.6             2.9   249.6      2.t        6.0                        t-  m
*3S*szs**SS**3   *ISSWS*3SZ3s  *S*wS*SS"   .3S..Su3S$t..*  a*S*S*I3#    SUUS.*    3.SIst                           3333   3353:3                            0 ss
...........................................................................................................
Auut 8s. 8990  O. 8s
llt  Zuo6mMe Rate,  t.O00 - Naz$2,800



Staluelf~ Account by Project Component
(owl,u flllioni
111*111 Avg0 WUtUioII SIRWIcIS bfvtiopntlNi         IUSItioIUIAI bCvtiOPNLIi
"tiAlf"                 SCRawNGIULNwNof                                           Physical
mIAIT;w  inORne   utueM          "Nrna     ORGA11llisiIo1 AND l*AtIlntX  OPtAIloNAt                Caimtingoflios
iKRwmnENI   oPrtaiio n0   o 11  RtsNRacCS    RNIGIN[NI    INFRMeIIlONl RSISA3U AND                .......
AN  EXPANIsON   N1AN11AWNEN    KtOtvfoPINI     sISIIIIs        SISICII     sIUDICs       liota      I    hounl
A. CIVIl MM$5
Kht*BiII*ll0ssN a 111A111  C[V343                       60.1637.3             .                                           -S.I37.3  10.0  6.013.?
37.1 CUSIUCOIIII                                        So. IS&$.                          -                 -                             i. 116. 1 t.. s. I is.I
5th-total Clvit 16135                                      lI.293.S                                                                          Iif .292.9  to., 11. I29.4
S. viNICIES . lURNtilUR AND IQOIPHIU
smicuis                                                  Il.123.s             -                                                            Il.2.0 a    0    SI6.2I
lOOlPIliNi                               ~~~~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~90.289.?  65.2  85110  it.1.4  .42)-I.10. 101190
5t-to11 tal WScUS * 1051109  *11 EqUPmuI                   606. 0l3.1         5 6.2 .    61.0            1? 2.          .452.3               122. 704.4   S. 0  S. 131.2
C. sivetIlS                                                                                   -                              -         .630    1.621.0   0.0       0.0
0. NM"1*1 SISOUUC 0tVOItUIN
IRAINIlO                                                                   99.     13.170. 2           S. 416.15                       -   19, 121. 9   0.0    0.0
66*13616lp awSoctoa                                                                  . 971. 6                .                              S.el .   0.0        '10 
IIIAINING AD [NtAlIONt MATtRIUS214.1S                                              19.342.0                         -   19. S196.   0.0      0.0 
st6-loa181 now  RESOURCE 01OCVOIlCI                                          313.8    19.541.6           24.?N8.1                             44.594.0   0.0       0.0I
ii. iItCININCl ASSISIAIIC
rOstra IxRISs                                                   .                                         27.1                         .       21.6   0.0      0.0
IOC*I 001115s                                                                                          3 -2172.2                            X5 2172.2  0.0     0.0
S*-fotol I[CIIICAt SI S11sAwC                                      .-                                     4.1992 3                             4. 99. 3   0.0      0.0
1. SUIPERIVSION SfS11111                                           -       2,141.0            -                                           .    2.141.0   0.0       0.0
plola  INVES1111111I costs                                   213. 601.4       2.964.9    20.292.S           41,119.1     7.412. )      7.631.0  293.071.1   S.92 17.264.6
1i. nCUmuEa; COSIS
A. NIDICAI *10 O71ICE SIPI'tIS                            10,961.2              .            ..                             ..  1962   0.0                       0.0
B. s*1*RifsAN awte *oIsOC                                               226.9M. 4            .,6.4                                       -234. 9 6.I   0.0        0.0
V1fllCU OPtSIII costs                                   3. 758.2                                                                           3 .  3158.2   0.0   0.0
BUtllt0IG FAl*INUILCI COStS                             3,0.?                                               .            . I               3. 109.I   0.0      0.0
quiPNfN  M8  c05t5                                      0.839.?          14.0        626.1 S          .268.9      6,264.4            - 13.1"J.24   0.0        0.0
Mt-loal081 9*1636N tOStS                                   11.313.?          14.9        196.1S          2.365.9      1. 3".4 4              26,216.2   0.0       0.0
Total 91CO9U131 COStS                                         174.278.90    225. 3 14.23     191.15         10.984,2      1.364. 4              2 13. IS3. 3   0.0    C0.
total uSASNtCIIcosts                                          207, 388.3     229.219.2    20,164.23          St10. C.4    6. 836.?   1 ,51. 3 0  605,224.9   2.6 8 ?.264.6
Phtysical Contlngsstfee                                      16.22.0.           3.2        42.6              526.6       372.6             -   11.264.6   0.0       0.0
Pr Ice toot il4mesll                                        34.086.9       32.170.2     2,439.3            1,2348.6a     821.4        $165.2  71.9839   2. 3  1.111.0                Il
1otal POIMCI COSIS                                            337. 688. 3    262.012. 7    23,066.2          S$. 478.2    6006.?       8, I11.3  699.413,3   2.?  I 10,16.6             (Dt*
*up61 is. to"0 W. is



- 80 -
ANNEX 8
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 1:  ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
BANK              QUARTER           DISBURSED                           DiSa. AS       BALANCE
FISCAL YEAR          ENDING             DURING           CUMULATIVE         X OF            OF
QUARTER            AMOUNT          TOTAL           LOAN
91           March al, 1991          10.00              10.00                         170.00
June  B0, 1991          3.00               13.W0           7             187.00
92           Sept. 30, 1091           6.60              18.S0                         161.60
Dec.  a8, 1991          6.60               24.00                         166.00
March 81, 1992          6.50               29.60                         150.60
June  80, 1992         10.00               89.50          22             140.60
98           Sept. as, 1092          10.00              49.60                         180.50
Dec. 81, 1992          11.00               60.60                         119.50
Marech SI, 1993        11.00               71.50                         108.60
June  80, 1993         12.00              68.60           48              9.60
94           Sept. 8o, 1993          12.00              96.60                          U4.50
Dec. 81, 1993          12.00              107.60                          72.50
March 81, 1994         12.00              119.50                          60.60
June  80, 1994         10.00              129.60          72              60.50
96           Sept. 80, 1094          10.00             139.60                          40.50
Dec. 81, 1994           8.00              147.60                          82.50
March 81, 1996          8.00              1656.50                         24.50
June  80, 1095          6.00              181.60          90              18.50
96           Sept. 80, 199S           6.00             187.50                          12.60
Dec. 81, 1995           6.00              178.50                            .60
March 81, 1996          4.00              177.50                           2.60
June  B0, 1996          2.50              180.00         100               0.00
a/:  Includes Special Account deposit of US210.0 million to cover retroactive financing of USB8.0
al tion.



- 81 -
ANNEX 9
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 1: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CualndarYeru >>    90      90     91      91      92     92      93     93      94      94     95      95
Semcster >>    Ist    2nd     Ist    2nd     Ist    2nd     Ist    2ad    lst    2nd       1st    2ad
HEALTH & NUTRTON SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
HEALTH NETWORK D--VEMENT
AND EXPANSION
1. Preparation Work
a Designing Work                    -
b. Adjutment toStes                 -     -
c. Preparation Stndard
Bidding Docun
d. Bidding Process
2. Con _tion Progm
a. ConstrUCtion Now Centers                    ------ ------ ------ ---------
Rehab. Hosp. & Centers                   - --        -
3. Maintenance Progm
a. Preparatin
b. Implementaion
4. Bimedic Equipment & Vehicles al
a. Prapar. Bidding Doments                 --
b. Bidding Process
c. Distrib. & Installation
S. Drugs & Supplics
a. Prepar. Bidding Documents               -              -              -              -               --
b. Bidding Process
c. Distnbution
6. Human Reurces Develop. (TrAg.)
a. Professional & Aux. Health Staff            ---               -       -     ------- -----
b. Commuity Promotors
c. Fellowships
7. Technical Assistance
a. Civil Works: Design                     -
Work & Prototype
b. Training: Curricula Dedgn,                        -
Prepar. of Tmg. Matials
c. Delivery of Course                            --  ------ --                                   - --- -----  -- -
d. Improve Supervision Systems                     -
e. Study Drug Deivery
4ST1sTUTIONAL DEVELOPMbENT
Preparaton Ado Pla
1. Implementation of Actlan Plan
a. Oaxaca, Chiapas                             ----------------------                           -
b. Other States                                    -    ---- ------ ----------- ------ ------ ----------- ------
2. State Health MIS
a. Review Exting System                        --
b. Implementaton Rwoved System                          -       --           -                    -   ----
3. Tr. for Ma_mgemt & Admin. Staf                          -- f-                               -
4. Opeaonal Rese-ch
a. Implement Annual Research                   -------------   -- -----
Plan & Studies
5. Annual Wzk Plan Reviws
6. Mid-Term - viw                                                                   -   -
a: Ambulances, ICB, Other Vehicles, Reserved Procarement.



- 82 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Section A: Reports on Health Sector
A-2:  World Bank, Mexico, Health Sector Expenditures and Financing
Report (Report No. 7802-ME), May 1989.
A-2:  Mexico, Secretariat of Health and Assistance (SSA), National
Health Survey, 1988.
A-3:  Mexico, SSA - The Focus of Health as a Social and Economic Sector
- Expenditure and Finance, 1988.
A-4:  Mexico;  National Program, "Women, Health and Development,"
National Health System, 1990.
Section B: Reports and Studi_s Related to the Project
B-1:  SSA, Programa de Apoyo a los Servicios de Salud la Poblaci6n
Abierta (PASSPA), for all project states (6 volumes), Noviembre
1989.
B-2:  Adecuaci6n v Mejora al Modelo de Atenci6n, 1989.
B-3:  SSA/SPP Programa Nacional de Solidaridad Descentralizaci6n,
Antlisis de D4ficit y Recomendaciones, Feb. 1990.
B-4   Apoyo a los Procesos de Capacitaci6n Supervisi6n e Informaci6n -
Centro de Capacitaci6n y Desarrollo.
B-5:  Sistema Integral de Abasto.
B-6: Programa de Apoyo a los Servicios de Salud para la Poblaci6n
Abierta - Dimensionamiento de Equipo de Computo.
B-7:  SSA Manual para la Evaluaci6n de los Servicios de Salud, 1990.
B-8:  SSA El Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n de Salud.
B-9:  Programa de Apoyo a los Servicios de Salud para la Poblaci6n
Abierta (PASSPA). Misi6n de Evaluaci6n del Banco Mundial - Ayuda
Memoria y Documentos Bisicos.
B-10: Sistema de Capacitaci6n y Desarrollo de la SSA, Secretaria de
Salud, Subsecretaria de Regulaci6n Sanitaria y Desarrollo.
B-l1: Guia Tgcnica para la Operaci6n del Proceso de Capacitaci6n,
Secretaria de Salud, Subsecretaria de Regulaci6n Sanitaria y
Desarrollo.
B-12: Manual de Procedimientos para la Operaci6n del Sistema de
Capacitaci6n para el Desempefilo, Secretaria de Salud, Subsecretaria
de Regulaci6n Sanitaria y Desarrollo.
B-13: Manual de Procedimientos para la Operaci6n del Subsistema de Becas
de la Secretaria de Salud, Secretaria de Salud, Subsecretaria de
Regulaci6n Sanitaria y Desarrollo.
B-14: Catalogo de Mobiliario y Equipo Mgdico, January 18, 1990.
B-15: Mobiliario, Equipo, Instrumental y Accesorios por Tipo de Unidad.
B-16: Necesidades de Equipamiento, Formatos AOl-0l, A01-02 y A01-03,
Servicios Coordinados en el Estado de Oaxaca.
B-17: Sistema de Atenci6n Escalonada de Pacientes, Direcci6n de Normas
de Atenci6n Hospitalaria, Direcci6n General de Regulaci6n de los
Servicios de Salud, Secretaria de Salud.



- 83 -
ANNEX 1 0
Page 2 of 2
B-18: Servicios a la Poblaci6n de Acuerdo a las Politicas de Salud
Establecidas, 1989, Direcci6n de Normas de Infraestructura y
Equip&.uiento M4dico, Direcci6n General de Regulaci6n de los
Servicios de Salud.
B-19: Programas Horizontales, Direcci6n General de Regulaci6n de los
Servicios de Salud, Secretaria de Salud, Julio 1989.
Section C: Other Documents
C-1: Evidence of Land Donation for First Year Project Implementation
Construction Program, October 31, 1990..



_________________________________________________________________D_ WBR0 22425R
S I   I       |                                                                   enLuis Potosi  Tamp'to                                                                          INSET A
/UACA                                                   POTOSIto,    )   Sa [  PXtOsi
*  SA    POTOSI   Ri'                                                                        ~~~~MEXICO
Oolwo o_  .           .. r-                                                                                        BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
t_C   CAS                    I. M\                                )P..[                                                                                             Project States
;e  GUANAJUATO                                         A                                                                              Priority Jurisdjctions'                                                            1002)) -
JALSCO    *'  Giionajiiato  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Rivers                                                                                           ;,I92 
Guad   e 4                                        traput   0 /  QUJERE9R            g                                                                              , ;j, Toll Roads
Irs  t. .     .        uereoro                             ,       ~, . iu         Rie  . rOther Main tod
a\xa  ,@ >                 \<                            ~         <                                     9>      NotionalCpital l0   s  tOKILOMEI
(  8sr~~~~~~e                             rOoleca                                                                        State Bour,dories                  &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M1LES  '~~~~~fui'c3r4'es  r  A/
(<6        t     X      Moresbo             )    '            SX    T    i               2         >(               \                              ---Inteme60nolBounder                      -lC'OO'                    Priority oelegotecflns"   19.0-
IALSCO                                                                 exJo                                                                                                                                                                      99 00,
Ursapnu MIC          A                                                                                              CcrcelCiyao9-oo
\ ? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tolucc J',j                                           T  /3 Vrcu 
f    f  cue nOzc} Acuc,O.lO           PU EBAEBLA                                                                                                    , 1c>  ;o 
ca, =dt'  & < i>te m j t or no m =s=                                           -                                                                      /   CAhUECHE
5 M Andri. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ \n0svr   Ciil6
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gr Af.6 cot.0                                                                                                    TABASCO't \  d
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA                                                                                                     l                                      a
\  .                                                      l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Po. Leswmh -s.- suto- <                                                        t   
M E X I C O    -'    fi,t; :,l M;.;;   trS'=SW                                                                ' Fto ~hyel                                                   \             ' '     - /*              GUATEMALA
50ItoO t_O LOtMtRs
Mco      <  ,                                 ,                    j         O25  is   s bMILEoS                           'Priorityarew lWrithiA  I*d sttoes
- A ,                                                                                                       ame rerehred to as priorily ldrisclicoft sF
SL                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prnslt aec within ithe Federol Distrite
1?0.                                                                             to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r.rjre tas priority ddegoPons.  9
OcIOem 1991



