A'3V    7 /<&-WA
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                             Report No. 10335-CHA
Report No. 10335-CHA Type: (SAR)
RAGGAMBI,  / X84039 / A7071/ EA2TP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
MARCH 31, 1992
Transport Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a reshicted disuibutdon and maey be used by recipients only in Ihe per6ormance of
their officiil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authoffmraon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1992)
Currency name  -  Renminbi
Currency unit  -  Yuan (Y) - 100 Pen
$1.00          -  Y 5.48
$0.18          -  Y 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                   = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              -  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)   2          10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)      -  0.4 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha) - 0.01 (k2)  -  2.47 acres (ac) - 15 mu
1 mu                          -  666.7 sq m - 0.0667 ha
1kilogram (kg)                -  2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)          -  2,204 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
EA       -  Environmental Assessment
EAP      -  Environmental Action Plan
E.'uA    -  Economic Internal Rate of Return
SFYP     -  Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95)
FYRR     -  First Year Rate of Return
GOVAI    -  Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
HPDI     -  Highway Planning and Design Institute
HSRI     -  Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
JST      -  Joint Supervision Team for Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway
LCB      -  Local Competitive Bidding
mOC      -  Ministry of Communications
MOF      -  Ministry of Finance
NPV      -  Net Present Value
pcu      -  Passenger Car Unit
PMS      -  Pavement Management System
PRC      -  People's Republic of China
PTD      -  Provincial Transport Department
RAP      -  Resettlement Action Plan
RDB      -  Road Data Bank
RDP      -  Road Development Program
7FYP     -  Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90)
SPC      -  State Planning Commission
TCU      -  Technical Coordinating Unit
ZPEPB    -  Zhejiang Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
ZPEPEC   -  Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Executive Commission
ZPEPRI   -  Zhejiang Provincial Environmental Protection Research Institute
ZPG      -  Zhejiang Provincial People's Government
ZPHAB    -  Zhejiang Provincial Highway Administration Bureau
ZPTD     -  Zhejiang Provincial Transport Department
ZPTDI   -  Zhejiang Provincial Transport Design Institute
vpd      -  Vehicle per day



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pate No.
Loan and Project Susmary                             . . . . . . . .   iv
1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   . . . . . . . . .       . . . . . . . 
A.  Introduction   . . . . . .1
Be Traffic1
C. Investment          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        3
D. Transport Issues and Objectives . . . . . . . . .            3
E. Bank Group Participation in Transport Sector    . . . .      5
P. The Highway Subsector  ...........              ...          7
II.  ZHEJIANG PROVINCE TRANSPORT SECTOR  . . . . . . . .   . . .   13
A.  Situation and Economy   .................                  13
B. Transport Network  ... ... . . .    13
C.  Traffic Growth and Characteristics   . . . . . . . .       14
D. The Vehicle Fleet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        14
E. The Trucking Industry    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
F. Highway Administration   ................    15
G. Planning, Budgeting and Financing  . . . . . . . .          15
H. Engineering, Construction and Maintenance   .  . . . . .,17
I. Highway Development    ...      ....... .    18
III.  THE PROJECT  .  . . . .   . .  . . . . .         * * * * *      19
A. Project Formulation and Preparation  . . . . . . . . . .   19
B. Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement  .   19
C. Project Scope  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .   20
D.  Environmental Assessment   . . . . . .       . . . . . . .   25
This report is based on the findings of a June 1991 appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. Otto Raggambi (Highway Engineer, Task Manager), Stephen
Stares (Transport Specialist), Hatim Najj (Transport Specialist), David
Butcher (Resettlement Specialist), William Lane (Environmental Specialist,
Consultant), Doi Dogehang (Operations Officer), and Zhang Jianfei (Consultant)
and a December 1991 poet-appraisal mission comprising Messrs. Raggambi,
Stares, Hajj, Dai, Zhang and Ms. Ruwani Jayewerdent (Resettlement Specialist,
Consultant) and Mr. Paul Dean (Equipment Specialist, Consultant). Peer
Reviewers for the project were Ms. Carolle Carr (Economist), Messrs. Asif Paiz
(Highways Advisor), Jacques Yenny (Transport Eonomist), and Nick Anderson
(Project Officer). Ms. E. Rankin (Economist, Consultant) assisted in the
preparation of t'sis report. The Division Chief is Mr. Daud Abmad and
Department Diroctor is Mr. Shahid Javed Burki.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicial duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
E. Land Acqulsltion and Resettlement  . . . . . . . . . . .   26
P. Cost Estimates            . . . . . . . . . ... ...    27
G.  Financing . . ........ . .  . . . ........    27
H.  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
I. Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
J. Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
K. Auditing         . ..........           .    .  .  .  .   34
L.  Project Supervision, Reporting, Monitoring    . . . . .  34
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION  . .. ... *..  ........ ....    34
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
B. Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway .. * ...................   35
C. Road Development Program  . . . . . .    . . . . . . .   38
D.  Overall Evaluation and Risks   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
V.  AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . .   41
TABLES
1.1     Freight Traffic Intensities in Selected Countries  . . . . .   43
1.2     Road and Railway Network Density in Selected Countries   . .   44
1.3     China:  Freight Traffic  . . . . . . . . . ; . . . . . . .   45
1.4     China:  Passenger Traffic  . .. . .......... . .  .   46
1.5     China:  Investment in the Transport Sector (Including
Posts and Telecommunications)   . . . . . . . .   47
1.6     China: Transport Investment vs. Economic Output   . . . . .   48
1.7     China: Highway Design Standards   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   49
1.8     China: Civilian Motor Vehicles  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  50
1.9     China: Highway Freight Transport  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   51
2.1     Zhejiang: Economic Data, 1990  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  52
2.2     Zhejiang: Demographic and Transport Network Data, 1990 . .  53
2.3     Zhejiang: Road Network, 1981-90  .                           54
2.4     Zhejiang:  Traffic, 1984-90 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   55
2.5     Zhejiang: Length of Highway by ADT, National Roads and
Provincial Roads, 1990   . .. ....  .  .....   56
2.6     Zhejiangt Vehicle Fleet, 1984-90 . . . . . . . . . . . . .   57
2.7     Zhejiang: Freight Handled by Public and Social Trucks,
1982-90  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    * 9  .  9  9  .  58
2.8     Zhejiang: Highway Finances, 1986-90  . . . . . . .    .    59
2.9     Zhejiang: Fuel Prices  . . . . a . . . . . * . . . . . . .   60
3.1     Staff Training Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .   61
3.2     Equipment for Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway Component  . . . . . .   62
3.3     Equipment for Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway Component  . . . . . .   63
3.4     Equipment for Road Development Component    . . . . . . . .    64
3.5     Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   65
3.6     Disbursement Schedule   6. . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .   6



- lii -
Page No.
4.1      Socioeconomic Projections in the Hangzhou-Ningbo Corridor  .   67
4.2      Recent Traffic Growth on the Existing Hangzhou-Ningbo Road      68
4.3      Projected Highway Traffic Volumes in the Hangzhou-Ningbo
Corridor   * * * * * * * ** * * * * *.*.*. . . . . . . .  .   69
4.4      Estimated Economic Cost - Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway  . . . . .   70
4.5      Average Economic Vehicle Operating Costs by Vehicle  . . . .   71
4.6      Economic Evaluation Without Tolling - Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway  72
4.7      Economic Evaluation With Tolling - Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway      73
4.8      Economic Evaluation Sensitivity Test With Tolling -
Hangzhou-Ningbo Hlighvay  .....................    74
4.9      Evaluation Summary and Sensitivity - Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway   75
ANNEXES
1.  Road Development Program m. ...................   .   76
2.   Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary for the
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway  ..  . ....... .................        .  102
3.   Resettlement Action Plan Summary for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway  114
4.   Supervision Mission Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   * . . .  .  120
5.   Documents Available in the Project File  . . . . . . . . . . . .  123
CHARTS
1.    Organization of the Zhejiang Provincial Transport
Department and the Highway Administration Bureau
2.    Organization of the Zhejiang Provincial Highway
Administration
3.    Organization of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway
Administration
MAPS
1.    IBRD 23353
2.    IBRD 23484



- iv -
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrowers:            People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:          Zhejiang Province
Amount:                $220 million equivalent
Terms:                 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
Onlendina Terms:      20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 6 percent per
annum with 0.75 percent per annum commitment fee on the
unwithdrawn balance. Zhejiang Province would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Obiectives:   The project has the following specific objectives:
(a) to relieve traffic congestion which is restraining
economic growth in the Hang7hou-Ningbo Highway corridor,
and provide a high standard road transport link in sup-
port of agricultural and industrial development; (b) to
provide support for a Road Development Program prima:ily
in the economically less developed southern regions of
the Province; (c) to further develop institutional capa-
bilities for transport planning and determination of
investment priorities; and (d) to promote the transfer
of highway construction and maintenance technology
through training and provision of modern equipment.
Project Description:  The project includes:  (a) construction of a 138 km
section of the four-lane divided, access controlled
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway on a new alignment; (b) con-
struction and improvement of about 33 sections of
provincial and county roads (970 km); (c) consultant
services for construction aupervision of the Hangzhou-
Ningbo Highway; (d) staff training; and (e) purchase of
equipment for road laboratories, environmental protec-
tion, road research, a road data bank, a pavement man-
agement system, road maintenance and highway operation.
Proiect Benefits:      Primary benefits from the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway will
be in the form of road user cost savings resulting from
improved vehicle operating costs and time savings due to
reduced length of the new highway. Other benefits will
stem from reduced congestion on the existing road and
accelerated industrial and agricultural growth based on
improved transport facilities. Benefits from the Road



Development Pro&ram will come from the provision of
improved all-weather access for motorized vehicles to
presently isolated rural areas. Additional benefits
will accrue from maintenance cost savings on the
improved provincial/county road network.
Risks:                Because of the difficult subsoil conditions along the
alignment of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway, the major risk
is delay in the completion of the highway and the qual-
ity of construction. Since the implementing authority
for the highway is a first-time executing agency for a
Bank project, there is also a risk in implementing the
project in a timely manner. However, the preparation of
the project was assisted by the Bank's experience in
previous Chinese highway projects, and by the more
active involvement of the Ministry of Communications;
this enhanced role of the Ministry is expected to con-
tinue into fajtiure projects. To minimize the risks, the
project was designed wv-h  t     z.e -stance of foreign
experts, prequalification of contractors was made par-
ticularly stringent, and supervision arrangements were
carefully formulated to ensure regular monitoring and
effective quality control.



- vi -
Proiect Coats:                                Local         Foreijn        Total
---------- ($ million) ----------
A. Works
1. HanSzhc --'ingbo Highway
Civi    :ks                           172.21        140.90        313.11
Supply t Installation (E&M)             2.06          4.82          6.88
2. Road DeveLopment Program                 45.65         30.43         76.09
Subtotal                         219.92       176.15         396.07
B. Supervision of Construction
1. Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway                   4.80          3.00          7.80
2. Road Development Program                  1.24          0.00          1.24
Subtotal                           6.04         3.00           9.04
C. EguiDment for
1. Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway
Laboratory, Equipment, Research         0.15          1.34          1.49
Maintenance and Operation               0.68          6.08          6.75
2. Roads Development Program
RDB/PMS, Survey, Laboratory             0.09          0.77          0.86
Provincial Road Maintenance             0.46          4.16          4.62
Subtotal                           1.37        12.35          13.72
D. Staff Training
In China and Abroad                        0.25          0.99          1.24
Subtotal                           0.25         0.99           1.24
Base Cost                        227.59       192.49         420.08
Physical Contingencies /a                      22.47         17.91         40.39
Price Contingencies                            45.01         21.04         66.05
Subtotal                         295.07       231.44         526.52
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Cost         32.34          0.00         32.34
Total Proiect Cost Lb                  327.41        231.44        558.85
la Ten percent of Items A and B(1).
/b Including identifiable taxes and duties of about Y 96.7 million ($18.0
million equivalent). Taxes and duties would not be financed from the
proceeds of the loan.



- vii -
Finaninat Plan:                          LoPAl        Foreitn       Total
--- ($ million) --------
Provincial Government                  242.91        14.74      257.65
Central Government                      81.20         -          81.20
IBRD                                     3.30      216.70       220.00
T,tal Financjn_ Required           327.41      231.44       558.85
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Group FY                 1993    199X    1995    1996   1997    1998
------------- ($ million) -----------------
Annual                        39       27      34       46     50       24
Cumulative                    39       66     100      146    196      220
Economic Rate of Returns        20 percent



CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.1      The transport system in China is characterized by intensive freight
traffic in relation to economic output, heavily suppressed demand, high utili-
zation of assets, a strong emphasis on railways, and distortions in tariffs
and costs. Freight traffic intensity in China, measured in ton-kilometers per
dollar of GNP, is even higher than in the (former) Soviet Union, and is much
higher than in India, Brazil or the United States (Table 1.1). The major rea-
sons behind China's high freight traffic intensity are a relatively large
heavy industry sector, reliance on coal as the major source of energy, and a
large volume of other bulk products.  In adlition, energy efficiency in China
is relatively low, and there is still little preprocessing of raw materials
before shipping. On the other hand, the density of China's transport network,
measured both on the basis of geographic area and population, is among the
lowest in the world (Figure 1 and Table 1.2).
Figure 1: INTERNATIONAL COMPARISON OF LAND TRANSPORT NETWORKS
Inwnauonal Comparisons of Railway Networks    nmaidoonal Compaisws of Road Neworks
10.000
Ispa    USA   USSR  tlaO    Bnmz   Chin.  I  J4    USA    U5R   Loa    Imal  Cb
i To* Woo (km) pet .dto poptaon    Tuk tina  (km) pm 10 ,q km   k  laud  Rd  5th (km) pw  O Rat.kt° # t O!
B. Traffic
1.2      Preight Traffic.  The economic reforms introduced since 1979 have
provided the impetus for a large upsurge in both freight and passenger traf-
fic, severely taxing the transport system. Freight traffic has grown at about
9 percent per annum; port freight traffic also has grown at about 9 percent
per annum; and intercity highway freight traffic has grown at about 18 percent
per annum--consistently higher than the growth of gross domestic production
(Table 1.3). These rates would have been even higher were it not for the
capacity constraints which are evident in all modes. Many power plants and
factories have fallen short of their production goals because the transport
s'stem has not been able to deliver the needed raw materials in time. Coal
production in Shanxi province, the largest coal producer, continues to be



- 2 -
hampered by inadequate rail capacity. Rural areas throughout the country are
short of transport services, both for crops a;; for local light industry.  The
capacity of navigable waterways has declined due to lack of investment in
upgrading and maintaining navigation channels. At the ports, lack of modern
facilities limits the handling in bulk of commodities such as fertilizers,
cement, and grain.
1.3       PassenAer Traffic.  The transport system is further taxed by the
marked growth il the demand for passenger travel in the last decade. Since
the economic reforms of 1979, passenger traffic has grown at nearly 12 percent
per annum, illustrating the positive relationship '-tween growth in income and
growth in demand for travel (Table 1.4).  Nonetb    J, passenger travel per
capita in China remains very low, in part because if severe capacity con-
straints. Civil aviation traffic, despite growing much faster than any other
mode, is still very limited, and most long-distance journeys are made by raLl.
1.4       TransDort Demand and Modal Split Trends.  Although the railway's
share of traffic has declined over the last 1"-20 years and the trend is
likely to continue as the share of road traffic grows, unlike in other coun-
tries, rail transport still dominates freight and passenger traffic in China.
In 1990, 58 percent of freight (Table 1.3) and 46 percent of passenger traffic
(Table 1.4) were moved by rail, and the rest was moved by road, inland water-
way, coastal shipping, pipeline, and civil aviation. The continued preemi-
nence of the railway is in part due to the structure of the Chinese economy,
wherein heavy industry is prominent and coal is the dominant energy source.
Coal and the large quantities of other bulk inputs associated with heavy
industry are well-suited for railway transport and constitute the majority of
railway traffic ia China.  In the case of passenger transport, it is due
partly to the virtual absence of private automobiles, and partly to the
limited use of aviation. Civil aviation's share was only 3.1 percent for
passenger traffic and 0.04 percent for freight traffic.
1.5      As a result of the slowdown in economic activities in 1989/1990,
transport demand, particularly of passengers, dropped significantly, and tem-
porarily alleviated the congestion in transport facilities.  Preliminary fig-
ures indicate that resumption of high economic growth in 1991 has resulted in
a corresponding surge in transport demand.
Figure 2s TRANSPORT DEMAND AND MODAL SPLIT TRENDS
Chlna: Freight Traft                    China: Putagea Tffi
IKO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~700
'LV                                I     m   C'           W "
MO
96
1,0                                    Di£61  91 194 £8  96 £8 
191, 111     i   93   a   on lo  1 9 6819   1989    MO   1960    1911    191  1£913  1914    [Su63   1916 £97  19U  it"9  199



-3-
C. II3veD nt
1.6       The Government of China has repeatedly pronounced transport bottle-
necks to be one of the moat severe constraints to economic growth. However,
transport investment level. have not kept pace with the increased demands.
Thus, vhile annual investments in the transport sector measured in current
prices surged approximately three times during the period of the fifth, sixth
and seventh five-year plans (1976-90), the share of total public investment
dedicated to transport remained quite steady over this period, averaging about
13 percent (Table 1.5). Further, investments in transport infrastructure
represented about 1.4 percent of GNP during 1980-90, compared to 2-3 percent
for countries such as South Korea and Brazil. Transport investments as a per-
centage of GNP have declined from a high of 2.4 percent during the Fourth
Five-Year Plan (1971-75), to 1.3 percent during the Seventh Five-Year Plan
(1986-90) (7FYP), despite the absolute increase in transport investments dur-
ing the period (Table 1.6). In the future, a substantial expansion of invest-
ments will be needed if the transport-related constraints to economic growth
are to be removed.
D. Transport Issues and Objectives
1.7       The key issues in the transport sector ares
(a) chronic shortages in the supply of transport services due to under-
investment, resulting in severe economic losses due to unmet demand;
(b) excess demands generated by underpricing of transport services and
transport-intensive commodities (particularly coal);
(c) uneven development of modes (i.e., excessive reliance on rail, rela-
tive neglect of other modes, and the absence of modern, integrated
intermodal services);
(d) lack of modern technology within each mode (obsolescent vehicles,
infrastructure, and operating systems), resulting in high operating
costs and poor services;
(e) shortages of human resource skills in specific key areas, particu-
larly in multimodal planning and policy analysis, economic analysis,
and user-centered logistics management; and
(f) structural weaknesses in highway construction capabilities related
to project and company management, quality control and procurement
procedures.
1.8       Achieving a better balance between demand and supply is vital
because chronic shortages of transport services have been increasingly con-
straining the growth of the Chinese economy. The effects have been seen in
the past in electric power shortages due to lack of coal transport capacity,
but transport constraints pose economic problems well beyond their effects on
the energy sector. The poor quality of transport services resulting from
shortages of often outmoded equipment and substandard, often congested infra-
structure, imposes high costs and impedes the integration of markets, which is



-4-
one of the major sources of economic efficiency in modern societies. The
ability of China to compete in world export markets is also reduced, particu-
larly for light manufacturing and high-value agricultural exports, which
require efficienr, flexible, fast door-to-door services.
1.9       Despite recent adjustments, pricing distortions are still a major
problem. Cost analyses conducted during a recent study in Guangdong Prov-
ince 1/ suggest that, despite substantial tariff increases in 1989, nation-
wide long-distance coal transport, for example, is underpriced by as much as
40 percent relative to long-run incremental costs, thus generating uneconomic
excess demands which clog the transport system. Distortions in the opposite
direction occur in highways and aviation, where tariffs may exceed long-run
incremental costs, thus distorting the choice of modes. So far, enterprises
have lacked appropriate incentives to set tariffs to reflect costs as they
have had only limited financial autoi.omy, and competition among transport
modes has been minimal due to regulatory restrictions and the congested condi-
tion of the system.
1.10      China has so far failed to acquire the full spectrum of modern
transport technology. It still relies on the railway to handle much traffic
that could be better served by modern highway vehicles and by the airplane.
Both these modes are modernizing and are steadily increasing their share of
total traffic, in highways for both freight and passengers, and in aviation
especially for the movement of people. There is also some railway traffic
which could be more economically served by coastal shipping. The Ministry of
Railways in recent years has significantly increased tariffs for short-haul
commodities, so as to encourage diversion of this traffic to other modes and
to concentrate on long-haul bulk commodities, where its comparative advantage
lies.
1.11      Over the long run, China's choi 3 of which modes to expand and by
how much should be based on an understanding of the differences in costs and
service characteristics of the different modes, on the one hand, and prospec-
tive changes in the structure and level of transport demand, on the other. At
the present time, there is a need for China to train planners and policy ana-
lysts in the analytical tools necessary to evaluate those choices and to iden-
tify the instruments required to effect the necessary changes.
1.12      Transport Sector Reforms.  The Government has already taken steps to
respond to some of these challenges. Notably, it has:
(a)  made major adjustments in transport tariffs and is conducting cost-
ing studies that will provide the basis for further adjustments. In
addition, it has allowed local authorities more autonomy to plan,
finance, and implement projects which will expand transport capa-
city;
1/   Guangdong Province Comprehensive Transport Study, Transportation Divi-
sion, Country Department III, Asia Regional Office, World Bank, July 7,
1991.



-5-
(b) allowed private individuals and commercially oriented collective and
township enterprises to provide passenger and freight transport
services on roads and inland waterways and has encouraged provincial
authorities to develop local railway systems;
(c) carried out major structural reforms in the organization and manage-
ment of civil aviation and in the ports, leading to increased finan-
cial autonomy and accountability, less central government controls
and paving the way for introduction of competitive services;            a
(d) reduced operating and capital subsidies for major infrastructure
services, through higher cost recovery and creation of user-funded
capital construction funds;
(e) encouraged introduction of more modern technology in the transport
system primarily by improving rolling stock technology in the rail-
way subsector; enhancing container and bulk handling capacity in the
port subsector; improving road pavement design and geometric stan-
dards for the expansion of motorization in the highway subsector;
and increasing the use of computerized data processing and planning
techniques in operations in all modes.
E. Bank Group Participation in Transport Sector
1.13      The Bank Group has supported the initiatives of the Government in
the transport sector through projects, sector studies, technical assistance,
and training. Through December 1991, the Bank Group had loaned about $2.5
billion to China under 20 projects for the transport sector and presently is
preparing several new transport sector projects.
1.14      The railway subsector has received $1.37 billion in Bank Group fund-
ing under six projects (Loan 2394-CHA; Loan 2540-CHA; Loan 2678-CHA/Credit
1680-CiA; Loan 2968-CHA; Loan 3060-CiA/Credit 2014-CHA and Loan 3406-CHA).
These projects have assisted with the expansion of capacity on key routes and
the manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches, and signaling
equipment; one project is assisting construction of a line in Inr,er Mongolia.
The most recent project is assisting with rail technology modernization;
development of systemwide plans, planning tools and costing studies; and add-
ing capacity where it is urgently needed. The audit of the first Railway
Project noted that physical components were well executed and that macro-
policy adjustments, especially in the area of tariff reforms, and investment
prioritization were likely to have the highest impact; these conclusions have
been considered in designing the railway project currently under preparation.
1.15      The highway subsector has received $722.2 million in Bank Group
financing under seven projects (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CRA; Loan 2811-CHA/
Credit 1792-CiA; Loan 2951-CRA/Credit 1917-CHA; Loan 2952-CHA; Credit 1984-
CHA; Loan 3073-CiA/Credit 2025-CiA; Loan 3316-CHA/Credit 2226-CHA). These
projects provide for the construction of high-quality national and provincial
roads totaling about 1,276 km, and the expansion and improvement of some
3,250 km of rural (lower class provincial, county, village) roads and major
bridges. When completed, some of these roads will help to provide vital miss-
ing links in the national highway network; others will help to ease severe



- 6 -
congestion in parta of the network or provide access to remote areas. The
projects are also designed to provide foreign technical assistance and train-
ing of Chinese personnel in areas such as supervision and quality control of
road construction, design, and planning. Finally, the projects support stud-
ies on key issues of highway development such as road safety, pavement manage-
ment, user charges, and methods of financing the expansion, improvement, and
rehabilitation of the road network. The first Highway Project (Loan 2539-CHA,
Credit 1594-CHA) is completed5 a PCR is scheduled to be issued in FY92.
1.16      The ports subsector has received $495 million of Bank Group finan-
cing under six projects (Loans 2207-CHA, 2689-CHA, 2907-CHA, 2877-CHA, 3006-
CHA, and 3007-CHA). Host of the loan funds are being used in Shanghai,
Tianjin, Dalian, Huangpu, Ningbo, and Xiamen for construction of terminals,
jetties, and berths for handling bulk commodities, general cargo, and contain-
ers, as well as the dredging of navigation channels. Funds also have been
used for training, technical assistance, and various studies such as port
planning, operations management, and containerization. The audit report of
the first port project found the project successfully completed, on time and
below cost, but recommended developing long-term strategic port investment
planning and improving prequalification procedures; recommendations on the
former point have been incorporated in the preparation of the forthcoming port
project in Shanghai, and recommendations on the latter have been taken into
account in the discussion of procurement procedures in transport projects
under preparation.
1.17      The first urban transport project (Credit 2296-CHA, $60 million),
approved in September 1991, is intended to be the first stage of a long-term
program to upgrade and develop urban infrastructure in Shanghai. The project
will finance capacity increases on key urban links and will assist the
Shanghai Metropolitan Government to improve planning, programming, financing,
and management of its urban transport system.
1 18      The dialogue between the Government and the Bank Group on transport
sector operations and strategy has been strengthened both through the project
preparation activities and project-financed studies mentioned above and
through other studies carried out in collaboration with Chinese authorities.
A provincial transport study has been conducted in Guangdong Province (para.
1.9) to support the design of a new multimodal transport plan in the province.
The Bank Group also conducted a survey of the national water transport system,
which has reaffirmed the need to further exploit the large potential of the
Chinese waterways. In preparation for future highway lending, the Bank
assisted in the screening of national highway improvement proposals, aimed to
better identify highway construction priorities. Chinese authorities and the
Bank Group are currently preparing or undertaking new transport studies which
will focus on long-term strategies for the country transport system. These
studies include a multiport optimization study to evaluate medium- to long-
term options for developing the deep-water seaport at Ningbo; a study of stra-
tegic issues and the role of ports and shipping in southern China; a multimo-
dal transport study to examine strategic options in developing the transport
system for the Yangtze Economic Zone (Shanghai Municipality together with the
provinces of Jiangou, Zhejiang and Anhui); a coal transport study to evaluate
strategies for alleviating coal delivery shortages through the year 2005; a
railway investment study to optimize railway investments within a system-wide



approach, and a railway costing study that will allow the enterprise to estab-
lish cost-based tariffs. In the highways subsector, the Bank and MOC are
discussing preparation of a number of atudies that will cover finance, manage-
ment and other policy issues in infrastructure and in road transport services
(para. 1.35).
1.19      These projects and studies are helping to spur the growth and mod-
ernization of the transport system. However, much more needs to be done to
bring about the changes required to effectively deal with the emerging issues.
In order to significantly alleviate the transport bottlenecks and rationalize
the transport system, the government would need, by the year 2000, to take the
following measures:
(a) increase the total level of transport investment in relation to GNP,
to expand capacity to meet the new traffic demands and to clear up
the backlogs caused by past underinvestment;
(b) realize the most economical balance of investments among the major
freight transport modes of railway, highway, and water;
(c) realign further the prices of freight transport services and those
of the major commodities, especially coal, to bring them closer to
their true costs;
(d) increase further the productivity of existing transport assets
through technological modernization and management reforms; and
(e) improve multimodal investment decisions, both across and within
modes, through the use of analysis and planning tools that more
reliably determine the optimum economic priorities of transport
investments under budget constraints.
1.20      In the past, the Bank has supported the government in implementing
the above measures mainly by focusing on expanding traffic capacity and
improving operational efficiency. While such support will remain, the Bank
will broaden its strategy and will assist the government in the design and
implementation of institutional and sectoral reforms in other areas, including
investment planning, pricing and financing, services' deregulation, opera-
tional management, and transfer of advanced transport-related technology
through training and provision of up-to-date equipment.
F. The Hizhwav Subsector
The National Hiahwav Network and its Utilization
1.21      The hiahway network totaled about 1,028,000 km in 1990 and relative
to either population or geographic area, ranked among the smallest in the
world (page 1, Figure 1). About 30 percent of China's villages have no access
to roads suitable for motor vehicles. Investment in the highway subsector has
been rather modest, at 21 percent of total investment in the transport sector
during the 7FYP. Since the early 1980s, the highway system has borne an
increasing share of traffic. The network is, for the purposes of design and
technical specifications, classified by the Ministry of Communications (MOC)



- 8 -
as Expressway, and Classes 1, 2, 3 and 4 for various traffic capacities in
different terrain. These classifications are shown in Table 1.7, which also
shows the geometric standards now being used. For administrative purposes,
roads are classified as national, provincial, county, village, and special
purpose.
1.22      The rapid growth of hiahvav traffic stems not only from tie coun-
try's rapid economic growth but also from other factors such as the uiational
policy of shifting short-haul rail transport to road transport and the expan-
sion of the service sector and rural industries. Furthermore, with the
increase in foreign trade, growth in transport demand will be concentrated in
transport corridors serving the main ports and their hinterlands and, with the
containerization of the higher value commodities, much of domestic movements
for this foreign trade is expected to go by road. The new economic activities
have generated traffic in excess of what the existing facilities can accommo-
date. Congestion on roads resulting from the mix of slow-moving nonmotorized
and motorized traffic is a serious problem. Road pavements, which are gener-
ally well maintained, are showing increasing levels of roughness.
1.23      The vehicle fleet totaled some 5.5 million trucks, buses and cars in
1990, with trucks comprising over 71 percent. Most ttrcks are of four-ton
capacity with outmoded designs and low fuel efficiency. Most of the trucks
and buses are gasoline powered. These vehicles were manufactured domestically
and, until recently, the production of trucks was barely sufficient to replace
the retired vehicles, let alone meet growing demand. It was not until the
early 1980s that a large number of modern vehicles was imported and joint
ventures with foreign manufacturers were started to manufacture trucks; pro-
duction has grown steadily to reach 647,000 units in 1988, but dropped consid-
erably in 1989 and 1990 due to the economic stagnation in those years. This
production is contributing to the creation of a new fleet, although the older
vehicles still dominate. Growth in the truck and bus fleet has been fairly
steady over the last 12 years, with particularly strong grovth in small pas-
senger vehicles.
1.24      The tractor and motorcycle fleets, at 4.6 million and 4.2 million,
rival the size of the truck and bus fleet. Both tractors and motorcycles
offer a relatively cheap and basic form of transport, but add seriously to
traffic congestion on rural roads (principally tractors) and urban streets
(mainly motorcycles), and are a major cause of road accidents. Growth in the
tractor knd motorcycle fi ets has increased sharply, with motorcycles showing
the strongest growth of all vehicle types (Table 1.8).
1.25      The trucking industry consists of rublicly owned trucks operated by
trucking companies affiliated with local (provincial or district) highway
authorities, and other trucks operated by factories, cooperative organizations
and, recently, private individuals. The relaxation of trucking regulations in
the early 1980s allowed own-account trucks to haul cargo for other factories
and cooperatives and thus promoted competition between public and own-account
trucks. In fact, nonpublic trucks have absorbed most of the growth in traffic
over the past few years (Table 1.9). However, trucking costs are extremely
high, stemting in part from technological factors (poor roads, outmoded
trucks, etc.) but also from the lack of professional common carriers, which is
essential to the development of modern and efficient trucking services. While



-9-
market forces are expected to play a more important role in shaping the indus-
try in the future, it is necessary to understand the current constraints to
such development and to identify the measures needed to allow the reshaping of
the industry to take place.
1.26      Road safety is a major issue in China's transport system.  A study
completed in 1987 under the first Highway Project found the accident rate to
be 100 deaths per 10,000 vehicles, one of the highest in the world and costing
the Chinese economy close to $1 billion annually. The study also identified
essential measures needed to be taken, including improved police accident
reporting; introduction of computer-based accident analysis; identification of
accident causes and dangerous road spots; preparation of guidelines for road
safety design; improved administrative procedures; improved manpower training;
and preparation of a road safety action plan. Comprehensive treatment of the
road safety problem has been hampered by the transfer, early in 1988, of
responsibility for highway safety matters from MOC and the Provincial Trans-
port Departments (PTDs) to the Ministry of Public Security and its provincial
units. This decision has created administrative barriers which still have to
be overcome.
Hiazhwav Administration. Planni-na and Finance
1.27      The provincial governments, through the Highway Administration
Bureaus of the PTDs, are responsible for the administration of the highwav
network. Arrangements for administration vary among provinces; in the more
decentralized ones, the county and municipal governments perform some adminis-
trative and all of the operational functions relating to the highway network.
The central government's Ministry of Communications provides general policy
guidance and support to the PTDs through its nationwide policies and regula-
tions, specifying design and construction standards. HOC also provides spe-
cialized manpower for planning and design, and also construction equipment for
major provincial civil works, if needed. However, the PTDs are financially
independent of MOC and car-ry out all the road planning, construction, mainte-
nance, and administration of roads and waterways in the provinces. MOC is
more heavily involved only in some large projects which are considered of
national importance and for which MOC shares part of the financial burden.
1.28      While the provinces manage the country's highway network, MOC is
responsible for Plannina and investment strategies for the development of the
National Hiahwav System. A reclassification of the country's road network in
1981 led to the designation of key interprovincial links as National Highways.
More recently, MOC has been developing a long-term strategy for the systematic
upgrading of the national system in key corridors over a 30-year planning
horizon. The system, comprising twelve major routes, would connect all the
provincial capitals and cities with populations exceeding 500,000; route
selection would generally be based on the potential for maximizing industrial
production in the corridors selected for the initial, minimum-length network.
Construction of 25,000 km of high standard, access-controlled roads, is
expected to be completed by the year 2025. Priority for early construction is
being given to those routes already congested and hindering economic activity.
By the end of 1991, some 500 km of the system had been built, and a further
1,600 km is envisaged to be substantially completed by the end of the Eighth
Five-Year Plan (1991-95) (8FYP) in 1995. The provincial governments are



- 10 -
responsible for route location, engineering design, construction, operation
and maintenance of the national highway system.
1.29      The provinces finance hizhwav construction and maintenance through
the revenues generated by road maintenance fees, levied on the revenue of
freight and passenger transport companies and on the capacity of own-account
vehicles (para. 2.13). The MOC receives the revenues from a levy on vehicle
sales and uses these funds, which reach about Y 2 billion/year, to contribute
financing for: (a) the roads included in the national highway network, pro-
viding a higher share of financing for the poorer, hinterland provinces and a
lower share for the richer, coastal provinces; and (b) construction or reha-
bilitation of rural roads located in poverty-stricken areas. According to a
recent study by MOC, if existing sources for funding both national and provin-
cial roads are not improved, by the year 2000 they will provide 30 percent
less than is needed to develop the highway system in line with the growth in
demand. The issue is especially critical in the coastal provinces with the
fastest economic growth, where the road systems are experiercing the highest
levels of congestion and deterioration.
1.30      Over recent years, MOC has embarked on two important activities
designed to improve highway planning and investment decisions:
(a)  a computerized Road Data Bank (RDB), intended eventually to be
introduced in each provincial transport department. The road data
bank would contain all important road information at the national,
provincial and county level, providing the basis for improving the
economic rationale for decisions on expansion, rehabilitation,
strengthening and maintenance of the road networks. MOC's Highway
Planning and Design Institute (HPDI) has prepared a standard format
for the data to be inputted in the data bank and is setting guide-
lines for the provinces so that a uniform and fully integrated
nationwide system can be established; and
(b)  a Pavement Management System (PMS). This system would allow for the
development of economically appropriate standards for pavement
design and maintenance, leading to improved decision-making and
timing of investments. Following research initially sponsored by
the State Planning Commission (SPC) and the Ministry of Science and
Technology in 1986, HOC has taken the lead role in implementing
pavement management systems in the provinces, and pilot systems are
being set up in Guangdong, Shandong and Hebei, among others.
1.31      In addition to its role in planning and financing, MOC serves an
important function as coordinator for the construction of priority sections of
the national highway network. In early 1990, HOC established a Technical
Coordinating Unit (TCU) to maintain close contact with the provinces executing
projects financed by the Bank and other external financiers. TCU's main focus
has been to provide guidance to the project executing agencies and to coordi-
nate staff training arId the development of RDB and PHS at the provincial
level.
1.32      In summary, despite government efforts to improve the highway system
and its utilization and administration, much more is needed to modernize the



- 11 -
system and allow it to effectively meet the increasing demands placed on road
transport, both in improving physical capacity and the management of the sec-
tor. The key areas on which the government should focus attention to institu-
tional reforms and training are:
(a) cost recovery and financing, to provide the resources needed to meet
the increasing costs of maintenance and operations and to encourage
an efficient use of the highway system;
(b) highway planning and investment strategies, to better identify
short- and long-term highway development priorities;
(c) the role of MOC, to make it more consistent with the rapid decen-
tralization taking place in the management and financing of highway
operations, and to strengthen its capacities to deal with its
expanded role;
(d) preparation of feasibility studies using modern analytical tech-
niques, and based on data and relationships reflecting actual condi-
tions on China's highways;
(e) the operations of the road user services industry, both for freight
and passengers, to reduce costs and improve quality of services,
through the promotion of competition, modern technology and better
management; and
(f) the road construction industry, to improve the management and appli-
cation of contract conditions, modernize equipment, and clarify
relationships among clients, contractors and supervisory bodies.
Bank's Experience and Strate&v in Hishwavs
1.33      Of the seven Bank-financed highway projects (para. 1.15), only the
first Highway Project has been completed. The project, which was designed to
construct and improve 7 segments of the national and 59 segments of the
provincial/county road networks in nine provinces, achieved its original
objectives and clearly demonstrated the benafits accruing from improved acces-
sibility to communities deprived of adequate transport infrastructure in eco-
nomically less developed regions. Economic activity in the area of influence
of the project roads surged, and income levels increased noticeably. Further-
more, the Bank's involvement facilitated the acceptance of competition in the
contracting for road works, even for smaller civil works contracts, in prefer-
ence to force account operations, and demonstrated the merits of supervision
of construction by specially assigned units.
1.34      Highways together with port projects constitute the Bank's first
major involvement with large civil works in China. As could be expected, the
introduction of international competitive bidding has been difticult, particu-
larly as each project involves a new implementing agency. Despite these dif-
ficulties, which have placed most civil works components in highway projects
behind appraisal schedule, much progress has been achieved and the concept of
competitive bidding is now generally accepted. These projects have brought to
the surface weaknesses in the local contracting industry and contract adminis-



- 12 -
tration by the executing agencies. These lessons are being used in the prepa-
ration of new projects, for example by strengthening the prequalification of
contractors to avoid selection of unqualified contractors, and by strengthen-
ing arrangements for construction supervision. The Bank's involvement has
assisted MOC and the PTDs to develop a greater awareness of the need for sys-
tematic planning through the developmezst of the RDB and PHS. The Bank has
also helped in the transfer of technology through the supply of equipment for
road research and road maintenance, and through broad-based training programs
covering highway technology and advanced management practices.
1.35      The Bank's strate&v for future hiahwav lending is to continue to
support institutional development and sectoral reforms aimed at modernizing
the highway system and its management. This support will continue both at the
central and provincial government levels. The Bank's dialogue with central
and provincial authorities as well as the insights gained during supervision
Qf the highway projects portfolio have helped to identify key issues in the
highway sector and devise ways to address them systematically. While some
institutional and sector issues will normally be addressed in every project,
other issues requiring more detailed studies will be addressed selectively in
individual provincial projects, with a view to formulating recommendations
that may also serve other provinces (para. 1.36). During the next three to
five years, the investment components of highway projects will continue to
focus on high priority links of the national highway system, and to support
the development of the provincial road networks. The Bank strategy also
envisages continuing close collaboration with the MOC, and assisting it,
through economic and sector studies and through lending operations, in adapt-
ing to the ovolving needs of the Chinese economy.
1.36      Specifically, the Bank's strategy for forthcoming highway projects
comprises addressing the following issues:
(a)  Issues to be addressed in all hiLhwav irolects
(i)  sound management of the existing highway network, including
adequate provision for rehabilitation and maintenance, priori-
tized according to economic analysis;
(ii) development of high standard, limited-access highways in spe-
cific corridors of proven high demand and inadequate existing
capacity;
(iii) satisfactory compliance with environmental and resettlement
requirements; and
(iv) promotion of road safety.
(b) Issues to be addressed in s2ecific provincial highwav Droiects
(i)  Identification of a structure for adequate road user charges,
in order to mobilize the necessary resources for road develop-
ment and equitably recover from users the costs of the highway
system. A study would be conducted under the proposed
Guangdong Provincial Highway Project.



- 13 -
(ii)  Promotion of adequate road services, including encouragement to
private, collective and township enterprises to *nter the busi-
ness as part of the reform of the transport sector. A study at
the provincial level would be carried out under the proposed
nighway project in Henan Province, and a complementary study of
trucking at the national level would be conducted under the
Bank's transport sector program.
(iii) A study would be conducted under the proposed highway project
in Fujian Province regarding the need to upgrade the capacity
and effectiveness of the highway construction industry. This
study would be followed by a pilot program under the project
for the provincial construction industry.
(iv)  Integration of road transport services with other modes, par-
ticularly in the field of containerization, and the establish-
ment of modern, integrated multimodal services. The selection
of a highway project addressing this is still to be determined.
II. ZHEJIANG PROVINCE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Situation and Economy
2.1       Zhejiang Province is located on the coast of China immediately south
of the Yangtze River Estuary. The total land area is some 100,000 square
kilometers, but 70 percent of this is mountainous and a further 10 percent is
covered by lakes. The plain areas are concentrated in the northeast of the
Province; this region also contains most of the economic activity (Table 2.1).
About half the economic activity of the Province is concentrated in the 150
kilometer corridor linking the cities of Hangzhou and Shaoxing with the port
city of Ningbo. In 1990, Zhejiang ranked second in the nation in terms of
Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry (GOVAI). The Province as a
whole enjoyed a per capita GOVAI some 50 percent higher than the national
average, with the Hangzhou-Shaoxing-Ningbo corridor some 150 percent higher.
B. Transport Network
2.2       Zhejiang has a well developed transport system with tl. density of
roads, railways and waterways well above the national average (Table 2.2); in
particular, the density of the road and waterway networks is exceeded only by
Jiangsu Province. Nearly 4,000 of the Province's 10,600 kilometers of naviga-
ble waterways have a depth greater than one meter. The Port of Ningbo is the
only natural deep-water port on China's mid-eastern seaboard and is currently
being expanded with assistance from the Bank. The Province has well-developed
coastal shipping services, including freight and passenger ferry services
across the Hangzhou Bay to Shanghai, and the Province is well served by both
domestic and international air service. The size of the vehicle fleet is
relatively low, at 3.5 vehicles per 1,000 population compared with the
national average of 4.8. This is possibly because other modes of transport
are relatively well developed in Zhejiang. The number of vehicles per kilome-



- 14 -
ter of the provincial road network is the same as the average for the nation,
i.e., 0.2 km per vehicle.
2.3       The highway system of the Province has been expanded by about
33 percent in the years 1981 to 1990, and at the same time substantially
upgraded (Table 2.3). In particular, the length of paved road has been
doubled to about 6,100 km, 20 percent of the provincial highway system.  The
Province still has no Class 1 highways, and only 1,643 km of Class 2 highways.
The administrative classification of the road system in 1990 was as follows:
National         1,841 km        62
Provincial       5,149 km       172
County          13,909 km       462
Villasge         8,899 km       302
Special            397 km        1%
Total           30.195 km      1002
C.  Traffic Growth and Characteristics
2.4       Traffic growth in the five years from 1984-90 was strong, exceeding
the national average growth rate for all the major modes except rail freight,
where capacity limitations probably restricted activity. Growth on the high-
way system was particularly rapid, with an atmual growth rate of over 35 per-
cent for freight and approaching 14 percent for passengers. These high growth
rates in terms of ton-kilometers and passenger-kilom#,ters are reflected in the
changes in traffic densities since 1984 (Table 2.4).
2.5       In 1983, about 42 percent of the main network carried nonmotorized
or agricultural traffic, with less than 200 motor vehicles per day; by 1990
this proportion of lightly trafficked roads in the network had shrunk to less
than 6 percent. At the same time, the length of road carrying over 2,000
motor vehicles per day increased by thirty times (Table 2.5). These changes
are confirmed by the traffic counts in the Hangzhou-Ningbo Corridor which show
similar growth trends (para. 4.10). The growth in highway traffic can be
attributed to two main factors: the general expansion of the economy, and the
diversion of shorter distance traffic from other modes due to the improved
highway network, growing vehicle fleet, and liberalization of trucking ser-
vices in the early 19809.
D. The Vehicle Float.
2.6       The vehicle fleet increased by nearly three times between 1984 and
1990, at an average rate of 21 percent per year (Table 2.6). Most of this
growth was seen in smaller vehicles--medium and small trucks, small passenger
vehicles, and motorcycles, averaging annual growths of 47 percent, 34 percent
and 51 percent, respectively--while larger trucks and passenger vehicles grew
at a more modest rate of 11 percent per year. The fluctuations in the number
of agricultural tractors reflect unreliable historical data and changes in
licensing procedures in 1987 rather than an underlying trend--the total number
probably was fairly stable during the period with little, if any, growth.



- 15 -
E. The Trucking Industr=
2.7       The trucking industry in Zhejiang Province has followed nationwide
trends, in that an increasing volume of freight is being carried by own-
account operators--enterprises, collectives and private individuals--while the
tonnage carried by the public transport companies affiliated to the Provincial
Transport Department has dropped, both in total tonnage and as a share of this
subsector (Table 2.7). However, the average haul length of public transport
companies has more than doubled in the period, reflecting a more appropriate
role as a longer distance hauler, leaving more local pick up and delivery
services to others. The liberalization of the Trucking Regulations in the
early 1980s has clearly spurred the development of highway freight services in
the Province, and this is placing pressure on the capacity of the highway
system to absorb this traffic.
P. Highway Administration
2.8       The Zhejiang Provincial Transport Department (ZPTD) controls all
highway and waterway transport undertakings in the Province (Chart 1). The
ZPTD reports directly to the Zhejiang Provincial People's Government (ZPG) and
acts as an administrative arm of ZPG for planning, budgeting and financing of
transport in the Province. However, the ZPTD conforms to the general trans-
port policy and technical guidelines issued by HOC.
2.9       The Zhejiang Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (ZPHAB), under
the administration of ZPTD, is responsible for all highway matters and
receives professional and technical guidance from the Engineering Administra-
tion Department of MOC. With a headquarters staff of about 200, their main
function is the construction and maintenance of roads through the local admin-
istrations set up in the various municipalities, prefectures and counties of
the Province (Chart 2). The Transport Bureaus in each of the 11 municipali-
ties and prefectures undertake the construction and maintenance of the
national and provincial highways using experienced, full-time maintenance
units. Each of the 69 counties has responsibility under the municipality and
prefectures for the maintenance of the county roads. Some townships, enter-
prises and mines also take part in the maintenance of roads of their particu-
lar concern. The 11 municipalities and prefectures and the 69 county units
have a total staff of 2,270, of which technical personnel comprise about
26 percent.
2.10      The Zhejiang Provincial Shanghai-Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway Project
Executive Commission (ZPEPEC) is a department level institution which reports
directly to ZPG and is exclusively responsible for the organization, direction
and coordination of the Shanghai-Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway Project. It cur-
rently has a staff of about 200, of whom 120 are located in offices in the
cities along the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway (Chart 3).
G.  Plannnit. Budgetint and Financint
2.11      Plannina.  ZPTD has overall responsibility for planning investments
in and maintaining the provincial highway network. However, the highway
administration units at th,e prefecture, county, and village levels have con-
siderable autonomy in planning smaller road investments. These smaller



- 16 -
investments are subject to the approval of ZPTD, largely as a formality. Each
administrative group prepares investment plans for the highway network under
their jurisdiction, and submits them to the planning division of ZPTD by Sep-
tember of each year for the next year's plan, starting January let each year.
Before the end of November, ZPTD approves the next year's plan for each county
or local authority concerned. Similarly, ZPTD prepares the five-year road
development plan using inputs from lower level administrative groups revised
to reflect national or provincial development policy guidelines and objectives
for the plan period.
2.12      Budaeting. As is done in almost all sectors in China, ZPTD's plan-
ning division normally adopts a balanced budget policy. The proposed highway
investment is balanced against the revenue earmarked for highway development;
the amount of investment approved for each year is closely related to the
amount of road maintenance fees and other revenues expected for the same year.
This pattern has been followed in Zhejiang Province until 1987. Since then,
however, a special fund was established for reserving revenues for the con-
struction of high standard highways, such as the Hangzhou-Ningbo and Shanghai-
Ningbo Highways. In October of each year and before ZPTD approves the follow-
ing year's projects, the current year's planned investments ars reviewed
against actual investments and revenue receipts, and adjustments are made
where needed.
2.13      Financinft.  The road maintenance fee provides the main source of
furds to finance construction and maintenance of the highway sector. This fee
is collected by ZPTD from motor vehicles throughout the province. ZPTD deter-
mines the fee rates and, through the provincial government, reports the fee to
the State Council for approval before it becomes effective. The rates vary
according to the type and size of vehicles, as follows: (a) vehicles owned by
state transport companies are charged 15 percent of their gross revenue;
(b) vehicles owned by collective and private transport companies are charged
Y 120 per month per one payload ton, or Y 120 per month per 10 passenger
seats; and (c) passenger care are charged Y 70 per month. The rates reflect
increases effected in 1986 for state-owned transport companies and in 1988 for
collective and private transport companies. The maintenance fee provides the
source of income for all maintenance and overhead, and for a substantial por-
tion of upgrading costs. A maintenance fee surcharge is also collected at
highway check points at the rates of Y 25 per payload ton per month, 0.07 fen
surcharge per passenger-kilometer and 1 fen surcharge per ton-kilometer; these
funds accrue to a special fund for high standard highway construction. Cur-
rently, these funds are for the use of ZPEPEC.
2.14      The revenues from road maintenance fees are distributed as follows:
(a) 15 percent is remitted to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) as the Energy and
Transport Fund; (b) 10 percent is transferred to the State Budget Adjustment
Fund; (c) 2 percent is remitted to the Public Security Bureau (since 1987) for
highway patrol; and (d) 73 percent is retained by ZPTD for highway works.
Over the period, road maintenance expenditures increased at a rate of about
20 percent per annum. Of the total budget of Y 749.8 million in 1990, about
34 percent was expended on new highway construction and rehabilitation;
13 percent on road maintenance; and 2 percent on administration and overhead
costs. The remainder is used as reserve for the construction of the Shanghai-
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway (Table 2.8).



- 17 -
2.15      In addition to the road maintenance fee, other resources for highway
works are obtained from: MOC, which contributes to new construction and major
upgrading of national and major provincial roads on a selective basis; and tile
provincial finance bureau, which provides budgetary resources for new provin-
cial road construction and emergency programs for flood damaged roads.
2.16      Total resources allocated for road uses in Zhejiang Province
amounted to 749.0 million in 1990, implying a real growth rate of 33 percent
per annum since 1985. In 1990, 63 percent of these funds originated from the
road maintenance fees; the rest came from MOC allocations and collection of
tolls. The MOC allocation, amounting to Y 42.0 million, was less than the
provincial contribution to MOF from the road maintenance fees collected from
highway users in Zhejiang Province, not counting fuel taxes.
2.17      Fuel prices in China are not subsidized.  Fuel taxes are charged to
road users but may not be allocated back to road works. These taxes are heav-
ily levied by MOF. They currently amount to 43 percent of the base price of
gasolines and 13 percent of the base price of diesel fuels. Total fuel
prices, including taxes, show that prices at the pump for planned fuel alloca-
tions are comparable to international market prices, while those charged in
the open market are well above international market prices and are increasing
at a rate comparable to the consumer price index (Table 2.9).
H. Engineerinf. Construction and Maintenance
2.18      Road and bridge projects are engineered by the planning and design
institutes at the provincial, prefecture, and county levels. The Zhejiang
Provincial Transport Design Institute (ZPTDI) is responsible for designing all
major road, bridge, and tunnel projects. In designing major highway projects,
ZPTDI has been assisted by several institutes of MOC:  (a) HPDI; (b) the First
and Second Survey and Design Institutes, located at Xi'an and Wuhan; and
(c) the Highway Scientific Research Institute (HSRI). In designing bridges
and tunnels, ZPTDI is also assisted by the First and Second Survey and Design
Institutes, and other specialized design institutes. HPDI is available to
assist in economic evaluation--a practice which is now becoming routine for
major road and bridge investments. HSRI provides advice on problems pertain-
ing to &eotechnical design and construction materials. Local design insti-
tutes are, in general, competent and have experienced personnel for carrying
out highway design tasks. However, the involvement of foreign consultants was
considered appropriate in the design of the Hangzhou-Ningbo highway, which is
the first high-standard highway to be designed and constructed in the Province
(para. 3.7). Foreign consultants would also assist ZPEPEC in supervising the
construction of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway (para. 3.16).
2.19      In the past, road and bridge construction normally was executed as a
force account operation by construction bureaus attached to the provincial,
prefecture, or county governments. Since SPC directed that all major civil
works be awarded after competitive bidding, a domestic contracting industry
has been growing rapidly. Many of the larger provincial construction bureaus
are being reorganized into financially independent contracting companies and
have been awarded contracts either individually or as partners in joint ven-
tures on previous Bank-financed highway projects.



- 18 -
2.20      The national and provincial roads are well maintained by the ZPTD.
However, due to the relatively low strength of pavements and the recent
increases in traffic, maintenance costs are rising rapidly. They presently
range between Y 5,000 and Y 6,000 per km per annum. Maintenance of the county
roads is well organized and is carried out effectively, but mainly through
labor-intensive operations. Under the project, the planning and execution of
both routine and periodic maintenance would be improved. Assistance would be
provided to proceed with the implementation of RDB and PMS as a basis for
preparing road investment and maintenance programs (paras. 3 18 and 3 19).
Basic maintenance equipment would also be provided (para. 3.21).
I. Highway Develonment
2.21      During the Seventh Five-Year Plan, the total transport sector
investment in the Province was Y 2.10 billion, about four times higher than
during the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85). Of this amount Y 1.48 billion was
spent on the construction of new highways and rehabilitation of existing high-
ways; 4,884 km of new highways and to pave 2,119 km with high type (cement or
asphalt concrete) and sub-high type (gravel surface) pavements. The total
length of highway reached 30,195 km in the Province in 1990. During the
period of the 7FYP, 2,283 new bridges (of a total length of 62,400 m) and 33
tunnels (total length of 10,055 m) were built, and 2,820 km of highways were
built or rebuilt in economically depressed areas.
2.22      The recent acceleration of economic growth and the currently limited
number of high class highways has led the Province to increase allocations to
infrastructure for transport by water and roads, to about Y 6.47 billion dur-
ing the SFYP, or 232 percent higher than for the 7FYP. Investment in highways
is expected to amount to about Y 5.38 billion, or about 83 percent of the
total   The 8FYP aims at achieving the following goals in highway transport:
(a) Link all county towns to the main highway system by paved roads; it
is estimated that some 17 such towns remain to be connected, requir-
ing the construction of 575 km of roadsl
(b) Reconstruct and pave all roads carrying over 500 vehicles per day;
it is estimated that some 2,300 km of roads would require upgrading
for this reason; and
(c) Eliminate dangerous or substandard sections of existing roads at
such locations as: approaches to urban areas, narrow roads and
bridge bottlenecks, landslide areas, links to adjacent provinces,
at-grade railway crossings, and spots with a high rate of accidents.
2.23      By the end of the plan period, the total length of roads in the
Province is expected to increase to about 32,700 km (compared with nearly
30,195 km in 1990), including 200 km of expressways and 6,700 km of other
higher class roads. Besides the Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway (145 km) included
in this project the Province plans to construct the 80 km Xiaoshan-Zhuji sec-
tion of the Hangzhou-Quzhou Road to motorway standards; continue rehabilita-
tion of Jinghua-Lishui Highway and Taizhou prefectural section of National
Road 104 to Class 2 standards; rehabilitate about 468 km of asphalt roads in
14 counties to Class 2/Class 3 standards; rehabilitate about 1,349 km of



- 19 -
National and Provincial roads carrying over 500 vehicles per day to Class
2/Class 3 standards; and build 7 new bridge., at Hengshan, Lingpu, Qingjiang,
Chingtian, Linghai, Huangyan and Bihu.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Formulation and Preparation
3.1       In the early 1980., the People's Republic of China (PRC) initiated a
comprehensive road development program which was implemented during 1986-90,
the period of the Seventh Five-Year Plan. The Eighth Five-Year Plan provides
for continuing this program at an accelerated rate, in recognition of the need
to expand and improve the national and provincial road networks to meet
increasing traffic demand in corridors with a high level of economic activity,
and to foster economic growth in the less developed regions of the country.
In 1989, the PRC requested the Bank's continued assistance for the subsector,
submitting to the Bank a list of highway proposals at the end of that year.
3.2       As a follow-up, a Bank mission, jointly with the SPC and HOC, vis-
ited several provinces during February and March 1990 to make a preliminary
assessment of nine highway proposals, identifying those highway projects eli-
gible for possible financing during the 8FYP. From this preselection process
it was concluded that the Zhejiang highway proposal was of high priority and
would be appropriate for Bank financing.
3.3       The proposed project was prepared under the direction of ZPTD with
the guidance of SPC and MOC. The Bank's project identification mission vis-
ited Zhejiang Province in March, 1989, with subsequent Bank missions working.
closely with SPC, HOC and the ZPTD to formulate the project scope. The main
components of the proposed project are the construction of a new highway
between Hangzhou and Ningbo, and a road development program for the upgrading
of provincial and county roads, primarily in the less developed southern
region of the Province (Map 1).
B. Proiect Obiectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.4       The proposed project has the following specific objectives:
(a) to relieve congestion in the Hangzhou-Ningbo corridor by providing a
fast and reliable highway for long distance traffic serving the
industries located in the Hangzhou-Ningbo corridor and the Ningbo
Port area;
(b) to promote economic development, particularly in the southern region
of the Province, through the provision of road access to population
presently deprived of motorized vehicle access, and to improve the
provincial and county roads carrying substantial volumes of traffic;
(c)  to further develop institutional capabilities for transport planning
and investment prioritization; and



- 20 -
(d) to promote the transfer of highway construction and maintenance
technology through training and the provision of equipment.
3.5       The Bank Group's assistance strategy for China involves support for
implementing economic reforms, mo.'ernizing and rationalizing productive sec-
toro, and assisting with infrastructure development. Assistance with
transport investments specifically focuses on eliminating bottlenecks in the
system, improving rural infrastructure, and promoting modal interaction. The
proposed project is consistent with these assistance strategy objectives. The
main component of the project, construction of the Hangzhou-Nisngbo Highway,
was found to be a key priority link in the development of the national motor-
way network. It also complements earlier Bank assistance to Beilun Port near
Ningbo by improving access to the Port's newly constructed container terminal.
Although ZhejCang Province has a fundamentally sound approach to highway
development, it still lacks experience in the design and construction of mod-
ern highways, which are needed to eliminate bottlenecks in economically more
developed corridors. The proposed project will also help Zhejiang Province
adopt economic criteria and methodologies for investment decisions and intro-
duce technological improvements in the construction of rural roads. The
Bank's assistance in these areas is well placed since it has a comparative
advantage in supporting highway subsector development worldwide and in China
which is well recognized.
C. Proiect Scope
3.6       The scope of the project includes:
(a) construction of a 138 km section of the Hangzhou-Ningbo four-lane
divided, access-controlled highway, including service facilities, as
well as the supply and installation of electrical, electronic and
mechanical equipment for tolling, traffic monitoring, telecommunica-
tion and lighting;
(b) construction and improvement of about 33 road sections (970 km) of
the provincial/county road network and five bridges (2,000 m)
located primarily in the southern region of the Province;
(c) construction supervision of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway and the
provincial/county road construction and improvement components;
(d) purchase of equipment for:
(i) a central laboratory, environmental protection and research far
the Hangzhou-Ningbo highway;
(ii) operation and maintenance of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway;
(iii)  provincial/county road laboratories and survey units and for
the development and application of the Road Data Bank and Pave-
ment Management System; and
(iv) maintenance of the provincial/county road networks.



- 21 -
(e) staff training programs covering a broad spectrum of highway plan-
ning, design, construction and maintenance.
3.7       Construction of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Hiahwav.  The existing Hangzhou-
Ningbo road between Hangzhou and Shangyu, designated as National Route 104,
traverses populated and industrial areas, including the citias of Xiaoshan and
Shaoxing (Map 2), and extensive ribbon development, all of which has adversely
affected motorized vehicle speeds.  The section of the existing road between
Shangyu and Ningbo (designated as National Route 329) is more rural in charac-
ter with only one major city, Cixi. Although the existing road has been built
to Class 2 standards, it cannot accommodate the recent and expected future
increases in traffic beyond the year 1996. Road widening would not be feasi-
ble along most of its length because of the extensive side development. Even
if that could be done the traffic congestion through the cities and townships
would remain a serious impediment to normal traffic operations, and detrimen-
tal to economic growth.
3.8       The total length of the proposed highway is 145 km, of which 138 km,
and a 2.6 km access link to Ningbo City, would be constructed under the proj-
ect.  The construction of a 7 km section of the highway, including a major
bridge over the Qiantang River, was completed during 1988-91 and opened to
traffic in January 1992. High priority was accorded to the construction of
this section in order to relieve the severe bottleneck posed by the old and
narrow Qiantang bridge located just south of Hangzhou City. The works
involved have been financed jointly by the Province and the Hangzhou Munici-
pality.
3.9       A feasibility study, carried out by ZPTDI, analyzed four alternative
routes; the engineering design for the selected route was completed in mid-
January 1992. The design was undertaken by ZPTDI with the assistance of a
number of design institutes from HOC and other provinces, as well as the
Finnish Road Administration, in association with the Finnish Consulting Engi-
neering Ltd. The highway traverses geologically difficult terrain with exten-
sive soft, highly compressible, soils over two thirds of the length of the
alignment. An assessment of alternative solutions was undertaken with a 3 km
long section of highway embankment constructed for testing purposes to help
identify, through continued monitoring of settlements, the appropriate mea-
sures for mitigating the extent of consolidation.
3.10      The proposed highway would be constructed to expressway standards as
designated in the national geometric standards for highways (Table 1.7), with
connection to the existing road network to and from the new highway provided
at six interchanges. The highway project would also include 18 major bridges,
79 medium sized bridges, 98 small bridges, 31 overpasses, 14 road underpasses,
and 222 small underpasses, and would be operated as a toll facility (para.
4.19). In addition to civil works, the project also covers the cost of elec-
trical, electronic and mechanical installations required for toll collection,
traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting of major bridges and
interchanges. The final engineering design and technical specifications have
been reviewed by Bank staff with the assistance of the Finnish Road Adminis-
tration and Finnish Consulting Engineering Ltd. and were found to be satisfac-
tory.



- 22 -
3.11      The opening of the now highway would bring a significant increase in
traffic to some of the arterials both in the city of Hangzhou and, to a lesser
extent, Ningbo. The highway feasibility study highlighted the potential for
traffic congestion at the Hangzhou end of the highway, if timely actions were
not taken to increase the capacity of the main connecting artery (Genshan
Road) from the highway into the city. For this reason Genshan Road is pres-
ently being widened to accoimodate four traffic lanes vith provisions to seg-
regate motorized and nonmotorized traffic. Furthermore, works have also
started to widen some sections of the Inner Ring Road on the northern out-
skirts of the inner city. This is scheduled for completion by the end of
1995.
3.12      After the completion of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway, access to
Ningbo City would be through the interchange at Dazhujia and the junction at
Duantang, and the respective connecting access roads. Beilun Port and the
Beilun Development Zone would connect to the highway at Dazhujia through a
Class 2 access road which links up with Jianguan Highway and National Road
329. However, this Class 2 access road is expected to become congested during
the first decade of the next century. As a result, the construction of the
highway to Daqi, located at the southern part of the Beilun Development Zone,
has been tentatively scheduled to start around the year 2003, with the Right
of Way for this alignment already reserved (Map 2).
3 13      Road Development Program (RDP)   The experience gained from the
construction and improvement of secondary and tertiary roads under the first
Highway Project (para. 1.33) and under some of the ongoing provincial highway
projects confirmed the significance of the benefits accruing from this type of
investment, particularly in the lese developed regions in China. Using this
experience, the RDP has been formulated for the construction and improvement
of selected provincial and county roads and bridges located primarily in the
southern region of the Province. The RDP component represents about 20 per-
cent of the project's base cost. The lack of paved transportation infrastruc-
ture and poor condition of existing infrastructure have affected the standard
of living of the population. In particular, in six of the counties located in
this region the annual per capita income is Y 550, only half of the provincial
average of Y 1,100 (1990). Several county centers and numerous townships have
no motorized vehicular access, and goods in and out of these population cen-
ters are transported by animal-drawn carts and bicycles. Most of the roads in
the region are narrow and unpaved. In addition, some of the waterways are not
bridged, causing traffic to rely on ferry services which face problems during
both high- and low-water levels.
3.14      ZPHAB has, tentatively, identified 33 road and bridge subprojects
with a total length of 970 km for inclusion in the RDP, although subject to
further assessment subprojects may be deleted or added to the program within
the budgeted scope of the RDP. The subprojects so far identified fall into
the following four categories:
Group A: 11 subprojects, 465 km--requiring full-scale upgrading of geo-
metrics and pavement for the entire length of roads;



- 23 -
Group B:  5 subprojects, 201 km--bottleneck relief, involving widening
the pavement, realignment or construction of bypasses for town-
ships;
Group C:  4 subprojects, 11 km--building of bridges and bridge approaches
to replace ferry services or low standard bridges;
Group D:  13 subprojects, 293 km--construction of penetration roads to
provide motorized access to communities where no paved roads
exist.
3.15      The implementation of the RDP would be phased and subproject pack-
ages would be prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval at certain
intervals, primarily dictated by budgetary considerations for counterpart
funding. The criteria for subproject selection have been defined and include
the submission of an economic evaluation (with minimum EIRR of 12 percent),
engineering design, bidding documents, environmental assessment and/or envi-
ronmental action plans, and resettlement action plans for the Bank's clearance
(para. 6, Annex 1). The economic evaluation for the first package, comprising
seven subprojects, has already been completed as detailed in paras. 4.25-4.27
and in Annex 1 and was found to be satisfactory. Subject to submission of
engineering design, bidding documents and environmental and resettlement
action plans satisfactory to the Bank, the first package would qualify for
financing under the project. Assurances were obtained from ZPG at negotia-
tions that subnroiects to be included in the RDP would be selected in accord-
ance with criteria and procedures satisfactorv to the Bank and would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for approval. The approval of subnroiects would be a
condition of disbursement.
3.16      Supervision of Construction.  Although independent supervision of
construction contracts is gaining general acceptance in China, local staff
still have limited experience in supervising major highway works, particularly
those awarded under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Based on the
experience gained from ongoing provincial highway projects, a team of Zhejiang
provincial personnel, local engineers, and technicians from other provincial
institutiors and foreign consultants would be established to supervise con-
struction of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway. The Joint Supervision Team (JST)
would be responsible for ensuring that construction works for the highway were
carried out in full compliance with specifications, and that strict quality
control were exercised on site. The organizational arrangements for supervis-
ing construction of the highway have been drawn up, and these arrangements and
terms of reference for the JST were agreed to during project appraisal. The
foreign supervising engineers would be integrated into the organization with
operational responsibilities. Furthermore, the foreign consultants would help
establish procedures at all levels of supervision, including on-site inspec-
tion and laboratory testing, and training of local staff both through formal
sessions and on-the-job. As this would include supervision of mitigating
measures identified under the environmental asasesment, staff training to
ensure compliance would also be included as necessary. About 174 man-months
of foreign consultant services are envisaged for supervision of construction
and related staff training.



- 24 -
3.17      Staff Training.  In addition to the training of local staff in
supervising construction, a series of training programs would be conducted in
transport/highway engineering and related areas. As with ongoing Bank-
financed provincial highway projects, the highway-related training program for
provincial staff would be coordinated by TCU of HOC in the interest of consis-
tency and economy. The training courses would be programmed in consultation
with the PTDs and the implementation administered by TCU. According to the
nature of the training, the courses would be provided either in China by local
institutions or abroad through training institutions of national or state road
authorities, and in some cases, by consultants. The main training courses
under preparation for provincial transport/highway personnel cover: transport
sector planning, highway planning, traffic survey and analysis, financial
management of highway projects, project planning and feasibility studies,
elements of project design (geometry, pavement, soft soil treatment, project
cost estimates), project implementation and supervision (contracting, quality
control), and highway operation and management systems (RDB, PMS, bridge main-
tenance system, equipment management system). The training areas of major
interest for Zhejiang provincial personnel were identified during project
preparation and are outlined in Table 3.1.
3.18      Road Data Bank.  A RDB to manage highway information has been devel-
oped in MOC for countrywide application. A standard format for the data has
been designed and a set of draft guidelines prepared to introduce the system
to the provinces in a phased manner. Initially, the Bank provided assistance
to MOC to help in the development of the RDB under the first Highway Project
(Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1194-CA). This assistance has been followed up under
the ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in the provinces of Sichuan,
Shaanxi, Jiangxi, Shandong and Jiangsu. It has been used primarily to finance
the purchase of instruments, equipment, and computer hardware and software to
enable systematic collection and processing of input data for the system. The
same form of assistance is proposed under this project to meet the need for
equipment to implement the RDB in the Province (para. 3.21).
3.19      Pavement Manaaement System.  Increases in road traffic and in heav-
ier vehicles are taking their toll on the relatively light-structured pave-
ments in Zhejiang Province and the country as a whole. Although efforts have
been made to maintain the network over the years, most of these have been
focused on the short term and have had limited returns. Recognizing the need
for a systematic method of determining investment priorities, the MOC has
developed a Pavement Management System (PNS) which is being implemented in
several provinces. In Shandong, Shaanxi, Jiangxi, Sichuan and Jiangsu, imple-
mentation of the PMS has received assistance under Bank-financed highway proj-
ects. Recently, a leading group for PMS was set up in ZPHAB and a program has
been prepared for its operation. The project would provide assistance for the
PMS in Zhejiang by financing equipment and instruments for the pavement condi-
tion survey and data processing through computer applications (para. 3.21).
3.20      Equinment for the Hanazhou-Ninebo Highwav.  To set up and effi-
ciently operate a central laboratory in support of the construction supervi-
sion activitis-, there is a need for equipment and instruments, particularly
for testing soils and asphalt concrete. In the course of drawing up an Envi-
ronmental Action Plan (EAP), the equipment and instruments required to imple-
ment the environmental nrotection measures were identified. In view of the



- 25 -
severe subsoil conditions, the research activity related to the testing of
alternative subsoil treatments is intended to be continued, with the purchase
of relevant research eauipment and instruments. Equipment requirements for
the operation and maintenance of the highway have been identified; the major
items and estimated cost of equipment are shown in Tables 3.2 and 3.3.
3.21      Emuivment for the RDP and the Maintenance of Provincial/County
Roads. ZPHAB, in consultation with the appraisal mission, identified the
following equipment requirements for acquisition under the project: (i) labo-
ratorv equipment and survey instruments for provincial and county road units;
(ii) specialized equipment, instruments and data processing hardware and soft-
ware for the aiDlication of RDB and PMS; and (iii) road maintenance eauipment
urgently required to replenish the equipment fleet of the provincial and
county road maintenance units. The major items and estimated cost of the
equipment are shown in Table 3.4.
D. Environmental Assessment
3.22       Hangzhou-Ningbo Hiahwav.  An Environmental Assessment (EA) for the
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway was completed by the Zhejiang Provincial Environmental
Protection Research Institute (ZPEPRI) during 1989/90. It has been ascer-
tained that the highway will not affect ecologically sensitive areas and, if
appropriate actions are taken, it should not have any adverse impact on the
environment. Based on the EA's findings and subsequent to discussions between
the representatives of ZPG and Bank staff, an EAP has been prepared. This
Plan specifies the measures and organizational and monitoring arrangements
required for mitigating the potential adverse effects on the onvironment dur-
ing the construction and operation of the highway. The main measures relate
to social disruption, air quality, noise control, water management and control
of traffic, operation of quarries, and waste disposal. The engineering design
and technical specifications for the highway incorporate the mitigating mea-
sures required, and appropriate arrangements have been made to ensure their
application during construction of the highway. The RAP was reviewed during
project appraisal and was found to be satisfactory. A summary of the EA and
EAP is presented in Annex 2 and copies of the EA and RAP reports are available
in the Project File. Assurances were obtained from ZPG at negotiations that
the environmental protection measures stiDulated in the EAP with respect to
the Hanazhou-Ninabo Highway would be carried out in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.23      Road Develoument Proaram.  Since most of the works under the RDP
would be directed to the upgrading of facilities and rehabilitation and main-
tenance, they are not expected to have a significant impact on the environ-
ment. Nevertheless, the potential adverse effect of each subproject on the
environment would be fully assessed. The environmental assessment would be
carried out under the direction of ZPHAB with the assistance of Zhejiang Pro-
vincial Environmental Protection Bureau (ZPEPB), ZPEPRI and the respective
municipal, prefectural and county highway administration units involved in the
RDP, as outlined in Appendix 2 of Annex 1. These units would be supported
under the project with environmental-related training and equipment as
required.



- 26 -
3.24      For subprojects with an established risk of adverse impact on the
environment, an EA would be carried out and an EAP would be prepared. For
*ubprojects for which the initial environmental screening established that
there is no potential environmental risk, an environmental code of practice
would be applied with regard to the actions to be taken in the design and
implementation stages, and the actions involved would be summarized in an
abbreviated EAP. Regarding these procedures, an understanding has been
reached with ZPG that subproject packages submitted for Bank approval would
include an EAP for each subproject. Assurances were obtained from ZPG at
negotiations that for each subproiect of the RDP the environmental orotection
measures stinulated in the EAPs would be carried out in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.
E. Land Acquisition anu Resettlement
3.25      Hanazhou-Ningbo Hiahwav.  The Land Administration Law of PRC and
Zhejiang Provincial Land Administration Regulations provide the legal basis
for planning and implementing any land acquisition and resettlement actions
required for the project. Land acquisition and resettlement is well regulated
in China and the procedures and compensation requirements, in general, conform
to the Bank's policies on involuntary resettlement. A Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway, prepared by ZPEPEC, has been
reviewed by Bank staff and was found to be satisfactory. The approximately
13,000 people being affected by the construction of the highway wili be com-
pensated and resettled. The resettlement proceas is administered by the local
governments at the city/county, township and village levels, in accordance
with the terms of agreements signed between ZPEPEC and the four cities and
three counties affected by the highway alignment. The objective for the
resettled population is to keep the residents in productive employment through
either reallocation of land or the provision of employment in nearby enter-
prises. The implementation of the plan is well advanced and all land acquisi-
tion and resettlement actions are scheduled to be completed by the end of May,
1992. A summary of the RAP for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway and its status is
presented in Annex 3. A copy of the RAP is available in the Project File.
Assurances were obtained from ZPG at negotiations that all land acauisition
and resettlement activities with resDect to the Hantzhou-Ningbo Highway would
be completed according to the RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.26      Road Development Program.  A primary assessment of the RDP was car-
ried out on the basis of the 33 tentatively selected subprojects. This
assessment indicated that about 12,700 individuals could require resettlement
and compensation under the program. An understanding was reached with ZPTD
during project preparation that the land acquisition, resettlement and compen-
sation procedures to be followed would be the same as those applied for the
Hangzhou-Ningbo highway, and subproject packages submitted for Bank approval
would include a RAP for each subproject. Assurances were obtained from ZPG at
neaotiations that the RAPs for subDroiects under the RDP would be carried out
in a manner satisfactorv to the Bank.
3.27      The implementation of the RAPs for both the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway
and the subprojects included in the RDP would be monitored through routine
project supervision and quarterly progress reporting (para. 3.50). The effec-
tiveness and socioeconomic impact of resettlement on the population also would



- 27 -
be evaluated after a certain time interval following the resettlement actions.
Regarding this, assurances were obtained from ZPG at negotiations that. fol-
lowing further consultation with the Bank. Plans to monitor the effectiveness
and socioeconomic impact of the resettlement would be Prepared by ZPG by
June 30. 1993. and such glans would be carried out thereafter as agreed with
the Bank.
F. Cost Estimates
3.28      The project is estimated to cost Y 3.001 billion, or $558.8 million
including land acquisition and physical and price contingencies. A Project
Cost Summary is presented on page 28. The foreign exchange cost is estimated
at $231.44 million, or about 41 percent. Base costs are estimated in December
1991 prices. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of the base
cost of works and supervision of the highway construction. Price contingen-
cies have been calculated for both foreign and local costs, using interna-
tional annual escalation factors of 1.8 percent in 1992, 1.9 percent in 1993,
3.9 percent in 1994, 4.9 percent in 1995, 4.2 percent in 1996 and 3.6 percent
in 1997, and price escalation factors for the Yuan of 6.0 percent in 1992, and
5 percent thereafter. Identifiable taxes and duties amount to Y 96.7 million
($18.0 million).
3.29      The cost of civil works is based on work quantities calculated from
final engineering designs. The costs were computed on the basis of HOC's
standard manuals for labor and equipment productivity and the related
annually-updated costs and current market costs of materials. The unit rates
were checked against the unit prices provided in recent bids for similar high-
way works executed with Bank financing.
3.30      The cost of equipment was estimated based on prevailing prices and
prices quoted by manufacturers and suppliers. The estimated cost of consult-
ing services is based on recent contracts for similar services under ongoing
highway projects.
G. Financing
3.31      The Bank loan of $220 million represents about 39 percent of the
total project cost or about 95 percent oi the foreign exchange cost. The
Central Government of the People's Republic of China (PRC) would provide $81.2
million equivalent, and the ZPG would provide $257.6 million equivalent to
cover the remaining costs of the project, including contingencies. The pro-
posed onlending terms for the loan between the Central Government and ZPG are:
20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 6 percent interest per annum with a
0.75 percent per annum commitment fee on unwithdrawn balance. The ZPG would
bear the foreign exchange risks. Agreement was reached with the PRC at neRo-
tiations that it would onlend the proceeds of the loan to ZPG under
arranfements satisfactory to the Bank. The making of the onlendinz arranae-
ments would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The details of project
financing are shown on page 29.



- 28 -
PROJECT COST SUMiARY
(December 1991 Prices)
Local     Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign   Total  Foreign
(Y million) ----             ----- ($ million) ----- cost (t2)
A. Works
1. Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway
Civil Works                  924.76    756.62  1,681.38  172.21  140.90   313.11        451
Supply & Installation
(EMH)                       11.09     25.87      36.95    2.06    4.82      6.88     702
2. Road Development Program       245.15    163.43    408.58   45.65   30.43    76.09        402
Subtotal                1.180.99    945.92  2,126.91  219.92  176.15   396.07        442
B. Sunervision of Construction
1. Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway         25.78      16.11     41.89    4.80    3.00      7.80
2. Road Development Program         6.68       0.00      6.68    1.24    0.00       1.24
Subtotal                   32.46     16.11      48.57    6.04    3.00      9.04     332
C. Eauinment for
1. Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway
Laboratory, Environment,
Research                     0.80      7.20       8.00    0.15    1.34      1.49
Operation & Maintenance        3.62     32.62      36.25    0.68    6.08      6.75
2. Roads Development Program
RDB/PIS, Survey, Laboratory   0.46        4.16      4.62    0.09    0.77      0.86
Provincial Road Maintenance   2.48      22.33      24.81    0.46    4.16      4.62
Subtotal                    7.37     66.31      73.68    1.37   12.35    13.72      902
D. Staff TraininR
In China and Abroad               1.33       5.33      6.66    0.25    0.99      1.24
Subtotal                    1.33      5.33       6.66    0.25    0.99      1.24     802
Base Coat               1.222.15  1.033.66  2,255.81  227.59  192.49   420.08       462
Physical Contingencies /a            120.68      96.20    216.88   22.47   17.91    40.39
Price Contingencies                  241.71    112.99    354.70   45.01   21.04    66.05
Subtotal                1,584.53  1.242.85  2.827.39  295.07  231.44   526.52       441
Land Acquisition Cost                 173.64      0.00    173.64   32.34    0.00    32.34
Total Pro1ect Cost /b  1.758.17  1,242.85  3,001.03  327.41  231.44   558.85         412
Ton percent of Items A and B(1).
(   Identifiable taxes and duties are about Y 96.7 million ($18.0 equivalent).  Taxes and duties
would not be financed from the proceeds of the loan.



- 29 -
FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Government
Component                      Provincial      Central           Bank      Total
Highway civil works              105.4             74.5         133.2       313.1
Highway supply & instal-
lation (E&H)                     2.1             0.0            4.8        6.9
Road Development Program          42.1             6.7           27.3        76.1
Construction Supervision           6.0             0.0            3.0         9.0
Equipment                          0.2             0.0           13.5        13.7
Staff Training                     0.0             0.0            1.2         1.2
Contingencies                     69.5             0.0           37.0       106.5
ROW and Resettlement              32.3              0.0           0.0       32.3
Total                       257.6            81.2          220.0      558.8
H. Implementation
3.32      The implementation of the project would be the responsibility of
ZPG. ZPEPEC would be the Executing Agency for implementing the Hangzhou-
Ningbo Highway, under the direction of the Zhejiang Provincial Shanghai-
Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway Project Steering Committee. Since the new highway
is a segment of the national highway retwork, MOC would also provide general
supervision and guidance for execution of the project. Invitation to bid was
issued to prequalified contractors in early February 1992. The highway would
be constructed under seven unit-priced civil works contracts. Construction of
the highway under six ICB contracts is scheduled to commence in October 1992
and be completed by the end of 1996, in about 50 months. The works under the
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) contract are scheduled to commence in Septem-
ber 1992 and be completed in two years. The installation of electrical, elec-
tronic and mechanical systems for the operation of the expressway is scheduled
to commence in mid-1995 and be completed by the end of 1996.  The construction
of service facilities along the highway would be a continuous operation taking
four and a half years.
3.33      The organizational and staffing arrangements for construction super-
vision of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway were formulated during project prepara-
tion. Construction will be supervised by a Joint Supervision Team (JST)
located in Hangzhou and headed by a Chief Supervision Engineer. A Resident
Engineer will be located on site for each of the contracts. Resident engi-
neers will report to the Chief Supervision Engineer's Office through two Engi-
neer's Representative Offices located in Shaoshing and Ningbo. About 160
personnel will be permanently engaged on supervision. The selection of local
personnel and foreign consultants for the team is under way. Invitations to
foreign shortlisted firms were lssued in mid-December 1991 and the evaluation
of proposals is scheduled to be completed by mid-May 1992. The consultants
are expected to be mobilized in August 1992 to begin training local personnel



- 30 -
in construction supervision and to help set up the organization for supevvi-
eion.
3.34      ZPHAB will be the Executing Agency for the RDP.  A special unit has
been set up in ZPHAB to manage the program, coordinate its activities with all
concerned agencies, ensure consistency in the quality of design, supervise,
expedite implementation and meet reporting requirements (Annex 1). The needs
of this unit for laboratory equipment have been included in the list of equip-
ment to be provided under the project. Also, its needs for transport would be
provided under the civil works contracts for the implementation of the RDP.
The ZPTDI, in cooperation with the relevant design institutes of municipali-
ties and prefectures, would be responsible for preparing preliminary and final
engineering designs as well as bidding documents for the subprojects under the
RDP. The design and bidding documents would be reviewed and approved by
ZPHAB. ZPHAB was the principal agency for implementing the Zhejiang Provin-
cial component of the first Bank-financed Highway Project. ZPHAB's perfor-
mance was satisfactory. Construction of the seven subprojects included in the
first package of the program is scheduled to commence in mid-1992 and be com-
pleted in 18 to 30 months. The design and evaluation of subprojects to be
included in subsequent packages of the RDP would be submitted to the Bank for
approval sequentially at about six-month intervals. The program as a whole is
scheduled to be completed by the end of 1996.
3.35      Construction of the subprojects will be supervised by the transport
bureaus at the county and municipal levels, under the overall supervision of
the ZPHAB. These units are capable of supervising the works but their labora-
tory testing facilities need strengthening. To remedy this deficiency, labo-
ratory equipment would be purchased under the project. Assurances were
obtained from ZPG at nexotiations that ZPHAB would establish and maintain a
RDP Unit within ZPHAB with aualified and experienced Rersonnel to provide
overall manatement and sunervision for RDP and that the transport administra-
tions of the respective prefectural/municipal and county governments would be
adeauately staffed with qualified and exoerienced Personnel and provide other
necessary resources for the preparation and execution of the RDP suborolect.
3.36      The responsibility for procurement of equipment would be divided
between the two executing agencies. ZPEPEC would be responsible for the pro-
curement of equipment related to the Hangzhou-Ningbo highway component, such
as equipment for the central laboratory, environmental protection, soft-soil
treatment research, and operation and maintenance of the highway. Equipment
for the central laboratory and environmental protection would be procured in
the second half of 1992 and first half of 1993, equipment for operation and
maintenance of the highway is scheduled to be procured during 1995 and 1996.
3.37      Responsibility for the procurement of equipment related to the RDP
component of the project would rest with ZPHAB. Survey and laboratory equip-
ment would be procured early in project implementation, and maintenance equip-
ment would be procured shortly afterward. Equipment for the RDB and PMS is
scheduled to be obtained during 1993.
3.38      The project as a whole is scheduled to be completed at the end of
1996 with the loan closing date stipulated as June 30, 1998. The implementa-
tion schedule for the project is presented in Table 3.5.



- 31 -
1. Procurement
3.39      Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in the
following table.
Procurement method            Total
ICB      LCB   Other    NBF   Project Cost
Highway-civil works                  374.9    13.1      5.8    -         393.8
(153.0)   (5.3)   (2.4)             (160.7)
Highway-supply & installation          8.7                                 8.7
(E&M)                               (5.8)                               (5.8)
Road Development Program               -      53.7    42.0    -           95.7
(18.5)  (14.4)             (32.9)
Equipment                             12.7     -        3.0    -          15.7
(12.5)            (2.9)             (15.4)
Consultant/Training                    -       -       12.6    -          12.6
(5.2)              (5.2)
Land Acquisition &
Resettlement                         -       -        -     32.3        32.3
Total                          396.3    66.8    63.4   32.3        558.£
(171.3)  (23.8)  (24.9)  (0.0)    (220.0)
NBF: Not Bank-Financed.
Note: Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the Bank
Group. All figures include estimated physical and price contingencies
but exclude the cost of land acquisition, and are rounded.
3.40      Procurement arrangements for the project have taken into account the
experience gained from previous Bank-financed highway projects. The documen-
tation for procurement, which covers the prequalification of contractors and
ICB and LCB for civil works and goods, has recently been standardized for
Chinese conditions in cooperation between the Chinese Government and the Bank.
The new set of model documents will be used for all relevant procurement pro-
cesses under the project. In particular, prequalification criteria for civil
works under ICB procedures have been tightened and are now based on perfor-
mance requirements pertinent to each of the contracts. Under previous highway
projects, the Bank accepted force account for minor and scattered civil works
because of the scarcity of construction industry units in remote areas of the
country. However, during recent years a sufficient number of contracting
units have become capable of undertaking road improvement works following a
competitive bidding process. Since the capacity of the contracting units is
still limited, providing further opportunities for local construction units
under this project would enhance technical development and growth of the
industry.



- 32 -
3.41      Three different procurement methods would be applied for the
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway.
(a)  Six of the seven contracts for the construction of the Hangzhou-
Ningbo Highway, ranging from $44.0 million to $78 million, would be
awarded following ICB procedures at an estimated contract value of
$374.9 million. Contractors, according to their bidding capacity
(determined during the evaluation of the prequalification submis-
sions), could submit bids for one or more contracts. ICB procedures
would also be followed for the supply and installation of electri-
cal, electronic and mechanical equipment required for the toll
facilities, traffic monitoring, telecommunication services and
lighting.
(b)  One civil works contract for the Highway would be awarded following
LCB procedures at an estimated contract value of $9.1 million. The
contract covers the construction of a 700 m section on the western
end of the Highway and the Pengbu interchange, linked to the already
completed 7 km section of the highway (para. 3.8). The construction
of this 700 m section has been accorded high priority to facilitate
traffic flow between Xaoshing and Hangzhou and to take advantage of
the already contracted 7 km section of the highway.
(c)  The contracts for the construction of service facilities, comprising
buildings for toll stations, maintenance depots, service and rest
areas and administration and associated minor civil works along the
highway, would be awarded under local shopping procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Because of the scattered nature of these facilities
and the relatively small scale and dispersed nature of the local
building industry, this method of procurement was considered appro-
priate for contracts not exceeding $2.0 million, and in an aggregate
not exceeding $5.8 million. The contract for the main administra-
tion building, with an estimated amount of $4.0 million, would be
procured following LCB procedures.
3.42      Under the RDP the construction and improvement of about 33 road
sections is being planned for implementation in a number of packages over a
period of about four and a half years. These roads are widely dispersed in
the southern region of the Province and were considered for procurement as
follows:
(a)  Contracts exceeding the estimated contract amount of $3.75 million
would be awarded following LCB procedures at an estimated total
contract value of $53.7 million; and
(b)  Contracts at an estimated contract amount below $3.75 million would
be awarded under local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank;
of the 33 road sections 25 sections are expected to fall under this
category with an aggregated contract amount not exceeding $42.0
million.
3.43      Major construction and maintenance equipment would be procured fol-
lowing ICB procedures. However, all other items or groups of items covering



- 33 -
minor maintenance equipment, equipment for RDB, PMS, laboratories, research
and environmental protection purposes estimated to cost les than $200,000 per
contract, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3.0 million, may be procured
following international or local shopping procedures on the basis of a com-
parison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
3.44      Under ICB, qualifying domestic contractors and manufacturers would
be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 7.5 per-
cent for civil works and 15 percent for goods, or the prevailing custom
duties, whichever is lower. Civil works contracts at a value exceeding $3.75
million and contracts for the procurement of goods exceeding $200,000 would be
subject to prior review and agreement to procurement documentation by the
Bank. This would represent about 87 percent of the estimated amount of all
contracts under the project.
3.45      The need for foreign consulting expertise was identified for the
supervision of construction and staff training, although local expertise
available in the various provincial universities and institutes in the subsec-
tor would be used as much as possible. All consultants would be employed
under the terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank in accordance with Bank
Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
J. Disbursements
3.46      Disbursements of the Loan would cover:
(a)  41 percent of total expenditures for highway civil works;
(b) 70 percent of total expenditures for the supply and installation of
E&M equipment for the operation of the highway;
(c) 34 percent of total expenditures for the Road Development Program;
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly-imported equipment
or 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manu-
factured equipment and 75 percent of local expenditures for other
items procured locally; and
(e) 100 percent of expenditures for consulting services and staff train-
ing.
3.47      To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened with
an initial deposit in US dollars of $14.0 million equivalent, the estimated
average expenditure for a four-month period. The account would be opened in
US dollars in a bank acceptable to the Bank, and would be managed by ZPG.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its
initial deposit, whichever comes first. A schedule of estimated disbursements
is given in Table 3.6. This schedule takes into consideration the disburse-
ment profile for transport projects in China and the potential risk of delays
in project implementation due to the difficult subsoil conditions.



- 34 -
3.48      Disbursements would be made against priced contracts for the civil
works and delivery and installation of the equipment. Interim certification
of civil works completed and costed at unit rates in the contracts will be
done by the JST, and payments will be authorized by ZPEPEC and ZPHAB. Dis-
bursements for staff training in China or abroad will be made against the
actual costs of travel, subsistence, and tuition or training fees. Reimburse-
ment for expenditures related to training, and on contracts for works and
goods individually valued at $200,000 and less would be made on the basis of
statements of expenses. Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained by
the implementing agencies and would be made available for review by Bank
supervision missions.
K. Auditing
3.49      The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Audit Administra-
tion (SAA) will be responsible for auditing the accounts of project expendi-
tures. Actual audits would be carried out either by the Zhejiang Branch of
SAM or the Zhejiang Provincial Audit Administration. Assurances were obtained
from ZPG during negotiations that project accounts and the Special Account.
including statements of expenditures, would be audited by inde2endent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and that audit reports would be sent to the Bank for
review within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
L.  Proiect Sunervision. Reporting. Monitorina
3.50      The project would be supervised regularly by Bank missions.  A
supervision mission plan, indicating key activities, is presented in Annex 4.
In addition to field missions, staff input would be provided at headquarters
for project-related activities such as completion of supervision reports,
review of documentation submitted for the clearance of RADP subproject pack-
ages, review of procurement documentation and contracts, and staff training
proposals. The Bank's supervision input is estimated at 60 staff-weeks, 40 in
the field and 20 at headquarters. In addition to field supervision, the prog-
ress of works also would be monitored through quarterly progress reports which
would be submitted to the Bank by the project executing agencies. A copy of a
Quarterly Progress Report Outline is available in the Project File (Annex 5).
A Project Completion Report would be prepared and submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the loan closing date.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.1       The economic analysis for the proposed project focuses on the civil
works components, which account for 94 percent of the project base cost, and
comprise two major subcomponents:
(a) construction of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway; and
(b) a Road Development Program.
4.2       The economic analysis was prepared using 1991 financial costs, modi-
fied by appropriate conversion factors to represent the economic costs.



- 35 -
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.3       The major quantifiable benefit. of the project include:  (i) a
decrease in traffic congestion along the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway, through the
provision of additional traffic capacity on a new, parallel highway alignment
and reduced traffic distances due to the direct nature of the new alignment;
and (ii) improvements in the condition and capacity of provincial and county
highways and bridges at several locations in the poorer part. of the Province,
as well as the construction of some new roads to provide motorized access to
communities, and some new bridges to replace either ferry service, or inade-
quate existing bridges.
4.4       Benefits from the project would accrue to road users in the form of
reduced vehicle operating costs for the own-account operators, farmers and
state enterprises in particular, time savings to the goods carriers as well as
passengers, and to the ZPG in the form of reduced highway maintenance costs.
4.5       The project is intended to encourage better highway managefflant and
maintenance through the development of the RDB and PMS, and through the provi-
sion of modern maintenance equipment. The project would also lead to the
strengthening of the public works procurement procedures and to improved man-
agement.
B   Hantzhou-Ningbo Hishwav
4.6       The Existina Corridor.  The corridor linking Hangzhou and Ningbo is
the economic focus in Zhejiang Province, currently accounting for about half
the GOVAI, and projected to account for 60 percent of GOVAI by the year 2000
(Table 4.1). In 1989, the pcpulation in the corridor was 14.9 million
(35 percent of the Provincial total), with 2.4 million living in the main
cities of Hangzhou, Shaoxing and Ningbo. The projected economic growth of
approximately 7.5 percent per year will place increasing demands on the corri-
dor's transport system.
4.7       The corridor is served by highway, rail lines, and waterway.  The
main highway comprises National Route 104 between Hangzhou, Shaoxing, and
Shangyu (95 km) and National Route 329 between Shangyu and Ningbo (109 km).
The corridor is intensively developed, with about one third of National Route
104 urban in nature. Access to Hangzhou is particularly difficult, because of
an old and narrow bridge, and vehicle breakdowns are common and difficult to
clear. The 109 km corridor of National Route 329 from Shangyu to Ningbo via
Cixi is less intensely developed, although the highway passes through many
villages. National Route 329 is currently being upgraded to a 9 meter pave-
ment.
4.8       The corridor is also served by the Xiaoyung Railway, which links
Hangzhou with Beilun Port at Ningbo. It is currently a single-track line,
planned for expansion to a double-track in the early 1990s. Approximately 13
million tons of freight is carried each year between Hangzhou and Shaoxing,
and 8 million tons is carried between Shaoxing and Hangzhou. At Hangzhou, the
Xiaoyung Railway is linked to the Hangzhou-Shanghai line, and to the Zhegan
Railway which links Hangzhou to Jiangxi and Hunan Provinces. The Zhegan Rail-
way is currently being double-tracked.



- 36 -
4.9       The first part of the corridor between Hangzhou, Xiaoshan, Shaoxing
and Shangyu is served by the Grand Canal, which is linked to the Yangtze River
and is navigable by 500-2,000 ton barges. The Grand Canal at Shangyu is con-
tinued in the Hangyung Canal to Ningbo, but capacity there is limited to ves-
sels under 40 tons.
4.10      Traffic on the Existing Roads.  Traffic on the existing roads has
grown rapidly in recent years. Provincial counting records indicate that
between 1982 and 1991, volumes increased almost four times in the Hangzhou-
Shangyu section, and between five and six times in the Shangyu-Ningbo section
(Table 4.2). Over the past two years the traffic growth has continued to be
high, estimated at over 10 percent annually.
4.11      Most of the road traffic comprises trucks, buses and (to a much
lesser extent) cars, but there are also significant volumes of agricultural
tractors, especially in the sections closer to Ningbo, as well as bicycle
traffic. Because of the high traffic volumes, the highway is susceptible to
congestion, particularly in the event of maintenance works, traffic accidents,
and bad weather.
4.12      The ProDosed Hangzhou-Ningbo Highwal.  The highway is proposed as a
four-lane divided highway with access restricted to normal motor traffic;
agricultural tractors and nonmotorized traffic would be excluded. Four align-
ments were examined by ZPTDI, and the option chosen was confirmed by a review
of the alternatives conducted in 1990 by Louis Berger International. The
selected alignment parallels the existing National Route 104 to the north
between Hangzhou and Shangyu, crossing National Route 329 between Shangyu and
Ningbo, and reachiig Ningbo on a more direct alignment south of Route 329.
The new highway would offer significant distance savings, 22 kilometers from
Hangzhou to Shangyu and 37 kilometers from Shangyu to Ningbo, which accounts
for approximately 23 percent and 34 percent of the existing distance, respec-
tively (Map 2).
4.13      Proiected Traffic on the Pronosed Hiahwav.  The traffic projections
for the proposed new highway consider diversion of traffic from the existing
highway, diversion of both freight and passengers from the existing railway,
new traffic likely to be generated by the port expansion at Ningbo, and gener-
ated traffic expected to be stimulated by the transport improvements offered
by the new highway (Table 4.3). Traffic volumes are expected to be highest on
the Hangzhou-Shangyu sections at between 24,000 to 28,000 passenger car units
(pcus) per day in 1997 (year of opening), dropping to 16,000 to 17,000 pcus/
day for the Shangyu-Ningbo sections in the same year. Traffic growth rates
were projected at between 6 and 7 percent per year, and are quite conservative
when compared with the rates experienced in the last few years.
4.14      Economic Analysis.  Project cost and benefit estimates are based on
the 1988/89 feasibility study conducted by ZPTDI, the review report of Louis
Berger International in January 1991, and further updating conducted by Bank
staff during appraisal.
4.15      Total financial costs of construction for the project are estimated
at Y 2,437 million, including allowances for physical and price contingencies.
Economic costs of Y 2,443 million were estimated from the financial costs by



- 37 -
deducting taxes and price contingencies, and adjusting by a factor of 1.20 to
reflect the currently estimated (1991) shadow price of project components
(Table 4.4). The average construction cost (economic and financial) of nearly
Y 18 million per kilometer is quite high compared with previous Bank-financed
highway projects; this reflects, among other things, the difficult soft-soil
conditions prevalent in the region and the higher than average need for major
structures.
4.16      The highway is assumed to take four years to construct, opening in
1997. In some sections of the route with soft-soil conditions, additional
costs are anticipated five years after opening to repair expected settlement
damage and to overlay the pavement. Additional costs are anticipated 14 years
after opening for pavement overlays in all sections of the highway. Annual
costs of highway maintenance and toll operations have also been included.
4.17      Project benefits were estimated based primarily on savings in travel
time and vehicle operating costs. Average vehicle operating costs by vehicle
class, pavement type, pavement condition, and terrain are shown in Table 4.5.
These estimates of vehicle operating costs were increased for congested high-
ways to reflect lower traffic speeds and greater frequency of speed-cHtange
cycles prevailing under these conditions. Only 25 percent of the estimated
project benefits for the first section of route between the Pengbu and
Qiantang interchanges was used in the evaluation; the unused portion was
assumed to be attributable to the Qiantang Bridge which was completed in Janu-
ary 1992 with local financing.
4.18      The highway was first evaluated without tolls, using the discounted
cost-benefit analysis shown in Table 4.6. For this case, construction costs
were reduced by Y 53 million to eliminate toll booth costs and the recurrent
costs of toll operations. The estimated economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) was over 22 percent, with a first year rate of return (PYRR) in 1997 of
nearly 19 percent. Economic returns are generally higher in the more heavily
trafficked western section of the freeway near Hangzhou, with the lowest
ranked section still achieving an ElR of nearly 18 percent.
4.19      Tol1_ig.  It is intended that the highway be operated as a toll
road, which will involve higher construction and operation costs, due to the
toll facilities, and a potential loss of estimated benefits. Experience from
tolled roads in China has been inconsistent to date. In the north, traffic
levels have been lower than expected, generating disappointing toll revenues.-
In the south, experience on the Guangzhou-Foshan Highway in Guangdong Province
was more encouraging: after a slow start following opening in August 1989,
revenues are now reported at around Y 100,000 per day, or Y 36 million per
year, compared with an investment cost of Y 280 million. The relative pros-
perity of the corridor in which the Hangzhou-Ningbo toll road is located sug-
gests that the Guangdong Province experience provides a better model for pro-
jecting toll road operations. Since tolling will impact the project benefits,
but this impact cannot at present be determined with reasonable confidence, an
assurance was obtained from ZPG at netotiations. that. takinR into considera-
tion the prevailing tollint exDerience in China, it would submit recommenda-
tions for the Bank's review by June 30. 1996 regarding the apDropriate toll
levels for the Hanazhou-Nintbo Hiahwav.



- 38 -
4.20      Table 4.7 sets out the discounted cost-benefit analysis for toll
highway operations. The imposition of toll would have the effect of reducing
traffic volumes along the highway but long-distance and short-distance traffic
would be affected differently. Long-distance traffic using the new highway
would be less affected, since the savings offered by the new highway compared
to the existing road are considerable and would not easily be offset by tolls.
For shorter distance local traffic, perhaps using one or two sections of the
new highway, the choice of the new highway depends on the delicate balance
between shorter, but congested, travel on the existing road versus longer
distances (including travel on access roads) but less congested travel via the
new highway. The tolling of the new highway will set the balance point
between the old and the new route, and could be expected to deter short dis-
tance traffic from using the new highway; the extent of such deterrence would
depend to a large degree on the level of tolling. Since the benefits from the
new highway accrue mostly to longer distance traffic, it can be expected that
the drop in traffic on the new highway due to the imposition of tolls is
likely to be greater than the drop in benefits. The evaluation assumes that
traffic volumes under tolled conditions (with tolls assumed to be set at no
more than 30 percent of attributable cost savings) would reduce by about
17 percent, but that benefits would reduce by only 14 percent on average,
reflecting the fact that marginal beneficiaries of the nontolled highway oper-
ation are likely to be more easily deterred by tolls. The evaluation with
tolls indicates only a small reduction in economic performance, with the aver-
age EIRR reduced to 20 percent and the FYRR to just below 16 percent.
4.21      Sensitivity Tests.  Sensitivity tests (without tolls) indicate that
the project would remain viable if construction costs rose by 10 percent and
benefits dropped by the same proportion (Table 4.8). The first-year rate of
return (FYRR) of the section between Shangyu and Yuyao would fall just below
10 percent under these circumstances, but this is within the scope of the
opportunity cost of capital in China (about 10 percent). Combining the intro-
duction of tolls with a 10 percent increase in construction costs and 10 per-
cent decrease in benefits still produces an overall EIRR over 17 percent
(Table 4.9).
C. Road DeveloDment Proaram
4.22      The Road Development Program is intended to improve and develop
provincial and county roads, and comprises a series of small-scale subprojects
each taking about two to three years to construct. It will be implemented on
a program basis, with subprojects evaluated individually using the methodology
presented in Annex 1, and summarized below.
4.23      Traffic.  Traffic on the roads proposed for financing under the RDP
have been assessed by converting tractors and other nonmotorized vehicles to a
4-ton medium truck equivalent. The 1990 daily motorized traffic was observed
to vary between 270-5,300 vpd on the evaluated subprojects.
4.24      Taking into consideration the characteristics of the specific areas
of the subprojects, a uniform set of traffic growth rates was developed and
used in the evaluations, as follows:



- 39 -
ANNUAL GROWTH RATE
Traffic Type       1991-95       1996-2000      2001-10
Vehicles              102           8X              5Z
Tractors              5Z            22             OZ
Others              2.52            02            -52
4.25      Economic Analysis of the First Packame.  The first package includes
subprojects from each of the four categories identified, with benefits accru-
ing in the following form:
(a) reduced vehicle operating costs on upgraded roads due to improved
geometrics, improved surfaces, and reduced travel distances;
(b) reduced travel time and congestion costs due to road upgrading,
enlargement of bottlenecks, and replacement of ferries by bridges;
and
(c) economic development benefits in areas which are opened to motor
vehicle traffic for the first time.
4.26      The economic evaluations for each subproject of the first package
are set out in detail in Annex 1. The following description identifies the
main steps followed for each category of subprojects.
Cateaory A and B. Uotaradina and Bottleneck Suburoiects.  Savings in vehi-
cle operating costs were the main benefits attributed to this category.
It was found that these costs generally reduce with the subproject due to
better pavement surfaces, reduced travel distances, and lower (but per-
haps not eliminated) congestion costs. A comparison of the with and
without subproject cases identified the benefits of the subproject, sepa-
rately for normal traffic (traffic without the new subproject) and gener-
ated traffic (the traffic additional to normal growth). The benefita,
estimated by year, were then compared with the costs of construction and
maintenance to establish a net stream of costs and benefits. Standard
economic evaluation measures of Net Present Value (NPV), EIRR, and FYRR
were then calculated.
Cateaorv C. Bridge SubDroiects. The bridge subprojects in the first
package, discussed in detail in Annex 1, include the following identified
benefits:
(a) elimination of ferry operating costs;
(b) savings in vehicle operating costs from the elimination of long
detours in the period. during the year when the ferry could not
operate due to unusually high or low water conditions;



- 40 -
(c)  generated traffic benefits for traffic operations which normally
cease when the ferry cannot operate;
(d)  savings in passenger time, and improved vehicle utilization, by
avoiding the delays associated with ferry operations; and
(e)  reductions in congestion costs resulting from a bypass of the inade-
quate existing bridge.
Cateaorv D. Penetration Roads Subgroiects. The main benefits from these
subprojects were derived by replacing human porterage with motorized
transport. There are two main subcomponents: (i) the direct cost sav-
ings from using motorized traffic for existing transport needs (including
normal growth); and (ii) the benefits from likely additional traffic
generated by the sharp reduction in transport costs brought about by
motorized transport. Quite conservative assumptions were made on the
latter; better estimates would require expert evaluation of the agricul-
tural and mineral resources of each region and their potential markets.
Additional benefits were identified for traffic attracted to the new
penetration road which offers a shortcut for existing motorized traffic
using other routes.
4.27      The results of the evaluation of the first package of seven subproj-
ects are summarized as follows:
Subproject        ID        Length   Fin. Cost   Econ. Cost   NPV   EIRR   FYRR
(km)    -------- (Y million) -------   --- (2) ---
Xindeng-Chun'an  (A-1)        64        26.6          27.4      26    22      17
Xiashi-Lushan    (A-2)        16         3.7           3.8       1    14      12
Xiangshan-Jinhua (A-3)        12        15.5          16.0       4    14      11
Xiaoshan-Jinhua  (B-4)        30        41.7          42.9     189    34      11
Bihu Bridge      (C-1)         2        11.6          11.9       3    14      11
Linpu Bridge     (C-4)         2        18.5          19.1      68    35      11
Xiazhai-Jincun   (D-5)        12         2.9           3.0       2    21      18
Total                   138       120.5        124.1      293    26     13
D. Overall Evaluation and Risks
4.28      The comparison of benefits and costs yields an EIRR of approximately
22 percent for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway, without tolling, and 26 percent
for the first package of the RDP. With the tolling of the highway there will
be additional costs for its construction and operation, and a potential of
lost benefits as some operators opt to use untolled routes. However, based on
Bank studies and experience elsewhere in the world, an appropriate toll level
would result in limited traffic diversion so that the EIRR would remain
acceptable (in this case it would be about 20 percent), and would produce
revenues sufficient to cover at least the operating costs of maintenance.



- 41 -
4.29      Because of the difficult subsoil conditions along the alignment of
the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway, the major risk is delay in the completion of the
highway and the quality of construction. Since ZPEPEC is a first-time execut-
ing agency for a Bank project, there is also a risk in implementing the proj-
ect in a timely manner. However, the preparation of the project was assisted
by the Bank's experience in previous Chinese highway projects, and by the more
active involvement of the Ministry of Communications; this enhanced role of
MOC is expected to continue into future projects. To minimize the risks asso-
ciated with the subsoil conditions, the project was designed with the assis-
tance of foreign experts, the prequalification of contractors was made partic-
ularly stringent, and supervision arrangements were formulated to ensure
regular monitoring and effective quality control.
V. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       Agreement was reached with PRC at negotiations that it would onlend
the proceeds of the loan to ZPG under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
(para.3.31).
5.2       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from ZPG that:
(a) subprojects to be included in the RDP would be selected in accord-
ance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank and would
be submitted to the Bank for approval (para. 3.15);
(b) the environmental protection measures stipulated in the LAP with
respect to the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway would be carried out in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.22);
(c) for each subproject of the RDP the environmental protection measures
stipulated in the EAPs would be carried out in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 3.24);
(d)  all land acquisition and resettlement activities with respect to the
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway would be completed according to the RAP in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank (3.25);
(e) the RAPs for subprojects under the RDP would be carried out in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.26);
(f) following further consultation with the Bank, plans to monitor the
effectiveness and socioeconomic impact of resettlement would be
prepared by June 30, 1993, and such plans would be carried out
thereafter as agreed with the Bank (para. 3.27);
(g)  ZPHAB would establish and maintain a RDP Unit within ZPHAB with
qualified and experienced personnel to provide overall management
and supervision for RDP and that the transport administrations of
the respective prefectural/municipal and county governments would be
adequately staffed with qualified and experienced personnel and



- 42 -
provide other necessary resources for the preparation and execution
of the RDP subprojects (para. 3.35);
(h) the project accounts and the Special Account, including statements
of xpenditures, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and that audit reports would be sent to the Bank for
review within six months of the close of each fiscal year (para.
3.49)t and
(i) taking into consideration the prevailing tolling experience in
China, ZPG would submit recommendations for the Bank's review by
June 30, 1996 regarding the appropriate toll levels for the
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway (para. 4.19).
5.3       The making of the onlending arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.31).
5.4       The approval of subprojects for the RDP bv the Bank would be a con-
dition of disbursement (para. 3.15).
5.5       Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of $220 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan would
be for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.



CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVIKCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Intensities in Selected Counties
Couatry area   Tons originated / a        Ton-km / a           Average      Estimated GIP       Tons/S1,000       Ton-km/SGOP
Country     (mnllions of sq km)            (milIionsj        (billions)      distance (km)   (billions of S)            of GP
China (1967)                    9.6                 8,660              1,526               176                320             27.1              4.77
USSR (1987)                    22.4                33,361              8:339               250              2,375             14.1              3.51
USA (1987)                      9.4                 5,261              3,702               704              4,486               1.1             0.83
India (1987/88)                 3.3                   551               335                608                241              2.3              1.40
Brazil (1967)                   8.5                   847           355 /_b                419                315              2.7              1.13
/ a Includes rail, highway, internal waterway, pipeline, and air freight only.
/b- 1986 data
Sources: China:  "Statistical Yearbook of China", 1988, p. 448. GNP from "The World Bank Atlas 1988", p. 6.                                                             41
USSR: Narodioe Khozyaistvo SSSR v. 1967 g.  ("The USSR National Econaoy in 19867), pp. 306-307. GNP from "Handbook of Economic
Statistics 1988", p. 31. Truck traffic estimates from Vladimir Kontorovich and Holland Hunter, "Transport Performance
in 1987", p. 6.
USA:  "Transportation in American, 1989, p. 8. GNP from "The World Bank Atlas 1988". p. 9.
India:  World Bank estimates based on Government of India, "Economic Survey", 1988/89 and "Perspective Plaming for
Transport Development", 1988. GNP estimate from "The World Bank Atlas 1988", p. 7.
Brazil:  World Bank Appraisal Report, fHighways Nanagement and Rehabititaion Report", 1989. GNP from "The World Bank Atlas
1988", p. 6.



ZHEJIAnG PROVINCIAL HIGHYAY PROJECT
Road and Railway Network Density in Selected Counties
Rail Density                                  Road Density
Rail                                         Roa     a
Population      Area            Length                                       Length
Country      Year    (iillions)  ('000 sq km)       ('000 km) (km/'OO0  pop) (In'0000 sgq k)     ('000 km)    (imi'O00 pop)   (kmI'OOO sq km)
China        1987          1,081         9,600             53          0.05             5.5           982               0.9              102.3
USSR         1987            282        22,403            145          0.52             6.5         1,610               5.7               71.9
USA          1987            244         9,400            213          0.87            22.6         6,242              25.6              664.0
India        1987            797         3,287             62          0.08            18.9         1,800               2.3              547.6
Brazil       1987            145         8,500             30          0.21             3.5         1,500              10.3              176.5
Sources:    China: "Statistical Yearbook of China", 1988, p. 3, 428-429
USSR: USSR State Statistical Commission: 'Narodnoe Khozyaistvo SSSR v. 1987 gN  (NThe USSR National Economy in 19870),
pp.312, 327, and 671
USA: Eno Foundation for Transportation, Inc. (Westport, Conn.): 'Transportation in Americas, 7th Edition, in May 1989,p.4;
US Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration: 'Highway Statistics 1986', p. 115
India: States' Road Project, No. P-4812-IN, October 3, 1988, p. 1; Government of India, Ministry of Finance:
'Economic Survey, 1988/89', p. 8-1.
Brazil: World Bank Appraisal Report, 'Highways Nanagement and Rehabilitaion Report', 1989; GNP from "The World Bank Atlas
19886, p. 6.
I-



CHINA
ZHEJIMNG PROVINCIAL HIGHUAY PROJECT
............................ .......................................
China: Freight Traffic
,..,,....,,,....,__-
(in billions of ton-km)
Dceestic
Year            Rail            Road  waterays /_a         Pipelines Civil Aviation            Total Ocean Shipping
1952            60.2             1.4            11.8              --           0.002            73.4             2.8
Nodal sptit (X)            82.0             2.0            16.0              --                           100.0
1977           456.9            25.1           102.1            38.7           0.076           622.9           174.1
Nodal sptit (Z)            73.4             4.0            16.4             6.2              --           100.0              --
1979           559.9            74.5           139.3            47.6           0.123           821.4           317.1
1980           571.7            76.4           152.1            49.1           0.141           849.4           353.2
1981           571.2            78.0           150.7            49.9           0.170           850.0           364.3
1982           612.0            94.9           170.8            50.1           0.198           928.0           376.9
1983           664.7           108.4           181.1            53.4           0.229          1007.8           397.7
1984           724.8           153.6           196.1            57.2           0.311          1132.0           437.4
1985           812.6           169.3           237.1            60.3           0.415          1279.7           532.9
1986           876.5           211.8           270.0            61.2           0.481          1420.0           594.8
1987           947.1           266.0           288.9            62.5           0.650          1565.2           657.6
1988           987.8           322.0           310.4            65.0           0.730          1685.9           696.6
1989         1,039.4           337.5           349.8            62.9           0.690          1790.3           768.6
1990         1,062.2           335.8           345.1            62.7           0.820          1806.6           814.1
Nodal split (X)            58.8            18.6            19.1             3.5                           100.0              --
Growth rate (X) p. a.
1952-77             8.4            12.1             9.0              --            15.7             8.9            18.0
1983/84             9.0            41.7             8.3             7.1            35.8            12.3            10.0
19wS/85            12.1            10.2            20.9             5.4            33.4            13.0            21.8
1985/86             7.9            25.1            13.9             1.5            15.9            11.0            11.6
1986/87             8.1            25.6             7.0             2.1            35.1            10.2            10.6
1987/88            4.3             21.1             7.4             4.0            12.3             7.7             5.9
1968/89            5.2              4.8            12.7            (3.2)           (5.5)            6.2            10.3
1989/90             2.2            (0.5)           (1.3)           (0.3)           16.8             0.9             5.9
1980-90            6.4             16.0             8.5             2.5            19.3             7.8             8.7
/_a Excludes ocean-going transport
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991, p. 499



- 46 -
Table 1. 4
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Passenger Traffic
(in billions of passenger-km)
Civil
Year             Rail             Road   Waterways /a           Aviation             Total
1952             20.1              2.3              2.5              0.0 -            24.9
Modal split (2)              80.9              9.1              9.9               0.1            100.0
1977            102.3             44.8              9.7               1.8            158.6
Modal split (Z)              64.5             28.2              6.1               1.2            100.0
1979            121.6             60.3             11.4              3.4             196.7
1980            138.3             73.0             12.9              3.9             228.1
1981            147.3             83.9             13.8              5.0             250.0
1982            157.5             96.4             14.5              5.9             274.3
1983            .77.7            110.6             15.4              5.8             309.5
1984            204.6            133.7             15.4              8.3             362.0
1985            241.6            172.5             17.9             11.6             443.6
1986            258.7            198.2             18.2             14.6             489.7
1987            284.3            219.0             19.6             18.7            541.6
1988            326.0            252.8             20.4             21.4             620.6
1989            303.7            266.2             18.8              18.6            607.3
1990            261.3            262.0             16.5             23.0             562.8
Modal split (2)              46.4             46.6              2.9               4.1            100.0
growth rate (Z) p. a.
1952-77              6.7             12.7              5.7              18.9              7.7
1983/84             15.1             20.9              0.0              43.1             17.0
1984/85             18.1             29.0             16.2              39.8             22.5
1985/86              7.1             14.9               1.7             25.9             10.4
1986/87              9.9             10.5              7.7              28.1             10.6
1987/88             14.7             15.4              4.1              14.4             14.6
1988/89             (6.8)             5.3              (7.8)           (13.1)            (2.1)
1989/9n            (14.0)            (1.6)           (12.2)             23.7             (7.3)
1980-90              6.6             13.6              2.5              19.4              9.5
/   Excludes ocean-going transport
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991, p. 497



CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
_,._...----- -------- -__,__.-
China: Investment in the Transport Sector (Including Posts and Telecomiumications)
(in billions of Yuan)
6th FYP                                  7th FYP
1st FYP  2st FTP           3rd FYP  4th FYP  5th FYP    -----------------------------------        .....................................
1953-57  1957-63  1963-65  1965-70  1971-75  1976-80    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Transport:
Railway   5.916   10.416    3.395   11.250   17.308    4.047   1.445   2.637   4.221   5.852        7.7     8.5      8.7    10.2     5.4    9.3
Highway      --       --        --       --        --       --   0.799   0.887   0.722   1.196      2.3     2.7     3.3      *.2     4.3     6.8
Waterway      --        --       -I --              --       --   1.2"S   1.545   1.937   2.629      3.7     3.7      3.9     3.2     3.6     5.3
Aviation      --        --       --       --        --       --   0.0,0   0.145   0.299   0.263      2.1     1.3      1.4     1.3     1.0     1.4
Pipelire      --        --       --       --        --       --   0.018   0.017   0.006   0.010      0.1     0.5      0.1     0.1     0.1     0.3
Subtotal      --       --        --       --        --       --   3.627   5.231   7.185   9.950    15.9   16.7    17.4    19.0    14.4   23.1
Post and telecom.       --       --       --        --       --       --   0.420   0.490   0.619   0.896       1.2     1.3     1.6     1.8      2.3     2.7
Total   9.015   16.330    5.387   16.001   31.759   30.245   4.047   5.721   7.804  10.846    17.1    18.0    19.0    20.8    16.7   25.8
Total capital
Investment  58.847  120.609   42.189   97.603  176.395  234.217  44.291  55.553  59.413  74.315   107.4  117.6   174.3   152.6   155.2  170.4                  4>
Transport as X of
total investm. /_a   15.31    13.51    12.8X    16.41    18.0X    12.91    8.2X    9.41   12.11   13.4X   14.8X   14.21   13.01   12.5X   9.3X   13.11
/_a Investment of FYPs, before 1980, includes Post and Telecom.aiications (about 41 of total).
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991, p. 157, 160



- 48 -
Table 1.6
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
---__------------------------------
China: Transport Investment vs. Economic output
------------------------------------------------
(in billions of Yuan)
GNP      Transport
Transport            (current      investment
Year           investment              prices)     as Z of GNP
1966-70 3FYP            15.0 / a           935.0             1.6
1971-75  4mYP           31.8 /a            1323.0            2.4
1976-80 5PYP            30.2 /a            1758.0            1.7
1981-85  6FYP           41.9               3130.0            1.3
1986-90  7FYP           85.5               6861.7            1.2
1980                  5.9                447.0            1.3
1981                  3.6                477.3            0.8
1982                  5.2               519.3             1.0
1983                  7.2               580.9             1.2
1984                 10.0                696.2            1.4
1985                 15.9                855.8            1.9
1986                 16.7               969.6             1.7
1987                 17.4               1130.1            1.5
1988                 19.0               1401.8            1.4
1989                 14.4               1591.6            0.9
1990                 18.0               1768.6            1.0
1980-90 average                                                      1.3
/ a Investment of EYPs includes Post and Telecommunications
(about 4 percent of total)
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991, p. 31, 156, and 160



CHINA
ZHEVIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHIAY PROJECT
CHINA: Highway Design Standards
Notor vehicle only highways                                 General purpose highways
........................................ ....................... ; .............. .......................................
Expressway                 Class 1        Class 2                Class 2      Class 3         Class 4
Flat Rolling    Nountainous        Flat   Other    Flat   Other         Flat  Other   Flat  Other   Flat  Other
Design capacity (vehlday)
Pasgr car eq.      ............ 25,000 + .....          10000-25000..
Nedita truck eq.                                                          ... 4,500-7,000 ...    ..2,000-5#000.....200-2,000.0 ....   0.
Design speed (kauh)         120      100       80       60      100      60       80       40        80      40      60      30      40     20
Carriageway width (a)     2x7.5   2x7.5   2x7.5   2x7.5   2x7.5   2x7.0          8.0      7.5       9.0    7.0    7.0    6.0    3.5    3.5
Subgrade width (m)
General             26.0    24.5    23.0    21.5    24.5    21.5    11.0           9.0       12.0    8.5    8.5    7.5    6.5    6.5
Variation             24.5    23.0    21.5    20.0    23.0    20.0    12.0            --        --      --      --      --    7.0    4.5
Kin. curve radius (m)       650      400      250      125     400      135      250       60       250      60    125       30     60      15
Kin. sight distance (a)     210      160      110       75     160       75      110       40        110     40      75      30     40      20
Max. grade (X)                3        4        5        5       4        6        5        7         5       7       6       8      6       9
Shoulder width (m)
Hard - standard        )2.50   '2.50   >2.25    >2.00    >2.50   >2.00
minimin                  2.25     1.75     1.50     2.25    1.50
Soft                   p0.75    '0.75   '0.50    '0.50    '0.75   '0.50      1.50    0.75       1.50   0.75   0.75    0.75  0.5-1.5 0.5-1.5
Median width (m)
Standard         3.00     2.00     1.50     1.50    2.00    1.50
Minioin         2.00     1.50                       1.50
Source: NOC: Highway Engineering Technical Standard, 1983
I-3
(D
.-



50-
Table L
CHINA
ZHEJIANC PIOVICIAL HIGHWAY PUOJECT
Chlna: Civilian Motor Vehicles
(in thousands)
Passenger vehicles                 Total
-----------------------              motor                            Motor
Large    Small    Total   Trucks vehicles    Trailers Tractors   cycles    Other
1978       88       I71       259    1,099    1,358           104                126
1980      130       275       406    1,585    1,991           168                245
1985                          795    2,416    3,211           338    1,784       946
1986                          966    2,654    3,620           344    2,288    1,483
1987      274       841    1,115    2,966    4,081            426    3,747    2,478        305
1988      299    1,004    1,304    3,340    4,644             447    3,916    3,024        318
1989      312    1,152    1,464    3,649    5,113             475    4,104    3,593        375
1990      333    1,289    1,622    3,892    5,514             499    4,626    4,213        411
Annual growth rates:
78-85/87        131      192       17X       121      131          18S                 33X
85-87                           18S       III      131          12S       451       62X
87-90         7S      151       131        9S      11S           5S        71       191      11S
Proportion of individually owned:
1985                            21      11S
1990                            12      151
Sourcet Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991, p. 512



- 51 -
Table 1.9
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
-----------------------------------
China: Highway Freight Transport
Freight tone           Freight ton-km      Average haul (km)
Public/ a Other/_b  Total Public  Other  Total Public  Other  Total
Tmillions)               (billions)
1979        816    2,894  3,710      27     48      75     33     16     20
1980        760    3,060  3,820      26     51      76     34     17     20
1981        715    2,922  3,637      25     53      78     35     18     21
1982        788    3,004  3,792      30     65      95     38     22     25
1983        791    3,223  4,014      34     75    108      42     23     27
1984        789    4,545  5,334      35    118    154      45     26     29
1985        762    4,619  5,381      35    134    169      46     29     31
1986        785    5,416  6,201      37    175    212      47     32     34
1987        791    6,323  7,114      39    227    266      49     36     37
1988        765    6,558  7,323      42    280    322      55     43     44
1989        697    6,640  7,337      41    297    338      58     45     46
1990        647    6,593  7,240      36    300    336      56     45     46
Average annual growth:
79-84         -1S       91      8Z     61    20Z    16Z
84-90         -31        61    5      0S    171    141
Split   1979         22Z       78Z   1001    361    64Z   1001
1990          91      911   1001    111    891   1001
Ia  Public - Trucks operated by trucking companies affiliated to, or owned
by, the Provincial Transportation Departments
Lb Other - Trucks operated by other enterprise, or by private individuals
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991, p. 498



- 52 -
Table 2.1
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Zhejiangs: Economic Date, 1990
_____________________________
Population      GOVOVAI VAI            Times to
(billions   per capita   national
(millions)     of Yuan)     (Yuan)     average
China total               1,143.3     3,158.7       2,763          1.0
Zhejiang Province           42.3        176.9       4,182          1.5
North-east Zhejiang       21.6        126.8       5,879          2.1
Hangzhou                 5.8         40.1       6,974          2.5
Shaoxing                 4.1         19.9       4,812          1.7
Ningbo                   5.1         31 4       6,150          2.2
South-West Zhajiang       20.8         50.2       2,414          0.9
Wenzhou                  6.7         13.2       1,978          0.7
Other provinces
Sichuan                108.0        186.0       1,722         0.6
Jiangxi                 38.1         68.1       1,787         0.6
Shaanxi                 33.2         61.3       1,847         0.7
Xinjiang Aut.Reg.        15.3        36.5       2,385          0.9
Shandong                84.9        284.9       3,355          1.2
Guangdong               62.5        250.3       4,007          1.5
Jiangsu                 67.7        334.5       4,943          1.8
Sources: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991
Statistical Yearbook of Zhejiang, 1991



CHINA
ZHEJIAUG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Zhejiang: Demographic and Transport Network Data, 1990
Transport network length      Network lenth         Total U U of vehicles # of vehicles
---------------------------  ...........................  of      per           per
Population    Area       Road    Rail   Water      Road    RaiL   Water    vehicles   1000 of    im of road
(millins)  ('000 sq ki)      (#000 km)              (km1IOO0 sq ki)         ('000)   poputation
China total               1,143.3     9,600.0  1028.3    53.4   109.2    107.1      5.6    11.4        5514        4.8           5.4
Zhejiarg Provinre            42.3       101.8   30.2    0.83   10.62      296.7    8.2   104.3          154        3.6           5.1
Other provinces
Sichuan Province          108.0       560.0   97.2    2.88    7.90      173.6    5.1    14.1          310         2.9          3.2
Jiangxi Province           38.1       160.0   33.2    1.58    4.90      207.5    9.9    30.6          110        2.9           3.3
Shaanxi Province           33.2       190.0   38.0    1.85    0.77      200.0    9.7      4.1         140        4.2           3.7
Xinjiang Aut. Reg.         15.3     1,200.0    25.4    1.34    0.00      21.2    1.1      0.0         130        8.5           5.1              I
Lfl
Shangdong Province         84.9       150.0   40.8    2.04    1.84      272.0    13.6    12.3         373        4.4           9.1
Guangdong Provinre         62.5       177.9    54.7    0.68   10.86     307 5     3.8    61.0         402        6.4           7.3
Jiangsu Province           67.7       100.0    24.8    0.75   23.67     248.0    7.5   236.7          277        4.1          11.2
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991



- 54 -
Table 2.3
cu
29331*30 t0VtIUCUZL KOWA! PIMICT
Zb jiang   iood Uesvor, 1901-90
,,.. ___. --------
Type of pavemnt
,,,,__,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ............... ......................................................,___
Proportion to    2Ltudaou       Ditmloius       Uttiuo             Cemt          Improed
Clessifiaetion      Lengtb total network       c0nonrte    peetratton          serfao         oncerete  o*rtb surface      Quality
(km)    (percent)       paveamt        pavemnt        treatmt         pavement            road
1961
...... .........[
Clse 2          311          1.37
Class 3         613          3.37
Clase 4      11,236        49.43
Unclseif Led      10,369        45.63
Total               21,767        100.00
1963
Class 2    5     95          1.53                            93                            300            2       AUlWetber-road
Class 3       1,339         5.23                            103             446            566            200     All.wetr-roed
Class 4      15,530        60.72                          1,079              30             20         13,621      Paved road
uelaseif led       6,329         32.52                                                                       6,329      upeesible after rat
Total               25.611        100.00                         1,277           1,076            904          22,350
1969
Clasa 2           o1,40     4.63              60            200                          1,150                    All.qther.road
Close 3       2,403         6.14                            750           1,146            305                    All-watber-road
Class 4      17,776        60.25                          1,200             769             40         16.969      Pvd road
Unclassified       7,696         26.76                                                                        7,696     ImpaetIble after ratS
Total               29,509        100.00             s0          2,150           1,917          1,495          24,661
1990
lee. 2        1,1643          .44             60            20e                            611                    All-wether-road
Claeo 3       2,593         6.59                            60            1,246            400                     All..uether-road
Class *      16,653        61.76                          1.200             769            516         17,169      Pawed road
Unclaseiied       7,306         24.20                                                           64           7,696     Ipaeaible ofter rei.
Total               30,195        100.00             60          2,250           2,017          1,794          33,067
notes There no classification data for pavement in 19$1, ed tn the total miege of 22,766 to the pavemet of bittnue penetratios,
surface treatment,  nd ceent conerete types totalld 2,366 Io.
Sourc^e ZIPE



- 55 ^
Table 2.4
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Zhejiang: Traffic, 1984-90
__________________________
Freight traffic                 Passenger traffic
Inland                          Inland
Highway.  Railways waterways    Highways  Railways waterways
(millions of ton-km)         (millions of passenger-km)
1984            1,667    12,759     4,994       7,686     6,674        975
1985            3,345    13,254     5,628      10,723      7,524       968
1986            6,814    13,518     6,166      12,491      7,843       831
1987            8,252    13,807     7,643      14,585     8,394      1,047
1988            9,625    13,650     8,185      15,881     9,312      1,019
1989            9,275    14,651     7,474      15,387     8,763        873
1990           10,075    14,443     6,495      16,687      7,594       758
2 p. a. growth:
35         2         4          14         2         (4)
Sources: Statistical Yearbook of Zhejiang, 1991
ZPTDs Transportation Statistical Data of Zhejiang



ZBEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGMWAY PROJECT
Zheji ang: Length of Highway by ADT, National Road. and Provwicial Roads, 1990
Mileage for Mixed Traffic (km)                           Motor Vehicle Traffic Only (in)
Mlleage under                 5,000 -  2,000 -    200 -                        5,000 -  2,000 -      200 -
observation       >10,000  10,000   5,000        2,000     <200    >10,000  10,000   5,000         2,000      <200
(0)             ADT       ADT      ADT        ADT       ADT        ADT     ADT       ADT       ADT         AD?
1983        6,651.1                            778.1  5,116.2    756.8                            69.2   3,785.7  2,796.2
1986        6,771.5                   287.2  2,131.0  4,251.5    101.8                  60.1    982.1   4,823.5    905.8
1987        6,804.0          12.9    471.1  2,282.4  3,974.0       63.6                128.1  1,539.7   4,559.5    576.3
1988        6,787.8          44.5    697.9  2,422.3  3,553.3       69.8                240.2  1,716.5   4,445.6    385.5
1989        6,791.3          87.2    754.0  2,220.7  3,659.6       69.8                300.9  1,708.5   4,461.5    320.4                      1
1990        6,810.7          55.2    797.6  2,164.9  3,747.8       45.2        44.2    366.4  1,712.2   4,284.7    403.2                      0'
Source:  ZPTD: Zhejiang Highway Traffic Counting Survey



- 57 -
Table 2.6
CHINA
ZUEJIANO PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Zhejiang:  Vehicle Fleet, 1984-90
-__------------------_-----_----_
Medium                Medium              Special
Large       & small      Large    & small              purpose
Year    truck /_a      truck    bus /_b         bus  Tractors vehicles   Motorcycles    Total
1984       39,167      3,197      6,039      6,772  102,227       3,649        13,486  174,537
1985       46,975      7,265      7,223      13,769   62,923      4,286        19,348  161,789
1986       54,065     13,121      7,530     15,629   79,713       3,558        39,622  213,238
1987       60,993     16,330      9,202     25,372  249,094       4,875        76,766  442,632
1988       63,615     23,470      9,677     31,363  202,711       2,813       112,969  446,618
1989       70,148     31,698     10,854     36,854  212,784       2,821       143,951  509,110
1990       72,546     32,782     11,411     38,745  213,379       3,032       162,557  534,452
i a over 7-ton capacity
l-b over 25-passenger capacity
Source: ZPTD: Transportation Statistical Data of Zhejiang



ZHEJIUG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Zhejiang:  Preight Handled b; Public and Soc;ia Trucks, 1982-90
(in billions of ton-km)
Freight volume (dllion tons)               Freight density (billion ton-ki)               Average distance (km)
Public         Social                        Public          Social                        Public         Social
Year     truck           truck           Total         truck           truck           Total        truck           truck
1982     36.16                                         1.148                                        31.70
1983     37.28                   La                    1.358                  /a                    36.40                  Ia
1984     39.88                                         1.667                                        41.80
1985     23.67      70.30   (54.92)      93.97         1.540     1.841   (1.256)       3.38         63.54      26.20    (23.1)
1986     23.86    142.94   (77.14)    166.80           1.591     5.223   (1.782)       6.80         66.70      36.50    (23.1)
1987     24.04    170.22   (89.36)    194.26           1.642     6.610   (2.376)       8.25         68.30      38.80    (26.2)
1988     21.98    219.30  (170.81)    241.28           1.567     8.049   (2.618)       9.62         71.70      36.70    (24.3)
1989     19.26    224.28   (111.9)    243.54           1.385     7.890   (2.869)   '  9.28          71.90      35.20    (25.2)
1990     17.90    210.89  (107.73)    228.79           1.326     8.749   (2.826)      10.08         74.10      41.49    (26.2)                     co
/Ia  Data In this colum  are for private enterprises.
Source: Statistical Yearbook of Zhejiang, 1991



CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
.._................................_
Zhejlang: Highway Finances, 1986-90
....................................
(in millions of Yuan)
Revenue                                                               Expenditure
.... ........................... .......... .. .... . ........ .................. ................ ................................... ................... .......................................... ..............
Subsidies
***e**--------------      Fund for                     New
Road Paint. Provincial            high type road               construction      Routine      Periodic Overhead    High type
Total      fee     Governnent       NOC   construction       Total     & upgrading  mointenance  maintenance and others    highways
1985        231.444      223.544        7.90                               231.3440      173.6980       25.631       22.443      9.572
1986        344.676    . 276.776       20.90    47.00                      319.2334     243.9391        33.426       32.109      9.759
1987        405.700      342.500       21.20    39.00                      418.5277     327.3337        38.013       41.628    11.553
1988        486.646      381.612        7.00    58.50          39.534      434.8606     317.6666        47.980       52.655    16.559
1989        739.316      430.000        4.60    62.50         242.216      556.4811     377.2111        52.101       45.635    36.994         44.54
1990        749.809      470.571                42.00         237.238      367.0690     216.1810        53.603       45.045    15.510         36.73
Total       2957.591     2125.003       61.60   249.00         518.988     2327.5158    1656.0295       250.754      239.515    99.947        81.270
Sources:  ZPTD; ZPEPEC
I-3
(b



- 60 -
Table 2.9
CHINA
ZBEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
-------_--_------_-----------------
Zhejiang: Fuel Prices
_____________________
(in Yuan per liter)
Before March 209 1984         After March 20, 1984     Current (Nov. 1991)
/ a  Negoti-                      Negoti-                                    Int'l
Planned ated /_b  Market    Planned ated /1b  Market    Planned   Narket   price l_f
Gasoline
(70 oct) I c    0.53     0.70       --       0.53     0.70     0.80       0.61     1.17        0.70
index       100      132                 100      132      151        115      221
Gasoline
(80 oct) I c    0.56     0.73       --       0.56     0.73     0.88       0.67     1.24        0.70
index       100      130                 100      130      157        120      221
Diesel / d      0.36     0.68       --       0.44     0.68     0.86       0.46      1.23        0.68
index       100      189                 122      189      239        128      342
Inflation I e
index --------------100------------    -----------129---------      ------184--
a * Planned allocation prices.
; b Negotiated above quota.
/ c Pricees of gasoline include an aggregate of 43 percent central government fuel taxes.
/id prices of diesel include a 13 percent central government fuel taxes.
i a Consumer price Index at end-of-year- 1983, 1987 and 1990 respectively.
i=f July 1990 market prices before gulf crisis (CIF Hongkong).
Souce: ZPTD



- 61 -
Table 3.1
Ca
ZJXANG  Nsw1CIAL EXOMMY PROJ
Staff Trainina  Proagwiiii
QNsaf     A.sM Ga
N..            IUia             An-mo                    rna.iml   Us I'                        Rg.ab
I mb* AR i               S paM                                          I D7  t - 1w .btuml
-*Imm&*ma  O
T Twn                          ASS pumw                   It2       o
1. Dos Tr         Mpam                    *                             b5 ow" p1m - , __ 1m.   _n w_
I __                                          _      i
2. TnW% 9Aks                                         I V12
(1) DOWI                                             32        am
a. _1fd A IcX            1,  *po                     26        I72             an           a ad amWui _   _ _    _
,NI                     2=mOw _w_r
6. 16  _   *             2  m4                                 23        Aui  ml A Os dIma _  u1S daip Il  &
0.  nut onto~            I amme                      2         14           shi" ny   0m at powm daip. pmma mh "ad
0 ft  Cmuu_               1_is                       27        toI      CaudIu mIo alw ut_h i 0mb        MUMS
1202 .._mn ad 3 1                             mdq.  um.mm
0) Tado EMq1pu 5r_                                    9        a        bu  soft bjm*h   el  *_ A la 41 _d_
'@02 u.mumisono I
(4) OP_ad                4p.m_                        4        21   _ **        mm hd.laG &A   alO din A 
I  -=m                                        O4MBMU  A u0I      . .
(f) Ua_i_ Mm             7 pm                         14       Os        m    )      1_                   d
2_u_Oloom                                    inmhujm. i1min1wm a _   6) _um   b
C) a1i
(QaReid mdomm            54 p.m                      24        ids      Impuasay moimo ad dw a I mdomm
1401 0     _:ID-30
(7)SS_    }_                          *        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21
*1-
0) P    _s IsahI         4_ .                        4         23       C      _e utwkm_pg   uink          de
@1   6maI  a                                         wh mm of deh pujasa
*0 Gapla cmagad          6 pm6                                 43
P_Im AlA
(a) F'mml COMl ijiMa& A     au            _                    21   _ d. p           1w wbe I _NON
(b) CmpW AwlImo h        2pinmm                      5         21       ba)i. kumvio ~lSib dmI noo me" Ak
I -                     @1 mi_m_--                                    -
(IPrmAiAb                4pam                        4         X
U s    ihm gm                                             -                   Ssofdo amatola U IMAam
SOTAL (.ILN    AND



- 62 -
Table 3.2
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment for Hangzhou-Nlngbo Highway Conponent
.................... ....................................................................._
(in USS
ITEM                         No.             PRICE            TOTAL
CENTRAL LABORATORY, ENVIRONMENT AND RESEARCH
A. Central Laboratory
1. Diamond cord drill machine                    1             5.000             5.000
2. 100KN universal testing mchine                1            50,000            50,000
3. Rock polishing machine                        1            15.000            15.000
4. Mortal anti-segregation tester                1            15.000            15.000
5. Soil density auto-guage                       1            13,000            13,000
6. Marshall stability compression machine        1            20,000            20,000
7. Marshall auto-gauge                           1            15.000            15.000
8. Asphalt concrete auto-extractor               1            20,000            20,000
9. Asphalt concrete mixer                        1            10.000            10,000
10. Asphalt brittle point apparatus               1             5.000             5.000
11. Hydrostatic balance                           1             5.000             5.000
12. Asphalt concrete anti-split test machine      1             7.000             7.000
13. Sand soil density testing system              3             3,000             9.000
14. Road surface cracking test mchine             2             3.500             7.000
15. Drop hammer deflectormeter                    I            88U000            88U000
16. Steel position tester                         2            10 000            20.000
17. Bore hole inclinometer                        2            11.000            22.000
18. Laser ranger                                  1             8.000             8.000
19. Electric-digital theodolite, 1 Second         1             6,000             6.000
20. Electric-digitaL theodolite, 5 Second         1             5S000             5.000
21. Pendulous friction coefficient tester         2             6,000            12.000
22. Concrete nondestructive testing meter         2            10.000            20.000
23. Double frequency charmel osciltograph         1            10.000            10.000
24. Film oven                                     1            15.000            15.000
25. Permeameter                                   1             6,000             6.000
26. Auto-control consistomoter                    1             2.000             2.000
27. Steel protection course tester                1             5,000             5.000
28. CBR field-testing system                      2             3,000             6,000
29. Concrete strength testing apparatus           2             2,500             5.000
30. Concrete auto-rebound hammer                  1             5.000             5.000
31. Mobile Laboratory, with bus                   1           300,000           300,000
32. Road smoothness testing system                3            10.000            30,000
33. 300 km press                                  1            30.000            30.000
SUBTOTAL                                                                791,000
B. Environment                                               As listed in
----.......                                        Appendix I of
Testing and Monitoring Equipment                         Arex 2             140.220
..S...U.....                                                                    140........... --220. .....
SUBTOTAL                                                                140.220



-63 -
Tabl 3.3
CHINA
:HEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
,...................................
Equipment for Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway Cosponent
..........................................
(in USS)
ITEM                          No.             PRICE             TOTAL
C. Research
1. Echo sounding meter                             2             6,000                12,000
2. Seismograph                                     1            50,000                50,000
3. Nucleon density suage                           I             8,800                 8,800
4. ELectric-digital theodolite, + 0.5N-1"          4            25,000                100,000
5. Doigftizer                                      2            22,500                45,000
6. Portable computer                               8             5.000                40,000
7. Graph Scunrer                                   2             5,000                10,000
8. Radio communication system                                                        100,000
9. Facsimile                                       2             8,000                 16,000
SUBTOTAL                                                                    1,313,029
CONTINGENCY                                                                   180,000
TOTAL                                                                       1,493,029
HIGHWAY OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
...............................
1. Dust absorption sweeper, Heavy-duty             3           120,000               360,000
2. Sweepr, Light-duty                              3            50,000               150,000
3. Hot water machines with electric motor          3             5,500                16,500
4. Line maker                                      4            30,000               120,000
5. Mobile hydraulic h _er                          3           110,000               330,000
6. Watering car                                    3            31,100                93,300
7. Elevator                                        3            20,500                61,500
8. Multi-purpose maintenancer, Heavy-duty          3           100,000               300,000
9. Multi-purpose maintenancer, Light-duty          3            30,000                90,000
10. Tyred asphalt concrete paver, 6-8M              1           220,000               220,000
11. Surface milling machine, ) .ON                  1           200,000               200,000
12. Vibratory roller, Heavy-duty                    3            99,000               297,000
13. Asphalt concrete mfxer, Light-duty              3           140,000               420,000
14. Asphalt concrete delivery truck, 320T           4            61,500               246,000
15. Asphalt spilling car                            1            30,700                30,700
16. Tyred roller                                    3            50,000               150,000
17. Rush tow truck, *5T                             3            60,000               180,000
18. Rush tow truck, >15T                            1           120,000               120,000
19. Truck crane, i40T                               1           220,000               220,000
20. Travelling floodlighting machine                7            40,000               280,000
21. Road condition data acquisition car             1           120,000               120,000
22. Testing instrumhnts/equIpments
for equipment repiring center                                                   250,000
23. Asphalt concrete mixing plant, 120m3/h          1           850,000               850,000
24. Grader, a15HP                                   2           200,000               400,000
25. Cement concrete mixer                           1           420,000               420,000
u_ _-----   _   ---------  -U _                                                   _
SUBTOTAL                                                                    5,925,000
CONTINGENCY                                                                   820,000
TOTAL                                                                       6,745,000



- 64 -
Table 3.4
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
................................
Equipment for Road Development Component
........................................
(in USS)
ITEN                          No.              PRICE             TOTAL
UUU.UUU..~UU.UU               ........ UU3.UU3UUUVUUUinUU..3.UU.ZU33UUU8UUUUU. 
A. RDB/PMS, Survey and Laboratory
..............................
1. Equipments for RDB/PNS, computer, etc.          -                                220,000
2. Drop hammer deflectormeter                      1             88,000              88,000
3. Asphalt material testing system                 1            181,500             181,500
4. Asphalt concrete analyser                       3             12,100              36,300
5. Asphalt content tester                          3              4,400              13,200
6. Road smoothness tester                          3              5,500              16,500
7. Nucleon density gauge                           3              8,800              26,400
8. Steel protection courses tester                 4              2,200               8,800
9. Road planking testing system                    6              1.320               7,920
10. Sand soil density testing system                3                550               1,650
11. CBR field-testing system                        4              2.750              11,000
12. Electric-digital theodolite, 1 second           3              5,500              16,500
13. Electric-digital theodolite, 5 second           3              4,400              13,200
14. Distance meter                                  2             15,000              30,000
15. Sound wave material tester                      2              5,500              11,000
16. Mobile laboratory                               1             82,500              82,500
SUBTOTAL                                                                    764,470
CONTINGENCY                                                                  100,000
TOTAL                                                                       864,470
uu=muu=u=UU3uu0---n_UinUinuu--uuuuuuuuu..uumuuuuainUuUaaug.inguEu.uuuuuuuuuuuJ-ug=B
B. Road Maintenance
................
1. Spreader/Paver, Medium-sized                    2             80,000             160,000
2. Snreader/Paver, Light-duty                     10             22,200             220.000
3. Surface milling machine, ;1.0M                  1            200,000             200,000
4. Vibratory roller, >18T                          5             99,000             495,000
5. Grader, Auto-Level                              3            145,000             435,000
6. Stabilization Road-mixer, )2N                   2            220,000             440,000
7. Asphalt concrete mixing plant                   1            800,000             800,000
8. Asphalt concrete paver                          1            350,000             350,000
9. Bridge testing machine                          1            275,000             275,000
10. Travelling boring Machine, 40-80M              1            150,000             150,000
11. Cement concrete mixing plant                    1            320,000             320,000
12. Bulldozer,  300HP                               1            200,000             200,000
SURTOTAL                                                                  4,045,000
CONI  C GENCY                                                               570,000
TOTAL                                                                     4,615,000



CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGUNAY PROJECT
........................................................................_
Iptlementation Schedule
.......................
1991     lm        1993      1994      1995      1996
Marks                                                 II                              
1. HNwgzhu- Ningbo highuay                    6    |2    10                                         12
a. ICB contracts                          ......
b. LCB contract             6.....                     ------------ -----                       1
c. E&M supply and installation                                      *   x _
1        12
d. Roadside facilities                         .
4t1 16L
2. load develop vent rorogrem
'   _           I1nee- 12
Supervision of construction6
1 Hangzhou- Hirco hijhsay~Xxxxxx.xxnmnnF xnnxe  nnneF nrhhx
2. Road development program                        -                 .......
Procurement of equipentfo
..........................                                       01
1. Hangzhou- Ningbo highuay                             6          8             I
a. Laboratory, environment, research           ...
I   I            ~~~~~4        9          12
b. Operation and mintmnance                                            .    .12
2. Road develqoeent prorm                               6            12
a. DB/PMS, survey, laboratory                       6    13                12
b. Provincial road mainten nce.....
Staff training                                        I 7    I                                         12
.............. _
Legend:----- : Preparation of bidding documents
mxxxxxxx: Sidding(Setaction) procedure
"*1nnt: Conatruction/ SupervisiaV Delivery
3in: Training
Source: ZPfPEC, ZPHS and mfssion



- 66 -
Table 3.6
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Disbursment Profile
Bank Fiscal Year            Disbursements (USS million)         of China Transport
and Semester               Semester    Cumulative   S            Projects (Z)
1993
December 31, 1992             28.Li        28        13                 0
June 30, 1993                 11           39        18                 6
1994
December 31, 1993             13           52        24                11
June 30, 1994                 14           66        30                16
'995
December 31, 1994             16           82        37                24
June 30, 1995                 18          100        45                31
1996
December 31, 1995             22          122        55                57
June 30, 1996                 24          146        66                64
M199
December 31, 1996             26          172        78                69
June 30, 1997                 24          196        89                90
1998
December 31, 1997             16          212        96                95
June 30, 1998                  8          220       100               100
Note:  Project Completion Date - December, 1996
Loan Closing Date - June 30, 1998
la Includes Special Account and Advance Payments to Contractors
Source: Mission Estimates.



CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Socioeconomic Projections in the Hangzhou-Ningbo Corridor
Population                    GOVAI             Annual growth of GOVAI
1989     1995     2001     1989      1995     2000     89-95   95-2000
(millions)              (billions of Yuan)              (Z)
Zhejiang Province         42.1                      164.2    226.2    346.2       5.5Z     7.4Z
Hangzhou Municipality      5.7                       37.0      53.0     82.0      6.22     7.51
Hangzhou City           1.6      1.8      1.9
Shaoxing Municipality      4.1                       17.6      30.0     41.5      9.32     5.6Z
Shaoxing City          0.2       0.2      0.3
0'
Ningbo Municipality        5.1                       30.3      48.0     80.0      8.0Z     8.91
Ningbo City            0.6       0.7      0.8
Three municipalities      14.9      2.0      2.2     84.9    131.0    203.5       7.51     7.61
Three cities           2.4       2.7      3.0
Sources: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1990
Statistical Yearbook of Zhejiang, 1990
ZPTD
World Bank estimates of city populations



- 68 -
Table 42
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Recent Trafflc Groth on the Eisting Hangzhou-Ningbo Road
Stations     Qantayjlang                  Sanjiao/Caoe /_a                    Sbiqlao
--------------_----------------------._
Routes            104                104 / b               329                  329
Section:   Hangshou-Xiaoshan   Xiaoshan-Sr.oxing      Shaoxiug-Cixi         Cixi-Nfngbo
Vohs /h c   lii /-d    Vehe       Mix      Vohs        MHi      Vohs       Mlx
1982               2,968               1,636                1,893                 825
1983               3,727               1,986                2,151               1,059
1984               4,712               2,401                2,670               1,369
1985     6,677     6,780     2,945     3,644      2,799     3,930     1,646     2,141
1986     7,163     7,262     3,391     4,049      3,260     4,365     1,946     2,537
1987     7,726     7,963     4,460     5,325     4,074      5,519     2,518     3,102
1988     8,888     9,189     5,170     6,309     4,936      6,535     3,182     3,965
1989     8,853     8,994     4,895     6,054     4,591      6,779     3,385     5,079
1990     9,554     9,531     5,150     6,757     5,209      7,666     3,583     4,958
Jun 91    10,834    10,544     4,065     5,709      5,928     8,419     4,596     6,078
Oct 91    11,940    11,711     4,697      6,500     6,384     9,254     4,505     6,231
Annual growtht
82-85                31.72                30.6S               27.6S                37.4Z
85-89       7.3S      7.31     13.5Z      13.51     13.21     14.61     19.8S      24.11
89-91      14.21     12.42     -1.81      3.21      15.81     14.81     13.51       9.51
85-91       8.42      7.62      5.5Z       7.8S     13.32     13.51     18.71      19.02
: a  Junction of Routes 104 and 329
'ob Sme traffic diverted away from this route following road
improvement. completed ix late 1990.
Ic Total of trucks, buses and cars (approximately equivalent to
medium truck units)
;d Mixed traffic Includes tractors, bicycles and other traffic,
expressed in equivalent medium trucks.
Source: ZPTD
.



CHIWA
7UZJIAIG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Projected Highvay Traffic Volumes in the Hangzhou-Ningbo Corridor
(In thousands of equivalent passenger car units per day)
Sections           flanzhou-Xiaoshan    Xiaosban-Shaoxing        Shaoxing-Shangyu    Sbanhyu-yuyaolCiUM    luyaoICixi-InSgbo
New highway length:    (8.0 km)                (35.3 km)              (29.4 in)             (27.1 km)              (45.2 km)
Year:              1997   2005   2015   1997   2005   2015   1997   2005   2015   1997   2Q05   2015   1997   2005   2015
WIthout new highway
Existing higaway I a                     37.6   63.9  110.5   25.0   47.6   82.4   24.9   42.6   74.4   15.7   27.3   48.6   13.2   23.3   43.6
With new higbway
Existing highway                         18.0   29.5   45.3   10.4   16.8   24.9    9.1   14.9   23.0    5.2    6.8   14.2    4.0    7.2   13.5
New highway (assued to be tolled):
Diverted from existing road         19.6   34.4   65.2   17.6   30.8   57.5   15.9   27.7   51.4   10.5   18.5   34.4    9.1   16.1   30.1               a'
DiLverted from  rail:  Freight       1.3    2.1    3.3    1.3    2.1    3.3    1.3    2.1    3.3    1.3    2.1    3.3    1.3    2.1    3.3              %O
Passenger      0.9    1.2    1.8    0.9    1.2    1.8    0.9    1.2    1.8    0.9    1.2    1.8    0.9    1.2    1.8              I
Iro  nw am ingbo Port development   0.7    0.9    1.2    1.1    1.6    2.1    1.5    2.1    2.8    1.6    2.3    3.1    1.9    2.6    3.5
Generated traffic                    5.5    9.6   18.3    4.9    8.6   16.1    4.5    7.8   14.4    2.9    5.2    9.6    2.5    4.5    8.4
Total                               27.9   48.2   89.8   25.8   44.3   80.8   24.0   40.9   73.7   17.1   29.3   52.2   15.6   26.5   47.1
Ia Excluding agricultural tractors and non-motorized traffic
Source:  ZPTD and consultant estimtes
4~~~~~~~~~~~



- 70 -
Table 4.4
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
-----------------------------------
Estimated Economic Cost
_______________________
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway
_______________________
(in millions of Yuan, 1991)
Local    Foreign       Total
Civil engineering costs      924.76      756.62    1,681.38
Electrical and mechanical     11.09       25.87       36.96
Construction supervision      25.78       16.11       41.89
Laboratory testing             1.43       12.86       14.29
Base cost                    963.06      811.46    1,774.52
Physical contingency Ia       96.16       79.86      176.0;
Price contingency /_b        190.66       89.13      279.74
Sub-total                  1,249.88      980.45   2,230.34
Land acquisition             129.20        0.00      129.20
Financial cost             1,379.08      980.45   2,359.54
Economic cost /Ic          1,394.08    1,042.35   2,436.42
/ a  10X of "base cost", except "laboratory testing" costs
: b Local - 18i of "base coat" plus "physical contingency"
Foreign - IOX of "base cost" plus "physical contingency"
/_c Total cost less 3.51 contractor taxes, less "price
contingency", all factored by 1.20;
1.20 - average 1991 financial-to-economic conversion
factor for expressway projects.



- 71 -
Table 4.5
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
___________________________________-
Average Economic Vehicle Operating Costs by Vehicle
Claas, Pavement Type and Condition, and Terrain
-----------------------------------------------
(in Yuan per km, 1991 prices)
Good ...... .....  Fair ...... ...... Poor 
Vehicle       FtiFlt                                    Flat/ 
clas         Roll  Hill Mount.   Roll   Hill Mount.   Roll   Hill Mount.
Paved highways
Small car      1.00  1.05  1.08     1.12  1.17  1.20     1.45  1.50  1.53
Small bus      0.65  0.77  0.87     0.75  0.87  0.97     0.96  1.07  1.17
Medium bus     1.02  1.19  1.33     1.21  1.39  1.53     1.60  1.75  1.89
Large bus      1.35  1.65  1.91     1.51  1.82  2.07     1.83  2.12  2.38
Small truck    0.35  0.44  0.51     0.40  0.48  0.55     0.48  0.56  0.64
Medium truck   0.47  0.58  0.69     0.53  0.65  0.76     0.64  0.76  0.88
Large truck    0.78  0.96  1.13     0.87  1.06  1.22     1.03  1.22  1.40
Tract-trail    1.28  1.68  2.04     1.39  1.80  2.16     1.65  2.05  2.41
Unpaved highways
Small car      1.35  1.41  1.44     1.77  1.83  1.85     2.42  2.46  2.49
Small bus      0.90  1.06  1.16     1.10  1.24  1.33     1.39  1.51  1.60
Medium bus     1.51  1.72  1.86     1.85  2.05  2.18     2.35  2.52  2.65
Large bus      1.77  2.12  2.37     2.07  2.40  2.64     2.51  2.82  3.06
Small truck    0.46  0.56  0.64     0.54  0.64  0.72     0.66  0.76  0.84
Medium truck   0.61  0.75  1.13     0.70  0.85  1.29     0.86  1.00  1.52
Large truck    0.79  0.99  1.16     0.88  1.08  1.25     1.05  1.24  1.42
Tract-trail    1.38  1.76  2.09     1.49  1.88  2.21     1.71  2.10  2.44
Sources  World Banks Guangdong Province Transport Study, 1990,
updated by 102 to 1991



- 72 -
CHMA                                             Table 4.6
ZhIhANO PROVINCIL HIGMWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation Without Tolling
Hanghou-Ningbo Highway
(in millions of Yuan, 1991)
Hangshou-Ximosoha  (8.0 km)  Xiaoshan- Shaozxlg (35.3 lkm)    Shmazing-Shbngyu (29.4 km)
Cost   Benefit     Total       Cost  Benefit       Total      Cost   Benefit      Total
1993      18.5                (18.5)    157.6               (157.6)    158.5                (158.5)
1994      12.3                (12.3)    105.1               (105.1)    105.7                '105.7)
1995      12.3                (12.3)    105.1               (105.1)    105.7                (105.7)
1996      18.5                (18.5)    157.6               (157.6)    158.5                (158.5)
1997       0.2      14.7       14.4       1.1      181.5     180.4        0.9     141.8      140.9
1998       0.2      17.0       16.8       1.1      193.1     192.1        0.9     150.9      150.0
1999       0.2      16.5       16.3       1.1      204.3     203.3        0.9     163.2      162.3
2000       o.i       17.3      17.1        1.1     219.9     218.8        0.9     168.7      167.8
2001       0.2      20.3       20.1       4.5      232.8     228.3       12.2     185.8      173.6
2002       0.2      20.2       20.0        1.1     255.6     254.5        0.9     195.7      194.8
2003       0.2      21.5       21.3        1.1     267.5     266.5        0.9     208.8      207.9
2004       0.2      25.0       24.8        1.1     284.6     283.6        0.9     227.0      226.1
2005       0.2      24.5       24.3        1.1     301.6     300.5        0.9     236.0      235.1
2006       0.2      25.9       25.6        1.1     329.2     328.2        0.9     251.9      251.0
2007       0.2      27.1       26.9        1.1     348.4     347.3        0.9     271.9      271.0
2008       0.2      30.5       30.3        1.1     366.3     365.2        0.9     285.6      284.7
2009       0.2      31.5       31.3        1.1     389.3     388.2        0.9     298.3      297.4
2010       2.5      32.5       30.0       11.5     404.4     392.9        9.6     314.9      305.3
2011       0.2      35.0       34.7        1.1     426.2     425.1        0.9     336.3      335.4
2012       0.2      37.2       37.0       1.1      460.9     459.8        0.9     353.3      352.4
2013       0.2      39.4       39.2        1.1     482.2     481.1        0.9     374.7      373.8
2014       0.2      41.7       41.4        1.1     509.0     507.9        0.9     402.1      401.2
2O0p5    (30.8)     44.0       74.8    (262.7)    537.3      800.0    (264.2)    431.5       695.7
NPV 1991      42.8      120.8      78.0      360.6   1,476.0   1,115.4      364.5   1,153.4      788.9
B/C ratio                            2.8                             4.1                            3.2
EIRR                           22.6Z                          28.52                           24.2Z
lYRR 1997                           18.42                           26.92                          20.9S
shansyu-Yuyao/Clzi (27.1 km)   Yuyso/Cizi-Ningbo (45.2 km)         Total. project (145 gm-)
Cost   Benefit     Total       Coat   Besnfit      Total      Cost   Benefit       Total
1993     163.2               (163.2)    219.1               (219.1)       717                 (717)
1994     108.8               (108.8)    146.1               (146.1)       478                 (478)
1995     108.8               (108.8)    146.1               (146.1)       478                 (478)
1996     163.2               (163.2)    219.1               (219.1)       717                 (717)
1997       0.8      93.1       92.3       1.4      142.6     141.2          4       574        569
1998       0.8     101.2      100.4       1.4      152.7     151.3          4       615        611
1999       0.8     105.3      104.5       1.4      161.7     160.3          4       651        647
2000       0.8     113.1      112.3        1.4     172.3     170.9          4       691        687
2001       8.0      119.7     111.7       11.4     184.6     173.1         36       743        707
2002       0.8      131.5     130.7        1.4     199.0     197.7          4       802        798
2003       0.8      138.0     137.2        1.4     212.5     211.1          4       848        844
2004       0.8      146.8     146.0        1.4     222.7     221.3          4       906        902
2005       0.8      156.3     155.5        1.4     240.5     239.1          4       959        954
2006       0.8      165.8     165.0        1.4     253.2     251.8          4     1,026      1,022
2007       0.8      174.7     173.9        1.4     273.2     271.8          4     1,095      1,091
2008       0.8      186.4     185.6        1.4     287.3   2-US0            4     4,456      1,152
2009       0.8      194.1     193.3        1.4     308.7     307.3          4      1,222     1,218
2010       8.7     201.2      192.6       15.0     314.5     299.5         47     1,268      1,220
2011       0.8     218.9      218.1        1.4     336.9     335.5          4     1,353      1,349
2012       0.8     231.3      230.5        1.4     359.5     358.1          4      1,442     1,438
2013       0.8     244.6      243.8        1.4     378.6     377.2          4     1,S1n      1,515
2014       0.8     259.5      258.7        1.4     401.4     400.0          4      1,614     1,609
2015    (272.0)    275.3      547.3       ERn    425.7          IRE       ERR      1,714       ERu
flY 1991     372.8      754.7     381.9        ZRR   1,160.8        E         EnRR     4,666       ZRR
B/C ratio                            2.0                             ERR                            ERn
sRn                            17.82                           ERR                             ERR
FTM  1997                           13.32                           15.12                           18.62
Note: Costs are for construction(1993-1996), routine maintenance, settlement remedal works(2001),
periodic maintenance(2010), and construction salvage value(2015)1 Benefits ar from diverted
highWay traffic, diverted rail traffic, new Ningbo Port traffic, and generated traffic.
Source: Consultant eotti tes, updated by Bank staff



- 73 -
Table 4.7
ZIEJIANG PROVINCIAL HGCHWAY PBOJECT
Economle Zvaluatloa With Tolling
8angshou-Ningbo Highway
(in millions of Yusn, 1991)
Hanguhou-Xnaoham. (6.0 1am)   Xiaoshan-Shaoxing (35.3 km)    Shaoxing-Shangyu (29.4 km)
Cost   Benef"t     Total       Cost   Benefit      Total      Coat   Benefit      Total
1993      18.9                (18.9)    161.1                (161.1)    162.0               (162.0)
1994      12.6                (12.6)    107.4               (107.4)    108.0                (108.0)
1995      12.6                (12.6)    107.4               (107.4)    108.0                (108.0)
1996      18.9                (18.9)    161.1               (161.1)    162.0                (162.0)
1997       0.4      12.5       12.0        1.8     154.8     153.0        1.5     121.5      120.0
1998       0.4      14.4       14.0        1.8     164.6     162.8        1.5     129.2      127.7
1999       0.4      14.0       13.6        1.8     174.1     172.3        1.5     139.7      138.2
2000       0.4       14.7      14.3        1.8     187.3      185.5       1.5      144.4     142.8
2001       0.4       17.2      16.8        4.6     198.3      193.7      12.4     158.9      146.5
2002       0.4       17.1      16.7        1.8     217.6     215.7        1.5     167.3      165.8
2003       0.4       18.3      17.9        1.8     227.7     225.9        1.5     178.5      176.9
2004       0.4       21.2      20.8        1.8     242.2     240.3        1.5     193.9      192.4
2005       0.4      20.8       20.4        1.8     256.5     254.7        1.5     201.6      200.0
2006       0.4      21.9       21.5        1.8     279.9     278.0        1.5     214.9      213.4
2007       0.4      22.9       22.5        1.8     296.0     294.2        1.5     231.9      230.4
2008       0.4      25.8       25.4        1.8     311.1     309.2        1.5     243.5      241.9
2009       0.4      26.7       26.3        1.8     330.5     328.7        1.5     254.2      252.7
2010       2.7      27.5       24.7       12.4     343.3     330.9       10.4     268.4      258.0
2011       0.4      29.6       29.2        1.8     361.6     359.8        1.5     286.4      284.9
2012       0.4      31.4       31.0        1.8     390.9     389.1        1.5     300.8      299.2
2013       0.4      33.3       32.9        1.8     408.8     407.0        1.5     318.8      317.2
2014       0.4      35.2       34.8        1.8     431.4     429.6        1.5     342.0      340.4
20A5     (31.5)     37.2       68.6    (268.5)    455.3      723.8    (270.1)    366.8       636.9
NFV 1991      44.7      102.3      57.7      372.1   1,255.2      883.1     375.5      984.8     609.3
5/C ratLo                            2.3                             3.4                            2.6
KIRR                           19.7S                          25.3Z                           21.42
FYRR 1997                           15.O                           22.32                          17.4Z
Shangyu-Tuy ao/Clxl I..   km)   Yuyao/CLzL-NLngbo (45.2 km)       Total project (145 km)
Cost   Benefit     Total       Cost   Benefit      Total      Coat   Benefit      Total
1993     166.8               (166.8)    224.0               (224.0)       733                 (733)
1994     111.2               (111.2)    149.3               (149.3)       489                 (489)
1995     111.2               (111.2)    149.3               (149.3)       489                 (489)
1996     166.8               (166.8)    224.0               (224.0)       733                 (733)
1997       1.4      80.8       79.4       2.4      124.8     122.5          8       494        487
1998       1.4      87.8       86.4       2.4      133.6     131.2          8       530        522
1999       1.4      91.3       89.9       2.4      141.4     139.0          8       560        553
2000       1.4      98.0       96.7        2.4     150.6     148.2          8       595        587
2001       8.2      103.9      95.8       11.7     161.1     149.4         37        639       602
2002       1.4      113.8     112.4        2.4     173.6     171.2          8       689        682
2003       1.4      119.4     118.0        2.4     185.2     182.8          8       729        721
2004       1.4      126.9     125.5        2.4     194.1      191.7         8       778        771
2005       1.4      135.0     133.6        2.4     209.4     207.0          8       823        816
2006       1.4      143.1     141.7        2.4     220.3     217.9          8       880        873
2007       1.4      150.6     149.2        2.4     237.4     235.0          8       939        931
2008       1.4      160.6     159.2        2.4     249.5     247.1          a        990       983
2009       1.4      167.2     165.8        2.4     268.0     265.6          8      1,047     1,039
2010       9.4      173.4     164.0       16.2     273.0     256.8         51      1,086     1,034
2011       1.4      188.4     187.0        2.4     292.1     289.7          8      1,158     1,151
2012       1.4      198.8     197.5        2.4     311.4     309.0          8     1,233      1,226
'013       1.4     210.1      208.7        2.4     327.6     325.2          8     1,299      1,291
2014       1.4      222.8     221.4        2.4     347.1     344.7          8      1,378     1,371
2015    (278.0)    236.2      514.2    (373.3)    367.9      741.2    (1,221)    1,463       2,685
NPV 1991     383.6      651.9     268.3      518.4   1,010.6      492.2     1,69A      4,005     2,311
B/C ratlo                            1.7                             1.9                            2.4
ZIRR                           15.61                           17.31                          19.9S
FMR  1997                           11.22                           12.82                           15.62
Note:  Coat. are for construction(1993-1996), routiao mait-enance, toll collection, settlmnat
remedial works(2001), perLodic maintenance(2010), and constructLon salvage valua(2015)8
BOneflts are from dlverted hbi4gay trafflc, dlverted rall traffic, nw i Nngbo Port traffic,
and generated trafflc.
Source:  Consultant ettimtes, updated by Bak staff



- 74 -
Table 4. 8
ZEEIuNG PRovINCiAL HIGnWaY PROJECT
zconomic Evaluation Sensitivity Test With Tolling
8a gaho-Ningbo Hiba
(costs lncreased 102, benefita decreased 102, In millions of Yuan, 1991)
HNagshou.Xiaoa a  (8.0 km)   Xiaoahan-Shaoxing (35.3 km)    Shaoxing-Shangyu (29.4 Ia)
Cost   Benefit    Total       Cost   Benefit      Total      Cost   Benefit    Total
1993      20.0               (20.8)    177.2               (177.2)    178.2               (178.2)
1994      13.9               (13.9)    118.1               (118.1)    118.8               (118.8)
1995      13.9               (13.9)    118.1               (118.1)    118.8               (118.8)
1996      20.8               (20.8)    177.2               (177.2)    178.2               (178.2)
1997       0.4      11.2      10.8        1.8     139.3     137.5       1.5     109.3      107.8
1998       0.4      13.0      12.6       1.8    . 148.2     146.3       1.5     116.3      114.8
1999       0.4      12.6      12.2       1.8      156.7     154.9       1.5     125.7      124.2
2000       0.4      13.2      12.8        1.8     168.6     166.8       1.5     129.9      128.4
2001       0.4      15.5      15.1       5.1      178.5     173.4      13.7     143.0      129.3
2002       0.4      15.4      15.0        1.8     195.8     194.0       1.5     150.6      149.1
2003       0.4      16.4      16.0        1.8     204.9     203.1       1.5     160.6      159.1
2004       0.4      19.1      18.7        1.8     217.9     216.1       1.5     174.5      173.0
2005       0.4      18.7      18.3        1.8     230.9     229.0       1.5     181.4      179.9
2006       0.4      19.7      19.3        1.8     251.9     250.0       1.5     193.4      191.9
2007       0.4      20.6      20.2        1.8     266.4     264.6       1.5     208.7      207.2
2008       0.4      23.2      22.8        1.8     280.0     278.1       1.5     219.1      217.6
2009       0.4      24.0      23.6        1.8     297.5     295.7       1.5     228.8      227.3
2010       3.0      24.7      21.7       13.7     309.0     295.3      11.4     241.6      230.2
2011       0.4      26.6      26.2        1.8     325.5     323.7       1.5     257.8      256.3
2012       0.4      28.3      27.9        1.8     351.8     350.0       1.5     270.7      269.2
2013       0.4      30.0      29.6        1.8     367.9     366.1       1.5     286.9      265.4
2014       0.4      31.7      31.3        1.8     388.3     386.5       1.5     307.8      306.2
2015     (34.6)     33.4      68.1    (295.4)    409.7      705.1    (297.1)    330.2      627.2
DiV 1991      48.9      92.1      43.2      408.4   1,129.7     721.2     412.3      886.3     474.0
BiC ratio                            1.9                           2.8                            2.1
ZlRR                          17.02                          22.22                          18.6S
FM31 1997                           12.2Z                         18.2Z                          14.2L
shangyu-Iuyao/Cixi (27.1 km)   Yuyao/Cixi-Ningbo (45.2 Ia)       Totai project (145 Ia)
Cost   Benefit     Total      Co6t   Benefit      Total      Coat   Benefit     Total
1993     183.5              (183.5)    246.4               (246.4)      806                 (806)
1994     122.3              (122.3)    164.3               (164.3)      537                 (537)
1995     122.3              (122.3)    164.3               (164.3)      537                 (537)
1996     183.5              (183.5)    246.4               (246.4)      806                 (806)
1997       1.4      72.7      71.4       2.4      112.3     110.0         8       445        437
1998       1.4      79.0      77.6       2.4      120.2     117.8         8       477        469
1999       1.4      82.2      80.8       2.4      127.2     124.9         8       504        497
2000       1.4      88.2      86.9        2.4     135.5     133.2         a       536        528
2001       9.0      93.5      84.5       12.9     145.0     132.2        41       576        535
2002       1.4    102.4    101.0          2.4     156.3     153.9         8        620       613
2003       1.4    107.4    106.0          2.4     166.7     164.3         A        656       649
2004       1.4     114.2     11248        2.4     176.7     172.3         a       700        693
2005       1.4     121.5     120.1        2.4     188.4     186.1         8        741       733
2006       1.4    128.8    127.4          2.4     198.2     195.9         8        792       785
2007       1.4    135.5    134.2          2.4     213.6     211.2         8       845        837
2008       1.4    144.6    143.2          2.4     224.5     222.2         a       891        884
2009       1.4     150.5     149.1        2.4     241.2     238.8         8       942        935
2010      10.3    156.0    145.7         17.8     245.7     227.8        56        977       921
2011       1.4    169.6      168.2        2.4     262.9     260.5         8      1,042     1,035
2012       1.4    179.0    177.6          2.4     280.2     277.8         8      1,110     1,102
201t       1.4     189.1     187.7        2.4     294.8     292.4         8      1,169     1,1',1
2014       1.*4    200.5    199.1         2.4     312.3     310.0         8      1,241     1,233
2015    (305.8)    212.6    518.4    (410.6)    331.1       741.8    (1,343)    1,317      2,661
mI  1991     421.4    586.7       165.3     569.2     909.6     340.3      1,860     3,604     1,744
s/C ratlo                            1.4                           1.6                            1.9
1131                          13.32                          14.9S                          17.2Z
liRi 1997                            9.12                         10.52                          12.72
eotct coost are for conatruction(1993-1996), routine maIntenance, toll collection, settlemtnt
remdial vorks(2001), periodic maintenanca(2010), end construction salvage valus(2015)1
Benefits are from diverted highway traffic, diverted rail traffic, new Ningbo Port traffic,
end generated traffic.
Sources Consultact *aticmtes, updated by Bank staff



- 75 -
Table 4.9
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Evaluation Sumary and Sensitivity
HangSzhou-Ningbo Highway
(in 1991 prices)
Construction                  1991    1997
Longth     Coat   gIRm      B/C      NPV    FYRR
(km) (millions    (2)         (millions    (2)
of Yuan)                 of Yuan)
Main evaluation as toll road
____________________________
Hsngzhou-Xiaoshan          8.0       63    19.7S    2.3       58    15.02
Xiaoshan-Shaoxing         35.3      537    25.3Z    3.4       883    22.3Z
Shaoxing-Shangyu          29.4      540    21.42    2.6      609    17.4Z
Shsngyu-Yuyao/Cixi        27.1      556    15.62    1.7      268    11.22
Yuyao/Cixi-Ningbo         45.2      747    17.32    1.9       492    12.82
Total project            145.0    2,443    19.92    2.4   2,310    15.62
Alternative evaluation as free road
Hangzhou-Xiaoshan          8.0       62    22.62    2.8        78    18.4Z
Iiaoshan-Shaoxing         35.3      525    28.5Z    4.1    1,115    26.92
Shaoxing-Shangyu          29.4      528    24.22    3.2      789    20.92
Shangyu-Yuyao/Cixi        27.1      544    17.8Z    2.0      382    13.32
Yuyao/Cixi-Ningbo         45.2      730    19.52    2.3       658    15.12
Total project            145.0    2,390    22.52    2.8    3,022    18.62
Toll road sensitivity
_____________________
Standard toll road cae    145    2,443    19.9Z    2.4    2,3'0    15.62
Vary construction costs:
+ 102                  145    2,687    18.62    2.2    2,145    14.22
- 102                  145    2,198    21.42    2.6    2,477    17.32
Vary project benefits:
+ 102                  145    2,443    21.32    2.6    2,711    17.22
- 102                  145   2,443    18.52    2.1    1,910    14.02
Combined case:
Construction 1 102 O   145    2,687    17.2Z    1.9    1,744    12.72
Benefits     - 102 )
Note:  EIRR - Economic Internal Rate of Return
B/C - Benefit to Cost Ratio
NPV - Net Present Value
PYRE - First Year Rate of Return
SOURCE: Consultant estimates, updated by Bank staff



-76-                               ANNEX 1
Page 1
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Develoyment Proaram
A. Introduction
1.        The southern part of Zhejiang Province is the most underdeveloped
region of the province. Most roads in the region have low geometric standards
and poor surface conditions and several counties do not have any asphalt-paved
roads. In some areas, portering and animal-drawn carts are still the major
means of freight transportation. Lack of proper road infrastructure is one of
the major obstacles to improving the living standards of those who live in
this region.
2.        The experiences from the first Bank-financed Highway Project in
China showed that significant changes have been brought by the rural road
improvement program. "The opening up of all-veather access to areas that had
previously relied on porter or rough tracks has resulted in substantial
increases in the standard of living of those within the influence zone of the
new roads, the creation of new industries or the revitalizing of existing ones
and the exploitation of mineral deposits that vere formerly uneconomic" (High-
way Project, Draft Project Completion Report, January 1992).
B. The Proaram
3.        The Road Development Program would include the construction and/or
improvement of about 970 km of provincial and county roads. Although their
nature varies from subproject to subproject, the improvements can be catego-
rized into four groups which are listed as follows:
Group At  full-scale upgrading, in which geometry and pavement would be
upgraded for the entire length of the roads;
Group Bt bottleneck relief, in which only those sections with bottle-
necks would be upgraded. This usually involves widening the
pavement, and realigning or constructing bypasses to towns;
Group Cs new bridge construction, in which new bridges would be built to
replace a ferry or an existing low-standard bridge;
Group Dt new penetration road construction, in which new access roads
would be built in the areas where no motorable road exists.
4.        ZPG identified 33 subprojects with a total investment of Y 562 mil-
lion to be Included in the RDP, as follows (the detailed cost table is pre-
sented in Appendix 1 to this annex)s



77 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 2
Length         Financial cost
Group        Project type          Number           (km)           (Y million)
A        Upgrading                  11            465                 204
B        Bottleneck Relief          5             201                 145
C        Bridge                     4              11                  58
D        Access Road                13            293                 155
Total               33             970                 562
5.        The RDP will be processed in a series of packages.  Only the sub-
projects in the first package have been appraised, but the evaluation of sub-
projects in subsequent packages will follow the methodology outlined in this
annex. The subprojects selected for inclusion in the subsequent packages will
depend on the status of preparation of the required studies and the availabil-
ity of loce' funds, end other criteria stipulated in para. 6 of this annex.
Most of the tentatively identified 33 subprojects are expected to qualify for
inclusion in the RDP; however, other subprojects meeting selection criteria
could be added to the program*
C. Criteria for Subproiect Selection
6.        The criteria for obtaining the Bank'. concurrence to include sub-
projects in the RDP would be as follows:
(a)  The Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR), calculated according to
methodology presented in paras. 24-62 of this annex for category A,
B, C and D type subprojects, would not be lose than 12 percent.
(b)  Engineering design would be prepared according to the geometric
standards indicated in Table 1.7 and sound engineering practices.
(c)  The procurement procedures would be in conformity with Bank Guide-
lines for Procurement, specifically paras. 2 and 3 of Appendix I
thereof.
(d)  For each subproject with potential adverso impact on the environment
or located in environmentally sensitive areas, an Environmental
Assessment and an Environmental Action Plan, and for all other sub-
projects an Environmental Action Plan only, would be prepared. All
subprojects would undergo an environmental impact analysis as out-
lined in Appendix 2 to this annex.
(e)  A Resettlement Action Plan for each subproject would be prepared in
accordance with the procedures &pplied for the preparation of the
Resettlement Action Plan for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway.



- 78 -                            ANNEX I
Page 3
D. Organizational Arrannements
7,        The Zhejiang Provincial Highway Administration Bureau would be the
executing agency for the RDP at the provincial level. An RDP Unit within
ZPHAB is being eet up for coordinating and supervising the RDP. It will be
headed by a deputy director and staffed with three planners, two to five
supervisors, and two financial administrators. On the municipal/prefectural
level of administration, the transport bureaus would be responsible for the
coordination and management of a corresponding portion of the RDP with a per-
manent staff of between eevea to nine. Similar administrativ;- arrangements
would be made at the county level.
8.        More specifically, the functions of the RDP units at the different
levels of administration would be as followss The RDP Unit in ZPHAB would be
responsible for preparing engineering design, economic evaluation, bidding
documents, and technical specifications and for managing the bidding process,
including bid evaluation. Construction contracts would be signed by the
authorized representative of the RDP Unit. The Unit also would coordinate the
supervision of construction, including organizational arrangements, staffing
and training programs for supervisors, in accordance with the nature of the
works, and the purchasing of equipment for laboratories.
9.        The municipal/prefectural units of the RDP would assign the engi-
neer's representative for supervision, and the county units of the RDP would
assign the resident supervisors for the subprojects. The municipal/prefec-
tural units, in coordination with the county and local government entities,
would be responsible for environmental, land acquisition and resettlement
actions under the guidance of ZPHAB's RDP Unit, the Zhejiang Provincial Envi-
ronmental Protection Bureau, and the Zhejiang Provincial Environmental Protec-
tion Institute.
E. The First Package
10.       The first package includes the following subprojects:  Xlindeng-
Shun'an (A-2), Xiaoshi-Lushan (A-2), Xiangshan-Medlin (A-3), Xiaoshan-Jinhua
(B-4), Bihu Bridge (C-1), Linpu Bridge (C-4) and Xiazhai-Jincun (D-5). The
economic evaluations show that each would yield a high rate of return. As
displayed in the following table, the EIRR for each project varies from 14 to
35 percent, with an overall value of 26 percent.



- 79 -                             ANNEX I
Page 4
Subproject          Identi-      Fin. Coat    Econ. Coat    NPV    EIRR    FYRR
fication    -------- (Y million) ---------    --- (Z) ----
Xindeng-Shun'an        A-1          26.6         27.4         26     22       17
Xiaoshi-Lushan         A-2           3.7          3.8          1     14       12
Xiangshan-Meilin       A-3          15.5          16.0         4     14       11
Xiaoshan-Jinhua         B-4         41.7         42.9        189     34       11
Bihu Bridge            C-1          11.6          11.9         3     14       11
Linpu Bridge           C-4          18.5          19.1        68     35       11
Xiazhai-Jincun         D-5           2.9          3.0          2     21       18
Total                         120.5        124.1        293     26      13
F. Traffic Forecast
11.       General DescriDtion.  Road traffic was initially projected using the
growth factor method. That is: daily traffic volume in a given year was
estimated by multiplying the traffic volume in the previous year with a cer-
tain growth factor. Traffic volumes were projected for three types of traf-
fic: vehicle, tractor, and others (mainly bicycles). In the evaluation of
Class C projects (bridge/ferry substitutions), passenger volumes were identi-
fied separately to obtain a better estimate of travel-time savings. The esti-
mated traffic volumes were then converted to an equivalent truck traffic vol-
ume and compared with the capacity of the road. If the equivalent volume was
lower than road capacity, the projected volume was taken as the future traffic
volume. If the converted volume was higher than road capacity, it was then
adjusted to equal the capacity of the road, and the volumes by vehicle type
were adjusted proportionately.
12.       Conversion Factor.  The 4-ton medium truck (5.5-ton gross vehicle
weight) was used as the standard vehicle, and other types of traffic were
converted to truck traffic. The conversion factor for vehicles, tractors and
other traffic were assumed to be as follows:
Vehicle            1.0
Tractor            1.0
Others             0.067
13.       Traffic Growth Factor.  Zhejiang Province has experienced rapid
economic growth in recent years, which has impacted growth in highway traffic.
From 1984 to 1990, traffic growth on the highway system was particularly
rapid.  The annual growth rate was about 35 percent for freight (in term of
ton-km) and approaching 14 percent for passengers (in terms of passenger-km).
Although the current pace of economic growth suggests that this growth in
traffic will continue into the future, much more conservative growth rates
were used for the evaluation.



-80 A-E  I
Page 5
14.       A uniform set of traffic growth rates was used in the evaluations of
the subprojects. The growth rates used for various types of traffic over
different time periods are listed in the following table:
Annual Growth Rate
Traffic Type       1991-95       1996-2000      2001-10
Vehicles              101           81              51
Tractors              5S            2Z              0S
Others              2.5Z            01            -51
Vehicle traffic is assumed to grow in all three time periods, but at decreas-
ing rates. Tractor traffic is expected to grow in the near future but at much
lower rates than vehicle traffic. Beyond the year 2000, the tractor traffic
growth rate is set at zero. Other traffic (mainly bicycles) is assumed to
have a negative growth beyond the year 2000 to reflect the likely switch to
motorized vehicles as the province becomes more developed. The growth rates
presented above account for normal traffic growth likely to occur with eco-
nomic development. Additional traffic is assumed to be generated by the proj-
ect at a rate of 10 percent of the normal traffic.
G.  Hlijhwav  Capacitv
15.       Practical CapacitZ.  The practical capacity of a highway is defined
as the maximum traffic volume reached before traffic becomes congested. Con-
gestion effects, in the form of impedance of the faster vehicles by slower
ones, will be felt over the whole range of traffic volumes up to that volume,
but instability of flow and the onset of stop-go conditions will occutr only
after this volume is exceeded.
16.       The practical capacity of a flat, tangent, 7 m wide two-lane highway
is about 2,500 Passenger Car Equivalent (pee) per hour. Since a medium-size
truck is equivalent to 2 passenger cars, practical capacity for this type of
highway is assumed to be 1,250 pee.
17.       Effect of Width.  Capaclty is assumed to vary with the width of
pavement. The following adjustment factors were adopted to modify the capa-
city of a 7 m road (with linear interpolation) when the road width is differ-
ent from 7 mt
7.0 m     1.00
6.7 m     0.98
6.1 m     0.90
5.5 m     0.80
18.       Effect of Grade.  Road capacity drops with Increasing hilliness.
The following factors were adopted to modify capacity for each road geometric
class:



- 81                                  _
Page 6
Flat/Rolling:  0 85
Hilly:         0.65
Mountainous:   0.50
H. Vehicle 0perating Cost
19.       Vehicle operating costs were estimated in two steps.  First, free-
flow operating costs were estimated and then the values were modified to
reflect the degree of traffic congestion.
20.       Free-flow operating costs for various types of vehicles are listed
in Table 4.5. To obtain an average operating cost for vehicle traffic, the
following fleet composition was assumed for vehicle traffic on all roads ana-
lyzed:
Vehicle type             Percentage
Small car                      13
Small bus                      13
Medium bus                      4
Large bus                       4
Small truck                    16
Medium truck                   33
Large truck                     2
Tractor-Trailer                15
The average vehicle operating cost, weighted by the above percentage traffic
composition, was defined as follows:
Surface         Pavement           Flat/rolling        Hilly         Mountainous
Type            Conditions
Paved              Good                0.73             0.88            1.02
Fair               0.81             0.98             1.11
Poor               1.01             1.16             1.30
Unpaved            Good                0.92             1.09            1.32
Fair               1.49             1.88            2.21
Poor               1.71             2.10            2.44
21.       The purchase price of a mechanized hand tractor was estimated at
about one sixth of the cost of a small truck. Running costs are probably not
proportionately as low as the purchase price; therefore, it was assumed that
tractor operating costs are one fourth of the average vehicle operating cost.
22.       Vehicle operating costs under congested conditions were obtained by
multiplying free-flow operating cost by a congestion factor, estimated as a
function of the daily volume capacity ratio. The congestion factors used for
different volume capacity ratios are listed as followst



- 82 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 7
Volume /Capacity Ratic                 Conaestion Factor
0.0                                   1.00
0.6                                   1.00
0.7                                   1 05
0.8                                   1.15
0.9                                   1.50
1.0                                   2.50
I. Road Maintenance Costs
23.       Road maintenance cost. are divided into fixed cost and variable
cost. The fixed cost refers to the expenses incurred when o ly minimal main-
tenance activities are observed, which does not change over traffic volume.
In the evaluations, the fixed cost is assumed to be Y 4,400 per km per year
for roads with asphalt surface and Y 4,700 for gravel and earth roads. The
variable cost changes when the traffic volume changes. It can be measured as
a linear function of daily traffic volume. The variable maintenance costs are
Y 30 and Y 53.5 per vpd/km/year for asphalt surface and gravel surface roads,
respectively. For exa-uple, the annual maintenance cost for a gravel road with
200 vpd would be 4700+53.5x200-Y 15,400/km.
J. Economic Evaluations
24.       The evaluations for each of the seven subprojects in the first pack-
age are presented below. A standard evaluation method was adopted for each
category of subprojects (A, B, C and D) and defined on a computer spreadsheet.
The spreadsheet evaluation results for each of the seven subprojects in the
first package are presented in Appendixes 3-9 to this annex, and are discussed
below. The first subprojects in each category are discussed in a little more
detail to explain the methodology used. The methodology for the Linpu Bridge
subproject (C-4) is also explained more fully since it departs from the stan-
dard methodelogy for the C category subprojects.
The Xindeno-Shun'an Road IA-18
25.       This is a Category A subproject to upgrade an existing gravel road
to asphalt surface with better alignment.
26.       The Road Influence Area.  The road (110 km) runs from Xindeng in
Fuyang County, mouth through Tonglu County to Pailin, the capital of Shun'an
County. The road influence area extends over 2,825 ikm2, covering 3 counties
and 67 villages with a total population of 820,000. The major agricultural
products include rice, tea, timber, fruits and silkworm cocoons. The influ-
ence area is also an important tourist attraction. The GOVAI irF the region
was Y 543 million in 1990.
27.       Existino Road and Traffic Conditions.  The existing road was built
in 1958, when China was enduring severe economic difficulties. As a result,
the initial quality of the road construction was poor. It is currently clas-
sified as Class 4 standard and is paved with a gravel-macadam surface. Some



-83-                               ANNEX I
Page 8
sections of the road have been upgraded recently, and the total length of the
sections which would be upgraded as part of this subproject is 64.4 km. The
subproject includes upgrading road geometric. and paving the surface with
asphalt penetration macadam. The observed daily traffic in 1990 is estimated
as follows:
Vehicles     300
Tractors     175
Others        50
28.       Traffic Forecast.  Traffic growth was estimated according to the
method specified in Section G of this annex. The maximum projected volumes
were below the traffic capacity of the highway, both with and without the
subproject, and so no adjustment were made to reflect capacity constraints.
29.       Proiect Costs and Benefits.  The economic cost of upgrading this
road to Class 1 standards is estimated to be Y 27.3 million (the estimated
financial cost is Y 26.6 million) and the upgrading is expected to take two
year. to complete starting in 1993. The major quantifiable benefits from the
subproject road include savings in vehicle operating costs and road mainte-
nance costs. Year 1995 is taken as an example to demonstrate how benefits
were calculated. The condicions on the existing and new road are listed ao
follows:
Existing Road               New Road
Distance:                    64 km                       60.8  km
Pavements                    unpaved                     paved
Conditions:                  fair                        fair
Vehicle traffics             483 veh/day                 531 veh/day
Tractor traffic:             223 tractor/day             246 tractor/day
VOCs                         Y 1.26/veh-km               Y 0.98/veh-km
Fixed maintenance cost:      Y 4,700/km/year             Y 4,400/km/year
Variable maintenance cost:  Y 54/km/daily-veh/yr         Y 37/km/daily-veh/yr
30.       The subproject benefits are calculated as:
(a)  Savince in Vehicle oceratina Costs for Normal Traffic (for demon-
stration purposes, only vehicle traffic li calculated).
(i) Distance Savinas. The length of the existing road (the section
requiring improvement) is 64 km while that of the new road is
60.2 km. The savings for normal vehicle traffic is equal to
Y 0.71 million [-483x1.26x1.0x(64-60.8)x365, where 1.0 is the
congestion factor for no congestion).
(ii) Savinas from Better Surface. The existing road has a gravel
surface while the proposed new road will have a bituminous



-84 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 9
surface. The savings derived from the betterment of the surface
for normal vehicla traffic is equal to Y 3.0 million [-483x
60.8x365x(1.26x1.0-O.98x1.0)].
(b)  Savings in Vehicle ODerating Costs for Generated Traffic.  Assuming
the savings for each vehicle of generated traffic to be one half of
the normal traffic, it is estimated to be Y 0.19 million [0.5x(531/
483-1)x(0.71+3.0)).
(c) Savinas in Road Maintenance Costs. The road maintenance cost sav-
ings are estimated to be Y 1.03 million {(4700+54x(483+223)]x64-
[4400+30x(531+246)Jx60.8).
31.       The Economic Rate of Return.  The subproject is estimated to yield
an NPV of Y 26 million at a 10 percent discount rate and an EIIR of 22 per-
cent. The FYRR is 17 percent.
The Xiaoshi-Lushan Road (A-2)
32.       This is a Category A subproject to upgrade an existing gravel road
to asphalt surface with improved alignment.
33.       The Road Influence Area. The road (16.1 km) is located in the cen-
tral part of Huzhou Prefecture. It is the only road which links Anji County
with Huzhou City, the capital of the prefecture, and provides access to
Shanghai and Jiangsu. The road runs from the suburbs of Huzhou City, westward
to Heping in Changxi County, and ends at Xiaoshi in Anji County. It is esti-
mated that 60 percent of agricultural and industlial products exported from
AnJi County are transported via this road. The road influence area extends
over 174 kin2, covering 572 villages with a total population of 50,800. The
GOVAI was Y 43.5 million in 1990. The area is rich in mineral reserves and
construction materials. The major agricultural products include food grain
and bamboo. It is estimated that in Anji county alone, the bamboo reserve
accounts for one tenth of the total national reserve.
34.       Existing Road and Traffic Conditions.  The existing road was built
to a low Class 4 standard with gravel surface. The width of the pavement is
only 4.5 m. The daily traffic observed in 1990 was as follows:
Vehicles     100
Tractors     170
Others       300
35.       Proiect Costs and Benefits.  The estimated economic cost of upgrad-
ing this road to a Class 3 standard is Y 3.8 million (Y 3.7 million in terms
of financial cost). Project benefits accrue from savings in vehicle operating
costs. The improved road could be expected to provide better access to the
markets (both inside and outside of the province) for the region and thus
increase agricultural and industrial productivity, in particular the produc-
tion of bamboo and-construction materials. The method used in estimating
project benefits was the same as that used for the Xindeng-Shun'an Road above.



- 85 -ANX I
Page 10
36.       The Economic Rate of Return.  The subproject would yield an NPV of
Y 1 million at a 10 percent discount rate. The EIRR is 14 percent, while the
FYRR is 12 percent.
The Xilanshan-Meilin Road (A-3)
37.       This is a Category A subproject to upgrade an existing gravel road
to a portland cement concrete surface road with better alignment.
38.       The Road Influence Area.  The road is located in the Xiangshan
Peninsula. It extends from Danchen, the capital of Xiangshan County, westward
and ends at Meilin in Ninghai County. The road serves 248 villages with a
total population of 170,000. The major agricultural products include food
grain, cotton, tea, oranges and sugarcane. The area also has a large fishing
industry. The GOVAI in the influence region was Y 680 million in 1990.
39.       The Existing Road and Traffic Conditions.  The existing road was
built to a low Class 4 standard with a gravel macadam surface. tn particular,
the Danchen to Qiangtou section and the section near Hanca both have very low
geometric standards, with the vertical grade reaching 7 percent in some parts.
Daily traffic observed in 1990 was as follows:
Vehicles     370
Tractors     450
Others       500
40.       Prolect Costs and Benefits.  The Danchen to Qiangtou section would
be upgraded according to a Class 3 standard. A tunnel would be built near
Hanca to bypass a section with high vertical grades and to shorten the travel
distance. The estimated economic cost of the subproject is Y 16.0 million
(Y 15.5 million in terms of financial cost). The subproject would reduce the
travel distance from 15.79 km to 14.29 km. The major benefit of the subproj-
ect would be the savings in vehicle operating costs.
41.       The Economic Rate of Return.  The subproject would yield an NPV of
Y 4 million at a 10 percent discount rate, with an EIRR of 14 percent. The
FYRR is 11 percent.
The Xiaoshan-Jinhua (Xiaoshan section) Road (B-4)
42.       This is a Category B subproject to up&rade selected bottleneck sec-
tions of the existing road.
43.       The Road Influence Area.  The road is located in Xiaoshan County,
extending from Xitouwang, via Linpu to Shangfeng. It is an important link
between the rich northern region and the poor, mountainous, southern region.
The road influence area covers 545 km2 with 7,590 villages containing a popu-
lation of 487,100. The land is very fertile and agricultural production of
food grain, silkworm cocoon and tea is abundant. The region also has indus-
tries such as textiles and construction materials and manufactures. Foreign
investment reached $30 million and the GOVAI reached Y 873 million in the area
in 1990.



-86 -                              ANNEX 1
Page I l
44.       The Existina Road and Traffic Conditions.  The existing road was
built to a Class I standard. Many bottlenecks exist along the road. Some of
them are due to low geometric standards, some are due to narrow pavement and
others to poor pavement conditions. These bottlenecks severely impede traffic
flow. In particular, the road passes through the center of several densely
populated towns where mixing traffic imposes severe delays and high traffic
accident rates. The traffic on this section is very heavy. The observed
daily traffic in 1990 was as follows
Vehicles     3,800
Tractors     1,500
Others         500
45.       Proiect Costs and Benefits.  The proposed subproject would upgrade
the road to flat terrain standards. This would include widening, alignment
modification, and pavement rehabilitation in the bottleneck sections. After
this improvement, the road would have a uniform width of 9 meters and the
distance would be shortened from 32.7 km to 29.2 km. The total economic cost
of the improvement is estimated to be Y 42.9 million (Y 41.7 million in terms
of financial cost). The quantifiable projeLt benefits accrue mainly from
savings in vehicle operating costs resulting from the shorter travel distance,
better surface, and reduced congestion. The method used to estimate the bene-
fits from B category subprojects is the same as that used for A category sub-
projects described above.
46.       The Economic Rate of Return.  The NPV of this subproject at 10 per-
cent of the social discount rate is Y 189 million. The subproject has an EIRR
of 34 percent and a FYRR of 11 percent.
Bihu Bridge (C-1)
47.       This is a Category C subproject to replace a ferry with a new
bridge.
48.       The Prolect Influence Area.  The Bihu Bridge (420.82 meters) is
located in the town of Bihu, about 20 km southwest of Lishui City, the capital
of Lishui Prefecture. The Bridge serves Lishui City, Songyang, Yunhe and
Qintian, and the Jin'ling National Autonomous County. The influence area
covers 8,375 km2 containing a population of 1.05 million. The main agricul-
tural production includes food grain, timber and tea. The area is rich in
mineral reserves such as gold and lead. The GOVAI reached Y 93 million in
19900
49.       The Nature of the Proiect and Traffic Conditions.  The Daxi River
runs close to the town of Bihu. There is a road on each bank of the river,
linked by a ferry sta.Lon at Bihu Town, with no bridges crossing the river for
about 20 km up and downstream. The fetry service stops when the water level
is too high in the wet season and too low in the dry season; on average, the
ferry is closed for about one month each year. The Bihu Bridge would be built
to replace the existing ferry station at Bihu township and would provide year-
round access across the river. The observed daily ferry traffic crossing the
river in 1990 was as follows:



- 87 -                             ANNEX I
Page 12
Vehicles         450
Tractors          90
Others           1SO
Passengers     1,933
50.       Proiect Cost and Benefits.  The economic cost of the bridge and
approaches is estimated to be Y 11.9 million (Y 11.6 million in terms of
financial cost). The major quantifiable benefits of the subproject are listed
in the following:
(a) Savinas in Ferry Operating Costs. At present, there are three ferry
boats in operation. The fixed cost, including the capital cost of
the boat, and the variable costs of boat maintenance and ferry oper-
ations are estimated at Y 0.14 million per year. These costs would
be avoided with a bridge.
(b) Savinas in Passenaer Travel Time. At present, three boats operate
at the ferry station. It takes twenty minutes per round trip for
each boat, and therefore the headway at either side of the ferry
station is 6.7 (20/3) minutes. Assuming that the average waiting
time is one half of the headway, it takes on average 13.4 minutes
(-20/2+6.7/2) for each vehicle to cross the river. Once a 400 meter
long bridge is built, the average travel time for vehicles would be
only 0.6 minute (all vehicles, including tractors, are assumed to
travel at 40 kilometers per hour). The travel-time savings is 12.8
(-13.4-0.6) minutes. Assuming the value of time equal to the value
added in production (which is equal to Y 0.7 per hour), each time a
passenger crosses the river the savings from travel time would be
Y 0.15 (-0.7x{12.8/60}).  In 1995, with 3,113 passengers crossing
the river daily during an 11-month period, the savings in passenger
travel time would be Y 0.1S million.
(c) Vehicle Utilization. For vehicles and tractors, the savings in
travel time can be transformed to higher vehicle utilization.
Assuming that the average vehicle purchase price is Y 60,000 per
vehicle and the average life is 12 years, the vehicle epreciation
cost per year is Y 5,000. Since the average utilizati n of vehicles
in China is about 1,500 hours/year, the economic value of a vehicle
per hour is Y 3.33. Hence, the value of improved vehicle utiliza-
tion is Y 0.7 per vehicle. The average purchase price of hand trac-
tors is about one tenth of that of vehicles. The average life of
hand tractors is much shorter than that of a motor vehicle. The
benefit for each tractor resulting from higher utilization was
assumed to be one sixth of what a motor vehicle gains.
(d)  Savinas in Vehicle Ooeratina Costs for Diverted Traffic.  At pres-
ent, 200 vehicles travel from Bihu Town to Lishui City, all taking
the west bank road which has a gravel surface. Once the bridge is
built, the alternative route on the east bank would be 4 km shorter
and would have a paved surface. It is expected that half of the
traffic would be diverted to the east bank road. The savings in
operating costs for the diverted traffic is derived from two fac-



- 88 -mflI
Page 13
tore: the shorter travel dista-..ce, and better surface conditions.
The savings from reduced travel distance vas estimated at Y 4.36
(-4xl.09) per vehicle. The savings from better surface conditions
was estimated at Y 4.76 C-17x(1.09-0.81)] per vehicle. The savings
resulting from shorter distance and better surface for diverted
traffic was estimated to be Y 0.26 million and Y 0.28 million,
respectively.
(e) Benefit From All-Season ODeration. The water level changes signifi-
cantly between wet and dry seasons. As a result, the ferry remains
open on average only about 11 months of the year. When the f-rry is
closed, the traffic detours through Wucun and Taoshan. The detour
adds 37 km to the trip, only 19 km on paved road. The extra operat-
ing costs incurred for detoured motor vehicles and tractors would be
Y 33.9 (-19x0.81+17x1.09) and Y 8.5 (-33.9/4) per vehicle trip,
respectively. Travelers may choose not to travel instead of detour-
ing a long distance; in this evaluation, only one third of the orig-
inal traffic was estimated to detour. The benefit to traffic which
would not detour can be counted as a generated benefit; this was
assumed to equal half the benefits of normal detoured traffic.
51.       The Economic Rate of Return.  The subproject would yield an NPV of
Y 3 million at a discount rate of 10 percent. The EIRR is 14 percent and the
FYRR is 11 percent.
The Liniu Bridge (C-4)
52.       This is a Category C subproject to replace an existing narrow bridge
with a new bridge.
53.       The Existina Conditions.  Linpu bridge is located in Linpu Township
on the Hangzhou-Jinhua Road, and provides a major access from the northern to
the southern region of the province. The existing bridge is only 5.3 m wide
and the approaches have an extremely low geometric design standard. Since the
bridge is located at the center of the town, its approaches also serve as the
city street. As a result, severe delays occur almost every day and the acci-
dent rate is high. The bridge is the most congested bottleneck on the
Hangzhou-Jinhua Road. The observed traffic in 1990 was as follows:
Vehicles     3,800
Tractors     1,500
Others       5,000
54.       Pro1ect Costs and Benefits.  To reduce the traffic congestion and
accidents, a new bridge would be built 940 m downstream to bypass the town.
The bridge is estimated to cost Y 16 million. The major benefit accrues from
savings in vehicle operating costs. Since this bridge subproject is to
replace an inadequate existing bridge, the method used to estimate the sub-
project benefits was the same as that used for Category A subprojects, as
described above.



- 89 -MX 1
Page 14
55.       The Economic Rate of Return.  The subproject is estimated to yield
an NPV of Y 68 million and an EIRR of 35 percent. The FYRR is 11 percent.
The Xiazhai-Jineun Road fD-5)
56.       This is a Category D subproject to replace an existing track with a
new gravel road to bring motorized access to the region.
57.       The Road Influence Area.  The Xiazhai-Jincun road is located on the
border between Yunhe and Songyang County. It extends from Xiazhai Village in
Songyang County, westwu.rd to Chafu, end ends at Jincun Village in Yunhe
County. The area of influence includes 38 vil'uges with a total population of
20,000. Although the Xiazhai-Jineun area is one of the most underdeveloped in
Zhejiang Province, it is rich in natural resources, including timber and min-
eral reserves. The agricultural products in the region include food grain,
tea, fruit and timber.
58.       The Existing Road and Traffic Conditions.  The existing road is
simply a track for human and animal portering; there is no motorable road in
the region at present. All the goods, in or out, are carried by porter or
hand cart. The observed quantities and transport distances of freight flow in
1990 are listed in the following table. It is estimated that the volume will
grow at 5 percent annually until the year 2000. Beyond that, traffic will
grow at 1 percent per year.
Items                           Quantities     Transport Distance      Density
(ton)               (km)            (ton-km)
Mineral Materials                 40,000               3.85            154,000
Fertilizer                           400              8.00               3,200
Food Grain                           625              8.00               5,000
Commercial Agricultural
Products                           200              9.00               1,800
Timber                             1,200              8.00               9,600
Total                        42  425                              173.600
59.       Prolect Costs and Benefits.  The road is classified as a Class 4
mountainous road with a length of 11.7 km. The estimated economic cost of the
road is Y 3.0 million (2.9 million in terms of financial cost). The road
would provide a relatively low-cost access to the region. Its benefits
include both value-added benefits and savings in vehicle operating costs.
Manual transportation will be replaced with vehicle or tractor transportation,
which is much more efficient and results in reduced transport costs. The new
road will also provide a more direct route for diverted traffic. This will
result in additional savings in transport costs. For simplicity, this evalua-
tion only measures the benefit of savings in transport costs, which will lead



- 90-                              AN        I
Page 15
to a conservative estimation of benefits. The quantifiable benefits are cal-
culated as the followings
(a) Assuming that a person can carry a load of 50 kilograms and travel
20 km a day, the volume carried is one ton-km per day at an esti-
mated labor cost of at Y 3.29 per day (according to Provincial
Authorities). Therefore, the transport cost via porterage is Y 3.29
per ton-km. At a load factor of 65 percent, the transport cost
using vehicles is equal to Y 0.50 (1.29/4/0.65) per ton-km, a saving
in transport costs of Y 2.79/ton-km.
(b) The opening up of the region to motorized access would increase
economic activities and freight flow in the area. Assuming that the
generated freight volume is 10 percent of the normal volume and the
benefit accruing from the transport cost savings is half of that of
the normal freight, the value added would be 5 percent of the trans-
port cost savings of normal freight.
(c) It is observed that 2 buses and 8 trucks travel between Dadongba and
Yunhe daily in 1990. The construction of the new road will provide
an alternative route between Wenshuikou to Shuanggang for these
vehicles. The existing route is composed of a 46 km unpaved section
and a 13 km paved section. The alternative route'via the proposed
oubproject would be 37 km, unpaved. The truck operating costs on
the paved and unpaved surfaces are Y 0.76/veh-km and Y 1.29/veh-km,
respectively. The bus operating costs on the paved and unpaved sur-
faces are Y 2.07/veh-km and Y 3.06/veh-km. The per-vehicle savings
on the alternative route would be Y 21.49/veh-km (1.29x46+0.76x13-
1.29x37) for trucks and Y 54.45/veh-km (3.06x46+2.07x13-3.06x37) for
buses.
60.       The construction of the penetration road is expected to lead to an
increase in agricultural production. It also would influence crop composition
by enabling farmers to respond better to market opportunities. In addition,
it would encourage the development of village industry. These benefits were
not quantified in the evaluation. Therefore, the estimated benefits are con-
sidered to be conservative.
61.       In addition, there will be a maintenance cost associated with the
new road. This cost was estimated using the same methodology outlined for the
Zindeng-Shun' an Road.
62.       The subproject will yield an NPV of Y 2 million at a discount rate
of 10 percent per year. The EIRR is 21 percent and the FYRR is 18 percent.



- 91 -
Annex I
__________
Appendix 1
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
-----------------------------------
Estimated Economic Cost
_______________________
Road Development Program
_______________________
(in millions of Yuan, 1991)
Local    Foreign       Total
Civil engineering costs      245.14      163.41      408.55
Construction supervision       6.66          --        6.66
Base cost                    251.80      163.41      415.21
Physical contingency / a      24.51       16.34       40.85
Price contingency / b         49.74       17.98       67.71
Sub-total                    326.05      197.73      523.77
Land acquisition              44.43        0.00       44.43
Project estimate             370.48      197.73      568.20
Economic cost /Ic            374.80      209.82      584.62
j a 102 of "base cost"
i/b Local - 182 of "base cost" plus "physical contingency"
Foreign - 102 of "base cost" plus "physical contingency"
Ic Total cost less 3Z contractor taxes, less "price
contingency", all factored by 1.201
1.20 - average 1991 financial-to-economic conversion
factor for road development program subprojects



-92-                            ANNEXI
Aopendix 2
Page 1
CHINA
ZHEJWIG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Development Proaram
Procedure for Environmental Analysis of Subpro1ects
Environmental Screening of Subvrojects
1.        Under the RDP, 33 subprojects have been tentatively identified for
implementation in a phased manner over about a four-year period. The objec-
tive of an environmental screening process is to separate the Road Development
Program (RDP) subprojects into one of two categories:
Category I: Subprojects that only include improvement/rehabilitation of
the roads within an ezAsting right-of-way (ROW), minor realignment that
might be needed for localized improvement of traffic "bottlenecks," and
subprojects which are not located within or are not affecting environmen-
tally sensitive areas as broadly defined in footnote 1/ i e , subprol-
ects with no potentially siRnificant environmental impact.
Category II: Subprojects that require substantial widening and acquisi-
tion of new ROW and roads on new alignment. Such subprojects could have
a Potentially adverse imoact on environmentally sensitive areas.
Initial Environmental. Evaluation
2.        Subprojects falling into Category II following the screening exer-
cise would undergo an initial environmental evaluation. If the outcome of the
evaluation confirms that the subproject has no potential adverse impact on the
environment, it would be treated as a Category I subproject.
Actions Reauired - Catesorv I Suboroiects
3.        For Category I subprojects, the Code of Sound Environmental Practice
would be applied during the engineering design and implementation phase. An
outline of possible actions is listed in para. 7 below. This outline would be
expanded in accordance with the particular circumstances of the various sub-
I/  An environmentally sensitive urea would include zones of significant
human habitation (urbanized areas, residential concentrations, hospitals,
schools, commercial and market complexes), ecologically important zones
such as wetlands, forests or any area relatively unaltered by humans
(i.e., an area that is described by PRC National/Provincial environmental
staff as being in a "natural" state), archeological/historicallcultural
sites, and terrain with slope greater than 50 percent--especially when
soils are erodible and near surface waters.



-93                              ANNEX
Apoendix 2,
Page 2
projects.  An Environmental Action Plan would be prepared listing the particu-
lar measures to be taken and the entities responsible for the activities.
Supervision and monitoring activities and responsibilities for each of the
subprojects wc'uld also be identified. The EAP would not need to be elaborate.
It could be supplemented by a aummary table such as the one presented in
Appendix 1 of Annex 2 for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway.
Actions Required - Categorv II Subprolects
4.        Each of the subprojects remaining in Category II would require an
Environmental Assessment and the preparation of a comprehensive EAP. The
scope of these activities would be dictated by the complexity of the environ-
mental risk involved, but in general, the ELe and the EAPs should identify and
provide appropriate measures for dealing withs (a) areas of human congrega-
tion that might be affected by noise and dust caused by road constructions
(b) archeological/cultural/historic sites that might be affected by vibration,
dust and construction support facilities; (c) sensitive ecological areas such
as surface waters, wetlands/swamps, forests, etc. that could be directly
affected by effluent from construction eites and storage facilities, or indi-
rectly by induced land use changes; (d) appropriate sampling methodologies,
frequencies and analytical methods to be used for monitoring potential air,
water, noise, ecological and social/cultural/historical impacts; aid (e) orga-
nizational responsibility for management and monitoring functions.
Organizational Arrangements
S.        The above-outlined activities would be carried out under the overall
directives of ZPTD through ZPHAB and the prefectural/municipal/county trans-
port administration units, with the support of the Zhejiang Provincial Envi-
ronmental Protection Bureau end the Zhejiang Provincial Environmental Protec-
tion Research Institute.
Bank Requirements for Clearance
6.        One of the conditions of acceptance for financing under the project
would be the presentation to the Bank of an RAP for Category I subprojects and
an EA and an RAP for Category II subprojects, satisfactory to the Bank.
An Outline of the Code of Sound Environmental Practice for Subproiects
7.        The following list covers the most likely relevant elements of such
a code. The list should be reviewed and expanded as considered appropriate in
the course of the environmental analysis:
(a)  All temporary and permanent fill/spoil placement sites and exposed
batters are to be protected against erosion by use of mulch, fabric
and/or planting of vegetation as soon as possible (especially during
rainy seasons);
(b)  Materials stores (especially fuel storage and dispensing area.)
should be protected by a ring drain and collection pit to prevent



-94
Anpendix 2
Page 3
accideatal spills from *ntering surface waters. All bitumen,
cement, chemicals and fuels should be properly stored and covered to
prevent spills and mobilization by runoff water. All lubricants
should be collected and recycled (if recycling is possible, other-
wise disposed into an acceptable location);
(c) Periodically water down temporary roads, exposed road surfaces dur-
ing construction, fill/spoil sites until such can be vegetated, and
all other exposed surfaces from which dust could be mobilized in
unacceptably high volume;
(d) Installation of adequate temporary drainage along construction work,
spoil disposal, quarry and borrow sites;
(e) Temporarily store and stabilize all topsoil removed along the ROW,
in preparation for the opening of new borrow and quarry areas, and
other areas, wherever possible (to be used in rehabilitation of
construction sites, quarries, borrow pits, atc);
(f) Rehabilitate, where possible, to previous land use those areas used
for borrow pits, quarries, and spoil disposal. Where this is not
possible, rehabilitate to the most appropriate land use possible,
considering surrounding 'and use;
(g) Provide traffic control at areas where road construction, construc-
tion traffic into the site of construction, construction support
facilities (offices, workshops and stores, maintenance yards, etc.)
and quarries/borrow areas could cause traffic impacts. Post and
control speed of construction-related vehicles along access routes
and within the ROW;
(h) Ensure all construction equipment is fitted with proper equipment
for the control of noise and engine exhaust;
(i) Construction activities in sensitive areas (for example, residential
areas, hospitals, bird nesting and other areas where noise and human
activity may disrupt animal life cycles) should be limited and/or
prohibited during evening and early morning hours;
(j) Prohibit poaching under terms of employment for construction staff;
(k) Adequate temporary pedestrian and vehicle crossings are to be pro-
vided, controlled and maintained during construction;
(1) Spoil from excavation (cut to spoil, tunnels, etc.) in areas with
slope greater than 50 percent should be transported to a suitable
spoil disposal area, not "side-tipped" in steep terrain; and
(m) Spoil disposal sites should have bottom (seepage) and uphill inter-
ceptor drains installed. Spoil should be placed and compacted and
the downslope side stabilized to prevent slips.



- 95 -
Appendix 3
Mam
BEconmic Analysis of Iludeng.Uhm*an loa (A-1)
Vehice opeatingcosts (lusnlveh..b)
T36an                                                                                       listiRolng  2hily 
Cetr.    27.405   ailliona of Yuan                                       PaeIod1 07                          .8      10
Interest    I00                                                                    ai2                0.1     0.98    1.11
Gen Traf    10.0I                                                                  Poor          3    1.1      116     13
Unpaved Good          1 09           .9     13
ul  Wm   ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~lar2    109    126    1.so
Mnut I.    6.: 6.0          k                                                      Poor          3    1.55    1.52    1.79
Pavoenat       2       1    I-paved. 2unpsved                             uasnwenanoe Goess
Condition      2       2    1-good, 2-fair, 3-poor                         .........
Width        6.5     9.0    a                                                        Paved Uu1av.d
limied    4 400             11.0/wen miar   ya
Calculated.                                                                Variable   £0.0     3. Yuanfdaily veh-mya
& city  10,246  11,977    vehicles (sed. trk. eqa) per day______________________
; 10tt4,700   4.9400    Tuan per beper year 
Tor minlt     54      30    Yuan per dauLpveb-ka par year                      Capacity (eq medium truoha per day)
sase WoO    1.26    0.98    Yuan per veb-l                                     -.---
____________________________________________               Das * 17.000 C. 2500*0.5*15t0.9)
rrazzic,              aaau" grw   t.Wdth P1st/E. Silly  Mount.
Obaved ----------      --       Coo...                                      .. ..........
1990    193     20      21       tor
30 4.300   3.300   2,600
Vehicles  300    10.0*    6~.0*Z   5.0*  1.000                                 5.     I1,0O   880    ,0
Tractors     175     5.Z    2.*       00*1006.0  13.000   9,900   7,700
Otber         so     2.5*    0.0*   -5.0*  0.067                                       7.3  14,200  10,800   8,300
wrarric project&ous
Initial projected traffic              Bormma traffic       Initial projected + generated        Modified projection
Year            Wah.  TV"c.Ote Co.Vb                              ac                h.Tc.Cn.e.Pr. Co.
1994             439     213     3557   6756              439     213              483     134     721             483      234     721
1995             483     223      5       710             483     223              531     246     781             53       246     781
199s             322     228      57      753             522     228              374     231     828             574    231       82s
1997             564     232      37      800             564     232             6120     236     879             820      256     879
1998        ~~~~~609  237     57     849              609     237             669     261      934             669     261      934
1999      ~~~~ ~~~657  22    57     90              657      242,            723     266     993              723     266     993
2000             710     247      57      960             710     247              781     271 1,056                781     271   1056
2001             745     247       54     996             745     247              820     271 1095                 620     271   1,095
2002             783     247       51   1.033             783     247              861     271  1138                "1      I7    1s13
2003             8*22    247       49   1,072             822     247              904     271   1.178              904     271   1,17
2004             863     247      46   1,113              863     247              949     271   1,224              949     271   1,22
2003             906     247       44   1,156             906     247              997     271   1,271              997     271   1271
2006             951     27        4     ,0               951     247            1C04      271   1,321            1,04      271   1.32
2007             99      247      40   1,248              999     247            1,009     271   1,373            1,099     271   1,373
2008            1049     247       38   1,298           1,049     247            1,154     271   1,428            1,154     271   1,428
2009            1101     247       36   1,350           1,101     247            1,211     271   1,485            1,211     271   1.405
2010            1156     247       34   1,403           1,156     247            1,272     271   1,348            1,272     271   1,546
98I1w, t growth rates                COntOV&  =oaitraffic to   XU-*piIFe-f1d                      ..onwoL  otal traffic
capacity of ezisting road   gneraLted traffic                to capacity of non road
Estimatd ctoat and benefits
Normal traffic         Additt'l    .      - -       -      ---eertd  eeits                           Vic ratio  Cmonetion factor
- -Coast. saints.  Dist.   iet.  Surf.  Surf . ..  ........              eNt             Old     am  . ......-i
Tear    Vsh.  Pr...  ~~coats (W gem)   Veb.  trc".   vh.  trc".   Veb.  Tre". Benefits           W* sen. wi ReD.    Old       Us
...---    ---                                .......     .... ...                        ......
1993               ~~~~~~~~~14                                                      (14)           0.06    0.06    1.00    1.00
1994                      14                                                               (14)           0.06    0.05    1.00    1.00
1993     483     223           -1.03      0.7     0.1     3.0     0.3     0.2      0.0       5            0.07    0.06    1.00    1.00
196     522     228            .10       0.      01      3.2     0.4     0.2      00        6.07                  0.06    1.00    1.00
199      5424    232           -1.1       08       .1     3.5     04      02      0.                     s00      0.07    1.00    1.00
1998     fog     237           .1231    0.9o    0.1       3.8     0.6     0.       0.01      7            0.08    007    1.00    10
1999  657    ~~~~~242     -31        .0     0.      41       0.      0.3     00        7              0.9    0.0     10      1.00
2000     710     247            -1.39     1.0     0.1     4.41    0.4     0.33    0.0        80.09    0.06   11.00    1.00
2Su1     743     247           -1.44      1.1     0.1     4.69    0.4     03       0.0                    O .,0    0.086   1.100   1.000
2002     78      247            -1.49     12      01      49      0.A      .        .                     0.10    0.09    1.00    10
2003     822     247            -1.55     12      0.1     5.1     0,4      0.3,    0.0       9            0.10    0.09    1.0      1.00
2004     863     24:1.:61                 1.31    0.1     3.      0.4      0.      0.0                                     I .1 0.9 100    1.00
2005     906     247            1.7       1.       .1     56      0.        .      0.0       9            0.11    0.10    1.00    1.00
2006     951     247            -1.73     1.4     0.1     5.:     0.4      0.4     0.0      10            0.12    0.10    1.00    1.00
2007     999     247            -1.80     1.5     0.1     6.2     0.4      0.4     0.0      10            0.12    0.10    1.00    1.00
2006   i 049     247            -1.87     1.5     0.1     6.5     0.4      0.4     0.0      11             0.13    0.11    1.00    1.00
2009   1,101     247            -1.94     1.6     0.1     6.8     0.4      0.4     0.0      11            0.13    0.11    1.00    1.00
2010   1,156     247            -2.02     1.7     0.1     7.2     0.4      0.4     0.0      12            0.14    0.12    1.00    1.00
Economic evaluation                                                                                        Congestion
UP?  26                                                                             V/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C Pactor Know,
gml           22Z                                                                                               0.0    1.00    0.00
FM2           it's                                                                                              0.6    1.00    0.09
0.7    1.05    0.10
0,8    1.15    0.35
1.0    2.500   0:0,0



- 96 -
Annex 
Appendix 4
3Hu1h3  9.OYIUCL EKomiA  MOJUC?
fegrrai         I    1-flatlroUling. 2-hlly.                                Ybe~l* op  clingr coats (Yuan/vlve-10)
Dayslyear    365    3..auta nu                                           uraeCodton              P R 1X   illY  mount:
=caar.      3.60    swimson  Of Yuan                                         Paved   go"d            1    0.73    0.66    1.02
Iutereat    10.62                                                                     lair           2    0.61    0.98    1.11
0.3 Tra      10.02                                                                    POor           3    1.01    1. 16    1.30
________________________________________________         ~Unpaved Good           1    0.92    1.09    1.32
916     NMa                                                             Fair           2    1.09    1.26    1.50
"rput,                                                                                Poor           3    1.55    1.52    1.79
isan  ce    16.10   16.00    km__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
PaveMent        2       1    1-paved. 2-unpavad                                           tontnn  otls
Couditicy       2      .2    1-soed, 2-fair. 3-poor...                                  !---
Width        4.5       .0     I                                                         Paved Unpaved
flind     4 400   4700 Yuaflmlyear
Calculateds                                                                  Variable   o.0    h.s luaunl"aiy veh-kmlyear
Capct   10.273   5.769    vehicles Cued. trk. eq.) per day                   _______________________
ire m1inlt  4.700    .400    Yuan pet lamper year
Tar Saint     54      .30    Yuan per dailpweb-lm per yesir                     Capacity (eq sediim tucbe per day)
Base V0W    1.09    0.6      Yuan per veh-P........
____________________________________________la"e - 17.000 (- 2500a0.SClSeO.9)
TrazzLle               aunmia  groamm- t3width riatiDol  Hily  Haut.t
199C    1995 2000    2010factor
Wehiulee  100    10....    6..02   ....   ...                                              4.300   3,00   2.600
Tract...      170     5.02    2.62    0.0   1.000                                         60  1300 990   7.700
Other         300     2.52    0.02   -5.02  0.067                                         7.3  14,2000  10.6010   6.300
Traille projectiona
Initial projected traffic                Dorsal traffice      Initial projected + generated         modified projection.
Year             Web.  tree.   Oter 0c.                    We.trc                    Wb    frac.   Ccw.W.   Trac. Ca.
1993         133~is   197     323     351               133     197              146      216     364              149      216     34
194146                   207     331     375               146     207              161     227      410              161      227     410
1995         161~~"  217      339     401              161      217              177     239      438              177     239      438
1996              174     221      339     416              174     221               191     143     437               191     243      457
199               166     226      339     436              166     226              207      248     476               207     246      476
199s              203     230      339     436              203      230              223     253      499              223     253      499
1999              219     235      339     477              219      235              241     256      522              241     256      522
2000              237     240      339     499              237      240              260     264      546              260     264      546
2001              348     240      322     510              246      240              273     264      556              273     244      358
2002              261     240      306     521              261      2412             267     264      571              267     264      571
21003             274     240      291     533              274      240              301     264      564              301     264      564
2004              266     240      276     546              268      240              316     264      596              316     264      59
2005              302     240      263     559              302      240              332     264      613              332     264      613
2006              317     240      250     573              317      240              349     264      629              349     264      629
2007              333     240      237     568              333      240              366     264      646              366     264      646
2006              350     240      225     600              350      240              385     264      663              365     264      663
2009              367     240      214     t21              367      240              404     264      662              404     264      662
2010              385     240      203     639              365      240              424     264      701              424     264      701
IiIijI-Wt growth rates                CoutiiOZUOM1-7traff ic to    UFI`MEiUied                        CoI.oFU:ol ral traffic
capacity of ehieting road   generated traffic                  to capacity of nem road
Eatimated coats and banafite
womitrfle       A4It-  --- =-         4----Generated banefite                                    TIC ratio   Cotsto  factor
-- z--- ;; Coast; Santet.  blet.   Diet .. KNurf.  SUNrf               --------Net                       Old     Hew-........
yeer    Ve      fa. Coat. (.gson)    veb.   trac.    web,   trace    Web.  Trac. benefiLts                 wo son. ml Sen.      Old      NeW
1093  2                                                                (2)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  '0.0  0.02,   1.00    1.00
1994                                                                                            2)            0.4    0.2       100    1.00
1995     161      217           -0.13      0.0      0.0     0.3      0.1     0.0     0.0        1             0.04    0.03    1.00    1.00
1996     174      221            -0.14    31.0      0.0     0.3     0.1      0.0     0.0        1             0.04    0.03    1.00    1.00
1997     168      226            -0.14     0.0      0.0     0.3     0.1      0.0     0.0        1             0.04    0.03    1.00    1.00
1996     203     250             -0.15     0.0      0.0     0.3     0.1      0.0     0.0        1             0.04    0.03    1.00    1.00
1999     219     235             .0.16     0.0      0.0     0.4     0.1      q.      0.0        I             0.05    0.03    1.00    1.00
2000     257      240            -0.16     0.0      0.0     0.4      0.1     0.0      0.0       1             0.05    0.03    1.00    1.00
2001     246      240            -0.17     0.0      0.0     0.4      0.1     0.0      0.0       1             0.05    0.03    1.00    1.00
2002     261      240            .0.17     0.0      0.3     0.4      0.1     0.0      0.0       1             0.05    0.03    1.00    1.00
2003     274      240            -0.18     0.0      0.0     0.4      0.1     0.0      0.0       1             0.05    0.03    1.00    1.00
2004     268      240            -0.16     0.0      0.0     0'!      0.1     0.0      0.0       1             0.05    0.03    1.00    1.00
2005     302      240            .0.19     0.0      0.0     0.3      C.i     0.0      0.0       1             0.05    0.04    1.00    1.00
2006     317      240            -0.19     0.0      0.0     0.5      0.1     0.0      0.0       1             0.05    0.04    1.00    1.00
2007     333      240            -0.20     0.0      0.0     0.5      0.1     0.0      0.0       1             0.06    0.04    1.00    1.00
2008     350      240            -0.20     0.0      0.0     0.6      0.1     0.0      0.0       1             0.06    0.04    1.00    1.00
2009     367      240            -0.21     0.0      0.0     0.6      0.1     0.0      0.0        1            0.06    0.04    1.00    1.00
2010     385      240            .0.21     0.0      0.0     0.6      0.1     0.0      0.0       1             0.06    0.04    1.00    1.00
gcoemmic evaluation                                                                                            Congestion
TIC  factor   Inar.
DiV        1~ aiifcoe Of Yuan0.                                                                                        1.0      00
gKm            141                                                                                                - K   T
FM2            in2                                                                                                  0.6    1.00    0.03
0.7    1.03    0.10
0.6    1.15    0.33
0.9    1.50    1.00
1.0    2.50    0.00



- 97 -
Appendix S
2-billy.                     To~~~~ldbil. operating cost. (Yuanivehb4.)
S.socunttaimoufe  -Coditon                                                     --atR ol l"Riy  Mount.
Dylar    3£55                                                            ..........                ----    ..
Cometlr.     ;.0O    u"i       of luan                                       Pawed   Good            I    0.73    0."1     10
interest    to.0                                                                      Fair          2    0.61    0.90    1.11
ami Traf    10.002                                                                    Poor          3    1.01    1.16    1.30
Unpaved Good           1    0.9  1.09    1.3
uia  new                                        Pair           2    1.~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~09    1.6 1.50
Tor".,                                                                                Poor          3     1.55    1.52    1.79
Distac     15.79    14.29    ke_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Paaiment        2       1    1.paed  2.upaedneoeansc osts
C  soitm.   2        2                                                    -g-----2--ir,-3-poo
Pth    4.5     7.0    apaved Unpaved
Calculated,06    23,923    vahila  (mad  day             ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lind  4 400   0 700 Yuandiky AeT hlya
alouliuIt  4700   441             OS          rh2                            Variable   Io.o    13.5  tznshelinayrwbimy
100liy    1.:09    0.401    Yuanpakmeryr
Vat maint     34       30   luao pe  daliviabherfa                               Capacity (et sadin  troab  per day)
same VW 1.09    061    Tumper veb-                                                             .......
____________________________________________                 asm. * 17.000 (.230000.S'1S'0.9)
riraz:io,              AUUAl orma                                                              isiRltornmont
1990  1995      2000    2010  tooenr.                                       idblIolily               out
Vehicle.  570   ~~~110.0  0.:     5.X0A   1:0010                                    5.     160   0,00   6,000
tractors      4300    5.0     2.:      00    .                                             .0  13,000   9,00 7,70
fther        500      2.52    0.0:   .5.0:  0.067                                         7.l420         o000     ,0
Initial projected traffic                loxual traffic       Initiael projected 4 generated        Modified projectioma
Year     Veb.   Trac.~~~~~-- i; Othe    Cow      . eb. ;:;  ree;.   .       . Tab:...a. Cn.We.fa. Cw
1993       492     521~ ~~~~~ 530    ,04             492    531                542     573   1,151               342     573   1,5
1994              542     547      552   1,12               542     547              596      692   1, 2.4             596      602 1,3
1995             596      574     566   1,0                 5 96    574              655      652   1,525              635      652 1,2
loss             644      506     566   1,267               644     506              700      644   1,3i0              700      644   1,0
1997             695    5190      56 1330                   695     590              765      657   1,460              765      657   1,I
1i90              751     609     566   1,90                751     609              026      60 1,534                 026      670 1,3
1999             011      623      566   1,70               oi1     622              092       04 1,615                092    6a"     161
2000              076     634      566   1, 547             076      634              965      9    1,69                965f    690    ,9
2001              t19     654      537   1,50               919      634            1,01      69a     ,4               ,1        9      ,4
22                965     63       51    163                965      634            1,062     690   1795              1,062     60 173
2005             1014     654      405   1,660            1,014      634            1,115     690   1,045             1,15      60s,4
2004             1064    6134      461 1729               1,064      634            1,171     690   1.099             1,7       690 1,09
2005             1117     634      450   1,701            1,117      634            1.229     fee0  1,956             1,229    6490    ,5
200617                    634      416   1,3117                      634            1291      690   2,016              ,9       690 2,16
2007             1232     634      395   1,092            1,232      634           1,355      690   2,079             11,355    690   2,079
2000             1294     634      375    ,5              1,294      634            1,423     60 2,145                1,425     690   2,145
2009                      6 1350  634 357  2,01..6        1,350      634            1,494    1690   2,215             1,494     $69   2,215
2010             1426     634      339   2,003            1,26       634            1,569     690   2,209             1,569     690   2,209
GWMlFult growth rate.                CautrOl ;oN&WLtraffic to    Cogepeszid                           onrTitota  traffic
capacity of existing road   generated traffic                  to capacity of uew road
Eatimated costS and benefits
lotuel traffic          Addtt'l-e-ratedbenefit.                                                         VICratio   Congestion factor
" ;--- ;;-Coaet, sait.t.   Diet.   Dist.   Surf.   Surf,---------                  -    Not             Old1     NMw
year    Ta. ta. coat. Cv Stu)    weh.   tr.    wb                  trc        b. reDnf it.                  song. VI gen.       Old      New
1994     S$      54         6                      01(a)                                                      0.13    0.:009   1.00    1.0
1995     59        7             0.45      0.4     01       0.9     0.2      0.1     0.0        2             0.14    0.9      100    1.00
1996     644      306            -0.47     0.4      0.1     0.9     0.2      0.1     0.0        2             0.15    0.09    1.00    1.00
1997     695      590           -0.49      0.4      0.1     1.0     0.14    0.1      0.0        2             0.15    0.10    1.00    1.00
1990     751      609           -0.52      OS.      0.1     1.1     0.2      0.1     0.0        2             0.16    0.10    1.00    1.00
1999     011     622            -0.53      O...     0.1     1,2     0.2      0.1     0.0        3             0.17    0.11    1.00    1.00
2000     076      634            -0.57     0.5      0.1     1.3      0.12    0.1      0.0       3             0.10    0.11    1.00    1.00
2001     919      634            -0.5       .       0.      13       02      0.       0.        3              .0      01       .0      10
2002     955     634            -0.61      0.6     0.1      1.34    0.2      0.11    0.0        3             0.119    0.12    1.00    100
2003   1,014      634            -0.63     0.6    (0.1      1.5      0.2     0.1      0.0       3             0.19    0.12    1.00    1.00
2004   1064       634            ::6-0.6   0.67    0.1      1.61    0.2      0.1      0.0       3             0.20      .1     100       .0
2005   1.                                                                                                       01117  64  -067 0.  0.1  1.  0.2  0.1  0.0  3  0.21  ' 0.1 10'0    1.00O
2006   1,173      634            .69       0.7      0.1     1.7      0.2     0.1      0.0       4             0.21    0.13    1.00    1.00
2007   1.2132    1634            -0.71     0.7      0.1     1.0      0.2     0.1      0.0       4             0.22    0.14    1.00    1.00
2000   1,294      634            -0.73     0.0      0.1     1.9      0.2     0.1      0.0       4             0.22    0.14    1.00    1,00
2009   1,350    6Su              -0.75     0.0      0.1     2.0      0.2     0.1      0.0       4             0.23    0.14    1.00    1.00
2010   1,426      634            -0.70     0.9      0.1     2.1      0.2     0.1      0.0       4             0.24    0.15    1.00    1.00
Iooccuoi  evaluation                                                                                           Congestion
UPT  4 ailliOm. of                                                                     T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IC  Pactor   Inor.
am2            14%                                                                                                  0.0    1.00    0.00
ITU1           112                                                                                                 0.6    1.00    0.05
0  I 105    010
0.9    15       1.0
I.0 2.5     0.00



- 98 -.
Annex I
Appendix 6
Ieconcia Anelytia of ZiaosbaJinbuae load (3-4)
Dayely.ar    365                                                                                    Billy  Mount.............. .n! ...........
Constr.    42.90    millions of Yuan                      P~~~~aved   .0 1prto        0.73    0.66    1.02h-ka
Interest    10.02                                                                    Flair          a     oe       .6      1
Gan Traf    10.0                                                                      Poor          S3    1.01    1.16:   1.30
_________________________________________________                0.04~~Unpa ed    Goo  1  0.92  1.09   1.32
U!1e    z      Wm         ,c  2upvd                                     na    lair            2    1:09    1:26    1:30
Pavement        1             -= 22n 1d                                      nalnranane coot
CondiLtion     2        2    Igood           VS                              ---------------
Widthk        7.0     9.0                                                               Paved Unpaved
Fixed     4 400      700 luaulkmlyeer
Calculated.                                                                  Tenalell    10.0    Ai.5 Tuanldaily vah.Imlyesr
Capacity  13.925   15.769    vehicles     (nod.  trb.   eqa)   per   day     __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
lad metint  4,400   4,400    Yuan peCr km per year
Tor Saint   030       030    Yuan per daily veh.1w per year                      Capacity (eq madium trucks per day)
lase TOO    0.I    061    Yuan per veh.                                           ss-1l00( -0*.*309
Trazzic,               ana.  rv    o,width flat/Rol  Billy  vMout.
1990    1995    2000 .. 201  Cfactor
------    .....   -----   -----                           ~~~~3.0   4,300   3,20    2,600
Vehicoles   3.600    10.0        v.    3.0   1.0035   I11,600   6,600   6.600
tractors   1,500      5.0     2.02    0.02  1.00                                           .   13,00    .90    7,700
Other        5oo      2.52    002        ox.0 0 007.   14,0010,600   6,300
Trazzlo projectlone
Initial projected traffic                Dorsal traffic        nitial projected + generated         Modified projections
Tear             TeZ Zac          ter Cn.                   a. Tre                    eh     rc    Co;;.Ta. Tc    Cr.
1993   5056    1736       338~~~s  6,630         3,056   1,736            354 1,910   7,510                 564   190 7,510
199.            5564    1623       552   7,4204           5,564   1,2              6:,1,20   2,006   6,162           6,120   2,0    6,162
I993            6120    191       56      ,072            6,120   1,914            6,732   2,10    6,76              6,732   2,10    6,676
1996            6610    193        566 6,00               6,610   1,93             727    2,11468  9,46              7,270   216 9456
1997             7136    199       566   9,166            7,138   1,992            762   2,191  1o0,01               7,652   211 10,:061
199             7709    203        56    9779             7,709   2032             6,46    2,235  10,753             6,6       ,3   10,753
1999       ~~~~6326    202    361,3a,2    2,072                                9,5    2,279  11,476              9,5I,791,7
2000             6992    211       566  11,144            6,992   2,14             9,91   2.323  12,254              9,691   23312,254
2001             9442    214       537  11,591            9,442   214             10,36   2,325  12,747              10.386 2,2   12,747
2002             9914    2114      511  12,062            9,914   2,14            10,905    32,32  13,264            10,905   2,32   13,264
2003            10410    2114      4651,5                10,410   2.114'          1141   2,325  13,606               11,45    2,251360
2004            10930    2114      46113,074             10,930   214             12,02    2,525  14,379             12,02    2,32   14,379
2005            11477    2114      4361  13,619          11,477   2,114           12,:62    2,325  14,976            12,62    2,32   14,976
2006            120530   2114      416  14,192           11,622   2,074           13,25    2,325  15,606             13,5    2,325  15,606
20007           12653    2114      395  14,793           11,909   1,969            13,91    2,325  16,270           15,49    2,254  15,:769
2006            13266    21 14     373  15,424           11,993   1,906           14,61    2,325  16,6              1356    2.161  15,769
200             13950    2114      357  16,067           12,073   1,629           15,:34    2,325  1764             13.67    2,072  15,769
2010            14647    2114      339  16,764           12,151   1,753           16,12 232 1,6                      13,76    1966  15,769
7876IUwt growth rates                 CcatUr-Toffurtreffic to    cc   pcze                             EUUZUotal traffic
capacity of asieting roa      enrtd  traffic                   to capacity of na" road
gstizated coats and benefits
Operating cost savings
Normal traffic          Lddit'l--Genera..........te  beefteWC ratio   Congestion factor
-           Cona~~~~~~et. aite.   Dist.   Dist.   uSurf.urf.-!-    != !t,not                      Old.Na now.          ----i
Year    Te. Ta.coa-ts (v saon)    veb.  _tr a.    veb.   trac.             Ta.    Tree. benefits          we gson  VI saon       l       e
1993  21                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~(21)  0.49    0.46    1.00    10
1994                       21                                                                 (21)            0.53    0.47    1.00    1.00
19 6,20   1,914             0.04      5.30    0.4      0.30    0.0      03      0.0        6             0.56    0.51    1.00    1.00
1996   6,610   1,5               0.0       5.I.              .       .       03      00         706                   05        .1      10
1997   7,138   1,992             0.05      6.0    00.4      1.6     0.1      0.4     0.0        9             0.66    0.556  11.005    1.000
1996   7,0    2,032              0.05      6.6     0.4      2.9     0.2     0.5      0.0       11            0.70    0.62    1.05    1.01
199   a6,36 2,072               0.06      7.5      0.5     5.1     0.3      0.6     0.0       14             0.75    0.66    1.10    1.03
2000   6,9  2,:114                0.06     6.5      0.5     7.5      0.4     0.6      0.0      16             0.60   41.71    1.15    1.06
2001   942 2,114                  0.06     9.6      0.5    14.9      0.6     1.2      0.1      27             0.63    0.74    1.26    1.09
2002   9,914   2,114              0.07    11.2      0.6    23.4      1.2     1.7      0.1      36             0.67    0.76    1.36    1.11
2003  10o410   2,114              0.07    12.9      0.7    34.2      1.7     2.4      0.1      52             0.90    0.60    1.52    1.15
2004  10,930   2,114              0.007    16t9     0.    61.7       5.01    3.9      0.2      67             0.94    0.63    1.69    1.25
2005  11,4707  2,114              0.6     214       10    92.3       4.      5.7      0.3     125             0.96     0.6    2.26    1.37
2006  11.622   2,074              0.35    24.2      1.1   104 .6     4.6     7.6      0.3     142             1.00    0.90    2.50    1.50
2007  11,909   1,969              0.49    24.4      1.0    65.2      2.7     5,9      0.2      99             1.00    0.94    2.30    1.66
20060  11,993   1,0               0.4     246       10     232       09      32       0.1      521.0                    .9     250       .6
2009  12,073   1,6209             0499   24.7       0.      0.0      0.      1.6      01       27             1.0      1080   2.5       2.5
2010  12,151   1,753              0.49    24.9      0.9     0.0      0.0     1.7      0.1      27             1.00    1.00    2.50    2.50
Economice evaluation                                                                                           Congestion
UP?  169 millione of Yuan                                                             T~~~~~~~~~~~IC  Pactor   Iner.
am2           342                                                                                                   0.0    1.00    0.0
PFM            112                                                                                                  0.6    1.00    0.05
0.7    1.05    0.10
0.6,   1.15    0.35
1.0    2.50    0.00



- 99 -
Appendix 7
!!co0mic Analysis of suma Iridge (C-1)
C..tr 11.3 millioms of Yuan
Diversion route
Travel  Caaity          Dial. surface        z;;i                Legho  JlT=hsWboertn.
tim.(hr) (mUtrubh)       (.       ye          It()  LSrtp          erryh losedetour       (Yu An geuweb
Verry  O.Ia    72   0.4       1~~~~~~~I 1-pave    21   2   paved    1t            Pave      0.61
Uri,g. 0.0021  10700           0.4        1 2.-nVW    17          1   Unpave   17             gopa,     1.09
Traffic,
Observed (1330)
Annala gwth too
Traffic traff.    1333   2000    201  Cfacwtor fatr seed
ToUteR   450   200      16'.0I   3.02.    3.2100        .        40
Trc"t.   t0       0     3.02   2.02     0.03 1.000               20
Others,  1S0      0      2.32   0.02    -3.03 0.067              10
peegra 1.9333
Traff ic projections
Initia  projected traffic          normal traffic       Traffic   Diverted
year  We.tre Ote   Cn.  a                        . e.   a.   Psr  al't. route  rtl
133)   333    104  142    714   2.373   ~~~~ ~~3399  1-0-4   253   133
1334   653    109      166   77"I,0            3      103    2.330      233   146
193    723    113      170    81    3.1I 13    723    113    3.113      322   161
1336   783    117      170   31      3424    763    117   3.424         348    174
2337   345    120      170    7161   3.633    643     120   S,693       376   133
1333    313   122      10 .04        3,334    313    122   3.334        406   203
133    336    124      17    ,2       ,14      M 96   124   4,314       433   219
2000  1,065    127      17    ,0      .3   100        127   4.461       473   237
2001  1,113    127     161  1.236    4,332  1.026     127   4 433       437   243
2002  1, 174    127     133  1,311    3,36  1,032     127   4,313       322   261
2003  1.2.33    127     146  1.349    5.:3331,037     127   4:5,337     343   274
2004  1.234    127      133  1,430    3,3  1.042      127   4.5i1       373   233
2005  1.333    127     131  1,433    5.34   1.047     127   4.3303      604   302
2006  1.427    127      123  1,362    624   1.052     127   4.64        634   317
2007  1.438    127     119  1.633    6,33   1,037     127   4,624       664   333
2Q03  1.373    127     113  1,708    ,38   1,061      127   4,644       633   330
2003  1,1632    127    107  1,736    7.2*7  1.0466    127   4.462       734   367
2010  1,733    127     102  1.363    7,333  1,070     127   4,430       771   383
Using inut growh ratesControl total traffic to
capacity of the ferries
Estimated costs and benefits
Cost savings                             COerated beneiLts
Normal traffic....................................
-        -- Conat.  P~~~~~~erry   Pasgr  Diet.  Diet.   Surf.  Utour Veh.  Tv"c. AU1 season  let
Yser    e.trcPars coosats Op. cost time  & suirf. dvtd veb dvtd veb veb.  util. util.   open   benefits
1393-  393,  104" -2,3-73- -3.33-  --------------------  ---    --    -------  ----33-
1034   633    100    2,330   3.35                                                                              - 1
1333    123    115   3,113            0,14   0.15    0.00     0.26     0.23   0.27   0.19   0.01       0.27     1.37
1336    733    117   3424             0.14   0.17    0.00     0.23     0.30   0.23   0.21   0.01       0,29     1.6
133    343    120    3.633            0.14   0.13    0.00     0.30     0.33   0.31   0.22   0.01       0.2      11
1ogo   U13    122   3,934             0.14   0.20    0.00     0.32     0.33   0.34   0.24   0.01       0.34     1.34
1oo3   336    124    4,314            0.14   0.21    0.00     0.33     0.38   0.37   0.26   0.01       0.37     1.08
2000  1,020   ~127   4.461         0.14   0.22    0.00    0.38     0.41   0.38   0.27   0.01       0.33     2.13
201  106     127   4.443             0.14   0.23    0.00     0.40    0.43   0.38   0.27   0.01       0.38     2.23
2003  1,032    1~27   4,513       01     0.2     00       042       .3 038        .7 001           0.33     2.23
2003  1,07    127   4,3537           '0.114   0.U0    0.:000    0.,44  0.436  0033  00.227  :0.01      0.33     2.33&
2004  1.2    127   4,361              0.14   0.23    0.00     0.46     0.30   0.33   0.27   0.01       0.33     2.38
2003  1:4      127   4.3393           0.14   0.23    0.00     0.43     0.32   0.33   0.23   0.01       0.33     2.43
2006  1,3      127   4,604            0.14   0.23    0.00     0.30     0.53   0.33   0.23   0.01       0.33     2.43
2007  1,03     127   4,624            0.14   0.23    0.00     0.33     0.33   0.33   0.23   0.01       0.33     2.33
2003  1,6      127   4.:644           0.14   0.23    0.00     0.36     0.61   0.33   0.23   0.01       0.33    21.61
2009  1,04     127   4,6              014   0.23    0.000     0.331    0.44   0:,40   0.28   0.01      040      2.7
2010  1.070    127    4,63~~0   0.14 0.23    0.00       0.61     0.67   0.40   0.23   0.01      0.40     2.74
gosememi evaeinatien
"W?              3 millions of Yuan
am3             142
VIML             l1t



-100 -
Appendix S
cmu
UUJIS'. ~02UC ...UUUA  22.. 130?.
3ecoceie Analysis .1 Litpu Uridge (0-4)
Cpt:.!   19.110   amifim   of luaU                                                               I..dGod. 0.73,  0.66    1.02
Intseret    10.02                                                                  fair          2    0.61    0.96    1.11
Gen Trot    10oxor2                                                                                    10      1.16    1.30
___________________________________________________     Un~~~~~~~V pwaed  Go d1     0.902,  1.09    1.52
Jag  U.,                                           l~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~aiLr  2    1.09    1.26    1.50
Inputs                                                       ~~~~~          ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poor  5    1.35    1.32    1.19
Di stance   5 .76   2.96    km_                                              _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ __ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ __ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
PAVe.nt        1          141mpved  2         -naed                       nesn1tuonane costs.
Condition      2       2    I'sgd  2..feir, S-poor                         .........
Width        3.3    13.0    a                                                        Paed Unpaved
me  400   4,700 laualhele
Calculated$                                                                 irluble   £0.0    3s.5 Wouldaily veh-kmlyear
Capciy11,016  it 462    vehieles (god. tyig. eq.) per day                 __________________________________
134  aint4,4'O   4400   luau per la per year
Tar. sain    0I6    30.    luau par web-he  -toper year                            Capacity (eq  editm  tuakha per day)
same  __ ___VW___     ___ __  ___ ___  __  ___ ___  ___potos                            -     7, 00  - .......SO .9
Traulc2eaa   grAU               muOteA W0 idtA FltlatIol I5.ly  Mount.
Obeved ...                        awe                                      ...  ....    ..             ..
1990      ; 1995    2000    2010 f,OotertI
..... ..... ..... -!!                                      2.0   4,200   3.200   2,600
Vehicles  3,600    10.02    6.0       5.01  1.000                                      5511,600   6,600   6,600
tractor$   1,500     5.02    2.02    0.02  1.000                                       6.0  1300s      ,0    7,700
Other        100     3.51i   0.02   -.5.0   0.047                                      1.3  14.2001  110,60   6,200
Trazrzc projecuxena
tIAit Ia  prejoetad traffic            venali traffic       Initial projected + genoarted        modified prjeootioe
lear            VAb.  Tra".  Other  Cony.                Tab.  Tra".              Tob.  Tree.  Conv,               lobA.  Tree.  Cmvw.
1992;            506    1123       106   6,60            5,056   1,726           5,34 1.91    761                 564   1,10   7,8
199             36      12        110   7,9             5,64   1,2              6,120 2,0        6135            6,20   2,0        ,33
199             612!0    114      115   6,4              ,20   1.4              60732 2,0    6.42                 .5       ,0      .
1996  6610    1955    112   6,5~~     ~     ~~                 ~~70  3,1  ,5  7,7 2146 ,2             7,21     ,46   9,26
1997            7126    1992      11    9,1o            7,136   1,99             7.632 a2.19   10,0         51    ,52      ,11   10,5
1996            7709    2032      113   ,79,79    2026.460   2.23  10,72                                         6,60 2,551072
1999            62      202       13  1046636 2,072                             9,15     a22l   11,44            9,159   2,79  1144
2000            6992    2114      11    1,1             6.13   2,                9,691 225 2.2                    9.691   2,2     I1.2
2001            9442    2114      10    1,56            6,95   Z,04            0l6o      2      I2 1276l0a6    ,2   12,716
2002            9914    2114      10   120              9,75   1,9              10,905   2,32   13,5             10,90    2,2 1,5
2002           10410    2114       9712,50              9,52   1,66             11,451   2,32   13,6             11,451   2531,
2004           10930    2114     9:2  13,050            9227   1,6              12023    ,2    454               12,023   2,225  134,24
2005       ~~~~11477    214    6    2596            9,299   10513624   2.25   4.955                          12,624   2,32  14,955
2006           12050    2114       63  14,7             9,6      ,4              323 2251,6                      12,55   2,225  15,566
2007           12653    2114       79  14,772           9,46S   15,576          13,91    2,5    16,249           15,916   2. 325  16,249
2006           13266    211       75  15,404            951 1,512              1,4 3.25  1,44                   14,614   2323  16,944
2  09          150      21         71 1606951641   1449                         15,23145  2,2 1:. ,675           15,5   2,525  17,675
2010           14641    2114       66  16,766           9,624   1,569           16,11    2,2    6442             16.112   2,525  16,442
uiIfQ7 t Scowth rate.                CM%tlTI5IifOfcTreffjQ to    wacle "64culed                   uon;rToa ttal traffic
capacity of existing road   generatod traffic                to capacity of nem road
Itlatated cost- and benefits
Normel trasfic         AddItl-2  --Gen-U                   ...   erated benefits                     VIC ratio   Congestion factor
",;;--- ;;-Coet. usolte.  Diet.  Diet.   Buff.  SurfI..              -........         et            Old      1 Me-------w
leost      .    re      oss(ge)          rb    trac      we,tee           a.    re benefits            Ve gaOU vi gon.    Old       3e
199                      10                                                              (10)            0.62    0.56    1.01    1.00
1994                      10s10067                                                                                0.61.0           1.00
199    61      1,4-0.12                   1.6     0.1     0.4     0.0     0.1      0.0       2            0.73    0.41    1.06      .0
1996   6,1     1,5             -0.1s     1.6     0.1      0.7     0.1     0.1     0.0       3             0.16   '1.44    1.15    1.00
199     Io1.   192-0.14                 2.1     0.1      1.6     0.1     0.2     0.0       4             0.65    0.47    1.25    1.00
1996   7,709   2,052   -~~~~0.1   2.4:    0.2     3.0     02        . 0 06                         .66     0.5     1.5     10
1999   6,2    2,07             _0.16      3.6     0.2     6.      0.4     0.5      0.0      12            09      0.2      19      1.00
2000   6,13 2,9                 .0.16     5.3     0.5    11.7     0.7      0.9     0.1      19             1.00    0.57    2.50    1.00
2001   6993   2,10.12                     5.2     0.3    11.6    LL.7      1.5     0.1      20             1.00    0.59    2.50    1.00
2002   9,5 193                  -0.0      5.4     03:    116      0.6      1.7     0.1      20             1.00    0.62    2.50    1.01
2005    ,3      ,5              -0.:02    5.4     0.     116      0.6      2.2     0.1      20             1.00    0.64    2.50    1.02
2004   9,22    1,76             0.03     5..5   5        11.      06      2.6     0.1       21            1.00    0.67    2.50    1.06
2005   9,299    1,115            0.068    5.5     0.3    11.6     0.5      5.1     0.1      21             1.00    0.70    2.50    1.05
2006   9,36    1,4               0.14     5.5     0.     11.7     0.       3.6     0.2       s2            1.0 I   0.75    2.50    1.06
2007   9,45    1,6576            020      5.      02    11.5      05       4.      02       22             1.00    076    2.5      1.11
200    9,01 1,12                0.26     5.6      0.2    11.3     0.4     4.6     0.2       22            1.0     0.79      .0     11
2009   9,564   1,449    ~~~~~~0.52  5.7   0.2    190.5    0.4     4.9      0.2   2          11     .000   0.653   2.50    1.124
2010   9,62    1,5'69            0.9      5.7     0.2     96      0.       5.1     0.2      21             1.00    0.66    2.50    1.37
Ucenic  evelnatiLo                                                                                        Congestion
VIC recter Iner.
311           66 WAilUc  of luan
112L          115                                                                                               0.6    1.00    0.05
0.7    1.05    .1
0.9 1.50    1.00
1.0    aI.50    0.00



- 101 -
Anngg I
Appendix 9
Zun.u  noVIUL 31341 r1ncr
,.................................
Iccoami  Anlyala of Iiaabsi-Jinun Mod (D-5)
........................................... _.......................................... 
Project iUfoatio                                                           Trucg operatin  costs (tunlveh-ld)
Terrain                              i  1-flatlroiiiv, ahilly.              Surae; Coondition          flatiloll. liliy   Mount.
and 3-o,tainuau                     .---*----                 -----        ---   ----
Days er year                       315  da.                                 Pved    Good             1    0.41      0.56     0.69
Ccstr cot                            S  llto.  of t.a                               Fair             a  *.ss        0.65     0.76
iaterest rate                       lOX                                             Poor             3     0.64     0.76     0.66
Rod lth                           11.7 la                                  Unpved  Good              I    0.61      0.75     1.13
Surface  nIjs                        2  1-paved, a-unpaved                          Fair             2     0.70     0.55     1.a2
Surface condition2 a  1Sood, 2-fair, S-poor                                          Poor            3     0.6      1.00     1.2
vec (t uek)                       I.as  luniseb-Pa
a.64 luanlveb-is
tine1 a^Lutaonan   oeat          4 700  IW/y*r
Tariabl  ainatenac cost         54.   un  p er daily veb-ba per yar
Inlcut freoit                  173t,50  t        dn- aP
Labor coat iormatio                                                        Sue operatin  costs (luan/veh-bu)
Labor coat                        3.26 luanlday                            surface Condition           Flatloll.  lilly   momt.
Average travel distace*             20 balday                               ..... Go ...--             ----.----   -----  .-----
Average load                      0.05 tenlereon-trip                      Prd Go"                   I     I.1               2.0.45  1.
TranaPortatiAn coat bY labor      3.29 Tu tn-R                                      *dr              a     I             -   2tX.07
Poor            3     1.63     2.13     2.38
Diverted trafic informtio                                                  Unpved  Good              1    1.77      2.12     2.37
Fair            2    2.07      2.40     2.64
Traffic,                                                                            Poor             5    2.51      2.62     3.06
Uuaea           2             veblday
Truck.          S             vsbldoy                                      tolout freight.         AMI growth too
Old route                                                             Obrved ----------------------.
,........                                                               1990     1965     2000     2010
ectio  I                               lctic. 2                                       .......   ......   ......
..... ...... .....                  ..................                            173,600      2.01      2.02    T.0I
Dist.km)       46                      Dist. Oq)      13
2urf.type       2                      surf.           I 1                 Diverted traffic.
Surf .ccd     2                      Surf:.coa       2                                           Anil growth to$
OC truek    1.29                      VOC trUck    0.76                             Observed -       -- --*-..
V0  bus      3.06                     VW  bus       2.07                                 1990     1995     2000     2010
Mam route                                                  TSuk.           6      10.02 8O02 *.02
..'''''''                                                  Buses           2     10.01     8.02     5.02
Sect     I Section 2
ist. (km)      37                      Dit .(to)       0                   Tmuek         1.2I
Surf- t         £                      Sfte            I                   Buaes        2.64
w         f2Su ra Stu.cOmd                             2
*W truck    1.29                       T0C truk    0.76
100 bus      3.06                      VW0 hu       2.07
Estimated coats and benfiLts
a............................
Cost savng
Nonni    Geerated  DSverted traffic                       ......
freight  frOeat -Cont;. maint. Divtd                                        tol Genrated let
Tear  (ton-ba)  (tcn-ba)    Truck     Dues      costO  coatO  truke    bus**   freight benfit bnetfits
1993  164,226  18.2        11        3     1.50                                                  -1.50
199   17910        16,71        12       3      1.50                                                 '1.5
1M95  1I1.666      1!9,17       13        3              0.09     0.10     0.06     0.54     0.03     0.63
1996  195,502      19.550       14        3              0.09     0.11     0.07     0.55     0.03      0.66
1997  199,412      19,41        is        4              0.10     0.12     0.07     0.56     0.03      0.66
1998  203,400      20.340       16        4              0.10     0.13     0.06     0.57     0.03     0.71
1999  207.468      20.747      1         4              0.10     0.14     0.09     0.56     0.03      0.73
2000  *116217      21,12        19        5              0.10     0.15     0.09     0.59      0.03     0.76
201  213,3       21,73        20        5               0.10     0.16     0.10     0.60     0.03     0.76
22002  215,671     21,507       21 °                     0.10     0.16     0.10     0.60      0.03     0.60
2003  216.030      21,603       22        5              0.10     0.17     0.11     0.61      0.03     0.62
2004  220.210      22,021       23        6              0.11     0.16     0.11     0.62      0.053    0.
2005  222.412      22.241       24        6              0.11     0.19     0.12      0.62     0.0      0.86
20o"   24,6314     22,464       25        6              0.11     0.20     0.13      0.63     0.03     0.66
2007  226,43       22,6O        27        7              0.11     0.21     0.13      0.63     0.03     0.90
2008  226,151      22,915       26        7              0.11     0.22     0.14     0.64      0.03     0.92
2006  231,443     2S,144        29        7              0.11     0.23     0.15      0.65     0.03     0.94
2010  23S,757      23.376       I        a              0.11     0.24      0.15     0.65     0.03     0.17
Iccomic avlUtation
...................
WV              I mio   Of Tua
gi             21X
FMl             0



- 102 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary
for the Hanazhou-Ninabo Hiahwav
A. Environmental Assessment
Backaround
1.        The policy and administrative requirements for the environmental
assessment of highway projects in China are stipulated in the following docu-
ments:
(a) Management Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Construction
Projects of PRC, 1986;
(b) Regulations for Engineering Design on Environmental Protection of
Construction Projects, 1987;
(c) Directive No. 17 of the Ministry of Communications, PRC/1990, Man-
agement Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Construction Proj-
ects; and
(d) Nanas.ment Procedures for Environmental Protection of Construction
Projects, NEPA, 199A,
2.        The PTDs are required to undertake, directly or through a tGehnical
institution, an Initial Environmental Analysis for submission to the Provin-
cial Environmental Protection Bureaus at the prefeasibility stage of a highway
proposal. For major infrastructure projects, the next step is the carrying
out of an EA. Only specially licensed institutions can undertake eAs in
China. A completed EA would be submitted to HOC for preevaluation, which is
normally done by a panel of experts including representatives of the National
Environmental Protection Agency (DEPA). NEPA's clearance of the EA is
required for projects coating more than Y 200 million and for obtaining SPC's
approval to go ahead with the engineering design for proposed highway proj-
ects.
3.        The above-outlined intornal procedures were followed for the EA
process for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway in a manner interrelated with the Bank
project preparation cycle. An EA for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway was carried
out by ZPEPRI during 1989/90 and was followed by the release of a EA report in
November 1990. The Bank's comments on the report were provided in March 1991,
together with a suggested outline for an EAP. A draft RAP was reviewed during
project appraisal in June 1991, and a final EAP, incorporating the Bank's
comments on the earlier draft, was submitted to the Bank in December 1991,
which provided the basis of the EAP. A summary of this document is presented
In this annex.



-103-                             ANNEX 2
Page 2
Characteristics of the Highwav Corridor
4.        Tovographv and Climate.  The alignment of the Hangzhou-Ningbo High-
way passes through the Xiaoshan, Shaoxing and Ningbo plain, an area of about
7,800 square kilometers. This region of the province is characterized by a
terrain which is higher in the south and west, and lower in the north and east
with a gentle, average grade of 0.02 percent from west to east. The plain is
densely interwoven with a network of rivers and canals. The region lies in a
subtropical monsoon zone and is occasionally hit by typhoons and heavy rain-
storms.
5.        Population.  The area along the alignment of the highway has a popu-
lation of about 6.00 million, dispersed in 14 administrative county units,
averaging 790 individuals per square kilometer. The highway alignment does
not pass any closer than 4 kilometers to towns, but there are abotut 62 vil-
lages that are located within 100 meters of the highway alignment, and seven
villages will be bisected by the route.
6.        Agriculture.  The ROW passes predominantly through irrigated rice
fields. The method of rice farming can be described as intensive cultivation.
Genetically improved varieties seem to be used exclusively, accompanied by
herbicides, pesticides and frequent fertilization. The resulting productivity
of the land is high.
7.        Cultural/Historic.  There are numerous historic sites and tourist
areas in and around the major towns of Hangzhou, Shaoxing, and Ningbo. The
most important of these, and the one closest to the highway ROW, is the Hemudu
site. This is a site of New Stone Age settlement (one of the oldest discov-
ered in China) and is classified as an area of national importance.
8.        Noise.  Existing noise quality in the 67 villages near or around the
highway alignment is generally good. Noise levels are expected to average
48 dY(A) during the day and 43 dB(A) at night. This is based on 24-hour moni-
toring of Yunfeng Village in Pengbu Town. Noise levels in the countryside
were understandably lower, with average noise levels of 42 dB(A) in the day,
and 33-35 dB(A) at night. The existing noise levels measured at the Hemudu
historic site averaged 48 dB(A), although the noise standard for residential
areas was exceeded periodically when boats passed along the Yuyao River, near
the site.
9.        Air Quality.  Ambient air quality at representative sites in the
countryside and villages within 100 meters of the highway ROW was measured.
The baseline monitoring program included analysis of S02, NOX, CO, and TSP
(total suspended particulates). Air quality was similar between village and
country areas with the exception of S02 concentrations, which were higher in
villages because of higher use of coal for heating and in industry. Present
air quality along the ROW is fairly good, except for Sanjiang Village and two
other monitoring points also near roads. The NO, and TSP concentrations were
elevated in these sites because of vehicle emissions and dust being mobilized
off road surfaces.



-l04 -                            ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.      Water Quality.  The water quality of rivers within the study area
was generally suitable for agricultural use. However, rivers and ponds near
the highway ROW at Pengbu and Qianjiang Farm were more polluted, with BOD
(5 day) and COD approaching or exceeding evaluation standards. This is the
result of surface water pollution by solid and human waste.
Potential Environmental Impact Identified in EA
11.       The following key areas of environmental impact were identified,
where adverse changes may take place during the construction and operation of
the new highway:
(a) Social disruption would directly affect an estimated 13,000 individ-
uals who will be resettled or compensated for severance (Annex 3).
Furthermore, the highway will interrupt communication between commu-
nities and will constrain access to some locations inconveniencing
work or mobility that would be related to social activity.
(b) Air pollution could be caused by dust generated during construction,
primarily by earthmoving machinery and trucks and also by stockpiled
materials at depots and quarries. The operation of the asphalt
plants and construction traffic could produce excessive noxious
fumes. At the operation phase, there could also be some localized
concentration of SO2 or NO, during hours of peak traffic and under
certain weather conditions along the highway.
(c) Water 2ollution could occur during construction from excessive spil-
lage of earth and other building materials, such as lime and fly-
ash, into irrigation channels and waterways. During construction
and operation of the highway, there is also a potential for water
contamination from oil and fuel leaks from gas stations and fuel
depots where surface waters run close to such spots.
(d) Noise levels could become excessive from the operation of plants and
machinery, as well as from normal traffic after the opening of the
highway wherever the new highway alignment will be close to vil-
lages. Seven schools have been identified as requiring mitigating
measures against excessive noise levels.
(e) Soil erosion could lead to a potential loss of hundreds of tons of
topsoil per year from exposed slopes of cuts and embankments of the
highway and borrow pits.
B. Environmental Action Plan Summary
12.       The EAP stipulates how the environmental impacts identified in the
HA are going to be dealt with at the design, implementation and operation
phaseo of the highway, and what administrative arrangements have been made for
the execution of the HAP during the three distinct phases of the development
of the highway project.



- 105 -                           ANX 2
Page 4
Measures for Mitizatina Environmental Impacts
13.       Social Disruption.  In locating the alignment for the new highway,
four alternative routes were analyzed from the combined viewpoints of environ-
mental impact, engineering feasibility, and economic viability. The alignment
selected was the most advantageous of the alternatives in these respects.  In
particular, it required less land and had less adverse effect on built-up
areas than the other three alternatives. Thus, the extent of involuntary
resettlement has been minimized.  Because of the rather homogeneous nature of
the topography and ecology of the corridor, no other environmental aspects had
substantive relevance to the alignment selection. The detailed analysis for
route selection is covered in documents available in the Project File
(Annex 5). To minimize the disruption to mobility caused by the severance
from villages, and separation of farmlands from residential areas by the high-
way alignment, the engineering design has made provision for the required
number of underpasses for local traffic and pedestrians. Overall, 234 under-
passes will be built for the 138 km long section of highway, an average of one
underpass for each 600 m section. To benefit from the new highway in terms of
improved transportation services, major population centers in the cor-idor
will be linked to the new highway by six interchanges.
14.       Air Oualitv.  To reduce air pollution at the work sites, stockpiled
materials and unsealed access roads used by construction traffic will be
watered regularly and dust collecting bins will be placed at critical areas
along the work sites. Asphalt plants, to the extent possible, will be located
on the lee side of inhabited areas and at least 1,000 m from residences. Air
quality for fumes will be regularly monitored during the construction and the
operation of the highway.
15.       Control of Noise.  The management of noise impacts during construc-
tion and operation is based on distance and the construction of physical bar-
riers. Existing houses and other structures within 20 m of the ROW will be
demolished and no new buildings will be allowed to be constructed within 50 m
of the ROW. The objective is to limit human congregation, eventually, to
areas at least 70 m from the carriageways of the road. Physical barriers to
noise will include earth berms and fences. Trees will be planted along the
ROW boundaries of the highway, and 4 m wide forest belts will be established
at villages. These forest belts will be increased to a 15 m width along the
section near the Hemudu Antiquities site. At sensitive areas along the high-
way, such as schools, a total of 160 m of sound screens (concrete block fence)
will be constructed.
16.       Water Nanaxement4 To eliminate or minimize the risk of flooding,
the bridges and culverts for the highway have been designed for appropriate
flood frequencies according to national standards and based on local histori-
cal flood data. The design of roadside drainage is aimed at minimizing r.ndom
runoff, and discharge would be appropriately controlled. Groundwater pollu-
tion, resulting from rainwater becoming polluted with heavy metals after per-
colation through fly ash, is a minor concern since chemical analysis of the
fly ash to be used has indicated low levels of heavy metals and other metal
pollutants.



-106f -                           AANNEX 2
Page 5
17.       Other mitixatina measures to be taken during construction concern
the impact of construction traffic, operation of quarries and waste disposal
from work compounds and depots. These are also stipulated in the EAP.
Oraanizational end Aonitorinia Arrantements
18.       Environmental protection measures were formula-.d to be taken during
three distinct phases of the highway development: (i) preparation and design
phase; (ii) construction phase; and (iii) operation phase. The management
responsibilities end organizational arrangements under these phases are dif-
ferent, although ZPEPEC has the primary responsibility for all environmental
protection activity.
19.       During the preparation and deslin phase, ZPEPEC mobilized ZPEPRI to
carry out the EA and ZPTDI to carry out the engineering design of the highway.
The design of the highway includes several modifications that are directed at
controlling end eliminating potential environmental impacts. These include
the adequate provision of clearance at bridges and culverts to eliminate or
limit the risk of flooding, physical sound barriers, a well-designed roadside
drainage system, crossroad access, and troatment of slopes to reduce soil
erosion. ZPTDI is also responsible for ensuring that the conditions of con-
tract and the technical specifications appropriately stipulate the contract-
ors' responsibilities regarding environmental protection measures during con-
struction. All design end technical specifications related to environmental
protection have been taken into account in the completion of the engineering
design and bidding documents presented to the Bank at the end of January 1992.
20.       Durint construction, ZPEPEC will exercise control over environmental
matters primarily through the construction supervision organization. The
three main supervision offices, to be set up in Hangzhou, Shaoxing and Ningbo,
in addition to carrying out routine construction supervision duties, will also
monitor the effectiveness of environmental management recommendations and
ensure that the contractors meot their obligations under the contracts with
regard to environmental protection. In addition, two comprehensive, long-term
environmental monitoring stations will be set up in the vicinity of the high-
way alignment and will be operated through the Shaoshing and Ningbo supervi-
sion offices.
21.      TM  operation of the hijhway after its completion will be the
responsibility of ZPZPEC, which will have a central environmental unit and a
unit in each of the three regional administrative offices in Pengbu, Shanjiang
and Duatang.  Also, the two lont-term monitorina stations to be set up for
the construction stage along the hilghway, would remain as permanent environ-
mental monitoring stations. The monitoring program during operation will
primarily measure concentrations of CO, NO, and TSP relating to vehicle and
traffic noise and vibration movement along the new highway. The monitoring
frequency will be five days per season, and five times per day. Two of the
five monitoring days per season will include 24-hour sampling. The other
sampling will only occur during hours of daylight. The station located near
Ningbo City will also include monitoring of ozone and hydrocarbons during the
winter months.



- 107 -                           ANNE  2
Page 6
22.       During both the construction and the operation phoses, ZPEPB, which
is responsible for supervising end administering environmental protection in
the province, will carry out additional environmental monitoring functions
through its county offices.
23.       A sumary on environmental issues, actions to be taken and adminis-
trative responsibilities for implementation is shown in Appendix 1 to this
nnex. The monitoring data for air, noise end water quality are to be mea-
sured against the standards indicated In Appendix 2.
Cost. Monitorina Equlment. Trainina and Reporting
24.       Most of the cost ossociated with the environmental protection has
been incorporated in the project cost under the civil works contracts. The
estimated cost of major items, including the cost of setting up the monitoring
stations in Shaoxing and Ningbo, is Y 4.93 million ($918,000) as detailed in
Appendix 3 to this annex. The testig equipment and Instrumentation needed at
a cost of Y 753,000 ($140,220) and listed in Appendix 4 to this annex, has
been added to the equipment list to be procured under the project (Table 3.2).
25.       The training of technicians for the monitoring stations and those
involved with environmental issuos on the supervision team would be undertaken
before the start of construction works. Same of the training would be locally
organized, but some training courses covering nvironmental issues would be
conducted as part of the training courses organised by the foreign consultant
to be engaged for assisting In the supervision of construction.
26.       Reporting on environmental issues would be included in the quarterly
progress reports on project lmplmentation, which are to be submitted for the
Bank's review. The regular reports and field data collected from the two
monitoring stations would be made available to Bank supervision missions on
requsst.



CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL IHIGHAY PROJECT
Sumiruv of Re E11mOts of the Environmatal Action Plan
for the Hantzhou-Einabo Highvwv
Environmental Isue              Action Taken/To be Taken                Resaonsible Entity                       Remarks
A. Pr.-construction/
Desisn Phase
1. Route selection              Aligment, selected fron             ZPEPEC
four alternatives                   ZPTDI
considered, minimizes land          ZPEPRI
acquisition and impact on
residential ares and
historic sites
2.  Impact on mobility          Design provides for safe and        ZPTDI
adequate access across the
highway for local traffic
through 234 vehicle sand
pedestrian underpasses
3.  Impact on                   A 20 , strip on both sides          ZPTDI                                                                   g'
Inhabitants from            of ROW is reserved as a                                                                                     0
excessive noise-and         buffer zone and is planted                                                                                  OD
air-pollution               with trees to provide added
protection to sensitive
areass
4.  Risk of Flooding            Bridges, culverts, roadside         ZPTDI
drainage systems have been
designed to
eliminate/mii4mize risk
B. Construction Phase
1. Air-pollution                (a) Stockpiled building             Contractor                          The Clauses refer to
materials will be                                                  Technical Specification of
eltber stored under            ZPEPEC through the Joint            the Contract Documents
cover (cement, lime) or        Supervision Teem (JST)
regularly watered (fly-                                            Cu   3 0                           >
ash, earthworks)                                                   Clause 32.05
Clause 203.07-3                  0
(b)  Fly-ash loss from             Contractor                           Clause 203.07-3
trucks wlll be
minimized by sealing           ZPEPEC through JST                                                   F-
trucks to present
spilling



Euvironoental Issue              Action Taken/To be Taken                Re sonsible Entity                        Remarks
(c) Asphalt plants wlll be          Contractor                          Clause 308.05
located at least 1000 m
from residential areas         ZYEPEC through JST
2.  Noise-pollution             (d)  Construction activities        Contractor                          Clause 102.13
generating excessive
noise will be confined         ZPEPEC through JST
to day light hours
(e)  Unnecessary noise from         Contractor                          Clause 102.13
hauling, blasting and
construction will be           ZPEPEC through JST
mialmized
3.  Water-pollution             (f)  Storage of lim, fly-           Contractor                          Clause 203.07
ash away from rivers
and canals                     ZPEPEC through JST
(g)  Before fly-ash is              Contractor                          Clause 203.07
placed to fill,
impermeable layer of           ZPEPEC through JST
clay should be placed
to prevent water
seepage passing through                                                                                 -
fly-ash from entering                                                                                   °
ground and surface
water
(h) Temporary drainage for         Contractor                           Clause 201.05
cuts and fills will be                                             Clause 201.06
provided and regularly         ZPEPEC through JST
maintained
4. Traffic generated             Mi)  Construction materials        Contractor                          Clause 102.16
risks (ccntrol road              (particularly sand)
traffic to mitigate              will be moved by water         ZPEPZC through JST
congestion and                   transport to the extent
associated noise and             possible
air contamination)
(j)  The network of access         Contractor                           Claus  102.16
roads for construction
traffic will be                ZPEPEC through JST                                                   . ll
increased to reduce                                                                                 10
congestion, and traffic
will be controlled to
lower peak hour traffic                                                                             Hr
I-



niroumentaI Issue                Action TakenlTo be Taken              Resaonsible Entity                       Remarks
(k) Material haulage will          Contractor                         Clause 102 16
be controlled to reduce
spill'ig and dust             ZPEPEC through JST
5. Quarry operation           (1) Will be located away           Contractor                          Clause 102.13
related risks                   from populated areas
ZPEPEC through JST
(m) Safety-zone area will          Contractor                         Clause 202.03
be defined and
safeguarded                   ZPEPEC through JST
(n) Explosive material             Contractor                         Clause 202.03
storage will comply
with security                 ZPEPC through1 JST
regulations
6. Disposal of solid           (o) Solid waste wlll be            Contractor                          Claue 102.13
and hmn waste                   appropriAtely disposed;
humn  aste  vill be           ZPZPEC through JST
treted and discharged
C. Honltor n
7. Construction Phbae          (p) Ense that noise                ZPEC through JST                           o
levels 70 m from
At two monitorlg                Righway do not exceed
statlons near                   55 db
Shaozin and Nliagbo
(q)  luelar monitorlig of          ZPEmC through JST
dust-fall alng the
work sites In passive
dust collector., and
ensure that zoasres
are taken In case of
excessive dust-fall
(r)  Mboitor CO, lOx, TSP          ZIZPIC through JST
Vater quntlty, noise
and vibration
S. Operation Phase             (s) Moniltor CO, lOx, TSP,         ZPIPIC
water quality, noise
At two monitoring               and vibration; and                                                                                   X
stations near                   ozone and hydro carbons
Shaounlg and Ningo              seaonably and
diurnally on long-term
go



Ann" 2
- 111 -~~~~~~1PPWX 
ZUEJThN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJEKT
Enviromnnetal Aseosment and Action P1an
for th Hanashou-Ninabo Blhvway
Atmospheric Oualltw Standardc
(05 3095-82)
Concentrattio  Lit (aistandard eu a)
Pollutant
_ _ .tehig TIMe         Class I St.        Cl1aJ  II at.      Class III at.
SPf          Daily Aver.               0.15                0.30                0.50
Any Time                 0.30                1.00                 1.50
TSP          Drily Aver.               0.05                0.15                0.25
Any Time                 0.15                0.50                 0.70
S02          Amnl Dally
Aver.                    0.02                0.06                 0.10
Daily Aver.           0.05                0.15                 0.25
Any TIme              0.15                0.50                 0.70
140O         Dally Aver.               0.05                0.10                0.15
Any Time                 0.10                0.15                 0.30
co           Hourly Aver.              4.00                4.00                6.00
10.00              10.00                20.00
03                                     0.12                0.16                0.20
Ambient Noise Standards For Urban Area.
(GB 3096-82)
units Leq (d)
Area Applied                DNytm                     Might                  Remarke
Special Residential               45                       35             Designated a  uiet
Residential and                   50                       40             Purely Residentill
Educational Quarter.                                                      Educational and
Institutional Ares
Category I Mixed Area             55                       45             Ordinary Mlied
Residential with
Commercial Areas
Downtown, Category 11             60                       50             Concentratod
Mixed Area                                                                Camercial, and Mixed
Industrial and
Residential Areas
Concentrated                      70                       55
ladustrial Area
Both Sides of Traffic             65                       55             Traffic2'100 vehlh
Arteries
Classification of Water Oua11t
Classifietion  |  1et Class  |   2nd Class          3rd Class  |   4th Class  |   5th Clas|
IComposite Index       (0.25           0.25-0.5       0.5-0.75        0.75-2.0          2.0-3.0 m



-11 2-
Ann s 2
Appe ls 3
ZEEJIANO PEOVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Enviroamental Aeceesment and Action Plan
for the Hantzhou-Iinabo Hinhwav
Malor Environmental Protection Related investment
for the Hanzhou-Ninnbo Hinhwav
Item             Descriptioa       Quantity Unit          Unit Pslce         moAunt (Tuan)
(Yuan)
Roadside Tree      Slope foot of        47,655 treez        15/tre a,                 715,000
Plnting            Subgrade            _
Turfing            Median Strip aadl   272,202 *q m         6/eq m                  1,633,200
Slope$
Sound Screen       1 location           160 m               ICOO/m                    160,000
Pollution          4m wide for          49,700 eq           4/eq m                    198,800
Preventive         Village
Forest Belt        Sections, 15m
Wide for Hemudu
Section
Land Acquisition                        49,700 eqm          1/eq m                     49,700
for Forest Belt
Monitoring         In Shaoxing and      2 location.         200,000/place             400,000
Station            Yuyao each  __I
Equipment          Monitoring and       2 place.            376,500/etation           753,000
_  Testing
Cost of training   6 persone per        12 man-months       500/man-month.             60,000
etation, one
month                                             _
Monitoring                              2 units             200,000/unit              400,000
Vehicle
Service Vehicle                         2 units             280,000/unit              560,000
T     o t a 1                                 -                                L    4,929,700



- 113 -
nnex 2
Appendix 4
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Eauiiment for Environmental Monitorint Stations
I ~~Yuan
KB - 6A air sampler                                         7,000
Spectrophotometer                                           2,500
Infrared analyzer                                          20,000
KB - 120E air sampling pump                                 2,000
Atomic absorber                                            50,000
B & K 2230 sound level meter                               25,000
B & K 2230 fully automatic noise - meter                   90,000
Ultraviolet Spectrophotometer                              10,000
Balance, culture-box, Electric stove, etc.                 10,000
Computer                                                   80,000
Total for one Station                                     376,500
Total for two Stations                                    753,000



- 114 -                           AN     J 3
Pass I
CHI
ZHBJWI  PRICI   HIGHWAY PRWQC
Resettlement Action Plan Sumrv for the hanazhou-Ninnbo Himhwav
Route Locatlon and ImNact
1.        The highway begins at Pengbu, an eastern suburb of Hangshou City.
From there it proceeds In a southeastorn direction across the Quiantang River,
traverses the northern part of the Xiaoshan-Shaoxing plain, enters into the
Shaoxing-Ningbo plain, passes through the northern part of 8hangyu County and
the southern part of Yuyao City, and ends up at Dazhujia, a southern suburb of
Ningbo City. The land affectod by the routo is prlmarily agricultural,
although the rural economy has been diversifying over the years and an
increasing proportion of the population is now engagod in both agricultural
and industrial activities. Thus, of the 12,940 individuals affected by the
highway, only about 47 percent are engaged exclusively in farming, while about
20 percent have income from agriculture as well as from other activities.
About 5 percent work for enterprilse or institutions, and the remaining
28 percent are economically not active. In terms of Impact on properties,
only about 4 percent of the individuals affected would lose their houses,
72 percent would be affected by land acquisition, 19 percent would be affected
by both land and house acquisition, and 5 percent would be affected only indi-
rectly.
Poliec Basis of Land Acquisition and Resettlemnt
2.        The Land Administration Law of PRC and the Zhejiang Provincial Land
Administration Regulations are the legal basis for land acquisition and reset-
tlement to be undertaken in connection with the construction of highways.
However, to initiate action on land acquisition and resettlement for major
highway projects, the provinces involved are required to obtain SPC's approval
of the feasibility study recoammendations and MOC's approval of the preliminary
engineering design.
CoMDensation Policies
3         Based on the above, for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway the following
compensation provisions have been applied:
(a) Standing crops compensation fee - 1/2 x annual production
value of acquired land
(b) Land compensation - 4 x annual production value of
acquired land
(c)  Resettl. subsidy - 2 x 'nm'l proctton value    totialt ac  Ld land
of a:tlrat Lot acquired land



- 115 -A X 3
Pag. 2
(d)  Compensation fee for standing crop will be paid to individual owners.
(e)  Land compensation fees and resettlement *ubsidios will be paid to
county, township or village governments and used collectively. These
governments will use part of this money to finance enterprises which
are able to absorb the surplus labor. In some case., the compensa-
tion may be spent on land reclamation from the sea to increase the
land area for cultivation and employ the labor. Most of the compen-
sation will be administered at the village level.
(f)  Compensation for personal belongings will be paid according to local
practice.
(g)  Compensation for houses will be on a replacement value basis.  Houses
will be reconstructed in the vicinity of the existing dwelling in
conformity with the local township plan.
(h) Factories and enterprises affected will be relocated in the vicinity
of the locality in line with the zoning plan of the city or county.
Principles of Resettlement
4.        The land acquisition involves about 60 townships, but the land to be
acquired as a proportion of the total cultivated land in each township area is
relatively low, on the average about 1.8 percent of the total. The following
four measures will be taken to resettle the affected peoplet
(a) readjusting the land to allow affected people to keep their own
agricultural land;
(b) providing land compensation from reclaimed land (reclaiming from
tidal basins or realigned river beds);
(c)  offering employment opportunities through diversification of agri-
culture-related activity (such as animal husbandry) and township
-enterprises; and
(d) recruiting resettlers for state-run enterprises in nearby cities and
counties.
Resettlement Procedures
5.        Investiaation of Comoensation Standards.  ZPEPEC, the responsible
provincial authority for the resettlement activities for the highway, carried
out an investigation to determine the compensation parameters used in various
*counties along the route during mid-1990. It obtained information including
types of crops, cropping acreage, yields per mu, crop prices, and building
costs. This information was used to calculate the annual production value,
and the land compensation and building unit prices for the land and property
to be acquired. The following unit prices have been used for estimating ROW
and resettlement costs:



- 116 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 3
Item                 Unit      Unit Price (Yuan)
Land Compensation              mu              8,000
Borrowed Land Compensation    mu               3,000
Buildings                      m2                150
Power Poles                    each            2,500
Telecommunication Poles        each            2,000
Pumping Stations               each               390
Brick - Kiln                   each               600
Tombs                          each               150
6.        Oraanizational Arrangements.  The organization for land acquisition
and resettlement was established during April-September 1991 as follows:
(a) The provincial, city, county and township governments are responsi-
ble for decision-makina on their respective levels to put into
effect the land acquisition and resettlement policies and proce-
dures.
(b) Leading groups have been formed at provincial, city and county lev-
els by tho heads of planning, land administration, urban construc-
ti'on, communications, water conservation, electric power, post, and
broadcasting departments responsible for coordinatina land acquisi-
tion and resettlement activities in their respective sectors.
(c) The land acquisition and resettlement division of ZPEPEC at the
provincial level, and the land acquisition and resettlement depart-
ments at the city and county levels are responsible for the execu-
tion of land acquisition and resettlement. About 70 personnel are
involved at these levels in the process. In addition, all 62
affected townships along the route have set up land acquisition and
resettlement agencies, staffed by 5 to 7 persons respectively and
totaling about 330, who are responsible for land acquisition and
resettlement at the township level. Furthermore, every village
within a township has specific staff assigned to be responsible for
land acquisition and resettlement, about 5 persons for every village
and about 1,600 persons for the whole alignment involved at the
village level.
7.        Survey of the ROW.  The stakeout of the highway's ROW in the field
was carried out during September-October 1991 by ZPTDI. The land authorities
at various levels checked the ROW with the county and township resettlement
offices and delineated township and village boundaries on drawings. The
county resettlement office is responsible for checking the quantity of
acquired land and other properties within the ROW with the relative township
resettlement office. The records are prepared in a unified format and are
submitted to the county resettlement offices for summary. The summary then
provides the basis for the land acquisition and resettlement agreements. The
quantity survey was completed at the end of November 1991.
8.        Contracts.  The agreements authorizing to proceed with the land
acquisition and resettlement were signed between ZPEPEC and the counties



-117 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 4
involved in mid-December 1991, and the contracts with the respective townships
and villages for the execution of the actions involved have been signed subse-
quently. All authorization procedures were completed by mid-January 1992.
9.        Comiletion of ROW Acquisition and Resettlement.  The demolition
works within the ROW would be carried out between mid-January and the end of
March 1992, and the redistribution of land would also be completed during the
saLd time period. Final checking and site inspection by ZPEPEC is scheduled
for April, 1992. The building of houses for the resettlers will be organized
by the owners, and both the resettlement and the transfer of the highway's ROW
are scheduled to be completed by the end of May 1992.
Monitorina
10.       The implementation of the RAP for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway would
be monitored through quarterly progress reporting by the ZPEPEC, as executive
agency, and routine Bank supervision missions. The monitoring of the effec-
tiveness and the socioeconomic impact of resettlement on the population
affected would be undertaken after a certain time interval following the
resettlement actions.  The scope and methodology for such monitoring would be
agreed between the Bank and Zhejiang Province based on a plan to be submitted
to the Bank by June 30, 1993.
Summaries
11.       A set of data regarding acquisition and resettlement, and covering
the population affected, land and property being required, and cost involved
is presented in Appendix 1 and Appendix 2 to this annex.



- 118 -
Annext 3
CNIIU                                               Appedix  1
ZHJIANPR OINCIAL NIMuY POECT
Lnd Acquisition nd Resettlemant  Sumry
...     ....    ......... . ...... .  ...... _
Nnuuhou Iingbo Nighwy
.............. ............... 
Reion      Un it   Nsahou  Xf ashan   Uhaoxin   shinyu        YuTa    YTiian   Ningbo        Total
It_                                               Cfty     cm"lt      Cf ty     CtYw       city     Cos"t       Cf ty
Population to be afofcted
.........................
1. By buldings d_ml_mmnt
a. Ecromicallyactiv.           Prs            41        15        5r        122        82        60          0       397
b. Not conmically active    peron             17         7        26         48        37         16         0       151
C. Subtotal ptron                             56        22        a         170       119         96         0       14
2. By lan acquisition
a.  conomically ative         Perm           217       717      1307        969      2309       1023       105      6667
b. not economically active    persn           92       346       S81        394      1037        204        47      2701
C. ubtotal                    peron          309      1063      188        1363      3346       1227       152      9368
3. By buildings d_mlimnt
& twl acquisition
a. Econnicatlly active        Pero           151       436       265        469       213        159         0      1713
b. Not ecmicatlly active    person            46       210        126       186        96         31         0       715
C. Sub-total                   person        217       646       41'        655       309        190         0      2428
4. By losing other mptloapnt
basis
a. Economically active        peron           17         6        69        124       186         96        96       596
b. Not econmmically actiw      peraon          0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0
C. Sub-total                   person         1T         6        69        124       186         98        96       596
5. Total
a. Uconohically active        peron          426      1174      1718       1704      2790       1360       201      9373
b. Not eonomicatly active    persn            75       S6u       733        628      1170       251         47      3567
C. Total                      person         601      1737      2451       2332      3960       1611       248     12940
*esettlement of labour
,......................
1. After adjusting land, lbxurs   pewrsn          179       670      1004       1093      1238        725        54      4959
continuing silple sgrieultural
activities
2. After adjusting land, labours   person         172       474       559        353      1238        441        47      3288
coneurrently engaging In
seonad profession
3. Lbouri In  ntrpisef              person         17         8         72       124        186        98        96       601
4. Total                            person        368      1152       1635      1570      2462       1264       19T      684
Land to be cquired
...................
1. Cultivated lnd                      u          225      1975      1659       1713      3540       1609       137     10658
2. Noncultivated lond                 ow            0        34        121       156        58        160         6       535
3. Totat                              ou          225      2009       1780      1669      3598       1769       143      11393
Buldinsp  & other
..................
1. Bultdings for living,
agrieulture & enterprises use
a. Duwllin  hous                sq a        9363     26987    l1a32       27297     12559      13184         0    109222
b. Form building sq s                       3519      2361      4000        945      2587        449         0     13661
c. Enterpries                   sq *         477       163      356        1167      7787       3601      3608     20661
2. sulidfngp  for pubtiI
facilities us
a. chool                         q *           0         0          0       268         0        481         0       749
b. Nospltal                      q .           0         0          0         0       633          0         0       63S
c others                        sq             0         0          0         0       304          0         0       304
3. Total of bultdinsp                sq m       13359     31531      25690     29677      23870     17915      3608    145650
4. Tomb                             number          0        60        174        98        101        93         0        526
Soure: ZPEMC



- 119-
Appendix 2
CUINA
ZIIEJIAN   WIUCIAL NmISMY POJECT
LOW *Aqten anemttlmnt Caqiuwstian  _mry
Ningbo 111"a
(In t_ouuan of Yun)
itlor  Nagto  XlsooX             Sni    snu       Yam      Yfnxin    Ningbo    Totat
It"                                   City    County    City    Coauty    City        Cawuty    City
Capsnoation at towmhip tentl           2,       20,979    15,396    15,084   26,378    17.459     1,646   100,340
............................................ 
CqpNsathen at eouity ltel
............................
1. Lad borrowufr  fee                  45       769       741     1,479    3,m9      2,613         0    8,958
2. Comp tIon fee for 1gmr              96       935    1'M         341     2,13         1        401     6,016
a toltmfieatfmn
3. Lw__ismnt fee                       27       309       241      215       441       20         21    1,524
4. Conti "mey                          91     1,579       642       705     1,4       1,323      2a6    6.090
5. Coumty lovel dvi_nt                  0         0         0    3,425     2.35          0         0    6,260
Total                                  3,159    24,591    17,W9    21,249   36,592    22,446      2,354   129,186
souem: ZE EC



CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
SuDervision Mission Plan
5/92   Initial Review:                                              Highway Engineering                2
Mi)    steps taken by Borrower concerning loan
effectivity;
(ii)   bidding profile for civil works;
(iii)  status of consultant selection (highway);
(iv)   local supervision team arrangements (highway and
RDP); and
(iv)   status of land acquisition and resettlement.
10/92   Proiect Launch Workshon:                                     Highway Engineering                3
The review of all key procedures for Bank-Executing          Procurement
Agency interactions, such as project selection (RDP),        Disbursement
procurement, disbursement, environment and resettlement,  Environment
implementation schedule and progress reporting
requirements.
/93   General Supervision:                                         Highway Engineering                3
(i)    review of overall progress for each component and  Resettlement
identify pending issues and agree on follow up
actions; and
(ii)   reach agreement on resettlement monitoring
arrangements.  _
OQe 
{D X
o



Timing |                     a;dii, Activities                        Skills Requirement..  Staff Weeks.
10193   Major Supervision:                                          Highway Engineering               4
In-depth review of implementation status with particular  Environment
emphasis on:                                               RDP, PMS
(i)    contractors' performance;                           Transport Economics
(ii)   effectiveness of supervision;
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
and
(iv)   preparation of RDP subprojects and RDB, PMS and
staff training programs.
4194   General Supervision:                                        Highway Engineering               3
(i)    review  overall progress for each component and    Procurement
identify pending issues and agree on follow up
actions;
(ii)   review proposal for equipment procurement for the
operation and maintenance of the highway
component; and
(iii)  review bidding documents for E&1 supply and
installation contract for the highway.
10/94   Major Supervision:                                          Highway Engineering               4
In-depth review of implementation status with particular  Environment
emphasis on:                                               Resettlement
Mi)    contractors' performance;
(ii)   effectiveness of supervision;
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
and
(iv)   RDB, PMS and staff training programs.
4/95   General Supervision:                                        Highway Engineering               3
Reviewing overall progress for each component and
identifying pending issues and agreeing on follow-up                                                   1
actions.                                                                                                 x
0



Timing                       Main Activities                           Skills Requirement     Staff Weeks
10/95   Maior Supervision:                                          Highway Engineering                4
In-depth review of implementation status with particular  Environment
emphasis on:                                                RDP, PMS
(i)    contractors' performance;
(ii)   effectiveness of supervision;
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
and
(iv)   RDB, PMS and staff training programs.
4196   General Supervision:                                        Highway Engineering                2
Reviewing overall progress for each component and
identifying pending issues and agreeing on follow up
actions.
10/96   Maior Supervision:                                          Highway Engineering                3
In-depth review of implementation status with particular  Environment
emphasis on:                                                RDB,PMS
(i)    contractors' performance;
(ii)   effectiveness of supervision;
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
and
l______  (iv)   RDB, PMS and staff training programs.
4/97   General Sunervisalc-                                        Highway Engineering                2
Review overall progress for each component and identify
l______ pending issues and agree on follow-up actions.
10/97   General Supervision:                                        Highway Engineering                2
Review of overall implementation status and initiate
PCR.
4/98   PCR Mission                                                 Highway Engineering                4
Transport Economist
A consolidated review of project implementation.            Environment                                rr[
Resettlement                                 x
RDB, PMS, Training                           4s
l__________________ -TOTAL:  40             ol



- 123 -
Ann-x 5
CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Documents Available in the Prolect File
1. Feasibility Study Report on Hangzhou-Ningbo Freeway
- Zhejiang Provincial Transport Design Institute, 1988
2. The Feasibility Study Report on Hangzhou-Ningbo Freeway (Continuation)
- Zhejiang Provincial Transport Design Institute, 1988
3. A supplement to The Feasibility Study on Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway
- Zhejiang Provincial Transport Design Institute, December 1989
4. Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway Feasibility Study
- Volume I Final Report
- Volume II Appendixes
Louis Berger International, Inc.
5. Environmental Impact Statement of Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway
- Zhejiang Provincial Research Institute of Environmental Protection, Nay
1990
6. Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway Report on Design Principles for Final
Engineering Design, June 1991
- Finnish National Road Administration
- Finnish Consulting Engineers, Ltd.
7. Environmental Action Plan (Revised)
- Zhejiang Provincial Shanghai-Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway Project
Executive Commission, December 1991
8. Resettlement Action Plan for Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway Project
- Zhejiang Provincial Shanghai-Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway Project
Executive Commission, December 30, 1991
9. Quarterly Progress Report - Outline, December 1991



CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGMUAY PROJECT
Organization of the Zhe ians Provincial Transport Department and the  iahwav Administration Bureau
Zhejiang Provincial
People's Government
Ehejiang Provincial
Transport Department
(120)
s                            Hihip                   i way      Transport    |Transpor '
Administratlon           Adminidtration                Design                   Research                  Transport
Bureau                   Bureau                    Institute                Institute                   School
(107)                    (l0l)                       (370)                    t60)                1      (270)
General      Plannin        ina|it                     Mechanical & Materials       T ransportation      Engineering ranagement       Supervision
Office        Section       Section      Section                Section                 Section                 Section                 Section
(7)                    (8)                      (13)                    (6)
Source: ZPTD.



CHINA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of the Zheiianz Provincial Highway Administration
|Zhejiang Provincial 
|People's Government 
|Zhejiai4g Proyvincial Transport Department|
|Highway Administration Bureau                                            Municipal or Prefectural Transport Bureau
Municipal or Prefectural    Municipal or Prefectural    Municipal or Prefectural         County Transport
Highway Administration            Highway Transport           Highway Check & Levy              Bureau
Department                  Administration                    Department
Provincial Road i      Technical    Machine       Concrete
Bridge Engineering      School         Shop        Plant
Department                                                                                                                                    l
Provincial                               Engineering            County Highway     County Highway Transport      County Highway Check      |
Engineering                                 Team                 Engineering    -         Administrative             Levy Division
Team                                  Maintenance             Division                    Division
| Work Site |                      | Engineering      Maintenance         Construction
| (Group)  |                      |   Unit              Unit                 Unit
Source: ZPTD.



CHIRA
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Oraanization of the Hantzhou-Nlnnbo 9ithway Adminlstration
Zhejiang Provincial
People's Goverrment
Zhejiang Provincial Shanghai-
Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway
Project Steering Committee
(A Nonstanding Body)
Zhejiang Provincial Shangh3i-
Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway
Project Executive Commission
(80)
a tering L &         Supervision      |    |Land     |     lnml             Ofic  of+R Lhoi    |                              lgbo 
Management           Division         Requisition          Finance        Directors          BrnhBranch                   Branch
Division               (14)            Division          Division           (27)                    (40)           (40)
(13) (SO)                                                  (16) 
Source: ZPEPEC.



IBRD 2335
1'?'                           108'                             119'                           lay                                ISO'             'U'           i' s1 '23
CHINA                                                                         < JIANGSU
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL                                                                            \  To Chaogzho,    r.,ho                               \ SHANGHAI
HIGHWAY PROJECT
-C.--  HANGZHOU-NINGBO HIGHWAY                                                                   (
O INTERCHANGES                                                                               /
FULL-LENGTH IMPROVEMENTS (A)
--------- PARTIAL IMPROVEMENTS(S)           TENTATIVE        ANHUIhJrge.oyQs                                                                    -
NEW 3RIDGE CONSTRUCTION (C)           ROAD           ANHU                                               002                     n
ACCESS ROAD CONSTRUCTION (0)        PROGRAM
F( FIRST PACKAGE ROADS                )
PPREVIOUS EANK PROJECT ROADS
(LOAN 2539 CHA/CREDIT 1594 CHA)                                 rw
PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                                                                                             tOgln 
30'                    RURAL ROADS                                                                                                                                                                    'hu;.'                              30-
4, AIRPORT
4.   PORTS
-    PREfECTURE EOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                     fFSohu.
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES        r        - ,
(   <>KehW    *           S    G                    ,C~~~~~~~~~Qogyog,Yn   0Poshnr        N,h8fS7h2 
-29'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9
0       25      50       75       op                                                                            ,, 1                                                                                           ' h.
KILOMETERS
rS6S$W¢~~~~~~~~~~~~PdQbnP<@°eD ShOpo                        khegron                  'R;O 'gg Hang
on, ip ,  m-Ih p'*podOp                                              /
8iorup Thedenom/no4iwnuled  JIANGXI                   )W  n
o,,hOP.boondo,im ..!,/e h. in
-287                                                                           twu    ,           -0         b4n-,_9 ^                                R                                                                              28-
oooPbh,hdo,.h -.n-.o7%'fSm@rFUJIAN                                                                 ,      >
- hn. hp. 'e5:            hh  fuxaongt
,            0~;x\:-v    4 -  .. Ce 718                                                                                       h'10      .217                                                     122'                               12f3'
111R1CH  192



ThShanehe(               CHINA                                                                                                                                   OW 2348i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD2A
A~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~HN
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
AS.. inse                                                                    HANGZHOU-NINGBO HIGHWAY
V                                                                                                                                                             0    2       4      4      9     p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     
Gibco    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~    ~~PROJECTHIGH4WAYWYffINT ImECEANG3ES77-                                                                                                      LETA
__ ROADS                                      ZILMTR
NA  0                                                                 -'--.- R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJLROAD$
XlAN BOUNDARIES                                              I
Jin ~    ~       ~       Ha gzho
X'AC   ~~~~~~~~-f   N ~ ~ ~ ~
SHAO   INC  C100 K.   ~            ~            ~           ~           ~           YA
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~¾~~~~~~~~ 
T.Sh-9h.i 1000109N to. luo8                                                                                                                                                             l
(  /         ~        ~         ~                                  I                                                                                                                     N             -7~~*-7--7-~~~-'A kHiAn
HANGZHOU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.gh ~
/  ThSAon5Aoi  A    ~~~~~Thn .  hn. 7 n. Sb -I                 f    N C                        LBOle.-                                      
lonlhn~~~~~~~~~~~~~3oe.nFn~~~~~~~~~~~~A.  N                                                                        V                       ..~~~~~ANH   IC
RANG NGU/o             sn..sn,(.HANN                                                                                                                                             rM Zt
INNER RJN$ 2.  Skiqioo  -   ET A-'RIDG                       DCCOVE nO
- 7          4'              I~~,TEC                                                                                                                                      -      7.6 
PENGILI Poegho ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7I                                                                              HJ    >SH
INEC ANGNFRRAEa
NEWGIATAN                                                                                                                                            I--- HNINGBO                    ix
BRIDGE                                                                                                  (7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOIC 8UDRE
BElL  N  SEILLIN    <.~~~~~~~~~~10.
'N  aANIIAN                                                                     DS  EtC     NT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p~~~~ST~~~~~Ja  A   ~~~~~~~~- C  lengTh -  4---. -  ate~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~121
ft  -~~~~~~~  INTERCHANGE  A-                                                                         .                   l,onti.        {3ItRngXii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.~~~~  dio,gshonfERiAlt  99



