Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20921
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-347 10; SCL-347 IA; SCPD-347 1 S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 220.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
NOVEMBER 16, 2000
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 2000)
Currency Unit = Chinese RMB
RMB I = US$ 0.12
US$ 1 = RMB 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT      Average Annual Daily Traffic
AR        Accounts Receivables
DF        Diversion Factor
EA        Environmental Assessment
E&M       Electrical and Mechanical Works
EIRR      Economic Intemal Rate of Return
FIDIC     Federation Intemationale des Ingenieurs Conseils
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
HNH       Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
km        Kilometers
MOC       Ministry of Communications
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NPV       Net Present Value
NTHS      National Trunk Highway System
PCU       Passenger Car Unit
PMS       Pavement Management System
RDB       Road Data Bank
RDP       Road Development Program
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SDPC      State Development and Planning Committee
VOC       Vehicle Operating Cost
ZECL      Zhejiang Expressway Company Limited
ZPEPEC   Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Executive Commission
ZPG       Zhejiang Provincial Government
ZPHAB    Zhejiang Provincial Highway Administration Bureau
ZPTD      Zhejiang Provincial Transport Department
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Yasuhiro Kawabata, EASTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 7
6. Sustainability                                                                    9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  13
10. Additional Information                                                          20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                43
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   44
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               45
MAP 1       Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project (IBRD 30981)
MAP 2       Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project: Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway (IBRD 30982)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003534                                        Project Name: ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL
HIGHWAY PROJECT
Team Leader: Yasuhiro Kawabata                             TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: November 16, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ZEEJIANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT   L/C/TFNumber: CPL-34710;
SCL-3471 A;
SCPD-3471S
Country/Department: CHINA                                                 Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/12/89                                 Effective: 09/02/92           09/02/92
Appraisal:  06/06/91                                  MTR:
Approval:  05/19/92                                 Closing: 06/30/98            06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL EXPRESSWAY
PROJECT EXECUTIVE COMMISSION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Russell J. Cheetham
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                                Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                         Daud Ahmad
Team Leader at ICR:   Yasuhiro Kawabata                         Otto Ragambi
ICR Primary Author:  Jacques G. Yenny
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 The objectives of the project were: (a) to relieve congestion in the Hangzhou-Ningbo corridor by
providing a fast and reliable highway; (b) to promote economic development through the provision of road
access to population presently deprived of motorized vehicle access and to improve the provincial and
county roads carrying substantial volumes of traffic; (c) to further develop institutional capabilities for
transport planning and investrnent prioritization; and (d) to promote the transfer of highway construction
and maintenance technology.
3.1.2 The objectives were clear and in line with the sector assistance strategy and the government's request
to the Bank for continuous highway subsector assistance. In early 1990 the Bank undertook a joint
screening mission, with SDPC and MOC. to make a preliminary assessment of nine highway proposals
which had been submitted to the Bank. The mission concluded that the Hangzhou-Ningbo highway had the
highest priority of the screened projects and should form the basis of provincial highway projects for Bank
financing.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1   The original components of the project were: (a) construction of a 138 km section of the
Hangzhou-Ningbo four-lane divided, access-controlled highway (HNH); (b) construction and improvement
of about 33 road sections (970 km) of the provincial/county road network and five bridges (2,000 m); (c)
construction supervision of the HNH and the provincial/county road construction and improvement
components; (d) purchase of equipment for laboratories, environmental protection, operation, maintenance
and for the development and application of the Road Data Bank (RDB) and Pavement Management System
(PMS); and (e) staff training programs.
3.3.2.  Since the implementing agency was a first-time executing agency of a Bank project, and the
project was the first expressway to be built in the province, the project was fairly demanding on the agency.
However, preparation of the project was aided by Bank experience with previous provincial highway
projects, assisted by the active involvement of the Ministry of Communications (MOC).
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was rated as satisfactory. The objectives were consistent with Govemment priorities and
the Bank's sector strategy. The design was reviewed by foreign consultants and a test embankment was
constructed to deal with the difficult sub-soil conditions along the alignment of the expressway. Safeguard
policies on environment and resettlement woere followed by the province and found satisfactory.
-2 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  Despite some minor shortcomings during implementation, the project is considered satisfactory and
the objectives have been met. The main project component, the construction of the HNH, was completed
and opened to traffic by December 1996, as scheduled. The objective of reducing congestion in the corridor
has been met with traffic on the expressway constituting about 60% of total corridor traffic in 1999.
Furthermore, the economic benefits are considered to be sustainable without any predictable elements of
risk as traffic has been growing rapidly in the three years since opening. In fact, because of the favorable
prospect for continued strong economic activity in the influence area of the HNH, the Zhejiang Provincial
Government established a shareholding company that successfully raised about $440 million on the Hong
Kong Stock Exchange in May 1997 by securitizing revenues from the completed HNH (section 8.1).
4.1.2 The provision of road access, to promote the economic development of population previously
deprived of such access, is also expected to be fully achieved and sustained. Already, the annual per capita
income, which was RMB 550 at the time of project appraisal in six counties located in areas served by the
roads, increased to about RMB 3,200 in 1998. The re-estimated EIRR confirms the expected level of
viability of the investments made and highlights the high priority of investing in areas with economic
potential but with poor road infrastructure.
4.1.3  The impact of technology transfer through training is not easy to measure due to difficulties in
defming baseline parameters. However, the overseas training and study tours provided a satisfactory level
of exposure to new concepts and incentives for adoption in the Chinese enviromnent. Similarly, technology
transfer through acquisition of modem equipment for operation and maintenance of the Zhejiang provincial
highway network including HNH should achieve its objectives and ensure that the Zhejiang highways will
be adequately maintained.
4.1.4  Institutional capabilities for planning and investment prioritization were developed through the
successful expansion of the road data bank (RDB) and pavement management system (PMS) programs for
the core arterial road network of the province. This was achieved through the adoption of the Chinese
RDB and PMS programs, which were developed for nationwide application and required some adjustrnent
to the system evolved from the local pilot study. At present, the RDB and PMS programs are operational
in all 11 municipalities of the province and cover the primary paved network of 26,000 km. The results of
the PMS are not yet fully used in programming annual maintenance expenditures.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway (HNH)
4.2.1  Civil Works. The HNH was successfully completed. About half of it was substantially
completed and opened to traffic in December 1995 and the remaining half one year later in December 1996.
Construction quality was a major issue throughout Bank supervision and agreed remedial work, financed
by the government, was performed in the first two years after opening (see also para 5.2). During
implementation of the project, local governments requested the Zhejiang Provincial Government (ZPG) to
allow them to build additional interchanges (Guali, Keqiao, Guzhu, Moushan and Dayin). Since the timing
of construction of these interchanges did not fit in the implementation schedule for the whole project, the
- 3 -



local governments decided to finance their construction from their own budget. Consequently, the original
average interval of interchanges, 24.2 km, was shortened to 13.2 km, and the level of service provided by
the expressway to these communities was greatly enhanced.
4.2.2  Electrical and Mechanical Works (E&M). The supply and installation contract was delayed for
a number of reasons described more fully in section 5.3. As a result, the loan closing date was extended by
two years to June 30, 2000. Fortunately, the delays had no substantive adverse effect on the operation of
the ENH. Traffic had been using the highway since December 1995, and tolls were collected using
temporary toll collection facilities.
4.2.3  Construction Supervision. A foreign consulting firm engaged to assist ZPEPEC in construction
supervision, provided 172 person-months of services. Foreign and local engineers were jointly responsible
for on-site supervision and quality control, as well as ensuring that works on the HNH were carried out in
fall compliance with technical specifications. The performance of the supervision team was generally
satisfactory. On the job training by foreign engineers was a significant means of technology transfer, and
an essential measure for the effective control of construction quality.
4.2.4  Environmental Protection. Since the HNH traverses flat terrain and partially rolling terrain, the
construction of the highway was expected to have only limited adverse impact on the enviromnent. The
environmental assessment (EA) report specified measures related to social disruption, air quality, noise
control, water management and waste disposal. The engineering design and technical specifications
incorporated the mitigating measures required during implementation. During the construction of the
HNH, no adverse environmental problems emerged. It was confirmed that there has been a reduction of
noise and air pollution in towns and villages along the arterial roads, due to the diversion of traffic to the
HNH from the parallel arterial roads once the HNH was opened to traffic.
4.2.5  Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The land acquisition and resettlement activities were
executed between January and May 1992 before the conmmencement of civil works for the HNH. The cost
of land acquisition and resettlement related costs increased from RMB 129.1 million to RMB 147.8
million. The expenses covered the removal and relocation of communication and electricity cables,
intersecting and service roads, drainage and irrigation systems, dwellings and other buildings, and
compensation payments for land and resettlement. Even though the land acquired was increased only 14
percent over appraisal estimates, the total area of houses demolished was increased 17 percent over
appraisal estimates. The actual number of"people affected was also slightly increased from 12,940 to
13,206. As confirmed by the Bank's July 1999 Resettlement Review Mission, the land acquisition,
resettlement and compensation procedures agreed at negotiations were substantially followed. Independent
monitoring of the living standards of the Project Affected Persons indicates that no significant problems
have arisen.
Road Development Program (RDP)
4.2.6 The original RDP comprised 33 road and bridge subprojects with a total length of 970 km with a
provision that, subject to further assessment, subprojects may be deleted or added to the program within the
budgeted scope of the RDP. Most of the o:riginally proposed 33 subprojects were substantially completed
as scheduled in December 1996. Since there were cost savings, six subprojects with a total length of 38 km
were added to the program. Consequently, the scope of the RDP was expanded, eventually involving 39
subprojects with a total length of 1,066 km.
-4 -



4.2.7 Environmental Protection. Most of the works under the RDP involved upgrade, rehabilitation
and maintenance of existing infrastructure. Nevertheless, the potential adverse impact of each subproject
on the environment was assessed. For subprojects with an established risk of adverse impact, an EA was
prepared. For those with no potential environmental risk, an environmental code of practice was applied to
the actions to be taken in the design and implementation stages.
4.2.8   Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The assessment at appraisal indicated that about 12,700
individuals could require resettlement and compensation under the program. Most of the roads under the
RDP were located in mountainous areas, thus efforts were made to minimize the occupation of cultivated
land. Affected farmers received direct benefits from better access to roads and recovered their physical and
economic loss easily. The compensation rates were comparatively low; however, per capita income in these
regions increased dramatically. For instance, in Dongzhuang Village of Chunan County the per capita
income rose from RMB 500 in 1992 to R.MB 3,160 in 1998. The rehabilitation of the livelihood of
affected people is considered successful.
Equipment Procurement
4.2.9 The cost of the equipment to be purchased under the project was estimated at US$13.7 million
including contingencies. During the project implementation, the original equipment lists were changed in
type and number to allow flexibility for changing circumstances and needs. The actual amount spent to
procure equipment (about US$9 million) was lower than the amount estimated at appraisal.
Staff Training
4.2.10 The implemented training program was comprised of training courses (domestic and abroad) and
study tours to several foreign countries. The covered topics included: highway design, construction, project
management, finance and highway management. Most of the overseas training courses and study tours
were prepared and administered under a program coordinated by MOC, and involving the staff of several
other provincial transport departments. These departments were executing agencies of other ongoing
Bank-financed highway projects with staff training components. The training program commenced in 1992
and was completed by October 1998.
4.2.11 A total of 100 persons participated in the overseas training courses, involving 102.5
person-months, at an overall cost of $853,000, or about $8,300/person-month. Another 51 persons
involving 33.8 person-months participated in the study tours abroad at an overall cost of $311,000, or
about $9,200/person-month. The person-month cost of training is similar to those incurred under other
recently completed Bank-financed highway projects in China. The training program was a useful means of
technology transfer and provided a satisfactory exposure to new concepts and modem business procedures
in foreign countries.
Pavement Evaluation, Road Data Bank (RDB) and Pavement Management System (PMS)
4.2.12 By the early 1990s, good progress had been made with both the RDB and PMS programs in China.
Therefore, MOC and the Bank agreed that it would be more efficient and consistent to develop local
capability for both of these systems, rather than approach them separately in each of the provinces with
external assistance. To introduce the PMS, 15 provinces/municipalities were selected, including Zhejiang.
The Bank supported MOC's endeavor, and the Bank-financed highway projects helped finance the
acquisition of equipment, including computer hardware and software, instruments for land-based land
-5 -



surveys and geographic information systems. The RDB and PMS programs are now operational in all 11
municipalities and cover the primary paved network of 26,000 km.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway (HNH)
4.3.1  The Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) on the HNH is estimated to be 16.8% versus the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimate of 19.9%, and the Net Present Value (NPV) at RMB 2,064 million
versus RMB 4,249 million. The recalculated EIRR and NPV are lower than estimated at appraisal mainly
due to significant increases in project costs and less traffic diversion from the existing road than
anticipated. Nonetheless, traffic on the five sections of HNH increased 21-35% from 1997 to 1999. The
detailed economic analysis is in Annex 3.
Road Development Program (RDP)
4.3.2  The EIRR for the RDP as a whole is estimated at 44%. At appraisal, the economic analysis
covered only the first phase. In the ICR, the EIRR for the first phase is estimated at 69.5% versus 26% as
estimated in the SAR, and the NPV is estinmated at RMB 1,100 million versus RMB 539 million. The
estimated EIRR for the subsequent phases of RDP ranges from 16% to 35%. The main reason for lower
returns on subprojects implemented in the later stages is that these projects are located in more remote
areas with less traffic volume. The detailed economic analysis is in Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway
4.4.1  The entire HNH was opened to traffic in December 1996. In May 1997, ZPG established a
shareholding company responsible for the day-to-day managernent, operation, and development of other
highways. The highway company immediately took over the responsibility for operation of the HNH. The
company also bears the financial obligations for its own operation and for repayment of loans. Its main
income source is the toll revenue from the users of HNH, but the level of toll charges is controlled by ZPG.
The basic principle for toll collection on the HNH is repaying the Bank's loan, rather than maxirnizing the
financial rate of return (FRR) on the investment. The level of toll charges, therefore, was set on the low
side with low annual growth increases (10 percent increase every three years or an average increase of 3.2
percent per year).
4.4.2 Financial Evaluations. Two financial evaluations were made for HNH. The first was to
determine the rate of return on equity from the point of view of the highway agency and the central
government. For this evaluation, equity of the project was assumed to be the total investment cost less the
debts, such as the World Bank loan. The net revenues were determined by subtracting the loan servicing
costs and road operating and maintenance costs from the total toll revenue. The second evaluation was the
incremental benefits of the project as a whole, taking into account the total project costs. The results of the
financial evaluations show that the FRR on equity would be 14.8 percent, and that for the entire project is
expected to be 9.6 percent. The revenue stream generated is expected to cover future operating and
maintenance costs of the HNH and also meet outstanding debt service obligations. The detailed financial
analysis is in Annex 3.
-6 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  Measures were taken within the project to strengthen ZPTD and its relevant institutions.
Experiences with competitive bidding (ICB and NCB) and having works done by contract rather than by
force account have been successfully integrated; all new construction and major maintenance works are
now done by contract. The construction of highways was supervised by a joint foreign /local team and the
Federation Intemationale des Ingenieurs Conseils (FIDIC) system was adopted for the implementation of
the project. However, the construction quality has not improved as expected and the independence of the
supervisor (Engineer) remains a major issue which needs to be confronted to secure better quality control.
The staff training program financed by the project is described in sections 4.2.10 to 4.2.11. Since 1996,
some provinces including Zhejiang have recognized the value of expressways with growing traffic volumes
and toll revenues. Through the securitization of existing highway assets, the Chinese authorities found that
they were able to raise large sums of new capital from foreign investors. The HNH was securitized in May
1997; details are in section 6.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1  Although contractors were prequalified under ICB procedures, awarded local contractors lacked
managerial skills, material and financial resources and experience in carrying out major highway works of
comparable magnitude and complexity. Particularly, the contractor who was assigned to contracts 5 and 6
continuously lacked financial and human resources. Consequently, during the construction period this
contractor's work was found incomplete and the remaining work was subcontracted, under the Tri-Parties
Agreement, to another contractor who had completed its own contract section under the project. The
subject contractor also disputed price adjustments with the Employer. Although this arbitration case was
raised to the China Intemational Economic and Trade Commission, the final price adjustments were settled
through negotiations between the Employer and said contractor.
5.1.2  The Bank continuously insisted that foreign supervisors be fully utilized to assist with quality
control in general and with the critical phases of earth works and asphalt paving works in particular.
However, since many of the quality problems stemmed from contractors' fundamental lack of experience
and poor performance, or inadequate design, much of the Bank's advice influenced the Employer's attitude
but could not address the root cause of the problems. The construction supervision inputs were much
higher than estimated at appraisal, totaling about 8,122 person-months (including 172 person-months by
foreign engineers) instead of the 6,342 person-months estimated. The foreign engineering personnel helped
establish the framework and procedures for the supervisory work and trained the Zhejiang Provincial
Transport Department (ZPTD) staff, local engineers and technicians. Such training was not only a
significant means of technology transfer but also an essential measure for trying to ensure effective control
of the quality of HNH construction with adequately trained personnel. The performance of the supervision
team was generally satisfactory.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1  Construction of the highway section between Qianjiang and Dazhujia (ICB contract sections 2
through 7) was scheduled to commence in October 1992 and be completed by the end of 1996, in about 50
months. However, the first half, Xiaoshan-Shangya section (about 65 kin), was opened to traffic in
December 1995, one year earlier than planned at appraisal. When the Bank's supervision mission made
- 7 -



field inspections of these completed sections in April 1996, it observed noticeable differential settlement at
the approaches of bridges and underpasses. During preparation of the project, it was already understood
that the proposed HNH traverses geologically difficult terrain with extensive soft, highly compressible soils
over two thirds of its length. Based on the recommendation of foreign experts, a 3 km long embankment
was constructed for testing purposes to help identify, through continued monitoring of settlement, the
appropriate measures for mitigating the extent of consolidation. However, results of this experiment were
not utilized in the implementation of succeeding construction works, nor was the recommended
embankment settlement monitoring of other highways sections properly done. On the contrary,
construction was prematurely completed one year earlier than planned.
5.2.2  The speed of construction, therefore, substantially affected the construction quality. Because of
geological conditions, settlement could not be avoided. However, if settlement had been continuously
monitored and evaluated, additional corrective works would have been minimized and associated costs
would have been reduced. Since the opening of the HNH in 1995, major repair works (particularly at
bridge approaches) have been regularly uidertaken. Culverts in soft ground areas were affected by
differential settlement and the original gradient of their foundations could not be maintained. Consequently,
water in the drainage channels did not flow as designed, and often accumulated in the underpass culverts.
The Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Executive Commission (ZPEPEC) has been continuously
adjusting the gradients of drainage culverts and underpasses to alleviate the problem. Lessons leaned from
the sections in the first half of the project wvere finally reflected in the second half, and the degree of
settlement in the latter sections is less than the first half sections.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  The two-year delay in project completion was predominantly due to the delay in the preparation,
procurement and implementation of the E&M works. This was the first highway project in China to
include, from the project preparation stage, all the required E&M facilities needed to operate the
expressway, including: tolling, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting. Bidding for the E&M
contract was originally scheduled to be completed in May 1995, with supply and installation to be
completed in December 1996 when the road was to open for traffic. However, because ZPTD primarily
focused on the timely completion of the civil works and lacked experience with the type of E&M works
required for expressway operations, the formulation and design of this component was delayed. The
bidding documents were issued only in June 1996, and further delays were encountered during Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement procedures, particularly in bid evaluation and clearance of the
contract award at the provincial and national levels. Consequently, the E&M works supply and installation
contract was awarded in April 1997. There were further delays in establishing the letter of credit,
mobilizing the contractor and importing equipment for this contract. Thus, the systems were only
commissioned in late 1998 and trial operations commenced in early 1999.
5.3.2  After realizing that an overall delay of about two years could no longer be avoided, due to the delay
in E&M works, completion of the minor components of the project was also delayed, because of the lower
priority accorded by the borrower to these components. Thus, equipment procurement and some of the
training program were finalized only by the end of 1998. The main administration building was also
completed only during the second half of 1999. The delay was caused by: (a) substantial change of design
of the building, (b) change of procurement procedures from the originally proposed NCB to ICB, and (c)
the late arrival of some imported equipment for the building.
-8 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing.
5.4.1  Project financing differed slightly from the plan at appraisal. The project cost decreased during
implementation to a final total cost of $486.1 million, this represents a 13 percent decrease from the
appraisal estimate of $558.9 million. In local currency terms, the total project cost was RMB 3,621.8
million, a 22 percent increase from the appraisal estimate of RMB 3,001.0 million, reflecting substantial
devaluation of the Chinese Renminbi during the earlier implementation period (before December 1993) and
a change in the scope of the work.
5.4.2  The substantial cost increases occurred in the main highway (HNH) construction components
where civil works cost increased by 51 percent, supply and installation of E & M facilities increased by
about 200 percent, and the cost of land acquisition and resettlement increased by 41 percent. Training
costs were RMB 9.63 million compared to estimated RMB 6.66 million. Project costs in nearly every
category except supervision outpaced appraisal estimates. Most of the cost increase resulted from
expanded project scope, but an underestimation of cost and quantities for key inputs is also evident.
5.4.3  As discussed in section 5.3, the project completion was delayed by two years, because of delays
with the E&M works. For the first four fiscal years (FY1993-FY1996), loan disbursements were almost in
line with the estimated disbursement schedule. However, during FY97, payments to one contractor were
suspended, following a dispute regarding price escalation, and disbursements slowed. Loan proceeds were
reallocated in February 1998, when the closing date was extended.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  During construction of the HNH, soil settlement problems were noticed and, to some extent,
immediately rectified. Based on the Bank's recommendations in early 1997, a long-term restoration
program for pavement was prepared with the assistance of a foreign expert who reviewed the original
geo-technical designs made in 1991. Since then, major restoration works have been continuously
undertaken in accordance with the recommended long-term restoration program. The operating rights
granted to the public-private expressway development company provide incentives for the provision of a
reasonable level of service to road users, including adequate routine and periodic maintenance. The rapidly
increasing traffic ensures sustainability of the project benefits.
6.1.2  The sustainability of rural road investments under the project (RDP) depends upon subsequent
adequate routine and periodic maintenance of the roads. The management of maintenance of these roads is
the responsibility of counties that have to rely on local revenues for the additional capital and recurring
expenditures for the roads. However, since the subject rural roads under the RDP were paved with
Portland cement concrete, it is considered that minimal maintenance works (cleaning drainage and line
marking) are required.
6.1.3  The equipment for maintenance and operation of highways procured under the project should
provide adequate long-term service, since sufficient stock of essential spares have been purchased and
maintenance facilities have been provided.
-9-



6.1.4 The lessons and knowledge learned from the staff training program are expected to be disseminated
within the provincial institutions involved and will have a long-term influence on provincial road
administration and management methods for highway-specific technology.
6.1.5 The methodology of the pavement evaluation and application of the Chinese RDB and PMS
programs have been deployed in all prefectures and municipalities of the province. With regularly collected
input data, it is expected that the system will provide the necessary output information to improve
investment decisions for road improvement and maintenance.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 An important change in project ownership and management occurred in 1997. In May 1997, the
operating right for the HNH was transferred to a public-private expressway development company, which
successfully issued "H" shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, by securitizing revenues from the
completed HNH and the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway (another Bank-financed highway). The proceeds
of about US$440 million were used and will be used for additional investments in the HNH (for
improvement of E&M facilities), the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway (civil works) and other high-grade
highways in the province.
6.2.2  Before the prospectus for share issuance was distributed, the Bank reviewed and found satisfactory
the technical, financial, legal, commercial amd institutional aspects included in the document to ensure
effective operation and maintenance of the HNH. The Loan Agreement was amended on April 20, 1997 to
reflect the above transaction. The Expressway Company achieved satisfactory results and rapid growth in
1999. Following the opening of the Shanghai-Hangzou Expressway in December 1998, which was also
partly financed by the Bank, the toll revemne generated by the whole Shanghai-Hangzhou-Ningbo
Expressway reached RMB 974.9 million, representing a sharp increase of approximately 85.2 percent over
1998. The 1999 profit before tax was approximately RMB 706 million, representing a year-on-year
increase of 29.1 %. The return on shareholders' equity for the past three years was still low (6.5 % in
1999), but has been growing steadily. The earnings per share have increased from 7.77 RMB in 1997 to
12.62 RMB in 1999. The share price of the company as of November 6, 2000 was HK$1.27, which was
the second highest among the 5 expressway companies listed in the Hong Kong H-share market.
6.2.3 As mentioned above, for about two years the HNH was operated without mechanical equipment
and tolls were collected in temporary facilities. After completion of the E & M facilities, the toll collection
time was substantially reduced and thus, the congestion at the toll plaza significantly decreased. With the
installation of emergency telephones along the HNH, the accident response time of emergency health
services has improved.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1  The project was identified in a joint mission of Bank and Government officials (section 3.1). Bank
resources utilized during preparation were above average; about 212 person-days were spent on field
preparation missions from the identification through the appraisal stages of the project. The Bank secured
consultant trust funds to help ZPEPEC finalize feasibility studies and engineering designs.
- 10 -



7.1.2 During appraisal, the major risks were considered to be the on-time completion of the HNH and the
quality of construction due to the difficult subsoil conditions along the project corridor. Furthermore, the
institutional capacity of the implementing agency was considered to be a risk, since the implementing
agency was a first-time borrower of Bank funds. Alternative alignments were assessed and a 3 km long
section of highway embankment was constructed for testing and to help identify appropriate measures for
mitigating the extent of consolidation. The final engineering and technical specifications were reviewed and
found satisfactory by Bank staff and foreign consultants.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  The Bank conducted 13 supervision missions from 1992 to 2000, on average about two missions
per year. However, the project should have been more frequently supervised in the field during the critical
periods of 1992 - 1995 during heavy earthworks (embankment) construction. When a Bank supervision
mission made a field visit in May 1994, it found that the embankment had been constructed with
poor-quality material and without proper monitoring of settlement. The Bank wrote a warning letter to the
Vice-Governor, seeking his direct involvement in maintaining a higher quality of construction. However,
the recommended remedies were not exercised in the field, and under provincial government pressure, some
sections were completed one year earlier than originally planned. Consequently, serious settlement
occurred in these sections after opening to traffic and major restoration of pavement surface has been
continuously undertaken for the past three years.
7.2.2 Continuity of staffing on the project was generally achieved, but the skill mix was limited: the
project was primarily supervised by staff using highway engineering skills with the bulk of the time
consumed by inspection of construction sites. Specialized reviews were provided by a resettlement
specialist in the early implementation stage, environmental specialists during the construction and operation
stages and highway maintenance consultants during implementation of the RDP. In April 1997, the Bank
agreed to retrofitting the key performance indicators; starting in May 1997, tables were prepared by the
borrower and sent to the Bank annually (Annex 1).
7.2.3  The Bank has shown flexibility in dealing with the changes in the project's scope, such as
approving major change in the design for the central administration building and upgrading the E&M
supply to include installation, rather than just equipment acquisition as originally planned. Also, in
response to the Borrower's request to extend the loan closing date, the Bank concluded that a two-year
extension of the project was reasonable for completing outstanding works. The Bank gave a no objection
to constructing additional interchanges, although these works had to be financed entirely by the local
governnents, because the timing of construction did not fit with the Bank's standard processing period.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Despite some difficulties in convincing the provincial governnent not to sacrifice construction quality to
save time, and the two year delay in implementing parts of the project, overall Bank performance is
considered satisfactory. It should be recognized that the development of a strategic inter-provincial
expressway network was in a transitional phase at the beginning of the 1 990s, and that ZPEPEC was a
first-time Bank borrower not familiar with international business practices and FIDIC conditions.
- 11 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The ZPTD's preparation of the project was reasonable, considering the limited base of technical and
managerial experience in developing large scale, complex highway projects. The experience under this
project highlighted several deficiencies in the Chinese planning and preparation process, such as improper
cost estimating methods, failing to recognize the technical complexity of the project, and not anticipating
the difficulties of procuring major works.
7.5 Government implementation performance
The Government was fully committed to the project, even pushing construction beyond prudent practice.
Counterpart funds were provided on time. :However, the process for obtaining internal clearances for
bidding documents and evaluation reports was much slower than expected, due to the cumbersome intemal
process involving both provincial and central government agencies. Even though the risks of weak
institutional capacity and difficult subsoil conditions were identified during appraisal, the HNH was of
inadequate quality due to lack of attention to construction quality and pressures to open the highway early.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
ZPTD demonstrated strong commitment and effort to the project scope, in both physical objectives such as
construction of the HNH and RDP, and institutional development in establishing and equipping
management offices. Despite problems with contractors' occasional material supply shortages and lack of
financial resources and contract administration skills, ZPTD was able to help overcome such difficulties
with its managerial and technical experience and the support of the supervision units. The road
management (RDB/PMS), staff training, equipment components in the project also experienced strong
commitment and allocation of additional resources as necessary. Since the experience with the supply and
installation work of modem traffic monitoring, telecommunications and tolling systems in China was very
limited in the early 1990s, it is understandable that ZPTD had problems in designing the proper E&M
works for the HNH.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance-
The borrower and ZPTD have complied substantially with the conditionalities of the loan and project
agreements. The Bank's procedures and requirements were substantially followed, although there were
gaps and delays in ZPTD's fulfillment of progress reporting requirements. The cooperation between the
Borrower, ZPTD and the Bank was cordial throughout preparation, appraisal and implementation of the
project. Consequently, the overall borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    Securitization of Bank financed assets. Although the Bank was informed only two months in
advance of the Government's intention to issue stock and change the ownership and management of the
HNH and thus alter the status of Bank-financed highway assets, the Bank responded positively to this
request for increased private sector participaltion. Without formally endorsing the share offering, the Bank
gave its no-objection to the use of these asse;.s on the balance sheet of the new company. Appropriate
alterations were made in the Loan Agreement to reflect the above changes. Subsequently in December
1997, to guide the Bank's evaluation of similar requests for no objection, the Board of Directors approved
- 12-



a policy guidance titled "Securitization and other Capital Mobilization Transactions using Bank-IDA
Financed Assets." The criteria set out in this document include whether or not the transaction will: (1)
enhance the government's objectives in the sector, (2) support public purpose and the Bank's reputation as
a development institution, and (3) have no material effects on the government's ability to service the
remaining Bank loans or on the Bank's ability to enforce implementation of the project. Securitization of
existing highway assets was found to be a financial technique that could raise large sums of new capital
from foreign investors, and this technique has achieved a high degree of acceptance among investors in the
Hong Kong, Shenzhen and Shanghai Stock markets.
8.2    Monitoring construction implementation. The remedial works needed to counter the soil
settlement problem were previously noted in Section 5.2. Since the soil settlement problem was identified
during project preparation, monitoring of the embankment settlement rate should have been more strictly
enforced, and the pavement work should have been delayed until the settlement had reached a more stable
condition. The experience on the HNH project (including special consolidation piles and pre-loading
embankment) was reflected in the next highway project in Zhejiang, the Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway
Project, which has had far fewer soil settlement problems.
8.3    Preparation and Execution of E&M Works for HNIH. The two-year delay in project
implementation was mostly attributab!e to the delay in E&M works (section 5.3). Similar delays occurred
under other Bank-financed highway projects being implemented in the early 1990s. To prevent the
occurrence of delays, the Bank now mandates that: (1) the bidding documents and engineering designs for
E&M works are completed more or less at the same time as those for the civil works contracts, and (2) the
tendering activities commence at least two years before the civil works are expected to be completed.
8.4    Road Development Program. The original Road Development Program included 33 road and
bridge subprojects, all located in the poorer southern region of the Province. The Bank's supervision
mission visited most of these road sections and confirmed that significant expected benefits were accrued
and that living standards of the population along the corridor had improved. People living in the corridor
directly expressed their appreciation to the Bank for its support and involvement in poverty targeted
projects. Savings under the RDP were used to include six additional subprojects. The Bank's future
lending program should include more involvement in rural road projects, as these projects directly help
local communities alleviate poverty.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A. General
1.    The Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project was pre-appraised in June 1991, and appraised in
December, 1991 by the World Bank. In Washington D.C, the Negotiation was held in March 1992, and the
Loan Agreement for USS 220 million and Project Agreement were signed in June 1992. The Loan was
declared effective on August 19, 1992. The original loan closing date was June 30, 1998, but this date was
extended to June 30, 2000. All tasks referred to in the Staff Appraisal Report, Loan and Project
Agreements, have been finished. The implementation of these tasks is officially appraised in this Report.
- 13-



B. Project Descriptions
2.    Project Objectives:
(a) build a high standard highway between Hangzhou-Ningbo to relieve traffic congestion which is
restraining economic growth in the Hangzhou- Ningbo corridor, and promote agricultural and industrial
development of the Corridor;
(b) support a Road Development Program primarily in the economically less developed southwestern
region;
(c) develop institutional capabilities in transport planning and determination of investment priorities; and
(d) promote the transfer of highway construction and maintenance technology through training and
provision of up-to-date equipment.
3.    The project includes:
(a) construction of a 138 km long four-lane divided, access controlled Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway;(b)
construction and improvement of about 313 sections of provincial and county roads (970km) primarily in the
southwestern region of the Province;
(c) consultant services for the construction supervision of the Hangzhou- Ningbo Highway;
(d) staff training;
(e) provision of equipment for road test, environmental protection, road research, road data bank, pavement
management system, road maintenance and highway operation.
C. Attained the Objectives
4.    The project has attained all major objectives of different components as follows:
(a) built the 138 km long Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway (except 7 km of the second Qiantang River Bridge
and its access link) and Traffic Surveillance\ Telecommunication\ Tolling Systems and Service Facilities;
(b) completed construction and improvement of 33 sections of provincial and county (970 km), primarily in
the southwestern region of the Province; and additional six subprojects (47 km highway, a 1 085 meter
tunnel);
(c) completed consultant services for the construction supervision and training for the Hangzhou-Ningbo
Highway;
(d) completed staff training;
(e) completed purchase of equipment for road test, environment protection, road research, road data bank,
pavement management system, road maintenance and highway operation; and
(f) completed development and application of the road data bank and pavement management system.
D. Project Formulation and Preparation
5.    Before 1988, the World Bank investigated the project many times, and showed great interest and
intention. In March 1989, the Bank's project identification mission visited Zhejiang Province, made
discussions about the finance of the World Bank for Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway, studied and identified
this project, and confirmed it to be the World Bank financed project.
6.    From 1989, the Bank was involved in the preparation of Hangzhou - Ningbo Highway project,
required to perfect the Engineering Feasibility Study according to international general practice and the
- 14 -



requirement of the Bank. The three consultant engineers from Louis Berger Intemational Co. were
employed through Bidding, with the grant from the Technological Bureau of UNDP. They reviewed and
finished the Final Report (Draft) in June 1990, and sent the Engineering Feasibility Study Report (Final) of
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway to the World Bank and ZEPEC in January 1991.
7.    In June and November 1990, the Bank's task team visited Hangzhou twice, and discussed the
matters in the Engineering Feasibility Study Report of Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway, project scope and
procurement method etc. To appraise the project, relevant data was submitted to the Bank Mission for the
SAR by ZFPEC at this time.
8.    The Engineering Feasibility Study Report of Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway was approved by SPC on
December 6, 1990. The Preliminary Design of Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway was approved by MOC in
August 1991.
9.    The Bank Mission pre-appraised the Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project in March 1991. The
aide-memoire reached agreement as for search of the Bank Loan, revision of Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway
final engineering design and technical specifications by Bank staff with the assistance of the Finnish Road
Administration and Finnish Consulting Engineering Ltd., contract division, procurement methods,
procurement planning, construction supervision, equipment procurement, environment protection, staff
training, land acquisition and resettlement, testing section of the soft soil base and road development
program.
10.   In June and December 1991, the Bank Mission appraised the project, and discussed the major
questions in design, reviewed the PQ and the Bidding Documents for the Expressway. The Mission was
satisfied with the design documents, reviewed the works of the testing section of soft soil base and
considered that it provided valuable information of soft soil treatment for subsequent works of the project
and for the whole country. The Mission discussed in detail the E&M supply and installation, tolling and
service facilities, construction supervision, equipment procurement list and plan, environment action plan,
land acquisition and resettlement action plan, Road Development Program, staff training, Road Data Bank
and Pavement Management System, and construction plan as well and reached agreement.
11.   In March 1992, the negotiation for the Project and Loan Agreements was held in Washington D.C.
The Loan Agreement for US$ 220 million (US$ 180 million to Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway and USS 40
million to Road Development Program) was signed in June 1992. The Loan became effective on August
19, 1992.
E. Project Implementation
12.   Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway: the total length of the highway is 145 km, of which 138 km, and a
2.6 km access road to Ningbo City, were constructed under the project. The construction of a 7 km section
of the Highway, including a major bridge over the Qiantang River, was completed during 1988-1991 and
opened to traffic in January 1992. High priority was given to this section, and construction be advanced, in
order to relieve the serious bottleneck caused by old and narrow Qiantang bridge located just south of
Hangzhou City. According to the understanding reached with the World Bank, the civil works and traffic
engineering were divided into nine contracts. International Tendering Company of China National
Technical Import & Export Corporation was authorized by the employer as the procurement agency for
ICB to invite bids in accordance with " Procurement Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit " and
the bidding documents were approved by the Bank.
- 15-



13.   Road Development Program (RDP): This program has 39 sub-projects (including additional six
subprojects). The objective of RDP is to promote economic development, through the provision of road
access to population presently deprived of motorized vehicle access and to improve the provincial and
county roads. The implementation of the RDP was divided into five phases. The seven subprojects of the
first phase started in November 1992, and were completed in December 1995. The six subprojects of the
last (fifth) phase by using loan savings started in January 1997, and were completed in June 1999.
14.   Consultant Services for construction supervision and training: KAMPASAX
INTERNATIONAL A/S in association with THE DANISH ROAD DIRECTORATE was employed. The
estimated cost in SAR was US$ 3 million. The contract price was 15,682,274 DKK, and the actual
payment was US$ 2.63 million. This contract was completed together with the civil works and E&M
facilities. The 172 person/month consultants services were provided by KAMPASAX, include training for
the local construction supervision personnel.
15.   Equipment Procurement: Because of improvement of the national technical standards and
equipment performance, the equipment list was adjusted, with an approval by the Bank. Equipment
involving about 30 items for the Central Laboratory and Environment Monitoring was procured through
International Shopping procedures in 1994 and 1995 with a total contract value of US$ 605,000.
Equipment under the first package for maintenance and operation was procured in 1995 with a total
contract value of US$ 1.89 million. The second package for maintenance and operation, was procured
through ICB procedures in 1998 with a total contract value of US$ 1.90 million and JPY 29,550,000. All
the equipment has been delivered and has been used for monitoring, maintenance and operations of
expressways.
16.   Electrical and Mechanical Facilities: The contract for the Supply and Installation of Electrical
and Mechanical Facilities was procured through ICB, and was signed with the contractor (Sainco Traffic
Spain) on April 14,1997. The estimated cost was US$ 6.88 million in SAR. The contract price was US$
12,345,221, and the actual payment was US$ 12,780,703. All site equipment including emergency
telephones, communications and power rectification, and the traffic control and surveillance systems were
installed by the end of 1998. Installation and pre-commissioning of the traffic surveillance system (TSS)
have been completed and a machinery completion certificate was issued to the contractor in February 1999.
Due to some problems regarding field equipment and software, the trial run period was extended. The TSS
was accepted in June 2000. Major components of the telecommunication system (including emergency
telephones and cable system) have been completed, and a partial machinery completion certificate was
issued in February 1999. The final acceptance of this system was made in June 2000. The tolling system
has been installed and pre-commissioning has been completed. The final acceptance was made in June
2000. The lighting system was completed and accepted in February 1999.
17.   Construction of Administration Building: The construction of administration building was
procured through ICB in March 1997. The contract price was RMB 84.13 million, and works commenced
on June 8, 1997. However, due to delay of delivery of some imported equipment and materials (including
elevators and cooling refrigerators), the building was completed on September 1, 1999 with a delay of 9
months.
18.   Staff Training: According to the SAR, the program included 52 person/month study tour, and 182
person/month training (including 55 person/month local training and 127 person/month overseas training),
with a total cost of US$ 1.24 million. All the staff training programs were completed by October, 1998.
These programs involved 33.8 person/month overseas study tour with a total cost of US$ 310,814, and
- 16-



102.2 person/month overseas training, with a total cost US$ 852,505. The total cost of the overseas
training/study tours was USS 1,163,319 with the person/month of 136.3.
19.   Settlement and Restoration of HNE: As the SAR foresaw, the major risk of the highway was the
difficult subsoil conditions along the alignment, and the embankment settlement of the HNH has not yet
been stabilized. Thus, ZECL has been monitoring the settlement amount at different typical cross sections
along the HNH. The first major restoration works were completed in 1998/1999.
F. Operation of Hangzhou-Ningbo Highwav
20.   The operation of HNH and other components of Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project are
satisfactory.
21.   HNH: Contract No. I (Pengbu Interchange) was opened to traffic on April 1, 1994, and relieved
the traffic bottleneck at the interchange. Contracts Nos.2/3/4 were opened to traffic in December 1995, and
contracts Nos.5/6/7 in December 1996. After the HNH opening to traffic, the traffic congestion in
Hangzhou-Ningbo corridor has been relieved. The driving mileage was shortened by 59 Km, and the time
reduced by 5 hours. It produced high social and economic benefit. The operation and maintenance is
managed by ZECL. The revenue for FY1997 was RMB 388.48 million, and the expenditures were RMB
127.09 million (including depreciation fee). The revenue was RMB 469.51 million, and the expenditures
were RMB 189.14 million (including depreciation fee) in 1998.
22.   Traffic Surveillance, Telecommunication and Tolling Systems: These systems were constructed
by Sainco Traffic, Spain and are managed by ZECL. The operation of the systems is satisfactory, and
gives much help for the expressway operation management.
G. Works by Contractors and Consultants
23.   According to the LCB or ICB, the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway was divided into 9 contracts.
Contracts No.1 through No.7 were civil work contracts. The No.8 was electrical and mechanical facilities
contract, including traffic surveillance, telecommunication, lighting and tolling systems. The contract No.9
was for construction of the administration building. The main quantities of civil works were: earthwork
20,134,850 cubic meter, special large bridge 3,511.38 meter/3 sets, large bridge 2,982.63 meter/16 sets,
medium bridge 5,217.6 meter/99 sets, small bridge 1,541.54 meter/56 sets, underpass 238 sets, culvert
10,211.03 meter/288 sets, interchange 6 sets, grade separated junction 19 sets, asphalt surfacing 2,798,300
square meter. The HNH was accepted and evaluated as excellent works by the State in June 1999.
24.   Consultants Services: KAMPASAX INTERNATIONAL A/S in association with the DANISH
ROAD DIRECTORATE was employed for the construction supervision and training. They sent three
engineers to supervise the civil works construction of HNH for four years, one for supervision of the traffic
engineering, and five persons to train the local medium/senior engineers in China and abroad. According to
the duties and scope of services in the contract, they have managed and supervised construction in
cooperation with the local engineers. The 172 person/month of consultants services were given by
KAMPASAX, including training the local technical personnel. The supervision mnission of the World Bank
was satisfied with their consultant work.
25.   Works By supervision engineers: The responsibility of Engineers was to carry out the
construction supervision for HNH. The Joint Supervision Team was headed by the Chief Supervision
Engineer. The supervision organization was comprised of the Engineer's Office (EO) and the Resident
- 17 -



Engineer's Office (REO) for various Contracts. The EO consisted of the HNH Supervision team of MOC,
KAMPASAX and supervision engineers of ZEPEC. Such a organization was confirmed by the World
Bank. According to the "FIDIC" conditions, construction contract, supervision procedures and methods,
supervision engineers made control to the quality, progress and payment. To guarantee quality, supervision
engineers made all-direction management to the works quality (e.g. not allowing construction to start before
the material and equipment are checked for acceptance). During construction, the on-going works were
checked and tested. When the works did not reach the standard of quality after checking, it was redone at
the contractors' own cost. Thus, the quality and investment were controlled effectively.
26.   Experience: Through implementation of HNH, we have obtained much experience:
(a) To set up the rigorous supervision procedures is an effective way for ensuring quality, progress,
investment and satisfactory construction management;
(b) Before the commencement of different works, to help contractor improving its production capability
according to the contract conditions and technical specifications is the basis for expediting the construction
progress and attaining the quality standanrs;
(c) To strengthen the on-site control, in the key phase of construction process, and supervise the
construction, because inspection is the guarantee for meeting required works quality;
(d) To maintain the checking activities before commencement of a new construction item is the effective
method for meeting quality requirements;
(e) The Employer is the organization center of implementation who makes control to the quality, progress
and investment through coordinating activities of relevant units;
(f) To take the advice of the World Bank camestly and cooperate actively is the guarantee for successful
completion of the Project.
H. Works By Implementation Agency
27.   Project Preparation: ZPTD made full preparation for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway. This
project was listed in the third package of the World Bank financed projects. From January 1989, the project
identification, pre-appraisal, appraisal and negotiation were fulfilled in succession, and the Loan
Agreement and Project Agreement were signed with the Bank in Washington D.C. in June 1992.
28.   Design: The Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway was designed by Zhejiang Provincial Transport Design
Institute, Highway Planning & Design Institute of MOC, Highway Scientific Institute Research of MOC,
Liaoning Provincial Transport Survey & Design Institute and Heilongjiang Provincial Highway Survey &
Design Institute.
29.   An Environmental Impact Assessnient for the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway was conducted by the
Zhejiang Provincial Environmental Protection Research Institute in 1989/90. The Report of Environment
Impact Assessment for HNE was prepared in June 1988 and approved by the State Environment Protection
Bureau in February 1991. The Environmental Protection Implementation Report was fulfilled in September
1998. In the same year, the State Environment Protection Monitoring Center made monitoring to the
Project and completed a Monitoring Report. In November 1998, the environment protection facilities
passed the completion acceptance organized by the State Environment Protection Bureau and MOC.
30.   Project Implementation: The Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway was given great attention by Zhejiang
Provincial People's Govermment. The Zhejiang Provincial Shanghai-Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway Project
Steering Committee(ZPESC) was found in January 1990. ZPEPEC was the executive agency for
implementation of HNH under the direction of ZPESC. ZPEPEC was responsible for concrete activities of
- 18 -



construction organization, coordination, land acquisition and resettlement, tendering management, planning
and financial management and procurement of equipment.
31.   Experience in construction of HNE: Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway was the first expressway, and
also the first highway project constructed by using loans from international financial institution and
managed by introducing "FIDIC" conditions in the province. Its construction provided many lessons and
experience for infrastructure construction in Zhejiang province. Construction units were selected through
ICB. The overall quality control was carried out by supervision engineers. The personnel engaged in
supervision, construction, management and design were trained by the project construction, and the
implementation of this project has provided effective and successful practice for the key construction
projects in Zhejiang province. The successful completion of HNH has brought the highway construction
and project management of Zhejiang province to a new level. After completion and opening to traffic, the
toll fee is collected from road users to repay the Bank loan and support the management and maintenance
of the highway.
I. Project Risks
32.   Because of the difficult subsoil conditions along the alignment of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway,
the major risk was delay in completion time of the expressway and quality of construction. Since ZPEPEC
executed the Bank financed project for the first time, there was also a risk in implementing the project in a
timely manner. However, the experience of the Bank-financed highway projects in other provinces was
utilized in the preparation of this project. Furthermore, MOC involvement in project preparation was
widened and also broadened for project implementation. To minimize the risks, the design was undertaken
with the assistance of foreign experts, prequalification of contractors was made strictly, and supervision
activities were carefully arranged so as to ensure regular supervision and effective quality control.
J. Works by the World Bank
33.   Project Preparation: The Bank's project identification mission visited Zhejiang Province in March
1989, and subsequently cooperated closely with SPC, MOC and ZPEPEC to formulate the scope of the
project, and secured the grant from UNDP for reviewing the Engineering Feasibility Study Report.
34.   Project Implementation: During the implementation, the Bank missions visited Zhejiang province
many times, supervised the Project, and provided many practicable good suggestions to works quality,
fnancial management and organization. Under the assistance of the Bank, a Joint Supervision Team (JST)
consisted of local staff and foreign engineers was set up to supervise the Expressway construction and
traffic engineering (supply and installation of E&M facilities). Consequently, works' quality was
guaranteed and the local staffs were trained.
35.   Cooperation of Implementation Agency with the Bank: The Bank officers fully understood the
urgent demand for developing transport infrastructures, and gave much help to our province. The World
Bank agreed to extend the Loan closing date. ZPTD were sincerely grateful to the World Bank for their
cooperation and support.
36.   Experience: The main experience are:
(a) through the highway project under the Bank Loan, the competitive Bidding, FIDIC conditions, and
supervision system have been used extensively in Zhejiang Provincial Highway Projects;
(b) through staff training, many technical personnel were trained in highway design/ plan, construction
- 19 -



management, financial management, maintenance and traffic engineering. They received good training,
used and developed their knowledge in thie project implementation, and play important role in their work;
and
(c) the application of Road Data Bank (RDB) promoted Zhejiang Provincial Highway Management
System. Through implementation of RD13, the staffs have studied many new advanced techniques and
obtained much experience.
K. Planning
37.   Planning:
(a) Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway: With the upgraded National Road No. 104, the HNH was opened to
traffic. While the traffic congestion in Hangzhou-Ningbo corridor has been relieved basically, it would not
suit the needs of the economical development of this area in the future. Particularly, after China joins
WTO, a car will become one of consumer goods of medium/high income families in China and the
automobile industry and consumption would be promoted. The urban traffic would become even more
congested, and the highway traffic linking cities would become even busier. On holidays, passengers would
increase greatly. With the expressway network of Zhejiang Province being built, many vehicles will divert
from normal roads to expressways. According to the 1997/98/99 data of HNH, the growth rate of ADT
reached 20%, and some sections will lower its service level after five or six years. At present, the whole
alignment has a 26 meter subgrade with four lanes, in which: the width of carriageway is 2 X 7.5 meters,
median divider is 3 meters, shoulder is 2 X 3.25 meters. It is now proposed to widen the Hangzhou-Guzhu
section of HNH to six lanes with a 35 meter subgrade, in which carriageway is 2 X 11.25 meters.
(b) RDB/PMS: According to the standard software developed by MOC, the technical staffs of local
management units were trained in 1998. The new data of road conditions have been recollected starting
September 1998. The RDB is consisted of several sub-systems as pavement, bridges and road conditions.
The preparation works for RDB have been completed. It would combine with investigation results of road
conditions by MOC to investigate, and the basic data for RDB will be collected to obtain the required
information for RDB/PMS.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Projected in SAR (1)                       Actual/Latest Estimate
1997          1998          1999           1997            1998           1999
PCU on HNE
Hangzhou-Xiaoshan                           27,900         29,900        32,000         38,800          46,600         55,300
Xiaoshan-Shaoxing                           25,800         27,600         30,000        17,900          21,500         26,900
Shaoxing-Shangyu                            24,000         25,700        27,400         13,900          16,500         21,000
Shangyu-Yuyao                                17,100        18,300        20,000          6,700          8,400          12,000
Yuyao-Ningbo                                 15,600        16,700         17,800         6,000          7,300          9.600
PCU on Existing Road
Hangzhou-Xiaoshan                            18,000        19,400        20,800         19,600          22,600         26,700
Xiaoshan-Shaoxing                            10,400        11,200         12,000        20,400          20,000         21,900
Shaoxing-Shangyu                             9,100          9,800         10,500        15,400          12,700         12,900
Shangyu-Yuyao                                5,200          5,700         6,200         14,300          16,300         15,300
Yuyao-Ningbo                                 4,000          4,400         4,800         14,700          17,700         15,600
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in SAR (1)                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway Construction                             138 km                                    138 km
Road Development Program                                         970 km                                   1,066 km
Persons Trained (person-months)                                   234                                       191
1 End of project
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a-1. Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost By Component        Appraisal        Actual/Latest    Percentage
Estimate/a        Estimatelb      of Appraisal
US$ milHion          US$ million          %
HNE (Civil Works)                   313.11            307.41           98.2
Supply and Installation          6.88             12.78          185.8
(E&M)                         -_
RDP  /c                       _       76.09           121.10           159.2
Supervision                   -.      9.04              5.23            57.9
Equipment                             13.72             8.83            64.4
Staff Training                _        1.24             1.16            93.5
Total Baseline Cost                  420.08           456.51           108.7
Contingencies                        106.44
Land acquisition              _       32.34            29.58            91.5
Total Project                 558.86           486.09            87.0
Costs           _
Total Financing                 220.00           213.6
Required                              .
Note:  (a) SAR Estimate 1 US$=5.37RMB, (b) US$=8.279RMB (c) 1 US$=5.37RMB
Annex 2a-2. Project Cost by Component (in RMB million equivalent)
Project Cost By Component        Appraisal        Actual/Latest    Percentage
Estimate          Estimate       of Appraisal
_RMB million         RMB million           %
HNE (Civil Works)                   1.681.38        2.545.34          151.4
Supply and Installation          36.95           105.83          286.4
(E&M         _                  _.
RDP                                  408.58           650.32          159.2
Supervision                           48.57            43.28           89.1
Equipment                      _      73.68            72.46           98.3
Staff Training                 _       6.66             9.63          144.6
Total Baseline Cost                 2,255.81        3,426.86          151.9
Contingencies                        571.58
Land acquisition                     173.64          244.91           141.0
Total Project                3,001.03        3,671.77          122.4
Costs            =
Total Financing
Required
- 22 -



Annex 2b-1. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                                       I                Cost
ICB          NCB          Other      N.B.F.
1. Works
Civil Works:           374.9           13.1         5.8                  393.8
(153.0)          (5.3)       (2.4)                (160.7)
E&M                   8.7                                              8.7
(5.8)                                            (5.8)
Road Development                       53.7         42.0                  95.7
_________________________                 (18.5)       (14.4)                (32.9)
2. Equipment (Goods)         12.7                        3.0                  15.7
(12.5)                     (2.9)                (15.4)
3. Services                                             12.6                  12.6
(Consultants/training)                                  (5.2)                 (5.2)
4. Other (LAR)                                                      32.3      32.3
(0.0)     (0.0)
Total                     396.3          66.8        63.4        32.3      558.8
(171.3)       (23.8)       (24.9)      (0.0)    (220.0)
"Other" includes LS, international shopping, and consultant selection.
Annex 2b-2. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$
million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category               .                     1               Cost
ICB         NCB         Other    N.B.F.
1. Works
Civil Works:          289.4          18.0                            307.4
(151.8)        (7.4)                           (159.2)
E&M                 12.8                                          12.8
(8.9)                                        (8.9)
Road Development                                 104.3      16.8     121.1
(34.7!    (       (34.7)
2. Equipment (Goods)        6.0                       2.8                 8.8
(6.0)                    (2.2)               (8.2)
3. Services                                           3.8       2.6       6.4
(Consultants/training)                               L2.6)     10.0       (2.6)
4. Other (LAR)                                                  29.6      29.6
Total                    308.2         18.0       110.9      49.0      486.1
(166.7)       (7.4)       (39.5)    (0.0)    (213.6)
'Other" includes LS, international shopping, and consultant selection.
- 23 -



Annex 2c. Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of
Component       ADDraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate        ADDrais I
Bank   Govt.  Cofin-  Bank   Govt.  Cofin-  Bank  Govt.  Cofin-
_neiar                 ancier  .%       %     ai
HNE Civil Work  133.2  179.9             159.2  148.2            119     82
EW &M         4.8     2.1            8.9      3.9           185    186
W ork__             _ __          _ _   __ _  _ _ _  _
RDP               27.3    48.8           34.7    86.4            127    177
SuDervision        3.0     6.0            2.6      2.6           87      43
Equipment         13.5     0.2    _       8.2    0.6  _          60    300
Staff Training     1.2     0.0            0.0    1.2
Contingencies     37.0    69.5            0.0    0.0
Land Acquisition    0.0    32.3           0.0   29    _         _        92_
Total          220.0  338.8            213.6  272.5             97     80
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATIONS
Preface
1.    The economic evaluation of the project covers the following two components:
(a) construction of a 145.0 km Hangzhou - Ningbo Highway (HNH), and
(b) construction and improvement of 39 provincial / county roads, bridges and tunnel (totaling
1,036 km) under Road Development Program (RDP)
2.     The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of data on traffic, operational performance,
costs and benefits of project components. The methodology used was similar to that employed by the SAR
and is summnarized as follows:
(a) capital investrnent and maintenance costs were revised to reflect December 2000 prices and are
included in the cost stream;
(b) the benefits stream, also reflected in December 2000 prices, were included, and consist of
savings in vehicle operating costs, ship operation costs, reduced traffic congestion on existing
routes, and enhanced road safety; and
(c) a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment period for all
components was from 1992 to 1999, depending on the construction phases.
3 .    During the project's preparation, it was understood that the construction of the RDP (from Phase II
to Phase V) would be finalized during the project implementation. The economic analysis for these
components were included in the ICR.
4.     This Attachment is comprised of four parts. Part I is the economic evaluation of HNH; Part II is
the economic evaluation of the 39 provincial roads, bridges and tunnel under the RDP; Part HI is the
overall economic evaluation of the project, including probabilistic risk analysis, and; Part IV is the
financial evaluation of the project.
PART I: HANGZHOU - NINGBO HIGHWAY
5.     As in the SAR, the highway was divided into five sections for economic evaluation.
Length of the    Length of the New
Old Road (lun)    Highway (km)
Section 1: Hangzhou - Xiaoshan     23.0              8.0
Section 2: Xiaoshan - Shaoxing    41.0              35.3
Section 3: Shaoxing - Shangyu      33.0             29.4
Section 4: Shangyu - Yuyao         48.0             27.1
Section 5: Yuyao - Ningbo         52.00            45.20
Total                  197.0            145.0
- 25 -



Highway Corridor Traffic
6.      The first opening year of the highway was in 1997. The highway corridor traffic of 1997 and its
distribution between the old and the new highway are presented in the following table, indicating SAR
forecast and actual traffic census data:
NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY (1997)
The Old Road     The New Highway      Total Corridor    Diversion
Total    PCU      Total    PCU       Total    PCU       Factor (DF)
AADT    (1)       AADT       (2)     AADT (3)=(1)+(2)  (4)=(3)/((2)
SAR
Section I      --    18,000              27,900      --     45,900      60.8%
Section 2      --    10,400       --    25,800       --     36,200      71.3%
Section 3      --      9,100      --    24,000       --     33,100      72.5%
Section 4      --      5,200      --    17,100       -      22,300      76.7%
Section5       --      4,000      --    15,600      --      19,600      79.6%
ICR
Section 1    13,804   19,623    27,864   38,826    41,668   58,449      66.4%
Section 2     14,916   20,387    13,594   17,854    28,510   38,241     46.7%
Section 3     10,226   15,377    10,479   13,934    20,705   29,311     47.5%
Section 4     9,849    14,307    5,237    6,690    15,086   20,997      31.9%
Section 5     10,266   14,668    4,727    5,951    14,993   20,619      28.9%
Ratios (ICR/SAR)
Section I      --      9.0%       --    39.2%       --      27.3%         --
Section 2      --    96.0%        --    -30.8%       --      5.6%         --
Section 3      --    69.0%        --    41.9%        --    -11.4%         --
Section 4      --    175.1%       --    -60.9%       --     -5.8%         --
Section5       --    266.7%       --    -61.9%       --      5.2%         --
Sources: ZPTD and the Bank staff.
7.      As shown above, the 1997 total highway corridor traffic demand (i.e., the sum of traffic on the
parallel sections of the existing arterial road and the new highway) on most sections was higher than the
SAR's forecast. However, the traffic distribution of the corridor (i.e. between the existing arterial road and
the new highway), shows that except for section 1, the road users chose to travel less on the new highway
during the first opening year. For the other four sections, the traffic diversion factor (DF) was less than
expected when compared with the SAR forecast.
8.      Despite the low diversion ratio in 1997, the ratio has been constantly increasing for all the five
sections of the highway over the three years of operation (1997 - 1999). The latest record shows that the
diversion ratio for the Section 1 has been increased from 66 percent to 72 percent. For Section 2 and 3, it
has been increased from 4748 percent to around 61-67 percent. For the Section 4 and 5, the increases was
from about 29-32 percent to about 45-53 percent. The increasing trend of diversion ratio clearly reveals
that more and more road users on this highway corridor choose the new highway as their traveling route.
- 26 -



Traffic Projection
9.      Through the actual record, it is recognized that the nornal buildup of traffic on a new highway,
particularly when it operates as a toll facility, is gradual in the early years and then the diversion
accelerates. However, despite the increasing diversion ratio, the long term traffic growth rate projection on
the new highway is conservatively estimated to be slightly lower than the SAR's forecast. The traffic
projections by section are summarized as follows:
TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR THE NEW HIGHWAY BY SECTIONS
Section 1       Section 2       Section 3     Section 4       Section 5
Total           Total           Total          Total          Total
AADT   PCU    AADT   PCU   AADT  PCU  AADT  PCU   AADT   PCU
SAR
1997     --    27,900    --    25,800    --   24,000   --   17,100   --    15,600
1998     --    29,873    --    27,604    --   25,654   --   18,291    --    16,668
1999     --    31,986    --    29,534    --   27,421   --   19,564   --    17,810
2000     --    34,249    --    31,598    --   29,311   --   20,927    --    19,029
2005     --    48,200    --    44,300    --   40,900   --   29,300    --    26,500
2007     --    54,587    --    49,958    --   46,012   --   32,887   --    29,730
2015     --    89,800    --    80,800    --   73,700   --   52,200    --    47,100
2017     --   101,700   --    91,120    --   82,912   --   58,591    --    52,842
Average growth p.a.
1999-2017    --      6.6%     --    6.5%      --   6.3%    --   6.3%        --    6.2%
ICR
1997    27,864   38,826  13,594  17,854  10,479 13,934  5,237  6,690   4,727   5,951
1998    33,824   46,561   16,436  21,501  12,412 16,478  6,548  8,412   5,790   7,347
1999    40,666   55,330  20,839  26,938  16,140 21,026  9,571  12,073   7,645   9,582
2000    46,441   63,187  23,475  30,344  17,681 23,034 10,529 13,280  8,483   10,632
2005    65,781   88,728  31,938  41,038  23,492 30,426 13,075 16,399  10,545  13,145
2007    75,610  101,633  36,124  46,306  26,320 34,009 14,258 17,843  11,504  14,310
2015    118,574  157,035  53,088  67,380  37,929 48,415 19,672 24,174  15,919  19,454
2017    132,691  175,080  58,452  74,004  41,557 52,884 21,320 26,081  17,265  21,007
Average growth p.a.
1999-2017   6.8%     6.6%    5.9%    5.8%    5.4%   5.3%   4.5%   4.4%    4.6%    4.5%
Sources: ZPTD and the Bank staff.
10.    From 1997 - 1999, actual traffic data have been used for subsequent years which the following
growth rates have assumed:
(a) The normal traffic growth forecast of the new highway is estimated to be in the range of 3.5
percent to 8.5 percent between 2000 - 2007, depending on the type of vehicles and section of
the road. Between 2007 - 2017, the growth rate is assumed to be in the range of 2.0 percent to
7.0 percent.
(b) It is assumed that there is no generated traffic in the ICR.
Economic Costs
11.    Financial costs have been converted to economic costs by shadow pricing for each of the input
items. All expenditures have been converted to constant December 2000 economic costs. When comparing
- 27 -



costs between the SAR and the ICR, the ICR costs are found to be 43.3 percent higher.
Highway Economic Cost Comparison
(million Yuan)
SAR                    ICR         ICR/SAR
(Dec. 1991)    (Dec. 2000)    (Dec. 2000)      (in %)
1. Hangzhou - Xiaoshan      63.20           79.50         940.28         1,083
2. Xiaoshan - Shaoxing      537.30         675.90         682.04          0.9
3. Shaoxing - Shangyu      540.30          679.68         865.36          27.3
4. Shangyu- Yuyao           556.30         699.80         1,066.75        52.4
5. Yuyao - Ningbo          746.9'0         939.58         850.56          -9.5
Total             2,444 00       3,074.46        4,404.99        43.3
Economic Benefits
12.    The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from  (a) Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC)
savings (summarized as below), (b) time savings through relieved congestion on the existing road, and (c)
lower accident costs. The benefits resultin g from the lower level of congestion were quantified. The value
of passenger time savings was estimated al: Y 1.0 per passenger-hour, based on the updated value from a
recent report on feasibility study methodology for the highway sector in China (Rust PPK, Australia
Feasibility Study Methodology Report, March 1996). The same source was used for vehicle accident rates
on different classes of road.
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(Yuan per km)
----G---ood-----       ----   --- --------Fa--------Poor-- -
Flat      Hill   Mount.  Flat    Hill  Mount.  Flat    Hill   Mo
Car                    0.585     0.6 1.    0.630   0.779   0.810    0.833    1.008    1.039    1
Medium bus             0.883     1.025     1.148    1.232    1.411    1.557    1.624    1.781    1
Large bus              1.860     2.268    2.631    2.238   2.695    3.071    2.712    3.153    3
Small truck            0.860     1.0715    1.236    1.137    1.390    1.580    1.390    1.611    1
Medium truck           1.069     1.3]8    1.567    1.221    1.501    1.755    1.475    1.755    2
Large truck            1.705     2.089    2.473    1.966   2.389    2.762    2.339    2.762    3
Tractor/trailer        2.808     3.7(14    4.479   3.193   4.156    4.967    3.801    4.713    5
- 28 -



Sample of Economic Vehicle Operating Cost Calculation
(Yuan per 1,000 veh.-km)
Medium   Large   Small  Medium   Large   Trailer/
Car      Bus     Bus   Truck   Truck   Truck  Container
The Existing Road
Fuel                            275       375      640     500     500      660      800
Tires                            18        30       47      39       74     315      726
Maintenance                     248       338      576     450     450      594      720
Crew                             73        69       50      69      73       89       89
Depreciation                     45        87      310      79      124     308      858
Subtotal                      659       899      1.623   1.137    1.221    1.966   3.193
Time value of passengers        120       333      615
Total                         779        1.232   2.238   L137   1.221    1,966   3.193
The Proposed Highwav
Fuel                            250       325      400     325     460      580      700
Tires                            18        25       47      33       65     285      660
Maintenance                     223       304      518     405     405      535      648
Crew                             20        26       45      26      28       28       28
Depreciation                     41        78      279      71      111     277      772
Subtotal                      552       758      1289   860      1.069    1.705   2.808
Time value of passengers         33       125       571
Total                         585        883     1.860   860      1.069    1.705   2.808
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
13.    Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) on HNH is estimated to be 16.8 percent versus the SAR
estimate of 19.9 percent. The recalculated EIRR is lower than that presented in the SAR which is
primarily the result of (a) higher economic cost, and (b) the lower-than- estimated benefits generated by a
lower traffic on four sections of the new highway. Total cost and benefits streams, EIRR and Net Present
Value (NPV) for HNH are presented as follows.
SAR                ICR
Best estimate of EIRR                     19.9                16.8
NPV (12%. Y million)                   4,249.2 / a          2.058.6
I_a: NPV was Y 2,311 million at 1991 price and updated to 2000 prices by
multiplying with a factor of 1.8387.
14.    Besides the normal traffic growth scenario, two traffic growth alternatives have also been
considered: a lower traffic growth projection (25 percent lower than the normal traffic growth) and a higher
traffic growth projection (25 percent higher than the normal traffic growth). The traffic growth and annual
average growth rate under these two scenarios are as follows:
- 29 -



THE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC FORECAST SCENARIOS (AADT)
Section I   Section 2   Section 3   Section 4   Section 5
The Low Traffic Proiection:
1999            40,383     20,413     15,375      9,157     7,375
2007            (14,100    30,584     22,267     12,035      9,711
2017            88,586     38,893     27,618     14,122     11,438
Average growth per year
1999-2017          4.5%      3.6%        3.3%       2.4%      2.5%
The Hieh Traffic Proiection:
1999            40,383     20,413     15,375      9,157     7,375
2007            88,846     42,502     30,991     16,828     13,573
2017            196,904    87,011     61,936     31,881     25,807
Average growth per year
1999-2017          9.2%       8.4%       8.0%       7.2%      7.2%
15.    The overall EIRR and NPV for the different traffic growth scenarios are summarized in the
following table. It shows that even with the lower traffic projection, which is most unlikely to happen, the
HNH investinent still would yield an EIRR of 15.4 percent.
The low traffic growth   The high traffic growth
scenario             scenario
Best estimate of EIRR             15.4%                18.3%
NPV (12%. Y million)             1,260.9               3,901.9
Sensitivity Analysis
16.    The EIRRs summarized below show that the effects of possible changes in assumptions made in
the evaluation could alter the yield on the investment. Since cost of operation and maintenance of HNH is a
relatively small portion of the investment, any variation in these costs would have no discernible impact on
EIRR. The impact of changes in traffic volumes was studied under the two traffic growth scenarios
discussed in paras. 14 and 15 above. The EIRR of 15.4 percent is still an acceptable yield in case the
traffic is 25 percent below the normal growth assumption. The effects of 30 percent reduction in VOC
savings, zero value of passenger time savings, zero value of congestion savings, and a 20 percent overall
reduction in total benefits also show that the EIRR still remains at least 13.5 percent, exceeding 12 percent,
a percentage normally regarded to be the minimum for highway investment in China.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
EIRR (in %)   NPV (12%. Y million)
VOC savings reduced by 30%o               13.5               557.3
Passenger time savings reduced to zero   14.9              1,176.8
Congestion savings reduced to zero        16.6             1,954.4
Total benefits reduced by 20%            14.6              1,018.3
PART II: ROAD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (RDP)
Background and Traffic
17.    The Road Development Program (RDP) was designed to be implemented in five phases with a total
of 39 sub-components scattered throughout the province. Except for phase 1 (6 sub-components) which
was identified during project appraisal, the other four phases were finalized during implementation of the
- 30 -



project. The main purpose of the RDP is to upgrade the existing Class III or Class IV roads in Zhejiang to
Class II or Class III roads, including bridges and tunnel.
18.    Phase 1 (1993-1995) covers the construction of four roads and two bridges. Phase 11 (1993-1997)
covers the construction of nine roads and two bridges. Phase III (1995-1997) covers the construction of ten
roads. Phase IV (1995-1996) covers the construction of 5 roads and, Phase V (1997-1999) covers 5 roads
and one tunnel. Since all 39 sub-components of the RDP are located in the same province, the economic
development and traffic pattern are quite similar. Based on the actual traffic, the following assumptions
have been made in economic analyses regarding future traffic growth for most of the roads: a 5.0 percent
per year increase in vehicle traffic during 1998-2000, a 4.0 percent per year increase during 2000-2010,
and a 3.0 percent per year increase thereafter. Tractor traffic is assumed to be 2.0 percent less than the
growth of vehicle traffic. By comparison, the SAR's vehicle traffic growth projection was 8.0 percent per
year between 1995-2000, and reduced to 5 percent per year thereafter. The tractor traffic was assumed to
be 6 percent lower than the vehicle traffic growth.
Economic Costs
19.    All costs necessary for the completion of the facilities planned under the RDP have been taken into
account in the economic evaluation. All input items have been evaluated to constant December 2000
economic costs. Taking into account the overall effect of shadow-pricing the financial cost of the
sub-components, the economic cost is 18.1 percent higher than the financial costs.
20.    Compared to the SAR, the total actual economic costs on RDP at December 2000 constant prices
is almost same as the SAR's estimate; of which, the actual cost for Phase I construction is 36.2 percent less
than the SAR's estimate.
PROJECT COST COMPARISION (YUAN MILLION)
Estimate (Yuan million)      Actual (Yuan million)
December 1991 orices  Dec. 2000  Financial  Dec.2000     (B)l(A)
Financial  Economic  Economic (A)  (Current)  Economic (B)   (in %)
Phase 1    120.50    124.10      228.18      105.08     145.48      -36.2
Phase 11    --        --          --         178.53     223.85       --
Phase III   --        --          --        248.04      273.13
Phase IV    --        --          --         28.20       31.33        --
Phase V      --       --           -          90.46      84.51        --
Total    408.58    420.79     773.70/ a    650.31     768.30       -0.7
/_a: Economic cost (1991 constant prices), has been updated to 2000 constant prices by multiplying with a factor of
1.8387.
Economic Benefits
21.    In a manner similar to the methodology used the SAR, the economic analysis is primarily focused
on the benefits derived from: (a) VOC savings due to shorter distances (if applicable), (b) VOC savings due
to normal traffic, and (c) benefits from generated traffic.
22.    With the project, all 39 sub-components have upgraded the province's roads, bridges and tunnel
classifications. The better surface of the pavement will reduce VOC, yielding the major portion of project
benefits. Generated traffic was assumed to be 5 percent of the normal traffic, (by comparison, 10 percent
was the assumption in the SAR). In addition, the better paved roads or bridges will increase vehicle speed
and reduce congestion. These benefits have been also qualified in economic evaluation as part of operating
- 31 -



cost savings.
Economic Evaluation
23.    The economic evaluation for RDP covered both the basic characteristics and the stream of costs
and benefits for the years 1993-2017 for each road, bridge and tunnel, as well as VOC data. Across the
five phases, the EIRR ranges from 16.1 percent to 69.5 percent. The overall EIRR for the RDP is 44.0
percent. The revised EIRR of 69.5 percent for Phase I construction is much better than the EIRR of 26.0
percent as estimated in the SAR. The revised EIRR is higher as the result of (a) much better traffic
performance, and (b) a 36.2 percent project cost savings (para. 20). The summary of these results are
summarized as follows:
EIRR AND NPV OF THE RDP
EIRR (in %)           NPV (12%. Yuan million)
The SAR      The ICR       The SAR        The ICR
Phase 1             26.0          69.5        538.7 La        1,099.7
Phase 11             -            34.6           --            529.6
Phase III            --           22.0           --            179.9
Phase IV             -            16.2           --              7.9
Phase V              --           16.1           --             17.2
Total                       44.0            -           1.834.3
L_a: NPV was Y 293 million at 1991 prices and updated to 2000 prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.8387.
PART IlI: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
24.    The overall EIRR of the project (including HNH and RDP) is 19.9 percent and NPV is 3.7 billion
Yuan. In the SAR, the overall economnic rate return and NPV of the total project were not available.
The SAR                 The ICR
EIRR      NPV/_a         EIRR    NPV/ a
Hangzhou - Ningbo Highway         19.9%     4,249.2 Lb      16.8%    2,064.4
Road Development Program:           --         --          44.0%     1,834.3
Total Project             =                       19.9%    3.702.2
/_a: Million Yuan, discount rate 12%.
Lb: NPV was Y 2,311 million at 1991 prices and updated to 2000 prices by multiplying
with a factor of 1.8387.
The Project Risks
25.    Most of the components under the project show very robust economic returns. There is no
particular issue that may potentially damage the project. However, despite a satisfactory overall rate of
return on the project, the EIRRs for a few components could be further improved. Improvements could be
made through policies such as better control of the construction costs or better planning for the long-term
provincial road development plan.
- 32 -



Probabilistic Risk Analysis for Economic Evaluation of HNH
26.  To determine the degree of uncertainty for the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte
Carlo techniques was utilized. In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor is followed to vary at
random between set limits and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change simultaneously. Monte Carlo
simulation provides probability distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these
distributions, we can assess the risk associated with making various decisions. The product of the analysis
is a judgment on the possible decision variable range and on the likelihood of each value within this range.
27.   For the RDP component, a higher EIRR and lower capital investment (the capital costs under the
RDP constitute only about 15 percent of total capital investment), demonstrates that there is low risk to the
uncertainty factor. The probabilistic risk analysis for the project is focused on the construction of HNH.
The identified factors with the greatest uncertainty associated with the economic evaluation of HNH are:
(a) traffic growth, and (b) the value of vehicle operating costs. The results of the probabilistic risk analysis
show that the EIRR for the most likely scenario is 13.6 %. The worst case scenario of the analysis is
11.2% and the best case scenario is 15.7%. The standard EIRRor of the mean is 0.2 %. The detailed
results of the Monte Carlo test and probabilistic analyses are sunmmarized below:
Summary of Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Range of       Most likely     Standard EIRRor of the
EIRR            EIRR                  mean
Section 1   18.6% - 22.0%      20.3%                  0.1%
Section 2   15.8% - 22.9%      19.3%                  0.2%
Section 3    8.6% - 16.1%      12.4%                  0.2%
Section 4    9.3% -16.6%       12.9%                  0.2%
Section 5    7.0% -14.9%       11.0%                  0.2%
Total    11.2% - 15.7%       13.6%                 0.2%
PART IV: FINANCIAL EVALUATION
Preface
28.   The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of two sections. Section I is for the revenue
eaming entity and Section II is for the non-revenue eaming entity. Section I will focus on HNH since
HNH is a toll road and also the only project road which generates revenue (the total cost of HNH
constitutes about 85 percent of the total project cost). Section II will focus on the RDP, as there is no
revenue for the 39 sub components under RDP. For the financial cost of capital, about 47 percent of the
investment was financed by the World Bank at a 7 percent interest rate and the long-term opportunity cost
of capital was 5 percent for local financing; therefore, the weighted average cost of capital was about 6
percent.
Section I: THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF HNH
29.   In March 1997, ZPTD established an expressway company in charge of HNH. The company is
responsible for the day to day management, operation, maintenance, and development of the expressway.
The company also bears the financial obligations including the repayment of the loans. The main revenue
of the company will be toll income from the road users; however, toll charges are strictly controlled by the
- 33 -



government. Therefore, the toll charge forecast has been assumed to be increase once every three years (10
percent or average 3.2 percent p.a.), which is lower then the estimated 5 percent domestic general price
escalation.
Financial forecast
30.    Revenue. Based on the last three years' operations (1997-1999), the main source of revenue of the
highway company is toll income. The toll charges are the combination of: (a) basic fee, plus (b) vehicle fee
(small passenger car, large bus, small truck, medium truck, large truck and trailer), and (c) distance
traveled. The current toll charges are as follows:
Toll Charges / a
Small  Medium   Large  Small  Medium   Large   Tractor
car     bus      bus   truck   truck    truck   - trailer
Basic fee (Yuan/ vehicle)  5.0     10.0    15.0    5.0     10.0    15.0    20.0
Vehicle fee (Yuan/ veh-kn)   0.4   0.8      1.2    0.4      0.8     1.2      1.6
/_a: Basic fee and vehicle fee for the extra large load truck (20-50 ton) are Y 25 and Y 2.0, respectively.
31.   Costs. The operating revenue and costs forecast (the income statement ) are calculated on the basis
of the current toll road practice. For operating revenue with associated traffic and costs, please see Table
l.a. For annual capital investment and cash flow statement, please see Table l.b. The balance sheet
statement is presented in Table I.c. For detailed financial assumptions, please see Table 2.
32.   Profitability. Under the current toll charge structure, the highway company is able to generate
enough internal revenue to cover its operations, including repayment of the loan. In fact, in September
1999 the company submitted a request to MOF about the possibility of paying off the Bank loan. Due to
high construction cost (the SAR estimated 2.36 billion Yuan while the actual cost was 3.45 billion Yuan),
the Financial Rate of Return (FRR) on the project is not expected to be high.
33.    The company has very strong equity and cash reserves holdings, and both liquidity and financial
leverage ratios are very healthy. Despite these positive financial ratios, there are two financial issues that
need to be addressed. First, there is a high portion of account receivables (AR). Currently, AR's figures
are almost twice as much as annual toll revenue. In 1998, it took an average 935.7 days to collect AR.
Although the average was reduced to 572.7 days in 1999, it is still considered too long. The company
should make every possible effort to further reduce the collecting time of AR. Second, despite high cash
reserves, the company may still occasionally face deficit years until 2006, the year that the first major
maintenance will take place.
34.     Financial Rate of Return. The results of the financial evaluation reveal that the FRR on equity
would be 14.5 percent. The FRR for the entire project investment is expected to be 9.3 percent. NPV at 6
percent discount rate (which is the estimated financial cost of capital), is RMB 1,661.3 million and RMB
1,031.8 million, respectively.
35.     Financial Probabilistic Risk Analysis. The three identified factors with the greatest uncertainty
which may affect the financial evaluation are: (a) traffic growth rate, (b) toll charge increases, and (c)
growth of total operating costs. The result of financial probabilistic analysis reveals that (a) the most likely
FRR on equity would be 14.8 percent, while the worst and best FRR would be 13.7 percent and 15.7
percent, respectively; and, (b) the most likely FRR on total project investment would be 9.6 percent, while
the worst and best FRR would be 8.8 percent and 10.4 percent, respectively. The details on FRR and NPV
are summarized as follows:
- 34 -



Summary of Financial Probabilistic Risk Analysis
On Equity                        Total Proiect
Range of   Most Likely  Std. EIRR                      Std. EIRR
FIRR &    FIRR &      of       Range of FIRR  Most Likely    of
NPV       NPV    The Mean       & NPV    FIRR &NPV  the Mean
FIRR (in %)      13.7 - 15.7    14.8   0.1         8.8 - 10.4   9.6        0.0
NPV (6%. Y million)  1,475-2,186   1.816.8  19.2  845.9-1,557.0   1,187.3  19.2
Section II: THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF RDP
36.    The 39 sub components under the RDP are toll free. The financial evaluation of these non-revenue
earning entities will be focused on the following two aspects. First, the counterpart funds invested in the
project should not affect the expenditures of ZPTD on other routine activities. Second, ZPTD should
maintain sound financial practices to minimize financial risks, (i.e. the lack of funds for the future
operating expenses to the project roads).
37.   ZPTD has provided the financing plan for total revenue and expenditure of ZPTD for the Ninth
Five Year Plan (9th FYP, 1996 - 2000) and the 10th FYP (2001 - 2005). Based on the provincial highway
development plan, ZPTD has acquired sufficient funds to cover the costs of new road construction and
existing road network maintenance. In addition, a sound self-financing ratio of ZPTD would ensure the
future operations of RDP. The latest actual data (from 1998), revealed that about two thirds of ZPTD's
total revenue are generated from internal cash flow. Detailed source and expenditure information for 1996
- 2005 are shown in Tables 3a and 3b.
38.   Following the length increases of the provincial road network every year, ZPTD also reserved
additional resources needed for the road maintenance on the existing road networks. During the 9th and
10th FYP, despite continuous increases in the road network, average unit road maintenance expenditures
have also increased. It is estimated that increases of road network and average unit maintenance
expenditures for the 9th FYP and the 10th FYP are 3.2 percent vs. 1.1 percent and 1.7 percent vs. 0.3
percent, respectively. Although the increases are limited, this fund allocation will ensure the service quality
provided by the existing road network will not deteriorate while ZPTD invests in new road construction.
The details are shown in Table 3 of this attachment and summarized as follows:
ZPTD: Average Increase in the Road Network and
Road Maintenance Exvenditures (in %)
9th FYP   10 FtYP
Average annual increase in the road network    3.2      1.7
Average annual increase in maintenance expenditures    1.1  0.3
39.    The financial risks of not having the revenue for supporting road maintenance would be minimal,
as the expenditures on these activities constitute only a small fraction of ZPTD fund flow. Based on ZPTD
plan, the sum of the total maintenance expenditure of RDP is less than 2.4 percent of total maintenance
expenditure of ZPTD during 9th and 10th FYP. These low financing ratios indicate that the project
- 35 -



presents a modest financial risk regarding availability of counterpart funds for the future maintenance of
the project components. Summarized as follows:
ZPTD: Maintenance Expenditures (million Yuan)
9h FYP       10th FYP
Total RDP maintenance (all                             107.76       134.93
Total ZPTD Maintenance E}xpenditure (b)              4,770.34     5,624.46
Ratios (a)/(b)                                          2.3%         2.4%
Table 1.a: Zhejiang: Hangzhou- Ningbo Highway Project
Income Statement - The Expressway Company
(million Yuan, year ending December 31)
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
Traffic (million Veh.-km)           498.74  604.0;  758.17  871.90  922.60  976.45 1,033.52 1,094.17 1,158.49  1,226.86 1,299.47
Operating Revenue                   387.76  469.62   535.00  578.00  691.95  732.34  775.14  908.16  961.55  1,018.29 1,182.52
OperatingCosts                       93.24   138.07  165.16  187.36  353.27  261.72  290.86  357.82  397.79  1,326.99  539.35
Operating Taxes                      21.74   25.51   29.06   31.40   37.59   39.78   42.10   49.32   52.22         55.30   64.22
Operating Profit                    272.78  306.04  340.78  359.24  301.10  430.84  442.18  501.02  511.54  (364.00)  578.95
Add: Profittransfer                 15.03    13.11    14.94   16.14   19.32   20.45   21.65   25.37   26.86       28.44   33.03
Less: Managementexpenses            33.85   51.53    68.70   73.42   85.93   90.36   95.05  109.65   115.51    121.73  139.75
Financial expenses           (8.13)   16.55   103.82   98.55   92.91    86.86    80.39   73.46   66.03     58.07   49.54
Net Revenue                         262.09  251.07   183.20  203.41   141,58  274.07  288.39  343.28  356.86  (515.36)  422.69
Add: Investment income              68.68  159.95   172.22  186.86  225.67  239.43  254.01  299.31   317.50    336.82  392.76
Tax refund                       -   51.98   54.22   53.58   59.14   57.59    55.96   60.56   59.12        57.61    61.90
Non operating income          5.10    5.11     3.82    4.29    5.53      5.97    6.43    7.88    8.46       9.08    10.87
Less: Non operating expenditure      0.33    4.09    6.82    7.29    8.53       8.97    9.43    10.88   11.46     12.08   13.87
ProfitBeforeTaxes                   335.54  464.02  406.64  440.85  423.39  568.09  595.36  700.15  730.48  (123.93)  874.35
Income tax                   47.02   95.30  134.19  145.48  139.72  187.47  196.47  231.05  241.06             -  288.54
Other payments                   -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Net Proflit After Taxes             288.52  368.72  272.45  295.37  283.67  380.62  398.89  469.10  489.42  (123.93)  585.81
Actual: 1997-1999.
Estimates: 2000
Forecast: 2001-2007
Sources: ZPTD and the Bank staff.
- 36 -



Table l.b: Zhejiang: Hangzhou- Ningbo Highway Project
Sources and Applications of Funds- The Expressway Company
(million Yuan, year ending December 31)
1992   1993   1994   1995   19%        1997    1998      1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
Sourcens
Netprofits                    -       -      -       -       288.52   368.72   272.45   295.37   283.67   380.62   398.89   469.10   489.42  (123.93)   585.81
Dcpreciation                      -              -       -    56.00    65.83    70.00    75.00    89.85   104.69   116.34   143.13   159.12   18743   215.74
State contrib.tion    76.70   55.29   75.45   69.40   54.75    67.39    25.31    20.71        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
Provincial contTibution  235.94  170.07  232.10  213.48  168.43   207.31    77.87    63.66             -        -        -         -        -        -        -
Borrowing:  IBRD    281.75  203.08  277.16  254.93  201.13   247.56    92.98    76.02
Local        -       -       -      -
Others                    -       -       -      -       -        -    18.24         -
Total               59439  428.44  584.71  537.81  424.31    866.78   64895   502.84   370.37   373.51   485.31    515.23   61223   64854    63.50   80155
Aenlicatiom:
Capital expenditurc  594.39  428.44  584.71  537.81  424.31   531.58   209.97   176.91    18.74    35.33    26.17    29.09    35.78    39.78   132.70    53.94
Other inestnent           -       -      -       -       -        -   159.95   152.00   150.00   145.00   140.00   135.00   130.00   125.00   120.00   115.00
Dividend paymeot                                                  -    69.49   152.00   200.00   210.00   220.00   230.00   240.00   250.00   260.00   270.00
Loan repayment                                                27.22    18.78    62.25    67.15    84.85    90.90    97.37   104.30   111.73   119.69   128.22
Other                                                                      - -   110.00    80.00    80.00    80.00    80.00    80.00    80.00    80.00    80.00
Change /capial            -       -              -           829.15   267.51   (86.34)  (34.39)  (89.97)  (33.54)  (34.16) (106.41)  (42.58)  (35.47)  (140.96)
Total               594.39  428.44  584.71  537J81  424.-1  1387.95   725.70   566 82   48150   465 21    2.53   537230   483167   563.93 2              506R 290.20
Net Funds Flow                    :      :       z          (521.17)  (76.75)  (42.98)  (111.13)  (91.70)  (38.22  (22.07)   128.56    84.61  (613.42)   295.35
Open balance              -       -       -      -       -  1788.03  1,266.86  1,190.11  1,126.13  1,015.00   923.30   885.08   863.01    991.57  1,076.18   462.76
Closingbalance            -       -      -       -       -  1266.86  1,190.11  1,126.13  1,015.00   923.30   885.08   863.01   991.57  1,076.18   462.76   758.11
D/S Cover                                                      12.7     23.1       5.5      5.5      4.4      5.3       5.3      5.9      5.8      0.5       6.3
Actual: 1997-1999.
Estinttes: 2000
forecast: 2001-2007
Sources: ZPTD and the Bank staff.
- 37 -



Table l.c: Zhejiang: Hangzhou- Ningbo Highway Project
Balance Sheet- The Expressway Company
(million Yuan, year ending December 31)
1997    1998      1999     2000     2001      2002     2003      2004     2005     2006      2007
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost                  5091.14  5096.05  5166.05  5241.05  5330.90  5435.59  5551.93  5695.06  5854.18  6041.61  6257.35
Less:   Depreciation      196.92   262.75   332.75   407.75   497.60   602.29   718.63   861.76  1020.88  1208.31   1424.05
Net fixed assets         4894.22  4833.30  4833.30  4833.30  4833.30  4833.30  4833.30  4833.30  4833.30  4833.30  4833.30
Work-in-process             0.77   102.23    103.32   104.82   106.62   108.71    111.04   113.90   117.08   120.83   125.15
Long-term investment     1413.95  3126.38  3lS9,63  3144.63  3198.54  3261.35  3331.16  3417.03  3512.51   3624.96  3754.41
Current Assets
Inventory                  0.64     1.52      1.82     2.06     3.89      2.88     3.20      3.94     4.38     14.61     5.94
Accountreceivable       1642.89   795.75   906.53   979.40  1172.48  1240.92  1313.44  1538.84  1629.30  1725.45  2003.73
Cash                    1266.86  1190.11   1126.13  1015.00   923.30   885.08   863.01    991.57  1076.18   462.76   758.11
Subtotal        2910.39  1987.38  2014.68  1996.46  2099.67  2128.88  2179.65  2534.35  2709.86  2202.82  2767.78
Other assets              460.66   444.95   309.96   314.46   319.85   326.14   333.12   341.70   351.25   362.50   375.44
Total Assets             9679.99 10494.24 10360.89 10393.67 10557.98 10658.38 10788.27 11240.28  11524.00 11144.41  11856.08
Liabilities & Equitv
State funds-Equity       8174.00  8390.72  7535.94  7528.37  7492.65  7582.98  7703.24  7927.00  8188.97  7787.22  8216.54
L/Tloans                 1213.87   963.44  1487.45   1420.30  1335.45  1244.55   1147.18  1042.88   931.15   811.46   683.24
Current Liabilities       292.12   1140.08  1337.50  1445.00   1729.88  1830.85  1937.85  2270.40  2403.88  2545.73  2956.30
Total Liabilities & Equity  9679.99 10494.24 10360.89 10393.67 10557.98 10658.38  10788.27 11240.28 11524.00 11144.41  11856.08
Currentratio               996.3   174.3    150.6    138.2    121.4    116.3    112.5    111.6    112.7    86.5          93.6
Debt: equity ratio         16/84    20/80    27/';3    28/72    29/71    29/71    29/71    29/71    29/71    30/70    31/69
Actual: 1997-1999.
Estimates: 2000
Forecast: 2001-2007
Sources: ZPTD and the Bank staff.
- 38 -



Table 2: Zhejiang: Hangzhou- Ningbo Highway Project
Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
1. Traffic:
Small   Medium    Large       Small    Medium      Large   Tractor-
Car      Bus       Bus       Truck      Truck      Truck    Trailer    Total
Section 1:
1997     8,786    1,994      4,512     3,827       6,664     2,001       80   27,864
1998    11,229    2,549      5,174     4,891       7,482     2,403       96   33,824
1999    13,842    3,142      5,897     6.030       8,858     2,514      100   40,383
2000     15,919    3,613     6,781     6,934      10,187      2,892     115   46,441
2007    28,179    5,615    10,538    10,775       15,830     4,494      179   75,610
2017    55,432    9,146     17,165    17,551      25,785      7,320     292  132,691
Section 2:
1997     4,802    1,090      1,833     2,660       2,682       500       27   13,594
1998     5,927    1,345      2,178     3,283       3,013       655       35   16,436
1999     7,613    1,728      2,532     4,216       3,534       750       40   20,413
2000      8,755    1,987     2,911      4,849      4,064       863       46   23,475
2007     14,525    2,890     4,235      7,054      5,912      1,432      76   36,124
2017    26,012    4,278      6,269    10,442       8,751      2,564     136   58,452
Section 3:
1997     3,570      810      1,507      1,977      2,168       424       23   10,479
1998     4,293      975      1,778     2,378       2,405       553       30   12,412
1999     5,640    1,280      1,996     3,124       2,668       633       34   15,375
2000      6,486    1,472     2,296      3,592      3,068       728       39   17,681
2007     10,415    2,071     3,231      5,054      4,317      1,169      63   26,320
2017     18,652    2,921     4,558      7,129      6,090      2,094      113   41,557
Section 4:
1997     2,033      461        608      1,126       801        197       11    5,237
1998     2,533      575        791     1,403        938        292       16    6,548
1999     3,720      845        991     2,061       1,141       379       20    9,157
2000     4,278      971      1,140      2,370      1,312       435       23   10,529
2007     6,223    1,235      1,450      3,015      1,669       633       33   14,258
2017    11,144    1,505      1,768      3,675      2,035      1,134      59   21,320
Section 5:
1997     1,907      433        502     1,056         656       164        9    4,727
1998     2,316      526        650     1,283         756       246       13    5,790
1999     3,059      694        768      1,694        831       312       17    7,375
2000      3,518     799        884      1,948        956       359        19    8,483
2007     5,118    1,017      1,125      2,478      1,216       522       28   11,504
2017     9,166    1,240      1,371      3,021      1,482       935       50   17,265
2. Tariff:
Small   Medium    Large       Small    Medium       Large   Tractor-   Extra
Car      Bus       bus       truck      truck      truck    Trailer  Loading
Basic      5.0       10.0      15.0       5.0       10.0       15.0      20.0     25.0
(Y/Vehicle)
Mileage    0.40      0.80      1.20      0.40       0.80       1.20      1.60     2.00
(Y/Veh.-km)
lncrease 10% every three years.
3. Operating Costs:  Based on the actual figures, including maintenance and depreciation.
Maintenance:    Routine:   Based on the actual figures and increase 5% annually.
Medium:  1.5 time of routine maintenance for every five years.
Major:    3 times of routine maintcnance for every ten years.
Depreciation:          30 years straight-line method.
4. Operating Taxes:    5.4% of total revenue.
5. Income Tax Rate:   33.0% of the profit before taxes.
Sources: ZPTD and the Bank staff.
- 39 -



Table 3.a
Zhejiang Province: Highway Revenue and Expenditure During Ninth Five Year Plan
(Yuan million)
1996    1997    1998      1999    2000    Total
Revenue
I Road maintenance fee                       1,393.43  1,497.18  1,565.92  1,687.91  1,806.03  7,950.47
2 Tolls                                        273.05   405.41   585.24   477.90   533.25  2,274.85
3 Surcharge on passenger and freight transport  595.75   728.44   769.42   792.00   810.00  3,695.61
4 Vehicle purchase fee                         126.00   196.92   152.55   152.17   157.50   785.14
5 Road maintenance fee- motor vehicle          148.19   164.75   168.07   211.72   226.62   919.35
6 MOC subsidy                                  828.90   518.40   475.20   469.80   976.50  3,268.80
7 Foreign capital                              428.40   243.00   354.60  1,098.00   397.80  2,521.80
8 Bank loan                                    216.00   307.80 3,327.30 4,112.10  5,522.40 13,485.60
9 Local financial allocation                 4,520.76 3,893.25 4,073.41  4,377.29  3,648.18 20,512.89
Total                                       8.530.48  7.955.15 1IA71.71 13.378.89 14.078.28 55.414.51
Expenditure:
I New construction                           7,344.00  6,687.00 10,260.00 11,880.00 12,429.00 48,600.00
2 Taxes                                         51.30    58.77    59.94    62.91    65.97   298.89
3 Traffic safety supervision                    36.27    38.97    56.32    58.95    61.47   251.98
4 Maintenance- prefecture and city             148.19   164.75   168.07   211.73   226.62   919.36
5 Maintenance- province                        726.53   729.72   755.10   782.26   857.37  3,850.98
6 Repayment of interest and principle          147.69   180.00    84.33   270.00   306.00   988.02
7 Administration and special expenditure        76.50    95.94    87.95   113.04   131.85   505.28
Total                                       8.530.48  7955 111.471.71 13.378.89 14.078.28 55.414.51
Total Road Network (1m) -(a)                    34,547   36,532   38,901   39,701   40,500   190,181
Average annual increase                         -       5.7%/    6.5%    2.1%     2.00/o    3.2%
Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan)-(b) /L  874.72   894.47   923.17   993.99  1,083.99 4,770.34
Average unit maint. Expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)  25.32    24.48    23.73    25.04    26.77    25.08
Average annual increase                         -      -3.3%    -3.1%    5.5%      6.9/o    1.1%
/_1: Sum of prefecture, city and province maintenance.
Actual :1996-1998; estimates: 1999-2000.
Sources: ZPTD and the Bank staff.
- 40 -



Table 3.b
Zhejiang Province: Highway Revenue and Expenditure During Tenth Five Year Plan
(Yuan million)
2001     2002    2003    2004    2005    Total
Revenuc
I Road maintenance fee                          1,932.48  2,067.75  2,212.47  2,367.36  2,533.05 11,113.11
2 Tolls                                           570.60   610.20   653.22   698.94   747.90  3,280.86
3 Surcharge on passenger and freight transport   842.40   876.15   911.16   947.61   985.50  4,562.82
4 Vehicle purchase fee                            162.00   166.50   171.00   175.50   180.00   855.00
5 Road maintenance fee- motor vehicle            242.46   259.47   277.65   297.00   317.88  1,394.46
6 MOC subsidy                                     765.00   810.00   855.00   900.00   720.00  4,050.00
7 Foreign capital                                450.00   450.00         -        -        -   900.00
8 Basskloan                                     6,577.02  6,343.20  6,361.65  6,098.49  5,955.75 31,336.11
9 Local financial allocation                    4,500.00  4,590.00  4,680.00  4,500.00  4,410.00 22,680.00
Total                                        16.041.96 16,173.27 16.122.15 15.984.  15,850.08 80.172.36
Exvenditure:
I New construction                             14,400.00 14,490.00 14,400.00 14,220.00 14,040.00 71,550.00
2 Taxes                                           67.50    68.40    69.30    70.20    71.10   346.50
3 Traffic safety supervision                      63.00    63.90    64.80    65.70    66.60   324.00
4 Maintenance- prefecture and city                242.46   259.47   277.65   297.00   317.88  1,394.46
5 Maintenance- province                           828.00   837.00   846.00   855.00   864.00  4,230.00
6 Repayment of interest and principle            315.00   324.00   333.00   342.00   351.00  1,665.00
7 Administration and special expenditure         126.00   130.50   131.40   135.00   139.50   662.40
Total                                        16.041.96 16.173.27 1612215 15984.90 1585008 80.17236
Total Road Network (km) -(a)                       41,400   42,300   43,200   44,100   45,000   216,000
Average annual increase                          2.2%      2.2%     2.1%     2.1%     2.0%      1.7%
Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan) -(b) li  1,070.46  1,096.47  1,123.65  1,152.00  1,181.88  5,624.46
Average unit maint. Expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)  25.86    25.92    26.01    26.12    26.26    26.04
Average annual increase                           --       0.3%     0.3%     0.4%     0.5%     0.3%
/1: Sum of prefecture, city and province maintenance.
Forecast: 2001-2005.
Sources: ZPTD and the Bank staff.
- 41 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Proect Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation     Development
-           MonthYar    Count          Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/89                         3   PO, EC, OS
06/90                         2   PO, TR
11/90                         2   PO, TR
03/91                         2   PO, TR
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/91                         6   PO, TR(x2), OS, EN, EG
11/91                         7   PO, TR(x2), OS, RE, EN, EG
Supervision
10/92                         3  PO, EG, T/E                            S                 HS
05/94                          1  PO                                    S                 S
11/94                         3  PO, EG, RE                             S                 S
01/95                          1  RE                                    S                 S
08/95                          1  PO                                    S                  S
05/96                          1  PO                                    S                  S
10/96                         2  PO, EG                                 S                 S
05/97                          2  PO, EN                               HS                  S
11/97                         2   PO, EN                                S                 s
05/98                          2  PO, EN                                S                  S
11/98                         2  PO, EN                                 S                 S
04/99                          3  PO, EN, EG                            S                  S
07/99                          1  RE                                    S                  S
10/99                          3  PO, EN, RA                            S                 S
04/00                          1  PO                                    S                  S
ICR
07/00                         I   RA                                    S                  S
PO= Project Officer; EG= Engineer; FA= Financial Analyst; EC= Economist; OS= Operations Specialist;
EN= Environmentalist; RE= Resettlement, CO- Counsel; DO= Disbursement Office; RA= Research Analyst;
TS-Training Specialist, T/E= Transport and Equipment Specialist, TR= Transport Specialist
(b) Staff:
StWe of Project Cycle                     Actual/Ltest Estimate
.___________ ._____                 No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               32.7                         78.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                    99.0                        221.0
Supervision                             131.6                        273.5
ICR                                        7.0                        25.0
Total                                   270.3                        598.3
1. Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
- 42 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
3 Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I3 Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
IEnvironmental                            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
(I Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
Li Other (Please specify)           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
; Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
FR Public sector management               0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
-43 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=-Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
F Lending                                            OHS*S  Ou OHU
Z Supervision                                         OHS OS   Ou  OHU
N Overall                                            OIHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
f Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
2 Government implementation performnance             O HS O S   0 U  0 HU
I Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS   0  U  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS 0 u O HU
- 44 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Implementation Report for Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project, ZPEPEC, January 2000
2. Data/Information for the Implementation Report on Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project, ZPEPEC,
January 2000
3. Year 1999 Traffic Volume (Classes by vehicle types and Different sections of NHH, ZPEPEC, January
2000
-45 -






IBIRD 30981
I   ~~~ \-                                                                                                 I                                                                                          _
117'                                   118'                            <       119'            JIANGSU  <                  20&                                                                  -- 122' t3
JI T.Chnngzh-uvh          T0 Hi,    -                               SHANGHA                N
-31'                ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
HIGHWAY PROJECT
C     HANGDHOU NINGBO HIHWAYT
rl    INTERCHANGES
F -  PULL LENGTH IMPROVEMENTS (A)
--- PARTIAL MPROVEMENErS IB)          COMPLETED                           A     H I         T.oWS        '        NM~h*'-
NEW BR DGE CONSTRUCTION (C)      ROAD                                                                                                                      P_rde  1 av 83RD 30982
DEVELOPMENT
ACCESS ROAD CONSTRUCTION(D)      PROGRAM
NEWLY PROPOSED PROJECTS
3       PREVOUS BANK PROJECT ROADS                                                       (               n   >.
(LOAN 2539 CHA/CRED T 1594 ClI                                                  "f6                                  PNYa                                                                 '7" -' N_
PRIMARY ROADS                                                             o5~'3C9a0izo                                                                                                       1                          * *
RURALi ROADS                                              aT.n,                                                                           41      50-iflYJf
RAILROADS                                                                                                                  Y                   IV                                  /nb                        ~     .      -
A RPORT                                                                                             
POETS                                                                   '     Jnn'                                           VXPaha
.-  PREFECTURE ROUNDARIES                            s' -. "                                                          /Ft 'l'-                               rShea  an                                  Sh                                   ni
-   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                            '10DIian 1                                                                                                                                           'D
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)                       - @                   2             a                                                                                  Do; Hoi
A55ANN ,1-"_,, : |                                            \ r^s0go.                             v   . .                     fX.                                              s K.ih4 I  'A
29*.                                                                                                                                                                                                g         1      Dajiahe
352,           SO         75         US?hnZ%                                          G   a
I                                      *<taa9~~~~orR        v'~~$'r - ~~~'    -'7-to ~~Dong Hoi
KILOMETERS                                         Chane'G                                          - o .. V N"   /
JIANGXIlO.tagan                                                                                                                    j           c
-t;4%rr sCetArLMi ieN>*  t   W                                                                                 ts                     _  an 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  B
_, _, .b,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   \,                                                >iV    ...               ...  '<#i. ..........                                                                   s   a/as  Hx D     buigq  .r  . -;, ,  C 
UIAN    <T   '                        28.                                                                                                        I               Y2
HMESR' T         ,cJ 'o'
MONGOLIA                                                                                                                                    )'       Wec.                                  YaBRPT
REP, I                                ~~~FUJIAN
Ma, dNETonon,
4'tuoan,,     Bill, a.       Gap1.47  L_- I                                                                                               .P
nnueptann' d  ,uui  118'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~II119                                             120'                                      TV                                        2'23'






IBRD 30982
<To5Shoegho.   ti e   tu '9- ;- tp1 Q ^;   tj;   , \ n    ,  CHINA
~~2e~~ei  .~~~.                   ZHEJfiANG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
HiANGZHOkI-NNGBO H-IIGHAY
DeUjnge          /  ,n g20   a
,nset A                 '         .        .                  Itt4WfWITWN1RRGW4G0S                                                                  0    :   4   6   a .0
HAi_  tc x  ,; 
W f7 ( < , >Sx                        I I
HA    H                               ,                                 0 ,  CE4BEA 
!    90   S   X  , )1 1 / l18e l  ToIioe  10/ 1 F 
- ROALS2                                                             ,
i9,.ngjO                              EMAKADS
cw     G,,onch                       ~~~~East
hope~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gnzo                                                                                                                                     hn
P.~~~~                                                                                                                                                            e
ZO                              e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soo.o,,oo
Pengb                                                                                                   ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~SH~~~Nn
QIANJHIAN
NNER RI  Shiqia        iNTERHANG
'0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
N-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NU
QIANTANG                                        Z ohui  FTJR 
BRIDGE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pnu
Ql~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                                                          OEB



