Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3471 CHA
(Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
Dated June 19, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3471 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ZHEJIANG PROVINCE (Zhejiang).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to two hundred twenty million dollars ($220,000,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Zhejiang agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by Onlending Arrangements between the Borrower and Zhejiang, the proceeds 
of the Loan will, for the purposes of the Project, be onlent to Zhejiang; and
WHEREAS Zhejiang, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Zhejiang declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Zhejiang shall otherwise agree, Zhejiang shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
onlent to Zhejiang shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Zhejiang shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Zhejiang shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Zhejiang shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by Zhejiang of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Zhejiang shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Zhejiang 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Zhejiang shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
Page  3
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Zhejiang 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Zhejiang thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Zhejiang:
Zhejiang Provincial People's Government
No.1 Sheng Fu Road
Hangzhou 310025
Zhejiang Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
0074 HANGZHOU
35030 COSCO CN
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Zhejiang, may 
be taken or executed by
Governor or Vice Governor of Zhejiang or such other person or persons as Governor or 
Page  4
Vice Governor of Zhejiang shall designate in writing, and Zhejiang shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Marianne Haug
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Parts D.1 and D.2 hereof, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of 
the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in People's Republic of China may be granted a margin 
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Page  5
2.
(a)
Civil works for the 700 meter section between Pengbu and the western 
terminus of the highway under Part A.1 (a) of the Project, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $9,100,000 or less, may be procured under one contract awarded on the 
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
Civil works under Part A.1 (b) of the Project, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $4,000,000 or less, may be procured under one contract awarded on the 
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank; except that civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,800,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price bids 
obtained from at least three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Civil works  under Part B.1 of the Project shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; except that civil works, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $3,750,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$42,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price bids obtained from at least three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and civil works each estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist Zhejiang in carrying out the Project, Zhejiang shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Page  6
1.
Zhejiang shall, under the general supervision and guidance of the Ministry of 
Communications (or any successor thereto) of the Borrower, carry out the Project as 
follows:
(a)
Part A of the Project shall be carried out through the Zhejiang 
Provincial Shanghai-Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway Project Executive Commission 
(Commission), an agency of Zhejiang, or any successor thereto;
(b)
Part B of the Project shall be carried out through the Zhejiang 
Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (Bureau), an agency of Zhejiang Provincial 
Transport Department, or any successor thereto; and
(c)
Part C of the Project shall be carried out through the Commission and the 
Bureau.
2.
Zhejiang shall: (a) establish and maintain, within its Highway Administration 
Bureau, a Road Development Program Unit (RDPU) for the purposes of providing overall 
management and supervision of the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project; (b) 
adequately staff the RDPU with qualified and experienced personnel and provide other 
necessary resources to enable it to achieve its purposes; and (c) adequately staff the 
transport administrations at the municipal prefectural and county level with qualified 
and experienced personnel and provide other necessary resources for the preparation 
and execution of the Sub-projects.
3.
Zhejiang declares its commitment to the preservation of the environment and, to 
this end, shall carry out the environmental protection measures stipulated in the 
Environmental Action Plan
(December 1991), prepared by Zhejiang in respect of Part A.1 of the Project, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Zhejiang declares its commitment to the Bank's policy on resettlement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out the land acquisition and resettlement activities pursuant to 
the Resettlement Action Plan (December 1991), prepared by Zhejiang in respect of Part 
A.1 of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
5.
Zhejiang shall select Sub-projects in accordance with criteria and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank and shall, inter alia, (a) submit, for the Bank's approval, 
each Sub-project proposal including an environmental action plan and a resettlement 
action plan therefor, (b) ensure that during the execution of each Sub-project both 
the environmental action plan and resettlement action plan therefor are carried out in 
a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and (c) prepare, by June 30, 1993, and thereafter 
undertake, in consultation with the Bank, a plan to monitor the effectiveness and 
socio-economic impact of each resettlement, as agreed with the Bank.
6.
Zhejiang shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for review, by June 30, 1996, 
recommendations on appropriate toll levels for the highway under Part A.1 of the 
Project, taking into consideration the experience with the operation of toll highways 
in China.
