Report No. PID6663
PID6663.TXT
Project Name                     China-Second Fujian Highway Project (@#)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       CNPE51705
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency              Fujian Provincial Transport
Department
Mr. Zhou Chao,
Deputy Director, FPTD
6th Floor, Building 2,
Hongyang New Zonc,
118 Yangqiao Road
Fuzhou, Fujian, China
Tel. No. 86-591-760-1477
Fax No. 86-591-760-1472
Date of Initial PID              June, 1998
Date of this PID                 May 3, 1999
Appraisal Date                   March, 1999
Projected Board Date             June, 1999
Project Cost/Financing           IBRD                             200 million
Central Government               106 million
Provincial Government            291.4 million
Total costs                      597.4 million
Background
1.      China's economic development since the opening of the economy in the
late 1970s has resulted in a 9.5 percent average annual rate of economic
growth. Key facets of this growth are rapidly increasing domestic and foreign
trade as well as increasing personal mobility and consumption of energy.
These, in turn, have caused the demand for transport infrastructure and higher
quality transport services to surge. Supply capacity, however, is constrained
and recognized as one of the most serious bottlenecks to future economic
growth and efficiency. In particular, motorization is growing very rapidly.
The road network in China ranks among the sparsest in the world relative to
geographic area and population and very few intercity expressways are in
existence.
2.      The Government of China (GOC), through its Ministry of Communication
(MOC) has embarked on a major program of expressway construction, comprising
some 35,000 km, at an estimated cost of some US$150 billion, and leading to
the development of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS). This system will
consist of 12 interprovincial trunk expressways, spanning China and connecting
some 100 major cities. The coastal expressway between Tongjiang at the
Russian border and Sanya on Hainan island is among the four highest priority



corridors in this program. It crosses the provinces of Heilongjiang, Jilin,
Liaoning, Shandong, Jiangsu, Shanghai, Zhejiang, Fujian, Guangdong and Hainan
over a distance of approximately 5,200 km. It is designed as a high-grade-
high-performance facility, at four lane - dual carriageway standard, fully
access controlled, and will be operated throughout as a toll highway. This
major expressway is scheduled for completion by about 2005.
3.      Fujian Province, with an area of about 121,000 sq. km, is situated along
the southeast coast of China. It has a population of about 33 million
inhabitants. Eighty percent of the land area is classified as mountainous
while flat and rolling areas with the centers of economic activity are located
along the province's 3,300 km eastern coastline. This geographical
configuration presents a natural barrier to the flow of communication and has
retarded the development of north-south and east-west transport linkages
between Fujian and its neighboring provinces. Proximity to Taiwan (China) and
Hong Kong, however, coupled with preferential government policy, have led to
the establishment of successful special economic zones at Fuzhou, the
province's capital city and at Xiamen, its most important port city. Facing
the Taiwan Straight on the east, Hong Kong and Southeast Asia on the south,
and directly bordering the rapidly developing provinces of Zhejing in the
north and Guangdong in the south, Fujian is strategically located for rapid
economic development.
Project Objectives
4.      The proposed project would have the objectives to: (a) relieve traffic
congestion and improve the mobility and integration of interprovincial trade,
commerce and tourism between Fujian and Guangdong Provinces by assisting in
the development of a key section of China's National Trunk Highway System
(NTHS) in the principal coastal corridor; (b) strengthen highway institutional
capacity at the Fujian Provincial Transport Department (FPTD) and related
sector institutions, through provision of training, technical assistance and
equipment, in planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of
Fujian's highway network; (c) develop and sustain a policy dialogue in the two
key policy areas of the commercialization and corporatization of a provincial
toll road authority and of province-wide highway maintenance management; and
(d) improve the safety of road transport.
Project Description
5.      The investment components of the Second Fujian Project would include the
construction of: (i) Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway (ZZE) (132.5 km) in Fujian;
(ii) an interconnecting road program (about 13 km); and (iii) other roads
(about 42 km). These physical components would be strategic investments
contributing to the early completion of an interprovincial coastal expressway
of about 5,200 km between the Heilongjiang border with the Russian Federation
in the North and Hainan Province in the South. The Zhangzhou-Zhao'an
expressway is the only section not yet financed linking Fuzhou with Guangzhou
and Hong-Kong.
6.      The institutional and policy components for the project would comprise:
(i) staff training and equipment to improve province-wide highway financing,
management, and operation; (ii) road safety program; (iii) studies on highway
maintenance management and toll rates; and (iv) construction supervision
services for the expressway section, its interconnecting roads, and other
- 2 -



priority roads.
Project Cost and Financing
7.      The estimated total cost of the project will be US$597.4 million with a
foreign exchange component of about US$200 million.
Implementation
8.      The Fujian Provincial Transport Department has the overall
responsibility for project preparation and implementation. Under FPTD, Fujian
Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate Office (FPECDO), the executing
agency for the ongoing Bank-financed Xiamen-Quanzhou and Fuzhou-Quanzhou
expressway projects, would also be the executing agency for the proposed
Zhangzhou-Zhao'an expressway project. Other project components such as the
interconnecting road program, the other road subprojects, the TA, study and
training components and the procurement of equipment would be executed by
FPTD. The project would be implemented during 2000- 2005. Overall direction
of the project at the central level would rest with the Ministry of
Communication (MOC). MOC will assume an important role and provide some
technical support. The Bank loan would be lent to the Borrower, the Ministry
of Finance (MOF) which in turn would onlend the loan proceeds to Fujian
Province on the same conditions as the Bank loan would be lent to MOF.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
9.      The involvement of the Bank results in much needed additional financial
resources to help remove highway bottlenecks and increase traffic capacity in
this high priority transport corridor. Bank involvement will accelerate
policy, institutional and manpower development in highway planning, design,
supervision, construction, operation, maintenance and finance. Bank
involvement is also expected to benefit the design and the quality of
construction of the roads to be undertaken.
10.     Furthermore, the Bank will help the Provincial Transport Department to
emphasize the need for proper maintenance of the highway network through
introduction of modern maintenance equipment, training of staff and allocation
of adequate maintenance funds. In addition, it will raise the awareness of
the highway safety problem and make improvements in this regard. Similarly,
Bank involvement will improve the provincial practices in the analyses and
implementation of environmental, land acquisition, resettlement, and
participatory aspects of highway projects.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
11.     Since 1985, the Bank has financed 21 highway projects in China (of which
seven have closed), amounting to more than US$4.0 billion in Bank loans and
IDA credits. The Bank has been and remains involved in the construction of
some 2,800 km of toll expressways and other high-grade toll highways and in
the rehabilitation, upgrading and maintenance of some 13,000 km of lower level
(including rural) roads. In addition, as revealed during a recent Bank review
and assessment of its highway TA, the Bank was and is involved in more than 50
TA tasks, comprising (i) highway planning and prioritization; (ii) highway
finance; (iii) highway maintenance; (iv) operation and management of high-
grade highways; and (v) traffic safety. Moreover, since mid-1996, the Bank
-3 -



has also become heavily involved in the securitization of Bank-financed
highway assets in China (so-called "asset-based financing"), through the
issuance of highway equity of provincial toll road corporations on the Hong
Kong and Shenzhen stock exchanges.
12.     While the overall performance of the Bank's highway projects is by and
large satisfactory, a number of problems have occurred, which have been taken
into consideration in the design of the proposed project. The problems
include: inadequate preliminary engineering designs and bid documents
including costing of civil works; quality control of construction; late
commencement of electrical and mechanical facilities component (which has
delayed completion of some projects and necessitated the extension of the
closing date of several Bank loans), and some lack in the scope and speed of
policy and institutional reform, specifically relating to road maintenance,
improved high-grade highway management and operation, and traffic safety.
13.     All engineering designs and technical bid documents including cost
estimates for the proposed expressways and related roads, including their E&M
facilities, will be reviewed by international engineering consultants under
grant funding from Japan. These technical reviews are still ongoing and will
be completed by end of 1999. The quality of project engineering has also
profited from the involvement of a French expressway specialist who
participated in all project preparation mission. Quality control of
construction, specifically for expressway works will be undertaken by foreign
and domestic supervision consultants, with on average one well trained and
experienced supervisor per km of expressway. The matter will also be
addressed through increasing the frequency and quality of the Bank's
supervision, by adding an experienced Chinese construction engineer to the
technical staff at RMC who will also supervise the road works under the Second
Fujian Highway project. This will be reflected in the proposed supervision
mission plan. Timely completion of the E&M component will be achieved through
stricter control and early commencement of the design and tendering
procedures.
14.     Some lack in progress in the highway sector policy dialogue with China
constitutes the weakest area in the Bank's highway program. Although highway
lending is substantial, with on average US$500-600 million per year in new
highway loans, resulting in the Bank's important impact on the fast expansion
in China's road capacity, progress in policy and institutional reforms has
lacked and continues to lack behind. This deficiency is primarily rooted in
the highly decentralized nature of China's highway sector, resulting in a
weakened central ministry (MOC) and a consequent lack of national policy and
institutional framework for sector reform, as well as in the construction
orientation of China's provincial highway agencies. During preparation of the
proposed project additional efforts were made to engage the Fujian PTD in a
continuing policy dialogue. This was achieved by involving a policy and
institutional expert from the Swedish Road Administration who joined all Bank
preparation missions for the proposed project. To continue highway sector
lending to China in coming years, the Bank needs to develop a more aggressive
approach in this arena by staffing project preparation and supervision
missions regularly with qualified institutional and policy experts and by
advancing the sector policy dialogue more aggressively with MOC.
15.     There also is a growing concern that adequate funding for highway
maintenance is now not being secured to cover an expanding and more expensive
- 4 -



highway system. Previously, this was not a real issue in China; adequate
funding was set aside for this purpose. A comprehensive Highway Maintenance
study under this project would address the organizational framework and
develop a sustainable maintenance policy in the Province.
16.     Experience in the area of land acquisition and resettlement has
generally been satisfactory in the Bank's highway projects in China. In this
area, as in the environmental area, it is particularly important that the Bank
makes its requirements well known to the Chinese agencies at an early stage in
the preparation of the project. A Bank resettlement specialist was involved
from the very beginning in project preparation. The resettlement action plan
for the proposed project has been reviewed and cleared by EASES.
17.     Experience in the environmental area in China has generally been
favorable as well. As in the case of resettlement, a Bank environmental
specialist has been involved in project preparation from the very beginning.
However, more attention needs to be paid to environmental supervision during
construction and to the training of environmental personnel by the Chinese
side. The proposed project will provide an adequate institutional setup and
training for such environmental supervision and training. The quality of the
Bank's resettlement and environmental work has also been improved recently, as
part of the Bank's decentralization efforts. More of this work will in future
be shifted to RMC due to increasing resident mission capacity in resettlement
and environment.
Environmental Aspects
18.     The project is a category "A" from an environmental point of view.
Environmental impact assessments (EIA) and Environmental Action Plans (EAP)
have been carried out for the main roads included under the project. Major
environmental impacts include noise and air pollution during construction and
operation; alteration of hydrological regimes, soil erosion and impacts on
local ecology during construction; impacts on cultural relics; and
transportation of construction materials during construction. The revised
final EIAs, EAPs and EA Summaries were submitted in March 1999 and were found
to be satisfactory to the Bank.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Aspects
19.     The project will require land acquisition and resettlement.
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) are in accordance with Bank's Operational
Directive 4.30 and have been found satisfactory. Efforts will be made during
project preparation to minimize land acquisition and resettlement through
modifications in highway alignments and designs.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
-5-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 21, 1999.
- 6 -



