E-254
REVISED VOL. 8
World Bank Loan Project
LONGHAI BAISUIJI BRIDGE
The Other Highway Project
Fujian Provincial Highway Project II
Tongjiang-Sanya
National Highway Trunk Line
People's Republic of China
Environmental Action Plan
SCANNED FILE COP
FILE  _ _ e*1mor1 ) L*CV6EVTEWC gEAeh Pn c
Fujian Provincial Communications Department
Fuzhou, China
April, 1999



World Bank Loan Project
LONGHAI BAISHUI BRIDGE
The Other Highway Project
Fujian Provincial Highway Project II
Tongjiang-Sanya
National Highway Trunk Line
People's Republic of China
Environmental Action Plan
Fujian Provincial Communications Department
Fuzhou, China
April, 1999



Content
1. Main Items of Environmental Protection                       1
2. Formulation, Implementation and Supervision of EAP           2
2.1 Laws and regulations associated with environmental action plan  2
2.2 Executive unit                                              2
2.3 Supervision organ                                           2
3. Environmental Protection Actions                             4
3.1 Design period                                               4
3.2 Construction period                                         5
3.3 Operation period                                            7
4. Cost Estimation and Implementation of
Environmental Protection Measures                            8
4.1 Cost estimation                                             8
4.2 Time schedule of implementation of
environmental protection measures                            8
S. Environmental Management Organ and Responsibility            8
5. 1 Environmental management organization                      8
5.2 Organs to implement the environmental action plan           10
6. Environmental Monitoring plan                                12
6.1 Purpose and principles                                       12
6.2 Monitoring target and item for each period                   12
6.3 Environmental monitoring plan                                12
7. Appendix table                                               13



Environmental Action Plan for
Longhai Baishui Bridge
The Other Highway Project of Fujian Provincial Highway Project II
This environmental action plan (EAP) is based on the "Environmental Impact
Assessment Statement for Longhai Baishui Bridge, The Other Highway Project of
Fujian Provincial Highway Project II", with contents including the action plan of
environmental management and environmental monitoring for environmental
protection work.
The environmental protection work for this bridge project shall follow the
guideline of "overall planning, reasonable layout, integrated utilization, turning harm
into good, relying on general public, everyone participating, to protect enviromnent,
and to bring benefit to people", and to adhere the principles of "prevention first,
prevention combined with treatment, strengthening management, to promote
treatment, and whoever causes the pollution should be responsible for treatment".
This environmental action plan is made on the basis of the engineering design and
environmental protection measures, to ensure effective measures to be taken in the
stages of design, construction and operation to mitigate or compensate the negative
impacts arising from the bridge project.
1. Main Items of Environmental Protection
(1) Noise
Non-continuous noise arising from construction work in road construction period
and unstable noise from road traffic in road operation period.
(2) Air
Dusts and TSP arising from construction work site activities such as operation of
transport vehicles and mixing plant, in road construction period, and the pollutants of
vehicle'emissions from traffic in road operation period.
(3) Water and soil retention
Soil erosion may occur in bridge construction period. Particularly in the rainy
season (from May to June), attention should be paid to effective measures to be taken
to reduce the soil erosion, although soil erosion in this area is not serious.
(4) Water environment
The bridge will cross Nanxi river and some of the pools, irrigation channel and
small streams.
(4) Land use
To reduce permanent land acquisition and temporary land occupation as much as
possible, to reduce temporary land occupation time period, and to recover cover plant
or back to original use in time.



2. Formulation, Implementation and Supervision of EAP
The purpose of this environmental action plan is to set forth concrete
implementation method for environmental protection measures, and to outline the
requirements for the management activities of the supervision work in the project
implementation period (design, construction), and of the environmental monitoring
work in the road operation period.
2.1 Laws and regulations associated with environmental action plan
(l) "Law of Environmental Protection of the People's Republic of China";
(2) "Law of Water and Soil Retention of the People's Republic of China";
(3) "Law of the People's Republic of China for the Prevention and Treatrnent of
Water Pollution";
(4) "Law of the People's Republic of China for the Prevention and Treatment of
Noise Pollution";
(5) "Law of the People's Republic of China for the Prevention and Treatment of
Air Pollution";
(6) "Land Administration Law of the People's Republic of China";
(7) "Law of Cultural Relics Protection of the People's Republic of China";
(8) "Regulations Concerning with the Environmental Protection and Management
of Capital Construction Project", State Council Ordinance No.253;
(9) "Measures Concerning the Environmental Protection and Management for
Communications Construction Project" Ministiy of Communications (MOC);
(10) "Environmental Protection Design Specifications for Highway" (JTJ/T006-
98, MOC).
2.2 Executive unit
Organization of the implementation of the environmnental action plan for the
Longhai Baishui Bridge will be the responsibility of the Fujian Provincial
Communications Department (PCD). Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction
Headquarters (PECH) and the Provincial Expressway Co. Ltd. are responsible for
implementation of environmental protection measures in design, construction and
operation period for the bridge project respectively.
2.3 Supervision organ
Fujian Provincial Environmnental Protection Bureau (PEPB), the competent
authority for environmental protection under the Fujian Provincial People's
Government, is responsible for overall supervision of the implementation of
environmental protection work in the province.
The Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau (MEPB) is the competent
authority of the local people's government for environmental protection in the area
under its jurisdiction, responsible for the area's environmental quality taking
necessary measures to improve the environmental quality. An environmental
2



monitoring center station is set by the PEPB, and environmental monitoring stations
are set at local (municipal/county) level, for routine environmental monitoring work.
The organization of the environmental protection supervision organ and the
supervision system organization are shown in Figure 1. The environmental monitoring
for the bridge project in the construction and operation period shall be implemented
by the PECH, the Provincial Expressway Co. Ltd. and the local EPB respectively.
Table I shows the summary of the environmental supervision plan.
Figure I Environmental protection supervision organ
Table 1 Environmental su pervision plan
Stage     Agency              Work content                             Purpose
Feasibility   MOC(EPO) 1. Examine the EIA               I.To ensure possible serious issues for the project
study       World Bank                                  to be addressed properly
(WB)       2. Examine the draft of EAP      2.To ensure there is feasible action plan to deal
PEPB                                        with possible major and potential issues.
Design &    WB,         1. Examine preliminary design for  1. To carry out the "three simutaneousness"
construction PEPB      environment protection & EAP     & EAP
period      EPOMOC  2. To cxamine if there is investment 2. To make sure the investment being made
WB, PEPB, for environment protection
Provincial  3. To check construction site:  3. To make sure the work site to meet the
municipal  material handling, mixing etc.   requirements of environment protection
& county   4. To check dust & noise control   4. To reduce the impact & implement
level EPB   measures & work time schedule    regulations
5. To check sewage discharge and   5. To ensure water resource not being polluted
wastes treatment at work site.
PEPB       6. Earth borrowing & spoil disposal 6. To ensure no damage to landscape and land
area arrangement & treatrnent   resources
7. To check the implementation o 7. To make sure the implementation of the
the 'three simutaneousness" & to   "three simutancousness"
determine the final time schedule
EPOMOC   8. To examine if the environmcnt   8. To check and accept the environment
PEPB,      protection facilities in conformity   protection facilities
with the standards
Operation   PEPB        1. Examine EAP implementation    1. To carry out EAP
period                 2. Examine the implementation    2. To carry out environment monitor plan
of environment monitor plan     3. To strengthen environmental management & to
3. Check further measures be taken protect people's health
(for unforeseen issues)
Zhangzhou 4.Sensitive spot environment quality 4. Environmental management for public health
Longhai    S. No surface drainage directly into 5. Ensure drinking water not being polluted
MEPB       drinking water source
PEPB       6. Be prepared for traffic incidents 6. To remove hidden danger and to avoid serious
_Fire fighting & accidents                   pollution accident, and to reduce accident loss.
3



3. Environmental Protection Actions
3.1 Design period
(1) Reduce land occupation
The bridge project is located in the east of Zhangzhou, over the Nanxi river a
tributary of Jiulongjiang river, with landforms characteristic of marine alluvial plain.
Some of the road section will have deep filling, and some of the farm land will have to
be used with total land acquisition of 59.4 mu. Since the area has less land and more
people, it has been considered in the design to reduce land occupation as much as
possible, particularly for the farmn land.
(2) River system and soil erosion
The agriculture along the road bridge area is quite developed, with crisscross
water irrigation system, which has been taken into consideration in design period not
to change the existing pattern of the system to ensure integrity and function of the
system. All these factors have been considered in the design
Along the whole road area plantation, it has been arranged to cover the side slope
with plants, intercept ditches and earth retaining wall to be set up to prevent or reduce
soil erosion.
(3) Water pollution
Deposit pool has been decided to be set at labour camp to prevent sewage being
directly discharged into water body of the Nanxi river.
(4) Noise pollution
Within 50m from the road side there will be noise pollution caused by the road
traffic, so in the road side area, buildings for sensitive receivers such as resident house,
school, hospital, etc., should not be built.
(5) Air pollution
To prevent dust flying impact, it will be considered in the design to select quarry,
earth borrowing and spoils disposal areas 300 away from the resident area.
(6) Land acquisition and resettlement
It has been stressed in the feasibility study report the principles to be followed for
the road alignment to be away from towns and villages as far as possible, to reduce
farm land occupation and resettlement work to the minimum. Total land acquisition is
59.4 mu. Resettlement office is to be established by the owner of the road project to
ensure accomplishment of the resettlement work before commencement of the
engineering construction, to supervise implementation of the associated compensation
and resettlement work for the benefit of the affected people, with the details as seen in
resettlement action plan (RAP).
(7) Reasonable selection of alignment
4



The alignment of the road bridge has been selected based on the comparison of
different alternative schemes, taking into account of the local government
department's opinions and suggestions, with densely populated areas have been
avoided and it is consistent with local township development program.
(8) Flood control
The main rivers crossed by the road project are Jiulongjiang river and its
tributaries. The river bed is stable, with conspicuous river channel and with little
undulations of the river bottom. Most land on both sides of the river are paddy, woods
and barrens with soil erosion being serious. The river channel has water all the year
round. One large bridge, one medium bridge will be built taking into consideration of
flood discharge capacity, as well as 5 culverts to ensure flood to be discharged
smoothly in rainy season.
3.2 Construction period
(I) Air pollution
Dust is the major pollutant for air pollution in construction period. The main
sources of the dust come from lime and earth mixing, material transport, and road
construction machine operation, and some may be produced from cement concrete
mixing and loading and unloading of the construction materials. To mitigate the work
site air pollution for the benefit of the workers' and local residents' health, following
measures shall be taken.
(i) Airtight device will be provided for the mixing equipment with two-stage dust
removing system. Labour protection will be provided for the workers. The mixing
plant will be set at place there is no sensitive points such as resident areas, schools,
and etc., within 300 m in the leeward direction.
(ii) The truck will be covered when used for bulk material transport to prevent
spillage and the storage area will also be covered and sprinkled.
(iii) To sprinkle over the construction work site of the mixing plant and the area
along the road for construction material transport.
(2) Noise pollution
The noises in the construction period mainly come from road construction
machinery and transport vehicle. To protect the workers' health, and the sensitive
receivers, such as those in near-by resident area, school, etc., it will be necessary to
take the following measures.
(i) To keep the construction machines well maintained in optimal operation
conditions, and reasonable working shift shall be arranged, to reduce the time for the
workers to be exposed to the noise, or by changing work shift so as to have time to
recover his/her hearing ability. For workers close to the machines ear plug will be
5



provided and work time be shortened.
(ii) In case there is resident area within 50 m from the work site, night time
(22:00 - 6:00) machine operation shall not be arranged. The main transport corridor
(temporarily set) will also be selected away from the resident area as far as possible.
(3) Soil erosion and water pollution
(i) Earth borrowing area will be selected carefully, to use low high land with little
cover plant as much as possible. After earth borrowing work it is imperative to follow
the requirements as specified in the "Law of Water and Soil Retention of the People's
Republic of China" and those set forth by the SEPA, to restore the area with cover
plant, to reduce soil erosion.
(ii) It has been considered to avoid rainy season avoid for subgrade construction
as much as possible; and during the construction paving will be combined with
compaction section by section also pass by pass to reduce soil erosion.
(iii) Attention will be paid to the navigation and irrigation system, when bridge
foundation and culvert are built, to avoid damage to the systems. No wastes should be
discharged into the river.
(iv) Septic tank will be provided in the labour camp, sewage will be discharged in
designated area, with regularly cleaning treatment; and some wastes may be used for
farm land as fertilizer.
(4) Protection of land and wood land resources
(i) To have overall planning of the land acquired for the project, to reduce
temporarily used land or not borrow earth from farm land as much as possible, and to
reduce land occupation time as much as possible, once the work is completed the land
should be returned back immediately for original or planed land use.
(ii) To strengthen education and personnel training to protect the wood land, and
to ban indiscriminate cutting and to prevent fires.
(5) Transport
To avoid traffic congestion and prevent traffic accident, it will be necessary to
maintain the road traffic conditions and to ensure mobility of the road the river traffic.
(6) Culture relics protection
To make publicity of the laws and regulations concerning cultural relics
protection, in the education and personnel training for the construction workers, and to
set forth rewards and penalties system. if there is any underground cultural relics to be
discovered during the process of the construction, it shall be reported immediately to
the cultural relics protection department by the contractor and the construction work
6



shall stop and not proceed until proper treatment having been done by the
archaeological professionals organized by the cultural relics protection department.
3.3 Operation period
(1) Control of traffic noise
(i) To strengthen management of road traffic and road maintenance, and to ban
vehicles with noise exceeding the standard limit onto the road. In accordance with
"Law of the People's Republic of China for the Prevention and Treatment of Noise
Pollution", motor vehicles shall be equipped with muffler and the horn to meet the
standard requirements, and shall have good technical conditions to meet the noise
level and emission standard requirements, otherwise, no certificate shall be issued to
the vehicle; and should not be allowed to operate on road. So enforcement shall be
strengthened in the operation period.
(ii) According to the forecast, within the assessment area, 20m away from both
sides of the approach road, the traffic noise by day and by night will not exceed the
Class IV standard (GB3096-93) (70 dB(A) by day, 55dB(A) by night) in the operation
period, even by the year of 2016.
(iii) Environmental protection measures and recommendations for operation
period
A. The traffic noise forecast shows that within the assessment area, the traffic
noise by day and by night will have slight impact on the environmental quality;
however, in the long run, it is recommended to the land use planning department that
no such environmental sensitive buildings as resident houses, schools and hospital
should be allowed to be built in the area in 50 m from the road side.
B. To strengthen management of road maintenance and traffic control, to keep the
road in good conditions and mobility of the traffic.
C. The resident area in Neijiayang is close to the connecting point of the bridge
approach and the Nanxi road; and the connecting site may have some changes, so
noise monitoring at the site shall be done if it is necessary.
(2) Ambient air pollution control
According to the forecast, under the meteorological conditions of type D stability,
the concentrations of CO and NOx in the area 1 Om away from both sides of the
approach road in the long term of operation period will be up to Class II standard,
which indicates that the impact of traffic emission on ambient air is slight.
(3) Greening plantation and water pollution
(i) To strengthen plantation of greening engineering for the road to recover the
cover plant damaged in the construction period as early as possible, to reduce soil
erosion, to improve landscape of the road and bridge area, to protect the road subgrade
to promote a harmonized ecological system. During the process of greening plantation,
attention should be paid to the consistency with the township development program.
(ii) During the construction period, water quality shall be monitored regularly to
supervise the environmental protection measures taken and to prevent water pollution.
7



(4) Transport and trucking traffic management
To strengthen management of truck traffic particularly dangerous goods transport
and bulk dusty materials transport, to prevent spillage over the road pavement and the
bridge deck.
4. Cost Estimation and Implementation of Environmental Protection Measures
4.1 Cost estimation
The environmental protection measures cost estimation based on the features of
the bridge project is shown in Table 4-1.
Table 4-1 Environmental protection measures cost estimation
Item                            Content                   Quantity   Unit cost   Sub total
(CNYI,DOO) (CNYI,000)
EP at construction stage  sprinkle, garbage spoils & mud disposal & transport  2 years   9/month  216
Environmental monitoring  construction epriodt noise, TSP, water quality,  2 years   20 / year  40
operation period: noise, water quality*.  15 years   10/year  150
(once/year)
EP training    take part in the Zhang-Zhao expressway construction period    once    2/person  10
of 1999 environmental protection (EP) training
Green beautification   on both sides of the approach road planting trees,flowers etc.  4 places    5/place  20
Unforeseen cost                                              20Y. of total _        87.2
ToWa                                                                            523.2
* Water qualim monitoring in operation period will be done for both Xinyu exua-large bridge and Baishui bridge, with the monitoring
costs for Baishui bridge to be paid once per year.
4.2 Time schedule of implementation of environmental protection measures
Based on the construction engineering work progress schedule, the personnel
training for environmental management may be arranged together with that for the
Zhang-Zhao expressway in 1999; the environmental monitoring should be arranged
over the period of October,1999 - September, 2001 in construction period, and over
2000 - 2016 in operation period; and the greening plantation should be arranged over
2000 - 2002.
5. Environmental Management Organ and Responsibility
5.1 Environmental management organization
Figure 5-1 shows the organization chart for environmental management.
The followings will be stressed for the environmental management for the
project.
(1) Design period: the design institute for the bridge project have taken into
account of the measures set forth in the EIA statement to be included in the design,
and the owner of the bridge project will be responsible for check the design scheme
that if the environmental protection measures have been included in the design.;
(2) Bidding period: The contractor shall include environmental protection
measures in his bidding document, including the costs for the measures;
8



(3) In construction period the project owner shall arrange one person (full or part
time) for management and supervision of environmental protection work in the light
of the requirements set in the design document, with emphasis on water quality;
(4) In construction period each contractor shall arrange one person responsible for
management and supervision of implementation of the environmental protection
measures.
(5) In operation period the environmental management and monitoring shall be
implemented by the Provincial Expressway Co.. Ltd.
EPO of MOC            I    EPO of         SEPA   |Top
I  World Bank                 I Supervisor
oo I          Provincial           r -   --
cc I           Communications                           _
I            ~~~~~Provincial  iTop routine
.o  :      Department (PCD)                              EPB      Supervisor
EPO ofProvincial      i
*4* I        Expressway Construction                                   Supervisor
Headquarters (PECH)            Zhangzhou Municipal EPB    Sei
.,      Longhai Municipal EPB I
n                     I                                           tI
I                                  .
I                                  II
_ _ H    _ _ __ _ _    _ _ _ E . I__ __  _______              I___
lEPO of Provincial     _ > II
gL I  _    Expressway Co. Ltd. _u 
Q  I    ~Zhangzbou Municipal
O  I       Communications Bureau
:~~~~~~~~~                                              I
>%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l
e        ~~~Longhai Municipal
<   I      Communications Bureau
:>~~~~~~~~~ l
Manage & Executive Agency        I  Supervisor organI
Figure 5.1 Baishui bridge environmental protection organization
9



5.2 Organs to implement the environmental action plan
The Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Headquarters is responsible for
overall management of environmental protection for Baishui bridge in construction
period. The Fujian Expressway Co. Ltd. is responsible for the management of
environmental protection for the project in operation period. Figure 5-2 and Figure 5-3
show the management organization system in the construction and operation period.
Table 5-1 shows the environmental action plan.
Fujian Provincial Expressway
Construction Headquarters (FPECH)
Environmental Protection Office (EPO)
(I director, 2 officers)
Zhang-Zhao Expressway Construction
Headquarters (ZZECH)
(I deputy director in charge of EP,
I engineer for EP work)
Fujian Provincial          Baishui Bridge Construction
Environmental Monitor           Headquarters (BBCH)
Station (FPEMS)                (I engineer for EP)
Zhangzhou Municipal
Environmental Monitor
Station (ZMEMS)
Figure 5-2 Environmental management organs in construction period
EPO of FPECH
(I director, 2 officers)
Zhang-Zhao Expressway Co. Ltd.
(I deputy manager in charge EP, I engineer for EP work)
Zhangzhou Municipal Highway Management Division
(I engineer for EP)
Longhai Municipal Highway Management Division
Figure 5-3 Environmental management organs in operation period
10



Table 5-1 Summary of the environmental management action plan for the road project
EA factor   |              Environmental protection measures                 Action    I  In charge  I Paragraph No~
A. Design stage
I. Route selection   land occupation as less as possible;                    Design unit,  PECH          3.1 (I)
- away from sensitive points as far as possible such as school and Contractor    Longhai  3.1(4)
resident area;                                                            Municipality
- avoid poor geological area and culture relics as far as possible;
- public promotion of the road project.
2. Soil erosion  - complete design of plantation for the road area,                                       3.1 (2)
- proper selection of quarry, earth borrowing, spoil disposal area;
- proper drainage design;                                                               3.1 (2)
-to avoid high filling and cutting as much as possible.                                 3.1 (2)
3.          Land - proper arrangement of the resettlement;                                                3.1 (6)
acquisition        fair compensation for the resettlement
& resettlement
4. Bridge design    to meet flood control requirements, without compromising of the                       3.1 (S)
local irrigation system.
B. Construction stage
I. Noise pollution   stop machine work at night when there is resident area nearby;    Contractor,   Supervision   3.2 (2) (ii)
- proper arrangement of construction work, personnel training for Construction   company,  3.2 (2) (i)
machine,                                                                  PECH
- abide by the industrial noise standard, to take protection measures                   3.2 (2) (i)
for worker.
2. Air pollution    - Proper arrangement of mixing plant 300m from sensitive points;                      3.2 (1) (i)
- to use stationary mixing plant as much as possible, with dust
remove device;
- proper arrangement of material storage area;                                          3.2 (I) (ii)
- sprinkle over work site and unpaved road surface to reduce dust.                      3.2 (1) (iii)
3. Ecological     - proper planning of temporary land use, timely back to original
environment      use;                                                                                    3.2 (3) (i)
- proper planning of earth and stone work to reduce damage to
cover plant as much as possible, timely plantation of damaged                           3.2 (3) (ii)
cover plant;
- proper arrangement of bridge construction, ensure farm  land                          3.2(3) (iv)
imgation and flood control;
- proper treaument of worksite wastes;
- to meet design requirement for subgrade drainage, treatment of
poor geological areas, and the protection engineering work;
4. Others         - set up temporary communication system;
- public health and medical care for the workers;
- timely report and inform of discovered underground cultural                           3.2(6)
relics, with proper measures to protect the site;
- strengthen traffic management in construction period for safety                       3.2(5)
and mobility;
* personnel training of safety knowledge.
C. Operation stage
1. Land use      - for areas within S0m  from  both sides of the road, no Land use          Longhai Cons.
planning          environmental sensitive buildings shall be arranged.        planning dept. Land Bureau
2.Traffic control & - strengthen tratlic management and road maintenance.     Zhangzhou,   Local PSB,   3.3 (1) (i)
road maintenance                                                              Longhai, PSB,
3.Dangerous goods - implementation and enforcement of dangerous goods tntnsport MCB         department   3.3 (I)(iv)
transport         regulations
4. Environmental  - in accordance with the environmental monitoring plan to carry out ZMEMS  PECH         3.3 (3) (i)
monitoring        the environmental monitoring work.                                                     13.3 (3) (ii)
II



6. Environmental Monitoring plan
6.1 Purpose and principles
The purpose of the environmental monitor plan is to supervise implementation of
each of the measures in EAP for environmental protection, to timely adjust the
environrmental action plan making it more effective and efficient, and to provide basis
for formulation of time schedule and scheme for the action plan, as well as for post
assessment of the project. The principle of monitor plan formulation is based on the
major impacts in each of the forecast periods and the indicators actually measured
with emphasis on each of the sensitive points.
6.2 Monitoring target and item for each period
(1) In construction period, TSP, noise, and the water quality (pH, COD, oil, and
SS) 50m downstream the bridge shall be monitored.
(2) In operation period noise shall be monitored.
6.3 Environmental monitoring plan
The environmental monitoring work for the bridge project is to be conducted by
the Zhangzhou Municipal Environmental Monitoring Station (ZMEMS) in accordance
with the monitoring plan (as shown in Table 6-1) entrusted by the project owner, who
will sign a contract with the monitoring station for the monitoring work. The cost of
the monitoring work is estimated about CNY 190,000, of which CNY40,000 for
construction period and CNY150,000 for operation period.
Table 6-1 Environmental monitoring plan
Item       Period                  Location                  Frequency       Action organ    Supervising organ
I point for the first raw building close to construction stage Zhangzhou  Zhang-Zhao
Construction road at NeUijayang resident arma, borrowing once/month, I day Municipal  Expressway
Noise                area,quartm. resident area along the road for by day and night  Monitor  Headquarters
construction transpon.                               Environmental     (ZZEH)
Station (ZMEMS)  Zhangzhou EPB
I poain tor the first raw building ciose to 2001 -2016,  ZMEMS        Zhang-Zhou
Operation  road at Neitiayang resident area    once/year, I day,                  Expressway
by day and night                  Co.Ltd. (ZZECL)
Ambient air             Unpaved road, mixing plant work site,    random      ZMEMS             ZZEH,
TSP     Construction temporary road on work site,        as required                        Zhangzhou EPB
resident area at Neijiayang
Water                downstream ofJiulongjsang Nanxi Xinyuhe once per 3 months ZMEMS         ZZECL.
quality    Operation  section (monitor for both Xinyu extra-large 2 days each time,          Zhanghzou EPB
pH, CODcr               bridge and Baishu, bridge)           I moming,
oil, SS, DO                                                  I atbenoon
Others                construction site, pre-fabrication work site  random  ZMEMS            ZZEH,
(garbage,  Construction                                    as required                        Zhangzhou EPB
spoil, mud)                                                .
12



7. Appendix table
Table 7-1 Surface water quality standard (Class III summary? (Unit: mg/L, except for pH)
Item       PH   I Permanganate index  CODcr      DO      Total Lead    Oil     SS *
Standard value 6.5 - 8.5 |  S 6           20                   5  S 0.05  0.05   S 150
* water quality standard for agricultural irrigation water
Table 7-2 Summ  ry of Marine Water QualiLy Standard (Unit: mg/L, exc  t for pH)
Class      pH                SS                  COD           DO             Oil
l     7.5 - 8.5    man made increment S 10  *  2             >6           < 0.05
1I     7.5 - 8.5    man made increment 10      .3            >5           S 0.05
111    6.8 - 8.8   man made increment S100      S 4           >4            S 3.0
Table 7-3 Standard noise limit for construction site (GB12523-90)
Construction stage      Main sources of noise                    Noise limit
Daytime          Nighttime
Earth & stone work  Bulldozer, excavator, loader, etc.      75                55
Piling            Various piling machine              85              banned
Structure work      Concrete mixer, vibrator etc.         70                55
Table 7-4 Ambient noise standard (GB3096-93)    LAq: dB
Classification                  Daytime                      Nighttime
Class 1                         55                            45
Class 11                        60                            50
Class IV                        70                             55
Table 7-5 Ambi ent air quality sta dard   mg/m3
Pollutant                    TSP               NOx               CO
Concentration     daily average         0.30              0.10              4.00
Limit       one hour average         -                0.15              10.00
13



