Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19286-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SECOND FUJIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 3, 1999
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CU:RRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1999)
Currency Unit = RMB
RMB 1.00 = USO.12
US$1.00 = RMB 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND) ACRONYMS
9FYP    -   Ninth Five Year Plan (1996-2000)          ITIC       -  International Trade and Investment
Corporation
IOFYP   -   Tenth Five Year Plan (2001-2005)          LA&R    -  Land Acquisition and Resettlement
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank                   MOC        -  Ministry of Communications
AIS      -   Accident Information System              MOF        -  Ministry of Finance
BMS    -   Bridge Management System                   MTE        -  Medium Truck Equivalent
BOT      -   Build-Operate-Transfer                   NAO        -  National Audit Office
CAS      -   Country Assistance Strategy              NCB        -  National Competitive Bidding
E&M      -   Electrical, Electronic and Mechanical    NH         -  National Highway
EA       -   Environmental Assessment                 NPV        -  Net Present Value
EAP      -   Environmental Action Plan                NR         -  National Road
EASES   -   Enviromnent and Social Development Sector   NTHS     -  National Trunk Highway System
Unit
EASTR   -   Transport Sector Unit                     OECF       -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(of Japan)
EDB      -   Expressway Data Bank                     OED        -  Operations Evaluation Departnent
EIA      -   Environmental Impact Assessment          PAD        -  Project Appraisal Document
EIRR    -   Economic Internal Rate of Return          PAP        -  Project Affected Persons
EPB      -   Environmental Protection Bureau          PCU        -  Passenger Car Unit
EPO      -   Environmental Protection Office          PEO        -  Project Execution Office
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return                  PMS        -  Pavement Management System
ES       -   Executive Summary (Environmental Report)   PPI-PSD   -  Private Participation in Infrastructure
Group in Private Sector Development
ESW      -   Economic and Sector Work                 PRC        -  People's Republic of China
FIAS    -   Foreign Investment Advisory Services      PRO        -  Project Resettlement Office
FH2      -   Fujian Highway II Project                PSB        -  Public Security Bureau
FIAS    -   Foreign Investment Advisory Services      RAP        -  Resettlement Action Plan
FPECD   -   Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction  RDB       -  Road Data Bank
Directorate
FPTD    -   Fujian Provincial Transport Department    RMC        -  Resident Mission China
GNP      -   Gross National Product                   RMF        -  Road Maintenance Fee
GOC      -   Government of China                      ROC        -  Regional Operations Committee
GOVAI  -   Gross Output Value of Agriculture and      SOE        -  Statement of Expenditures
Industry
HDM      -   Highway Design and Maintenance Model     SDPC       -  State Development Planning Commission
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding        TA         -  Technical Assistance
IFC      -   International Finance Corporation        Y          -  Yuan RMB
IRP      -   Interconnecting Road Program             ZZE        -  Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway
Regional Vice President:               Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:                      Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager:                        Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Alfred Nickesen, Pr. Transport Specialist, EASTR



China
Second Fujian Hlighway Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
A.   Project Development Objective .............................................................2
1.   Project development objective and key performance indicators .....................................2
B.   Strategic Context .............................................................2
1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .......2
2.   Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................2
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............. .................4
C.   Project Description Summary ............................................................5
1.   Project components ............................................................5
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .................. ...................5
3.   Benefits and target population ................    .............................................6
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................7
D.   Project Rationale ............................................................9
1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................9
2.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ......  11
3.   Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ....................................................  12
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..................................................  13
5.   Value added of Bank support in this project .......................................................   14
E.  Summary Project Analysis .................. 14
1. Economic ................. 14
2. Financial ................. 14
3. Technical ................. 15
4.  Institutional ................. 15
5. Social ................. 15
6.   Environmental assessment .................  17
7.  Participatory approach ................. 19
F.  Sustainability and Risks ................ 19
1. Sustainability ................ 19
2. Critical Risks ................ 20
3.   Possible Controversial Aspects ....................  21



Page No.
G.  Main Loan Conditions ..................................... 21
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..                                                                                                            21
2.   Agreement Reached with the Government .............................. 21
3.       Agreements Reached with the Beneficiary   ........ ...........................................                    ...... ...  21
H. Readiness for Implementation .                                                                                                                   23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .                                                                                                                  24
Annexes
Annex  1.    Project Design  Summary .............................................................................................  25
Annex 2.  Fujian Highway Sector Revenues and Expenditures, 1996-2005 ........ 33
Annex 3.    Project Description   ...................................................................3..............                            ..  35
Annex 4.    Policy  and Institutional Reform  Program  .............................................................. ..  38
Annex  5.    Road Traffic Safety Program    ......................................................................................  44
Annex 6.    China's Evolving Highway Program   and Financing Issues  ........... .............                                         ........    48
Annex  7.    Bank Involvement and Achievements in China's Highway  Sector  ..........................                                         ..   53
Annex 8. Estimated Project Costs ...............5......... 57
Annex  9.    Financing Plan   .............................................................................................................  58
Annex  10.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements  ...........................................................  59
Annex 10, Table A:    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ................................ 61
Annex 10, Table B:   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .62
Annex 10, Table C:   Allocation of Loan Proceeds ........ 63
Annex  I0, Table C- 1:    Estimated Disbursement Schedule .................................................  64
Annex  11.  Implementation  Schedule .....................................................6......5..                        .....5.......... .  65
Annex 12. Economic and Financial Evaluation .......... 74
Annex  13.  Financial Management System    .................................................................    89
Annex 14. Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary .............................................. 94
Annex  15.  Resettlement Action Plan  Summary  .................................................   99
Annex  16.  Project Processing Budget and  Schedule  ..................................................................  102
Annex 17. Documents in the Project File ........ 103
Annex  18.  Statement of Loans and Credits  .................................................................................  105
Annex  19.  Country at a Glance   ..............................................................                   .       ...........       ...  108
Maps
1. CHINA: National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), IBRD 29902
2. Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway, IBRD 29903



China
Second Fujian Highway Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Transport Sector Unit
Date: June 3, 1999                                  Task Teamn Leader/Task Manager: Alfred Nickesen
Country Director: Yukon Huang                       Sector Manager: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: CN-PE-5 1705  Sector: Transportation    Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: SIL                             Program of Targeted Intervention:   []Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data               [x] Loan       [] Credit       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$M): 200.0
Proposed terms:                        [   Multicurrency      [X] Single currency, specify US dollars
Grace period (years): 5           []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed          [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front-end fee: 1%
Financing plan (US$ M):
Source                             Local              Foreign           Total
Central Government                                          106.0                               106.0
Provincial Government                                      289.6                                289.6
IBRD                                                                           200.0            200.0
Total         395.6              200.0            595.6
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Fujian Provincial Transport Department
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$ M):   2000     2001      2002     2003     2004
Annual     28        63        63       38         8
Cumulative     28       91        154      192      200
Project implementation period:5 years 3 months (October 1999-December 2004)
Expected effectiveness date: October 1999
Expected closing date:    June 2005



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 2
Project Appraisal Document
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The aim of the proposed Second Fujian Highway Project (FH2) is to increase economic activity along the
Fuzhou-Shenzhen high-priority transport corridor through relieving congestion, facilitating trade and
mobility and helping increase efficiency and traffic safety in Southern Fujian.
The proposed project would have the following objectives:
(a) relieve traffic congestion and improve the mobility and integration of inter-provincial trade,
commerce and tourism between Fujian and Guangdong Provinces by assisting in the
development of a key section of China's National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) in its principal
north-south coastal corridor;
(b) strengthen highway institutional capacity at the Fujian Provincial Transport Department
(FPTD) and related sector institutions, through policy and institutional reform, provision of
training, technical assistance and equipment, in planning, finance, design, construction, operation
and maintenance of Fujian's highway network;
(c) develop and sustain a policy dialogue in the key policy area of province-wide highway
maintenance management; and
(d) improve the safety of road transport.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16321 -CHA   Date of latest CAS discussion: March 18, 1997 and Progress
Report (R98-107), May 28, 1998.
A major objective of the CAS is to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks. This, among other infrastructure
sectors, also applies to China's highway sector and specifically to the construction of the NTHS. By
implementing the Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway (ZZE) segment of the NTHS which is part of China's
5,200 km long coastal expressway, the proposed project would help fill a strategic expressway gap
between the existing Fuzhou-Xiamen-Zhangzhou expressway corridor in Fujian Province and the equally
existing Shantou-Shenzhen-Guangzhou expressway corridor in Guangdong, thus contributing directly to
removing infrastructure bottlenecks, promoting long-distance passenger and freight highway traffic,
facilitating inter-city and inter-provincial trade and commerce, and generating new exports of agricultural
products and new tourism development.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
China's strong economic growth has resulted in high growth in transport demand and a rapid shift toward
highway transport. However, China has historically underinvested in transport and its road network ranks
among the sparsest in the world relative to geographic area or population and is quite unsafe. Few inter-
provincial expressways are in existence and about 20 percent of rural communities have no all-weather
vehicular access. Governments at all ievels have therefore embarked on a major highway investment and
improvement program.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 3
Project Appraisal Document
At the central level, the basic strategy is to develop a National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) for the
exclusive use of motorized vehicles, giving priority to two north-south and two east-west corridors and to
corridors serving border areas and cross-border trade. The Ministry of Communications (MOC) has been
developing the NTHS, consisting of 12 inter-provincial trunk expressways, spanning China and totaling
some 35,000 km. The Bank is heavily involved in the construction of substantial sections of the NTHS.
At the provincial and local levels, the strategy is to concentrate on road network maintenance and the
expansion and improvement of provincial and rural road networks, currently totaling about 1.26 million
km, to provide greater mobility and to stimulate socioeconomic development.
On the road transport policy agenda, growing attention is being paid to removing administrative and
physical barriers to inter-provincial trade and commerce, and to a redefinition of government's role in
transport in light of rapid administrative decentralization and growing non-state sector involvement.
MOC needs to be further strengthened to carry out its reform mandate in matters such as finance, and
standards of planning, design and operation of the NTHS. Provincial, municipal and county governments
are expected to continue to mobilize most investment resources required, including access to private
investment and capital markets, and to seek greater expenditure and system efficiency through improved
highway planning and investment strategies, as well as to modernize maintenance capacity and improve
cost recovery. Local governments are also expected to further the development of the road user services
and road construction industry through deregulation and promotion of competition, access to modern
technology and better management.
The Bank prepared a report (No. 11819-CHA dated February 1994), "CHINA - Highway Development
and Management Issues, Options and Strategies", which provides recommendations for action in the
foregoing areas and which have formed the basis for Bank Group assistance in the sector. The Bank,
jointly with MOC held a high-level highway policy seminar in Beijing during May 6-7, 1997, to discuss
the major highway policy areas to be addressed in the Bank's future lending program to highways. These
are: (1) planning and prioritization of the highway network; (2) highway finance comprising public and
private sources; (3) maintenance of highways; (4) highway safety; and (5) operation of the highway
network with emphasis on high-grade highways. In addition to the Bank and MOC, this seminar was
attended by Ministry of Finance (MOF), State Development Planning Commission (SDPC), the China
Road Association (for highway safety), selected provinces, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF), which are also key participants in the highway
sector in China. A one-day follow-up seminar was held on May 6, 1998.
Furthermore, the Bank, in cooperation with MOF and MOC is reviewing the effectiveness of past and
present World Bank-financed technical assistance in the highway sector with a view to assist the
government and the Bank in establishing a new policy and strategy framework for the Bank's future
lending in the sector. A workshop to discuss results and future directions is being scheduled for July 8-9,
1999. Also, the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) has recently completed and published
an evaluation of World Bank assistance to the transport sector in China which, inter alia, contains a
detailed assessment of the performance of Bank-funded highway projects as well as a well thought-out
set of recommendations for the future highway sector policy dialogue. OED's assessment of past and
ongoing Bank highway lending and non-lending services is positive and it recommends a reorientation of
future lending and non-lending activities towards broader Bank involvement in institutional and policy
reform. Also, a recent Regional Operations Committee (ROC) meeting which reviewed China highway
sector issues agreed that the China highway team would prepare a China Strategic Highway Framework
paper as part of the FY2000 economic and sector work (ESW) program. Annexes 6 and 7 contain



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                           Page 4
Project Appraisal Document
pertinent information on China's evolving highway program and financing issues, and Bank involvement
and achievements in China's highway sector, respectively.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The two recent Bank reviews, OED's China transport sector evaluation of World Bank assistance
conducted during most of 1997-98 and EASTR's internal review of China highway TA conducted during
late 1998 and early 1999, have identified as key sector issues which would also be addressed by the
proposed project the following: (a) expansion of highway capacity to remove bottlenecks and expedite
socio-economic growth; (b) highway safety; and (c) highway maintenance.
(a) Highway Capacity Expansion. China's 9FYP (1996-2000) emphasizes a reduction in transport
bottlenecks that are now being recognized as a growing constraint to rapid economic development. The
diversification and structural transformation of the economy, toward more light and agro-industry and
more inter-provincial trade, coupled with severe capacity constraints of the railways, are causing an
accelerating demand for road transport. This national pattern also applies to Fujian, and in particular to
the heavily traveled coastal corridor between Fuzhou and Shen7dhen/Hong Kong. The proposed project
would fill a strategic expressway gap between the existing Fuzhou-Xiamen-Zhangzhou expressway
corridor in Fujian Province and the existing Shantou-Shenzhen-Guangzhou expressway corridor in
Guangdong Province. The Bank is already heavily involved in the construction of several expressway
sections between Fuzhou and Zhangzhou and between Shantou and Shenzhen through the Fujian
Provincial Highway Project (Loan 3681-CHA) and the Guangdong Provincial Highway Project (Loan
3530-CHA), respectively. The proposed Second Fujian Highway Project would complement these two
ongoing projects and complete expressway investment between Fuzhou and Guangzhou.
(b) Road Safety. Traffic accidents are now a major problem in China, and by most measures it has the
world's highest road accident rate. In recent years, the Bank, as well as ADB and other institutions, have
become increasingly concerned about growing problems of highway safety. Under the proposed project,
the highway safety issue would be addressed through development and implementation of a broad road
safety program consisting of, inter-alia, developing safety audit procedures for new highway design;
conducting annual traffic safety seminars; and developing manuals for roadwork safety during
construction and maintenance of roads. The program would also include a physical road safety
component through which the safety problems along a 100 km long road section of the existing national
highway running parallel to the proposed ZZE would be addressed.
(c) Highway Maintenance. The present highway system in Fujian Province is rapidly growing in terms
of road kilometers and at the same time experiencing a continued growth in vehicle-kilometers driven.
During a period of intensive new road construction, with concentration on expressways and other high-
grade highways, road maintenance becomes a serious issue to prevent rapidly increasing deterioration
and avoid the need of a total rehabilitation of roads. Proper maintenance would increase the life of the
road network and reduce future cost of road rehabilitation and reconstruction. The highway maintenance
management system in Fujian will be strengthened through the institutional strengthening/training and
policy reform components which would include, among other things, a comprehensive study on
maintenance organization, financing, contracting and quality control and the purchase of modem
equipment for highway maintenance, specifically in terms of upgrading ongoing efforts to strengthen the
Road Data Bank (RDB), Pavement Management System (PMS) and Bridge Management System (BMS).



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                             Page 5
Project Appraisal Document
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 3 for a detailed description and Annex 8 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project would include:
Cost Incl.            Bank-
Contingencies        financing % of Bank-
Component                   Category    (US$M)  % of Total  (US$M)  financing
Component 1. Construction of Expressway and    Physical-
Interconnecting Roads                     Institutional
1.1 Construction of ZZE                              493.3      82.8      179.4      36
1.2 Construction of interconnecting roads             11.3       1.9       2.4       21
1.3 Construction of other roads                       35.0       5.9       6.7       19
1.4 Equipment                                         4.8        0.8       3.7       77
1.5 Construction supervision services                 16.6       2.8       4.8       29
Component 2. Institutional Strengthening and  Institutional-
Capacity Building                         Policy          1.7       0.3        1.0       59
2.1 Studies/technical assistance in Highway
Maintenance Management, Toll Rate; and
Road Safety
2.2 Staff training programs, covering all
aspects of highway planning, design,
construction, operation, finance and
maintenance.
Component 3. Front-end Fee                                2.0       0.3        2.0       100
Component 4-Land Acquisition and          Implementati
Resettlement                              on support     30.9        5.2       0.0        0
Total         595.6      100       200.0      34
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
In line with principal OED recommendations as outlined by its 1999 China highway sector evaluation, the
proposed project would focus on key policy and institutional reforms as described below. These have
been developed and agreed with FPTD during a series of project missions during 1998-99 which
coincided with the timing of the OED review and enabled early OED feedback for incorporation into the
FH2 project design. To that effect, OED's staff member who was Task Manager for the China Transport
Sector Evaluation served as a peer reviewer for the FH2 project. Also, the FH2 operation is the successor
to the ongoing Fujian Provincial Highway Project (Loan 3681-CHA) which has performed well and is
nearing completion. However, this earlier project, the Bank's first highway loan to Fujian Province, did
not contain substantive policy and institutional reform elements. Annex 4 to the PAD contains the details
of the Policy and Institutional Reform Program as agreed with FPTD while Annex 5 contains the details
of the Road Traffic Safety Program that has also been agreed during appraisal and loan negotiations.
Institutional and Policy Development Plan: As part of project preparation, the Bank missions for FH2
conducted a comprehensive institutional and policy framework analysis which involved 10 road sector
institutions in Fujian. This work assisted FPTD and the Bank in the identification of all major areas for
highway sector policy reform and institutional strengthening to be addressed under FH2 and has resulted



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 6
Project Appraisal Document
in a draft Development Plan comprising planned institutional development activities such as
organizational changes, the development of new systems and the purchase of equipment.  The
Institutional and Policy Development Plan covers a 5 year period. The main purpose of the plan is to
ensure that institutional and policy activities which are related to each other are adequately coordinated
and that the role of each organization is properly reflected in the development process. There are three
important areas which can be regarded as new competencies where modem thinking and know-how to a
great extent are still lacking in Fujian's road administration. These areas are road safety, quality control
and environmental protection and they (or their lack) will have a direct effect on the overall quality of the
FH2 project. It was agreed during FH2. appraisal and confirmed at negotiations that the Fujian
development plan would be updated and reviewed annually with the Bank.
Highway Maintenance Management Framework: Under FH2 a Highway Maintenance Management
framework for FPTD will be developed to establish a suitable system (a Policy) for allocation of funds
for road maintenance. The first step would be to define the lowest acceptable maintenance standard level
for each class of the road network. A cost per kilometer of road should be identified in order to reach the
defined minimum level. This would make it possible to optimize the fund distribution on various
administrative levels (Provincial, Prefecture and City) considering demands from society's point of view.
This TA is closely related to the development of road and traffic information systems which will serve as
a basis for maintenance planning, programming and budgeting, as well as for maintenance monitoring
and evaluation. This TA would also take advantage of the HDM model which has been developed
through initiative of the World Bank.
Road and Traffic Information Systems: The basic prerequisite for all modern management of roads is
the information base about the actual status of the road networks, its traffic and its environment. This
information is used on a day by day basis both for planning, construction and maintenance activities, and
for monitoring and evaluation of works carried out. This information is normally stored in a
Computerized Data Bank (Road Data Bank, RDB). Without this easily accessible information it would
not be rational to have other management systems such as PMS and BMS developed. Under the FH2
project a study on Highway Maintenance Management will be initiated. This study will also cover the
development needs of PMS and BMS. These two systems are directly interrelated with the Road Data
Bank as they receive input data from the RDB. Past experience from other countries has clearly shown
that it is feasible to build up in a stepwise fashion an Information System based on a Road Data Bank
(RDB).
Road Traffic Safety: In Fujian, an initial set of road safety activities would be initiated under FH2.
These activities would concentrate on institutional improvements, training, and accident data collection
and analysis. The identification and implementation of physical steps under FH2 would be to spread the
know-how out into Prefecture and City levels where most of the operational work is carried out and
where most of the traffic accidents happen. Further development as regards the road safety area under
FH2 concerns the accident information system. The accident information system which is with the Public
Security Bureau (the Traffic Police) needs to be further developed and modernized in order to be able to
serve the main purposes for road safety work in a broader perspective.
3. Benefits and target population:
The major quantifiable benefits of the project are the reduction in vehicle operating costs and time costs
of road users. The expressway will have a shorter length, improved surface conditions and riding
comfort, improved geometry, reduced traffic interference, and better safety facilities than the existing
roads. Therefore, most of the long-distance traffic and some of the local traffic is expected to divert from



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 7
Project Appraisal Document
the existing roads to the new expressway, reducing the vehicle operating and time costs for the future
expressway users. Because many users will take the expressway, there will be a reduction in the current
congestion levels on the existing roads. Thus, traffic that continues to use the existing roads will also
benefit in the form of time savings due to the resulting higher travel speeds on the existing roads. Other
quantified project benefits are due to the traffic that is generated as a result of the lowering of transport
costs and which previously did not exist on the existing roads. The newly generated traffic includes
traffic resulting from increased industrial and agricultural production and from new tourism development.
Other project benefits that have not been quantified are the generated traffic on the existing roads due to
the reduction of the current congestion levels, and the positive effects on non-motorized traffic that uses
the existing roads. The total population in the expressway corridor between Fujian and Guangdong in a
direct sense is estimated at about 10 million (based on 1997 data) living in Southern Fujian.
Major indirect benefits of a long-term nature which are expected to derive from the construction of ZZE
will be the development of new fruit growing areas mainly for export purposes to Guangdong, Hong
Kong and Southeast-Asian countries, due to southern Fujian's favorable climatic conditions, as well as
increased tourism development in the coastal areas of southern Fujian. Once ZZE will be completed and
open to traffic, southern Fujian will have substantially improved access to and from the existing high
quality port and airport facilities of Shantou, an important economic center in Guangdong Province and
the major entry and exit point for trade, commerce and tourism in southeastern China.
Other benefits would include strengthening the policy and institutional capabilities of the primary sector
agency, FPTD and related institutions which are responsible for the planning, design, supervision,
construction, operation, maintenance and finance of highways in the province. Also, the project is
expected to result in lower traffic accident rates on the highway network through the implementation of
the traffic safety component. Furthermore, the proposed project should lead to improvements in the
quality of construction of highways through the introduction of improved technology and stricter
arrangements for supervision of construction. The project would also foster improved practices in the
areas of environmental protection, land acquisition and resettlement of project affected people (PAPs) and
participatory approaches to project preparation and implementation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 5 years 3 months, from October 1999 to December 2004. (Annex 11)
Executing agencies: Under the Fujian Provincial Transport Department (FPTD), the Fujian Provincial
Expressway Construction Directorate (FPECD) has the overall responsibility for project preparation and
implementation. The Zhangzhou Municipal Expressway Construction Directorate (ZMECD) would be
the executing agency for the proposed Zhangzhou-Zhao'an expressway and the interconnecting road
program under the Project. The Zhangzhou Municipal Transport Department would be responsible for
the other road subprojects. The TA studies and training components and the procurement of equipment
would be executed by FPECD. The project would be implemented during 1999-2004.
Procurement: The International Tendering Company (ITC) has been retained as the procurement
agency for all aspects of civil, electrical and mechanical works of the project requiring ICB and for
equipment to be procured from abroad. The supervision of construction of the ZZE would be carried out
by a joint foreign/domestic supervision team. As per Bank requirements, a detailed Procurement
Capacity Assessment has been conducted by Bank procurement staff in Fujian as part of project
preparation and procurement capacity in the province was found to be satisfactory. The province is



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 8
Project Appraisal Document
already successfully implementing a first Bank-financed highway project (Loan 3681-CHA). The
Procurement Capacity Assessment report (dated April 1999) is on file and available on request.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): Overall direction of the project at the central level would rest
with the Ministry of Communications (MOC) in Beijing. The Bank loan would be given to the PRC
(through MOF) which in turn would onlend the proceeds to the province on the same conditions as the
Bank loan. Consequently, there would be a loan agreement with the PRC and a project agreement with
Fujian. Similar to what is being done in ongoing highway projects in China, all project accounts, special
accounts, and all statements of expenditures will be audited by the National Audit Office.
Financial management: Similar to the situation in on-going Bank-financed highway projects in China,
Fujian Province has the systems and staff in place to carry out adequate financial management of the
project. The Province will use "The Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management
for Projects Financed by the World Bank" issued by MOF as a basis for book-keeping and preparation of
financial statements and management reports. The Province has ongoing Bank-financed projects and its
Provincial Finance Bureau is well familiar with Bank procedures. In accordance with Bank OPfBP 10.02
and the Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank projects, the
task team undertook and completed a Financial Management System assessment in Fujian province. The
results of this assessment are contained in Annex 13 of the PAD "Financial Management".
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:  The Foreign Investment Audit
Department of the National Audit Office (NAO) would be responsible for auditing the project
expenditures. Actual audits would be carried out for NAO by the Fujian Branch of NAO or the Fujian
Provincial Audit Bureau. In the case of the SOEs, the audit reports would contain a separate opinion by
the auditors as to whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. The
Bank Group currently accepts NAO audits for this purpose.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The project would be supervised through Bank missions
whose frequency would be guided by the progress of the works and the studies/TA. However, on
average, a mission at about six to nine-month intervals would be mounted, depending on the stage of
project implementation. The initial implementation stage of a China highway project usually requires a
higher supervision intensity than the later stages when expressway construction and study/TA activities
are fully underway or nearing completion. In addition to field missions, staff input would be provided at
headquarters for project-related activities comprising, inter alia, supervision reports, procurement
documentation and contracts, staff training and equipment, and follow-up and review of the agreed
studies and TA activities, as well as for efforts related to coordination with the project province. It is
estimated that over the implementation period of the project, the total time expended on supervision
would be in the order of 60 person-weeks.
During implementation, project performance, including the achievement of physical targets and
attainment of policy and institutional objectives, will be monitored by FPTD and the Bank through the
use of semi-annual monitoring reports. The first semi-annual monitoring report would be submitted by
March 31, 2000 and the last by September 30, 2005. In addition, FPTD would submit to the Bank
monthly reports on works progress for ZZE. Upon completion, the project will be reviewed in an
Implementation Completion Report, to be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the
closing date of the loan.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 9
Project Appraisal Document
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway with a length of about 140 km (including its initial 8 km on the
Zhangzhou side which, due to severe soft-soil conditions are already under construction but which are
formally not part of the Bank-financed FH2 project) is part of China's coastal North-South highway and
forms one of the two vertical links in its National Trunk Highway System (NTHS). This major coastal
trunk highway is being constructed between Tongjiang, located on the border with the Russian Federation
in Heilongjiang province and Sanya on Hainan island, located in the South-China Sea, a distance of about
5,200 km. In Fujian province itself, the length of this coastal expressway will be about 700 km and the
link between Fuzhou and the Guangdong border has the highest priority. The Bank is already financing
the section Quanzhou-Xiamen (80 km) under Loan 3681-CHA which recently opened to traffic as well as
the pavement and E&M works of the Fuzhou-Quanzhou section where construction is ongoing and
advancing well. The section between Xiamen and Zhangzhou is already in existence and civil works on
the 8 km soft soil section on Zhangzhou-Zhao'an is under construction (locally financed). Accordingly,
the Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway (ZZE) section is the last segment in Fujian province between
Fuzhou and Shenzhen/Hong Kong and Guangzhou. It will connect in Guangdong with the existing
Shantou-Shenzhen-Guangzhou section through a new section which will be open to traffic at the same
time as ZZE. The Bank is also financing a 140 km long section between Longgang and Tanxi on the
Shantou-Shenzhen section. It is expected that the Fuzhou-Shenzhen-Guangzhou expressway will be fully
completed by the year 2003/4.
Considering the existing and future socio-economic development and growth potential in the area of
influence of the proposed FH2 project and the existing and future volumes and composition of traffic in
the corridor as well as the capacity of the existing main road (NR324), the proposed ZZE was selected as
the most economical way of meeting existing and future needs in the Fuzhou-Xiamen-Shantou-Shenzhen-
Hong Kong coastal corridor. In the future, this highway would not be able to accommodate the expected
large increases in traffic volumes (yearly average growth rate of 13.5% for the last 10 years) along with
the rapid economic development in the corridor, if ZZE were not to be built.
The alignment of ZZE was selected after comparison of many alternatives. The upgrading of the existing
four lane, class 2, highway (NR324) to expressway standard would not be feasible due to the mix of
traffic, crossing of urban areas and poor geometrical characteristics. An alignment close to the NR324
along the whole distance implied more resettlement and had about the same cost. It was mostly rejected
because it served the same areas as the existing four lane highway. Accordingly, an alignment closer to
the coast, serving other towns and the various new development zones as well as tourist areas was
selected. The alignment was selected after comparison of several alternatives, taking into account the
topographical and geological difficulties in this mountainous area as well as environment and
resettlement conditions. The proposed alternative is the best compromise from technical, economical,
environmental and resettlement points of view. At the Fujian/Guangdong border it connects to the
Guangdong expressway at Houlin near Zhao'an. This connecting point at the border was selected after
comparison of several alternatives involving both provinces. The alignment, toll stations, rest and service
areas and interchanges near the border were designed with a good coordination between the two
provinces. The proposed alignment will be linked to all important towns, development zones and tourist
areas in the corridor through class 2, two lanes, highways. A 350 km road improvement program (RIP)
including the upgrading of existing highways in the project corridor will be undertaken by the local



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 10
Project Appraisal Document
authorities as a complementary investment to the Bank-supported ZZE. This RIP is not part of the
project but will be implemented simultaneously with FH2.
Private sector development and financing for the Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway, or parts thereof, was
considered and discussed in great length with SDPC, MOF, MOC and FPTD over an extended period of
time. It was discarded for a number of reasons:
(i) China is still developing an appropriate policy, legal and regulatory framework for the private
provision of toll highways. Work in this area has been ongoing for several years, with Bank and IFC
support and has led to a provisional BOT law/decree for private infrastructure projects but this law/decree
has still not been approved by the State Council. At the recent request of SDPC, the Bank Group is
presently in the process of undertaking a new BOT/private infrastructure TA which, inter alia, will
review, and recommend improvements, to China's existing BOT framework. The Bank Group team
which is coordinated by the China department consists of experts from IFC, FIAS and PPI in PSD;
(ii) An earlier BOT pilot project in the highway sector, the Junshan Yangtze bridge at Wuhan which was
proposed to be part of the Bank's Third National Highway Project (Loan 4327-CHA) and which was
prepared with Bank support for private financing did not obtain State Council approval for BOT
treatment and is now being built with public sector resources;
(iii) There is growing evidence on a worldwide scale that greenfield toll road projects are difficult to
develop and finance from private sector sources, due to the risk profile of such projects. Besides the
country risk (legal and regulatory) and the commercial risk (traffic demand), there are substantial
construction and completion risks which most private toll road developers and their commercial lenders
are not prepared to accept. Many private toll road projects around the world (e.g. Dulles Greenway in
Virginia; M1/15 Motorways in Hungary, among others) which have been built during the 1990s are
failing to generate sufficient revenues to enable timely debt service and therefore need complex
restructuring, often connected with substantial government bailouts (e.g. Mexican toll road program
where some 52 private sector concessions failed and were taken over by the central government at a cost
of US$8 billion);
(vi) The International Trade and Investment Corporation (ITIC) crisis in China will make it more
difficult for provincial and municipal governments to obtain foreign loan financing for large-scale
infrastructure projects, including toll highways. The Changsha BOT pilot power plant in Hunan which is
one of SDPC's original BOT pilot projects is presently unable to reach financial closure with the British
developer National Power (who has won the concession) due to the unavailability of sufficient long-term
foreign commercial debt financing.
There is no existing or planned railway line parallel to and in competition with the proposed Zhangzhou-
Zhao'an Expressway. There is the existing Yingxia Railway line which is a branch line of a total length
of 143 km and which passes the project corridor at its northern end through the northern part of
Zhangzhou City (see IBRD map 29903).



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                            Page 11
Project Appraisal Document
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned).*
Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings
Sectorlssues  Projects                   (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation     Development
Progress         Objective
(IP)             (DO)
Bank-financed
- Remove Highway          Highway Project (completed) 1, 2*                                             S                  S
Capacity               Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway (completed) 1-6                              S                  S
Bottlenecks (1)        Sichuan Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 6                                 S                  S
- Institutional          Shaanxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1-3, 6                                  S                  S
Strengthening/         Jiangxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 6                                 U                  s
Training (2)           Shandong Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 4, 6                             S                  S
- Rural Roads and        Jiangsu Provincial Transport (completed) 1-3, 6                                 S                 S
Poverty                Zhejiang Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-3, 6                                   S                  S
Alleviation (3)        Guangdong Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-4, 6                                  S                  S
- Highway Safety (4)     Henan Highway (ongoing) 1-3, 6                                                  S                 S
- Operation and          Fujian Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 3, 6                                             S                 S
Maintenance of High-    National Highway: Hebei/Henan (ongoing) 1, 2, 5, 6                            S                  S
Grade Highways (5)     Xinjiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 4, 6                                          S                  S
- Cost Recovery (6)       Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 4, 6                                 S                 S
Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway (ongoing) 14, 6                              S                 S
Second Henan Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-5, 6                              U                  S
Second Xinjiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 6                                      S                 S
Second Nat'l Hwy: Guangdong/Hunan (ongoing) 1, 2, 4, 5, 6                     S                  S
Third Nat'l Hwy (ongoing): Hubei 1, 2, 4, 5, 6                                 S                 S
Tri-Provincial Highway: GansulNingxia/lnner Mongolia (ongoing) 1, 2, 3, 5, 6   S                 S
Anhui Provincial Highway (ongoing): 1, 2, 5, 6                                 S                 S
Fourth National Highway: Hubei/Hunan (planned) 1, 2, 4, 5, 6
Second Fujian Highway (planned): 1, 2, 4, 5, 6
Third Henan Provincial Highway (planned): 1, 2, 5, 6
Guangxi Provincial Highway (planned): 1, 2, 5, 6
Asian Development Bank
Shenyang-Benxi Highway (completed)
Yunnan Expressway (completed)
Hunan Expressway (completed)
Julin Expressway (completed)
Heilongjiang Expressway (ongoing)
Yunan Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei and Liaoning Expressway (ongoing)
Chongqing Expressway (ongoing)
Liaoning and Jilin Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei Expressway (ongoing)
Liaoning Expressway (ongoing)
Shenyang-Jinzhou Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei Roads Development (ongoing)
Chengdu-Nanchong Expressway (ongoing)
Changchun-Harbin Expressway (ongoing)
Jiangxi Highway Project (ongoing)
Southem Yunnan Road Development (planned)
Shanxi Expressway (planned)
Chongqing-Guizhou Expressway (planned)
Guangxi Road (planned)
Shanxi and Shaanxi Expressways (planned)
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
Hainan Development
Hefei-Tongling Highway and Tongling Yangtze River Highway Bridge
Construction
Second Chongqing Yangtze River Bridge Construction
I Qiqihar Nenjiang River Highway Bridge Construction
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 12
Project Appraisal Document
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Since 1985, the Bank has financed 21 highway projects in China (of which seven have closed),
amounting to more than US$4.0 billion in Bank loans and IDA credits. The Bank has been and remains
involved in the construction of some 2,800 km of toll expressways and other high-grade toll highways
and in the rehabilitation, upgrading and maintenance of some 13,000 km of lower level (specifically
rural) roads. In addition, as revealed during a recent Bank review and assessment of its highway TA, the
Bank was and is involved in more than 50 TA tasks, comprising (i) highway planning and prioritization;
(ii) highway finance; (iii) highway maintenance; (iv) operation and management of high-grade highways;
and (v) traffic safety. Moreover, since mid-1996, the Bank has also given its no-objections to a number
of transactions for the securitization of Bank-financed highway assets in China (so-called "asset-based or
asset-backed financings"), through the issuance of highway equity of provincial toll road corporations on
the Hong Kong and Shenzhen stock exchanges. Annex 6 contains a detailed description of China's
evolving highway program and the financing issues it faces while Annex 7 describes Bank involvement
and achievements in China's highway sector to date.
The proposed Second Fujian Highway Project would be the successor operation for the ongoing Fujian
Provincial Highway Project - Loan 3681-CHA. This project was approved by the Board on December
14, 1993 and became effective on July 21, 1994. The project comprises as major project components:
(i) construction of Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway (82 km); (ii) implementation of a road improvement
program (RIP), comprising 260 km of provincial and rural road upgrading and improvement;
(iii) procurement of road-related equipment; (iv) a construction industry study; and (v) various
institutional strengthening and training measures. Due to substantial loan savings amounting to some
33% of the original loan amount (US$47.5 million of US$140 million IBRD loan), the Board approved
on a no-objection basis in June 1998 a new project component to absorb the loan savings. This new
component consists of the partial Bank-financing of the now ongoing pavement as well as electrical and
mechanical works on Fuzhou-Quanzhou Expressway (154 km). Loan closing was extended by the Board
by 2.5 years from June 30, 2000 to December 31, 2002. Implementation of the ongoing project has been
and continues to be smooth and the project development objectives are being achieved. Project progress
ratings for various components have been either satisfactory or highly satisfactory throughout project
implementation. This ongoing project enjoys a very high degree of ownership with FPTD and related
project implementation agencies. Lessons learned from the ongoing project have been applied fully in
the design and preparation of the proposed Second Fujian Highway Project.
In addition, while the overall performance of the Bank's highway projects is by and large satisfactory, a
number of problems have occurred, which have been taken into consideration in the design of the
proposed FH2 project. These problems include: inadequate engineering designs and bid documents
including costing of civil works; quality control of construction; late commencement of electrical and
mechanical facilities component (which has delayed completion of some projects and necessitated the
extension of the closing date of several Bank loans), and some lack in the scope and speed of policy and
institutional reforms, specifically relating to road maintenance, improved high-grade highway
management and operation, and traffic safety.
All engineering designs and technical bid documents including cost estimates for the proposed
expressway and related roads, including their E&M facilities, are being reviewed by Japanese
engineering consultants under Japanese grant funding. These technical reviews will be completed by
August 1999. The quality of project engineering has also benefited from the involvement of a French
expressway specialist who participated in all project missions.  Quality control of construction,



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                           Page 13
Project Appraisal Document
specifically for expressway works will be undertaken by international and domestic supervision
consultants, with on average one well trained and experienced supervisor per km of expressway. The
matter will also be addressed through increasing the frequency and quality of the Bank's supervision,
after adding an experienced Chinese construction engineer to the technical staff at RMC who will also
supervise the road works under FH2. Timely completion of the E&M component will be achieved
through stricter control and early commencement of the tendering procedures.
The policy dialogue between China and the Bank in the highway sector needs to be further strengthened.
Although highway lending is substantial, with on average US$500-600 million per year in new highway
loans, resulting in the Bank's considerable impact on the fast expansion in China's road capacity,
progress in policy and institutional reforms (including road traffic safety) needs to be accelerated. During
preparation of the proposed project substantial efforts were made to engage FPTD in a continuing policy
dialogue which started with the identification of the new project and was taken forward throughout the
appraisal of FH2. This was successfully achieved by involving a policy and institutional expert from the
Swedish Road Administration who joined all Bank preparation missions. While the results of these
efforts are encouraging, in that policy and institutional reforms now enjoy a higher degree of visibility
and ownership with FPTD, much remains to be done during implementation of the FH2 project so as to
make policy and institutional reform components rank on an equal level with road construction and
network capacity expansion. The Bank will develop a more aggressive approach in this area by, for
example, staffing project preparation and supervision missions more regularly with experienced
institutional and policy experts and by advancing the sector policy dialogue more aggressively with MOC
through more frequent policy workshops of which the next one is scheduled for July 8 and 9, 1999 in
Beijing. More such workshops will be held during FY2000 and FY2001.
There also is a growing concern that adequate funding for highway maintenance is now not being secured
to cover an expanding and more expensive highway system. Previously, this was not a real issue in
China; adequate funding was set aside for this purpose. The highway maintenance management study
that will be carried out under FH2 will address the organizational framework and develop sustainable
maintenance policies and systems for Fujian province. The FH2 project would emphasize road
maintenance as a core area for the Bank's future policy dialogue in the highway sector with China.
Experience in the area of land acquisition and resettlement has generally been satisfactory in the Bank's
highway projects in China. In this area, it is particularly important that the Bank makes its requirements
well known to the Chinese agencies at an early stage in the preparation of the project. A Bank
resettlement specialist was involved from the beginning in project preparation. The resettlement action
plans for the proposed project were reviewed and cleared by EASES and Legal. Experience in the
environmental area in China has generally been favorable as well. As in the case of resettlement, a Bank
environmental specialist has been involved in project preparation from the beginning. However, more
attention needs to be paid to environmental supervision during construction and to the training of
environmental personnel by the Chinese side. The proposed project will provide an adequate institutional
setup and training for such environmental supervision and training.  The quality of the Bank's
resettlement and environmental work has also been strengthened recently, as part of the Bank's
decentralization efforts. More of this work will in future be shifted to RMC due to increasing resident
mission capacity in resettlement and environment.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The mission found that there is very strong support from the various levels of Government. SDPC, MOF,
MOC and the Fujian Provincial Government strongly support the project. Also, the various local



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 14
Project Appraisal Document
governments the mission met with in the project area expressed strong support and emphasized the need
for the project. FPTD has completed all feasibility studies, preliminary engineering designs, EIAs, EAPs
and RAPs for the proposed expressway and other roads. However, FPTD will need to increase its
understanding of, and commitment to, highway sector policy issues, specifically regarding highway
maintenance and road traffic safety.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The involvement of the Bank would result in much needed additional financial resources to help remove
highway bottlenecks and increase traffic capacity in this high priority transport corridor.  Bank
involvement would accelerate policy, institutional and manpower development in highway planning,
design, supervision, construction, operation, maintenance and finance. Bank involvement would also be
expected to benefit the design and the quality of construction of the roads to be undertaken. Furthermore,
the Bank would help the Fujian Provincial Transport Department to emphasize the need for proper
maintenance of the highway network through introduction of modern maintenance equipment, training of
staff and allocation of adequate maintenance funds. In addition, it would raise the awareness of the
highway safety problem and make improvements in this regard. Similarly, Bank involvement would
improve the provincial practices in the analyses and implementation of environmental, land acquisition
and resettlement, and participatory aspects of highway projects.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 17)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 12):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=Y 4,036 million at 12% discount rate; EIRR= 19.6%;
The estimated economic internal rate of retumn (EIRR) is 19.4 percent for the entire Zhangzhou - Zhao'an
expressway corridor. The EIRR of the entire project civil works (98 percent of total project costs),
including the interconnecting link roads and the other roads program is 19.6 percent. The sensitivity
analysis indicates that if construction costs are increased by 20 percent and user benefits are reduced by
20 percent, the project EIRR is 15.5 percent, which indicates that even under this pessimistic scenario the
project is justified. The switching values analysis indicates that construction costs have to be multiplied
by a factor of 2.0 or user benefits have to be multiplied by a factor of 0.5 to yield a project EIRR of 12.0
percent. The risk analysis indicates that the most likely project EIRR is 16.2 percent, the worst case
scenario EIRR is 12.6 percent, the best case scenario EIRR is 19.7 percent, and there is a 7.7 percent
probability that the EIRR will be less than 12 percent. Therefore, the project is economically well
justified.
2. Financial (see Annex 12): NPV=Y 4,021 million at 7.0 % discount rate; FIRR= 12.5%;
The financial evaluation focuses on the Zhangzhou - Zhao'an expressway which is the main component
of the project and the only one that will generate financial income with profit making and repayment
capabilities. Tolls will be charged as a function of vehicle type and size and distance traveled at the same
level and structure as the tolls currently being collected on Quanzhou-Xiamen expressway. The
estimated weighted average cost of capital is 7.0 percent, considering that the World Bank will finance
around 32 percent of the investment and 25 percent will be financed locally. The expressway financial
rate of return is 12.5 percent with a net present value of 4,021 million RMB Yuan at 7.0 percent discount
rate with an investment recovery period of 16 years. If construction costs increase by 20 percent while



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 15
Project Appraisal Document
revenues decrease by 20 percent, the project financial rate of return is 8.5 percent, which indicates that
even under the most unfavorable situation, the financial benefits are acceptable.
3. Technical:
The technical parameters and estimated costs for construction of the expressway were established by
detailed feasibility, design and engineering studies undertaken by the Fujian Provincial Design Institute
and are being reviewed by Japanese engineering consultants (for the firm's technical report, see the
Project Files) and checked against actual unit costs for the ongoing Fujian Provincial Highway Project.
These were reviewed and found to be technically sound and appropriate to the country's needs. The cost
estimate of the project reflects April 1999 prices and is based on the latest available engineering studies
and prevailing unit rates for civil works, recent costs of foreign experts from other highway projects in
China including Fujian Provincial Highway Project and recent price quotations for equipment. The cost
estimate includes physical and price contingencies. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of
the base cost of civil works and construction supervision. Price contingencies are calculated for foreign
costs, using US$ annual escalation factors of 2.9% in 2000 and 2.5 percent during 2001-2004. Price
contingencies for local costs are based on local annual escalation of 5.0% in 1999 and 5.5 percent during
2000-2004.
4. Institutional:
During the supervision and preparation of the Fujian Provincial Highway and Second Fujian Highway
Projects, frequent Bank missions have worked closely with FPTD to help better understand its existing
institutional constraints and deficiencies and to develop a medium-term vision for its institutional
development. To that effect, Bank missions helped FPTD develop draft organizational and institutional
development plans covering a 5-year period. This medium range development plan now forms the basis
for agreed policy and institutional reforms, including organizational changes and improvements,
manpower training, and implementation of reforms in maintenance management, traffic safety and high-
grade highway operation and management. FPTD has demonstrated project management capabilities
through the successful implementation of the ongoing Bank-financed Fujian Provincial Highway Project.
The Project Office has competent and sufficient staff who are now quite experienced in managing Bank-
financed projects. They will also receive continued assistance from Bank supervision missions and
construction supervision consultants, both domestic and foreign. All these measures taken together are
expected to enable FPTD to efficiently manage the proposed project.
5. Social:
The project requires land acquisition for the expressway, linking roads and other roads which will cause
readjustment of agricultural land in affected villages and displacement of affected people.
During the feasibility study of the project attention was paid to minimize the impact on agricultural land
and residences. During the preliminary design, studies were made on 1/2000 maps to keep the alignment
at a distance from settlements to minimize relocation and adverse impact on affected communities.
Resettlement minimization through realignment has continued into the final design through the
collaboration of the Project Resettlement Office (PRO) with the Environment Team and the Design
Institute. Attention is being paid to keep the alignment from dividing settlements into two, wherever
possible. In this respect Bank specialists working on highway design, environment and resettlement have
coordinated their work both among themselves and with their domestic counterparts.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                   Page 16
Project Appraisal Document
Socioeconomic surveys of the affected people and communities were conducted and census of Project
Affected Persons (PAPs) and their assets were completed on all the alignments considered for the project.
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) are in accordance with Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 and have
been found satisfactory.
The RAPs establish the basis for land accluisition and resettlement in the project and responds to the
general Bank guidelines on involuntary resettlement. Basic objectives of the RAPs are to: (a) minimize
resettlement; (b) improve the standards of living of the PAPs or at least to restore them to the pre-project
level; (c) consult the affected communities on the project impact, entitlements, and rehabilitation
measures; (d) compensate affected villages for land and the PAPs for their lost assets at replacement
value without depreciation; (e) provide land to the PAPs whose land is affected by readjusting the village
land; (f) provide alternative jobs to the PAPs losing agricultural land if the land endowment of affected
villages do not permit readjustment; (g) ensure that PAPs whose jobs are affected through affected
enterprises or lands operated by villages are provided with similar employment in new enterprises and
operations; (h) compensate and rehabilitate the disrupted infrastructure; (i) establish the time schedule
and the budget of the resettlement component of the project; (j) devise a mechanism for grievance and
appeals; and (k) devise internal and independent monitoring mechanisms.
A summary of project impacts related to land acquisition and resettlement is given below while more
detailed information is contained in Annex :15.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Impacts of the Highway Components
Highway Sections        Land Acquisition   Affected HHsI PAPs   Affected Enterprises
(mlu)
HHs      PAPs   Enterprises Workers
Main Expressway (ZZE) Component      15,374       7,268     32,744      20       236
and Interconnecting Roads
Chiling-Huxi Highway                  272          334      1,440
Zhangzhou Hua'an Road                 167          106       461        1         22
Baishui Large Bridge                   59          67        248
Total     15,872        7,775    34,893      21        258
The Project Resettlement Office (PRO) of FPTD is responsible for the overall coordination, internal
monitoring and implementation of resettlement. Field implementation of resettlement is the responsibility
of County Resettlement Offices (COROs) i:n conjunction with the township and village administrations.
City Resettlement Offices (CIROs) will liaise between the PRO and the COROs. All levels of
Resettlement Offices (ROs) have already been established and trained for the project. Further training for
the specific needs of the resettlement network is also planned. RAPs for the highway sections listed in the
above table have been prepared through a collaboration of the PRO, Independent Monitoring
Organization (IMO), the Design Institute, local CIRO and the PAPs. All the PAPs have been contacted
and informed about the prospective resettlement and their concerns have been incorporated in RAPs. All
the PAPs will be informed about the exact impact of the project on their households and their entitlements



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 17
Project Appraisal Document
after the official measurement of the impact is completed. Indicators for monitoring have been developed
and presented in the RAPs. While internal monitoring will focus on the quantitative aspects of
resettlement implementation, independent monitoring will evaluate both its qualitative and quantitative
aspects. Internal and independent monitoring reports will be submitted to the Bank annually.
Implementation schedules for resettlement have been established. All resettlement will be completed
before the commencement of civil works. Resettlement will be funded out of counterpart funds. Cost
estimates include adequate allocation for price and physical contingencies.
Civil works on the first 8 km of the expressway (which are not part of the project) have already begun,
and resettlement in this section is already completed. The beneficiary has agreed that the policies
developed in the RAP (including compensation rates and other entitlements) will also apply to the first 8
km. PAPs affected in the first 8 km will be rehabilitated to bring resettlement in the Bank-financed and
non-Bank-financed sections to an equal standard.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category  [X] A  []B   [] C
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP), and Environmental
Assessment (EA) Summary Reports for the main Zhangzhou - Zhao'an Expressway were prepared by
the Xian Highway Transportation University (XHTU) and submitted to the Bank at various stages of
project preparation beginning May 1998. The reports were reviewed by the Bank missions and discussed
extensively with FPTD, XHTU and other interested parties during the various preparation missions. At
the end of every mission, the Bank provided detailed written and verbal comments.
The EIA and EAP reports for the Longhai Baishui Bridge, Zhangpu Huxi - Chiling Road and Tankou -
Chengguan (Hua'an Section) of the Zhangzhou - Hua'an Highway were prepared by the Research
Institute of Highway, Ministry of Communications, Beijing. The first drafts were submitted to the Bank
and reviewed by the Bank mission in March 1999. Extensive verbal comments were provided and the
main comments were highlighted in the Mission's Aide Memoire of that time. The revised final EIA,
EAP and EA Summary reports were submitted in April 1999 and after review were found to be
satisfactory to the Bank.
A separate Cultural Relics report by the Fujian Provincial Cultural Relics Administration Commission
(March 15, 1999) was also reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. The findings of the
Cultural Relics report are included in the EIA and EAP report for the Zhangzhou - Zhao'an Expressway.
The major findings and recommendations in the EIA/EAP reports are summarized below.
Additional information on Environmental Assessment is provided in Annex 14
Potential Impacts: Major impacts associated with the selection of the alignments include: loss of
agricultural land, loss of residences and livelihood of affected people, disruption in the day-to-day
activities of the communities, etc. The major environmental impacts during the construction of the
Expressway and the other roads include noise, soil erosion, and dust. In the case of the Tankou -
Chengguan Highway, the potential impact of construction of the road on the Jiulongjiang River is also of
concern. Lesser impacts include alteration of hydrological regimes, interference with local residents and
traffic and impacts on local ecology and on irrigation systems. The impact of construction materials haul
traffic (noise, dust, congestion, safety, etc.) on the existing highways, e.g. NR324 and PR210 is of
potential concern. Safe disposal of excess excavated material from the three tunnels will also require



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 18
Project Appraisal Document
close attention. Traffic noise, air pollution from vehicle exhaust emission, soil erosion and water pollution
from service areas are identified as major adverse impacts during the operational period.
Mitigation Measures: The EAP reports for the Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway and the other roads
specify mitigation measures, environmental monitoring plans, institutional arrangements for their
implementation, training and equipment requirements, and budget needs for environmental protection.
In the design phase, emphasis was placed on the selection of an optimum alignment taking into
consideration not only the engineering issues, cost of building the highways, and local preference, but
also the environmental and resettlement issues. The final Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway alignment was
selected by: (i) proper selection of alternative alignments (e.g. between Andou and Xizhang, the inner
scheme was chosen to minimize the impacts of fog, and typhoons, and to avoid deep cuts; between
Shudong and Lintou, the southern alternative was chosen to minimize deep cuts, impact on farm land and
reservoir, even though the southern alternative was more costly), and (ii) judicious shifts in the
alignments to minimize the use of agriculture lands, resettlement, noise and other environmental impacts
(e.g. the alignments at Xinhe, Neijiafeng, Huxi, Liuban and Zhulin villages were shifted to by-pass the
villages thus preventing resettlement, minimizing land acquisition and reducing impact on the residents).
In the case of Gaoshan Village, the alignment was shifted 50 m north to minimize resettlement. Noise
barriers will be built on both sides of the Expressway to mitigate noise and an underpass will be provided
to minimize day-to-day disruption in the movement of people and traffic in Gaoshan.
Mitigation measures during the construction phase will include proper planning of earthworks to reduce
damage caused by borrow areas and spoil piles and inclusion of overpasses and underpasses to minimize
interference with the movements of local people and traffic. Other measures will include reclamation of
marginal agricultural land and drainage where appropriate, use of covered trucks to transport borrow
materials, and use of water sprinklers to redluce dust. In noise sensitive areas, night time noise will be
minimized by restricting construction work during the period from 0600 hr to 2200 hr. The client has also
agreed to mitigate the impact of construction traffic on the affected people by erecting temporary noise
barriers and by controlling dust through regular spraying.
Major mitigation measures during the operational phase will include provision of noise barriers along the
Expressway and other project roads to protect sensitive locations from excessive noise, construction of
new walls or raising the heights of existing walls around residences to reduce traffic noise, afforestation
to improve landscape and to reduce the impact of air pollution.
Engineering design and technical specifications for the Expressway, tunnels and bridges construction will
incorporate appropriate measures to protect the environment. Neither the Expressway nor the
interconnecting or other roads will affect ecologically sensitive areas and their construction and operation
should have no major adverse impacts on the environment if the measures outlined in the EAP are
properly implemented. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from Fujian Province that: (a) the
environmental protection measures stipulated in the EAP with regard to the Expressway, its
interconnecting roads and other roads will be implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b)
Fujian Province shall furnish to the Bank, arnual environmental monitoring reports for the Expressway
and the other roads during the construction phase and during the first three years of operation following
the completion of the project. Although the first 8 km of the Expressway are not being financed by the
World Bank and are not formally part of the project, Fujian has agreed to implement all the mitigation
measures stated in the EAP for the first 8 kmn section, as if the section were a part of the Bank financed
project.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 19
Project Appraisal Document
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The major beneficiaries would be the communities along the Zhangzhou-Zhao'an corridor as well as
intercity traffic between cities in the corridor and beyond. Benefits resulting from improving the existing
highway condition would accrue to the population throughout the province. FPTD and its related
institutions would also benefit through the institutional strengthening and training contained in the
project.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The affected communities were involved in the formulation and comparison of alternative alignments as
well as the location of interchanges, underpasses and grade separations. During the EIA preparation, the
local people were intensively consulted through meetings with local government representatives and
public opinion questionnaires supplemented by interviews.
Special attention was given to the consultation with affected people and their representatives during the
preparation of the resettlement action plans. Implementation of the resettlement program is intended to
be a highly participatory exercise. A resettlement information booklet, including detailed entitlements of
each household, main contents of the RAPs, compensation and entitlement policies and grievance
procedures would be distributed to the affected people prior to resettlement implementation. Both
internal and external (by independent monitors) monitoring of the resettlement program would be
conducted.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Traffic volumes on highways in China, particularly on expressways are expected to continue to grow fast.
EIRR calculations of completed highway projects in China at the time of loan closing - when expressways and
other high-grade highways have been in operation for a few years - frequently show higher EIRRs than at the
time of project appraisal. Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in
China shows a great commitment for implementation of the physical components of the project, which
account for the majority of the project cost. Generally, the counterpart funds are available on time, but
lately some of the provinces have become overextended and in some cases some delays have occurred in
the availability of these funds which had a slight adverse effect on the timely implementation of the
project. The level of tolls and the need for their regular review and increase are important for the
financial viability of the project and the project province's ability to repay the Bank loan on time as well
as to provide timely and sufficient maintenance funding. Construction quality has a major impact on
future repair and maintenance cost and will be controlled through tight construction supervision. Given
that FPTD and the related road sector institutions such as design institutes, training schools, research
institutes, and supervision stations have developed a high degree of ownership for the policy and
institutional reform components of the proposed Second Fujian Highway Project, it can be expected that
sustainability in these project areas can also be achieved. Once the ongoing Fujian Provincial Highway
and the new Second Fujian Highway Projects will be completed in 2005, the Province will have worked
closely with the Bank and its consultants over a 10 year period.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                         Page 20
Project Appraisal Document
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                        Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Lower than expected growth rates of traffic volumes   N        Critical review of feasibility studies and
selection of adequate technical standards
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Inadequate quality of construction                    M        (a) Selection of competent contractors
will reduce this risk
(b) Adequate construction supervision
arrangements will reduce this risk
Delays in land acquisition and resettlement           N        Proper training in these areas and
guidance from the Bank will reduce this
risk
Sufficient counterpart funds, materials and human     N        (a) Ensure sufficient financial resources
resources not available on time                                are available through analysis of highway
revenues and expenditures
(b)MOF's, MOC's and the provincial
government's strong support and FPTD's
strong commitment to the project will
ensure availability
(c) Dialogue with the provincial
government and MOC
Deficient engineering designs                         N        The engineering designs are being
reviewed by Japanese experts
Delays in preparation and implementation              M         (a) MOC and Bank will follow-up project
closely and carefully and provide timely
advice and support
(b) Project launch workshop will be held
after board approval and before start-up
of implementation
Training program will not prove successful and        M        (a) Well designed and implementable
managers will not apply new skills                             training program
(b) Criteria for selection of trainees are
logical and implemented in practice
(c) English language training is given to
trainees before training abroad
(d) Reports on effectiveness of training
after training is completed are submitted
(e) Provide trainees with opportunity to
apply acquired skills and tie
promotions/salary increases to effective
training



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                       Page 21
Project Appraisal Document
Risk                        Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Selection of incompetent contractors                M         Careful pre-qualification of contractors in
consultation with the Bank will reduce
this risk
Policy and Institutional Reforn as well as Road Safety  M     (a) Bank has ensured that Policy and
Programs will not receive large ownership from FPTD           Institutional Reform as well as Road
and will be unsuccessful                                      Safety Programs are well designed and
already enjoy large degree of ownership
from FPTD;
(b) Bank will conduct annual progress
workshop to ensure sustainable
implementation of programs.
Overall Risk Rating    M M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The most likely controversial aspect of project implementation would relate to disagreements among
contractors, supervision engineers and the owners regarding construction quality (or lack thereof) of
expressway civil works. This makes international construction supervision personnel in a mediating role
necessary. Another controversial aspect between Bank supervision missions and FPTD could derive
from the extent and speed of implementation of difficult institutional and policy reforms such as
organizational changes, creation of new highway entities along commercial lines, increasing road
maintenance funding, etc.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Issuance of acceptable legal opinions.
2. Agreement Reached with the Government:
The borrower will ensure that the proceeds of the loan are onlent to the Beneficiary (Fujian Province) on
the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with the Beneficiary bearing the foreign exchange risk.
3. Agreements Reached with the Beneficiary:
Construction Supervision, Toll Rates, and Highway Expenditures
(a) Fujian Province would employ and maintain construction supervision teams on Zhangzhou-Zhao'an
expressway (ZZE), as applicable, with qualified staff in adequate numbers to ensure that all works are
carried out in accordance with technical specifications and that strict quality controls are exercised on all
sites. Construction quality would also be monitored through routine project supervision and monthly and
semi-annual progress reports;
(b) Fujian Province shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and provide to the
Bank a monthly progress report on the civil works on the Zhangzhou-Zhao'an expressway (ZZE);



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                           Page 22
Project Appraisal Document
(c) Fujian Province shall undertake, complete and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, an
analysis and recommendation for the toll rates on ZZE by June 30, 2002 taking into consideration the
results of similar studies on toll rates con,ducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in China
and the experience with toll rates on major roads in China;
(d) Fujian Province would, by March 31 of each year commencing in 2000 and ending in 2005, furnish
an annual highway expenditure report for the Bank's review and comments for the previous year, which
would: (i) show the length of each class of highway by condition (excellent, good, fair and bad) as of
December 31 of the previous year; (ii) show the completed physical works and actual expenditures of the
previous year against the planned physical targets and budgeted funds of that year, for new construction,
upgrading/improvement, rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and routine maintenance; and (iii) show the
targets of the highway program for the following year, including new construction, upgrading/
improvement, rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and routine maintenance, in terms of planned physical
works and planned expenditures.
Policy and Institutional Reform and Road Traffic Safety Programs, and Training
(a) Fujian Province would by December 31 of each year, or such other date as the Bank shall request,
hold a workshop together with representatives of the Bank to evaluate the progress in the implementation
of its program of institutional and policy development and reforrn, and more specifically in regard to road
safety, development of management systems, and road maintenance and fund allocation;
(b) Fujian Province would: (i) by October 1, 2000, complete an institutional development and reform plan
for the next 6 years for its respective highway sector, such plan to cover the areas of, inter alia, road
safety, organizational development and strengthening, training needs, equipment needs and management
systems development; and (ii) furnish said plan to the Bank for its review and comments;
(c) Fujian Province would: on the basis of the institutional development and reform plan referred to in
sub-paragraph (b) above, (i) by October 1 of each year, commencing on October 1, 2001, prepare and
provide to the Bank for its review and comments an annual program of implementation; and thereafter
(ii) take all appropriate actions to implement said annual program, taking into consideration the Bank's
view thereon.;
(d) Fujian Province would: (i) carry out the training, in accordance with a training program acceptable to
the Bank; and to that end (ii) by June 30 of each year, commencing in June 30, 2000, furnish to the Bank
for its prior approval a rolling two-year training program;
(e) Fujian Province would: (i) by December 31, 2001, complete a maintenance management study under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish said study to the Bank for its review and
comments; and thereafter (iii) implement the recommendations of said study, taking into consideration
the Bank's view thereon;
(f) Fujian Province would: (i) by December 31, 2002, complete a study on safety measures regarding
maintenance works, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish said study to the Bank
for its review and comments; and thereafter (iii) implement the recommendations of said study, taking
into consideration the Bank's view thereon;



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 23
Project Appraisal Document
(g) Fujian Province would: (i) by March 31, 2003, complete the development of a road information
system, a quality control system and an accident analysis system, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank; and (ii) put into effect said management systems;
(h) Fujian Province would: : (i) by December 31, 2001, prepare under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, a safety audit schedule and a schedule of
black spot identification and improvement; and thereafter (ii) implement said schedules.
Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
(a) Fujian Province shall carry out the EAPs and RAPs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and furnish
any proposed revision of these plans to the Bank for its approval;
(b) Fujian Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of
EAPs and RAPs; and
(c) Fujian Province shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank: (i) on January 31 of each year, starting in 2000 through 2007, an annual environmental monitoring
report; and (ii) on January 31, 2000 and July 31, 2000, and thereafter on each January 31 during the
period of project implementation, an internal resettlement report prepared by the appropriate agencies of
the Project Province, and an external resettlement report prepared by an independent entity acceptable to
the Bank, on the implementation and impact of the resettlement activities during the immediately
preceding six months or one year period, as the case may be.
Reporting, Monitoring and Auditing
Fujian Province shall prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and submit to the Bank:
(a) a monthly progress report on the civil works of ZZE;
(b) a semi-annual progress report on implementation of all components of the project by March
31 and September 30, commencing in 2000;
(c) by March 31 of each year commencing in 2001 and ending in 2006, an annual monitoring
report in a form satisfactory to the Bank covering all components of the Project and assessing the
extent to which various implementation and development objectives have been obtained in the
course of project execution and operation;
(d) within six months of the closing date of the Bank loan to the project, an implementation
completion report in a format acceptable to the Bank; and
(e) the audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures, and special accounts by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. [] Not applicable.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 24
Project Appraisal Document
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfa'ctory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader ask Manager: Alfred Nickesen
Sector Manager:               Jitendra N. Bajpai
Coun   irwctor;               Yu   n Huang
t.,



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                Page 25
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Second Fujian Highway Project
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                          (Goal to Bank Mission)
Enhance China's economic    Agriculture and Industry   Country economic reports   Continued Government
growth through continuing    (GOVAI) in affected counties                         commitment to economic
infrastructure development to                                                     policies
alleviate capacity bottlenecks
Project Development        (see Annex 1-1)                                        (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Relieve congestion and help   Average travel speed on roads  Traffic counts and accident    Macroeconomic and political
increase efficiency, mobility   parallel to the proposed road   surveys           conditions will remain stable
and safety of road traffic in
Southern Fujian Province   Average daily traffic (ADT)   Traffic count reports    Government commitment at
on existing and proposed                              central, provincial and local
roads                      Reports on traffic speeds  levels
along main highways
Traffic accident rates                                No unexpected natural
involving fatalities       Traffic accident reports from    disasters occur (floods,
Traffic Police             earthquakes)
Traffic accident rates on
existing roads             Provincial annual statistics    Foreign exchange will remain
stable
Outputs:                                                                          (Outputs to Objective)
1. Expressway sections     1.1 Number of km of        Monthly progress reports by   Traffic will grow as projected
constructed                expressway constructed      supervision teams
2. Interconnecting and other   2.1 Number of km of     Semi-annual progress reports
roads constructed and/or   interconnecting and other   and annual monitoring reports
upgraded                   roads constructed/upgraded
Reports by Bank's supervision
missions
3. FPTD institutional capacity  3.1 Number of FPTD staff  Disbursement to contractors
strengthened               trained in financing,
management, operation and    Project progress and annual
construction supervision of    monitoring reports
expressways
4. Road safety program     4.1 Number of black spots
developed and implemented   identified and improved
5. Studies on Highway      5.1 Study on Highway
Maintenance and Toll Rates   Maintenance completed
completed
5.2 Study on Toll Rates
completed



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                 Page 26
Project Appraisal Document
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Project Components/Sub-com- Inputs: (budget for each                               (Components to Outputs)
ponents: (see Annex 3 for   component)
project description)
Component 1. Construction of US$561.0                  Project progress reports    Sufficient quality of
expressway, interconnecting                            Disbursement reports        engineering designs
and other roads
Quality of construction in
1. I Construction of the                                                           accordance with pre-
Zhangzhou-Zhao'Amn                                                                 established criteria
Expressway (ZZE) (132 km)
No delays in preparation and
1.2 Interconnecting road                                                           implementation
program, consisting of new
construction and upgrading of                                                      Material and human recourses
existing roads                                                                     available in timely manner
1.3 Other roads program,                                                           Selection of competent
consisting of new construction                                                     contractors
and upgrading of roads and
bridges                                                                            No delays in land acquisition
and resettlement
1.4 Equipment for: (i) control
of construction quality and
monitoring of the
environment; (ii) operation
and maintenance for ZZE; (iii)
maintenance of the provincial
road network and RDB and
PMS
1.5 Construction supervision
services for ZZE, the
interconnecting and other
roads programs
Component 2. Institutional    US$1.7                                               Training program will prove
Strengthening/Capacity                                                             successful and managers will
Building                                                                           apply new skills
2.1 Development and                                                                Policy and Institutional
execution of a provincial road                                                     Reform as well as Road Safety
maintenance management                                                             Programs will receive large
study and toll rate study for                                                      ownership from FPTD and
ZZE and road safety program                                                        will be successful
2.2 Staff training programs,
covering all aspects of
highway planning, design,
construction, operation,
finance and mainterance
Component 3. Front-end Fee US$2.0
Component 4. Land          US$30.9
Acquisition and Resettlement



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                      Page 27
Project Appraisal Document
Annex 1-1
Key Performance Indicators
a) Development Indicators
2003            2005
Attainment of        Monitoring             1998         Benchmark                          2010
Project           Indicators           Baseline       (1st year of       ICR          Benchmark
Objectives                                              operation)
Provide more     * ADT on Existing
efficient, safer    N.R.324 (veh./day)
and productive
transport services  Zhangzhou-Zhangpu
section                    22400            16100           18500           21800
Zhangpu-Yunxiao
section                    22500            14700           16600           19000
Yunxiao-Zhao'an
section                     16400           14100           15400           17600
* Speed on Existing
N.R. 324 (km/hr)
Zhangzhou-Zhangpu
section                      35              55              50              45
Zhangpu-Yunxiao
section                      40              65              60              55
Yunxiao-Zhao'an
section                      40              65              60              55
* Accident rates on
ZZE (Number of                               1.3             1.1              1.0
accidents per 100 million
vehicles)
* Accident rates on
existing N.R. 324            5.4             2.7             2.5             2.3
(Number of accidents
per 100 million vehicles)
NOTE: (1) Traffic measurement unit: standard passenger cars, buses and trucks.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                       Page 28
Project Appraisal Document
b) Implementation Indicators
1999         2000          2001          2002          2003         2005
ICR Year
% of civil works completed      10            35            35            5                          100
on ZZE
% of E&M works completed                                                 60            40            100
on ZZE
% of interconnecting roads                    50            50                                       100
improved/rehabilitated
% of other roads                 5            50            45                                       100
improved/rehabilitated
% of equipment purchased         2                          7            91                          100
Number of       Domestic        140           170                                                    310
person-months
of completed     Foreign                      12            26           24            28            90
training
c) Quality Control Indicators
Subgrade Compaction              0-80 cm                     95%
80-150 cm                   93%
>150cm                     90%
Pavement Roughness        1 .2mm/1 uOm per lane for asphalt concrete pavements



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                             Page 29
Project Appraisal Document
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ROAD SAFETY MONITORING PLAN IN FUJIAN PROVINCE
COMPONENT            NOT            1999                    2000                   2001                    2002                    2003                    2004
Institutional             A    Progress report    *    Progress report    *    Progress report    *    Progress report    *    Progress report    *    Progress report    *
Development Plan                at the Workshop,       at the Workshop, 10/0 1    at the Workshop, 10/0 1    at the Workshop, 10/01    at the Workshop, 10/0 1    at the Workshop, 10/01
10/01/*/World
Bank+FPTD
Engineering,              B    Progress report at the  Progress report at the  Progress report at the  Progress report at the  Progress report at the  Final report at the end of
Environment and                 yearly workshop        yearly workshop         yearly workshop         yearly workshop         yearly workshop        the project (lessons
Resettlement                                                                                                                                           learned &
Coordinating Team                                                                                                                                      recommendations)
Quality Control and       C    Progress report at the  Progress report at the  Progress report at the  Progress report at the  Progress report at the  Final report at the end of
Road Safety Controller          yearly workshop        yearly workshop         yearly workshop         yearly workshop         yearly workshop        the project (lessons
Function                                                                                                                                               learned &
recommendations)
Training and Education    D    Domestic: 140           Domestic: 150           Domestic:not yet decided  Domestic:not yet decided  Domestic:not yet decided  Final report on training
Abroad: 0              Abroad: Study-tour:12   Abroad:T: 14+S: 12      Abroad:T: 18+S:6        Abroad:T: 16+S: 12
Prog. rep. at the Wrkshp   Prog. Rep. at the Wrkshp   Prog. Rep. at the Wrkshp   Prog. rep. At the Wrkshp   Prog. rep. at the Wrkshp
Road Information          E    Progress report at the  Progress report at      Progress report         Progress report         Progress report         Final report RDB
System (RDB)                    Workshop, 10/01        Workshop                03/01+09/01 and         03/01+09/01 and         03/01+09/01 and         implemented and in
Final report Phase I   presentation at the     presentation at the     presentation at the     operation
Phase 2 starts         Workshop                Workshop                Workshop
Toll Rate Study           F    Progress report to be   The updated report      Progress report on      Progress report on      Progress report on      Final report on
presented at the       presented at the yearly    implementation to be  implementation to be  implementation to be    implementation to be
Workshop, 10/01        workshop                presented at the        presented at the        presented at the        presented at the
Workshop               Workshop                Workshop                Workshop
Highway Maintenance       G    Progress report at the  Progress report at the  Survey + research, FPTD   Long term maintenance    Progress report on   Progress report on
Management Study                Workshop               Workshop                to agree on fund        plan to be presented at    implementation to be  implementation to be
allocation policy,     the Workshosp           presented at Workshop    presented at Workshop
Workshop
Road Traffic Safety       H    Symposium on safety and  Two symposiums on      Two symposiums on       Two symposiums on       Two symposiums on       Two symposiums on
Seminars                        progress report at the  safety and a progress  safety and a progress   safety and a progress   safety and a progress   safety and a progress
Workshop               report at the Workshop    report at the Workshop    report at the Workshop    report at the Workshop    report at the Workshop
Other Road Safety         I    Progress report at the  Progress report at the  Progress report on testing  Progress report on  Final report on guidelines  Summing up workshop
Activities                      Workshop               Workshop on developed   of products developed at  models developed at the   and models for the three   and plans for further
products               the Workshop, 10/01/    Workshop, 10/01/        sub components          steps on implementation
Remedy of Black Spots     J                            Planning for black spot    Starting up the inventory   Analysis and planning for  Implementation, progress  Implementation, progress
on 100 km of NR324                                     detection and remedy on   of black spots and    implementation          report at the workshop    report at the workshop
NR324                  progress report at      Workshop
Workshop



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                    Page 30
Project Appraisal Document
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ROAD SAFETY MONITORING PLAN IN FUJIAN ROVINCE
Notes on the Various Components
Institutional Development Plan
A.            Outputs:   -An annual updated core document for the development of the highway sector.
Outcomes: -Continuing dialogue and development process over 5 years, which leads to a
continuously improved and extended plan.
Indicators:  -Annual update and progress report to be presented at the yearly workshop with the
Bank on institutional development and road safety.
Engineering, Environmental and Resettlement Coordinating Team
B.            Outputs:   -Documentation of fndings (good as well as bad) and experiences gained from
measures taken.
Outcomes: -Improved coordination at the right time of the project process.
-Cost-savings.
-Increased understanding of the importance of coordination.
Indicators:  -Progress report at the yearly workshop with the Bank.
-Lessons learned and recommendation report at the end of project.
Strengthening of the Project Management with a Controlling Function as Regards Road Safety and Quality
Control
C.            Outputs:   -Documentation of findings (good as well as bad) and experiences gained, e.g. from
countermeasures carried out.
Outcomes: - Increased know-how on road safety and quality control.
-Increased focus on quality and safety.
Indicators:  - Progress report on problems, measures taken, and results presented at the yearly
workshop with the Bank on institutional development and road safety.
-Final report on lessons learned and recommendations on how to assure good quality
and that safety aspects are considered in all development phases of the project
Training and Education
D.            Outputs:   -Number of staff that have taken part in the training according to the program.
Outcomes: -New know-how in use.
Indicators:  -Percentage of trained staff who are able to use the new know-how at the daily work.
-Progress report presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
-To fulfill its purpose, the training program shall be revised and extended every
second year.
Road Information System, RDB
E.            Outputs:   -Phase 1, built on the experiences gained from the EDB development, a detailed
program for development and implementation of a Provincial and Prefecture/City
RDB shall be developed and documented.
-Phase 2, distribution and application of RDB in each Prefecture and City of the
province.
Outcomes: -Phase 1, an RDB system consistent with the MOC recommendations and adjusted to
the initial needs in Fujian Province.
-Phase 2, integrated with the PMS and BMS systems it will lead to an increased
efficiency in planning and maintenance of roads, which in a longer perspective will
have a positive effect on traffic flow, traffic safety and quality of work carried out.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                     Page 31
Project Appraisal Document
Indicators:  -Phase 1, a report on Phase 1 should be available sixth months after commencing the
study.
-Phase 2, 18 months after finishing Phase 1, the final acceptance for the
implementation of RDB in the whole Province should be made.
-The system shall be in full operation two years thereafter.
-Progress reports (Phases 1 and 2) shall be presented every 6th month and at the
yearly workshop with the Bank on institational development and road safety.
Toll Rate Study
F.            Outputs:   -A report on future revenues from a toll road system in Fujian Province.
Outcomes: -Increased know-how about the options.
-A basis for decisions as regards toll road financing.
Indicators:  -An updated report (from the ongoing project) to be presented at the annual
workshop with the Bank on institutional development and road safety.
-Progress report on implementation to be presented at the annual yearly workshop
with the Bank.
Highway Maintenance Study
G.            Outputs:   -A long term activity plan.
-A conceptual model for PMS and BMS systems integrated with the RDB.
-A maintenance cost and fund allocation model.
Outcomes: -Principles on fund allocation (a policy).
-A sustainable system for planning and implementation of maintenance activities.
-Adapted maintenance organization on all administrative levels.
-Increased efficiency by using PMS, BMS and RDB.
Indicators:  -Principles on fund allocation decided on 18 months after start of study.
-Survey and research will last about 10 months from the start of study.
-Compatibility and coordination of PMS and BMS systems with the RDB, so these
three systems will benefit from each other.
-A long term maintenance activity plan should be available 24 months after
commencing the study.
-Progress reports to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on
institutional development and road safety during both the study period and the
implementation phase.
Road Traffic Safety Seminar
H.            Outputs:   -Documentation of presentations made at the seminars.
Outcomes: -Increased know-how about the road safety situation and how to tackle the problems.
Indicators:  -A symposium on road safety to be held every sixth month.
-Progress report on the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development
and road safety.
Other Road Safety Activities (Grouped)
(safety guidelines, safety audit procedures and the pilot safety program on black-spots)
I.            Outputs:   -Documentation of good examples and procedures aiming at improved road safety.
Outcomes: -Increased know-how and ideas on some simple routines to be followed in the
daily work, which leads to improved road safety.
Indicators:  -Presentation of the results at the traffic safety symposium twice a year as well as at
the annual workshop with the Bank on institutional development and road safety.
Remedy of Black Spots on 100 km of NR324
J.            Outputs:   -A plan for remedy of accident-prone locations on and along NR324.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                      Page 32
Project Appraisal Document
Outcomes: -Improved safety along the actual stretch of NR324.
-Increased know-how on problems and possibilities about the remedy of black spots.
Indicators: -Number of black-spots remedied in accordance with the agreed plan.
-Number of accidents before and after.
-Progress report at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development
and road safety.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 33
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 2: FUJIAN HIGHWAY SECTOR REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES
Second Fujian Highway Project
Introduction
1. The following table contains highway sector revenue and expenditure data for Fujian Province. This
table covers the 9th Five Year Plan period (9FYP) from 1996 to 2000 and the l0th Five Year Plan period
(10 FYP) from 2001 to 2005. While highway sector revenue and expenditure data is available for 9FYP
on an annual basis, planning for the 1 OFYP is only at a preliminary stage and data is not yet available for
each of the five years.
Revenue Analysis
2. An analysis of the Fujian highway sector revenue data indicates that during the 9FYP period its
highway sector revenues amount to US$6.2 billion (equivalent) while anticipated revenues for the 1 OFYP
are US$8.1 billion. In terms of revenue structure, the Road Maintenance Fee provides 8% of annual
revenues while under the Highway Key Construction Fund, the Capital Construction Fund provides 10%;
MOC provides about 7% and local governments provide around 31% to FPTD. The contribution of the
national aid-poverty subsidy is very small. Domestic and foreign loan funding which includes, inter alia
World Bank highway loans amounts to 21% during 9FYP. Around 80% is domestic which is due to
accelerated construction of the NTHS and other high-grade highways. Toll financing contributes 23% to
the overall revenue picture.
Expenditure Analysis
3. On the expenditure side distinction needs to be made between new road construction, road
improvement, and road maintenance, with the latter comprising routine and periodic operations. During
the 9FYP Fujian is spending 40% of its highway sector funds on new construction and 29% on road
improvement. In addition, Fujian is spending 8% of sector funds on routine and periodic maintenance.
These maintenance expenditures should be considered as the minimum necessary to keep the road
network operational. Loan servicing requires 23%. The envisaged expenditure structure for the 1 OFYP
in Fujian is similar to the pattern of 9FYP, with some 50% going to new construction; some 20% to
improvement; some 10% to maintenance; and some 20% to loan servicing. While 1OFYP expenditure
data is very preliminary, the overall anticipated expenditure pattern confirms that maintenance spending
is on the low side.
4.     A further distinction can be made for expenditures by road type. During 9FYP, Fujian spends
36% of its sector funds on expressways. This is followed by the spending of 26% of sector funds on
national and provincial roads. Finally, rural roads receive 16% of road sector funds (i.e. US$950
million). Loan servicing requires 22%. These calculations include new construction, improvement and
maintenance for these three principal road categories. While the anticipated expenditure picture for the
1 OFYP follows overall the one for the 9FYP, the details are as follows: About 50% of 1 OFYP road sector
funds would go to expressways; some 17% to national and provincial roads; some 15% (i.e. US$1.25
billion) to rural roads; and some 19% to repayment of loans.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                               Page 34
Project Appraisal Document
FUJIAN HIGHWAY REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES, 1996-2005
9FYP                        Total    1OFYP
1996     1997      1998     1999      2000
REVENUES
Road maintenance fee                 725      735       759      740       741     3,700     4,480
Transfer to public security         22        22       23        22       22       111       150
Transfer to fee collection sector   30        30       30        30       30       150       180
Remaining road maintenance fee       673      683       706      688       689     3,439     4,150
Highway Key Construction Plan      4,591     5,434    6,896     8,488    10,361    35,770    52,850
Capital construction               770       910     1,040     1,200    1,400     5,320    7,000
Central government (MOC)           687       587      669       650      750      3,343    4,000
Local government                  2,245    2,985     3,562    3,603     3,676    16,071    21,700
National aid-poverty road subsidy   32        34       33        35        35      169       150
Foreign and domestic loans         857       918     1,592    3,000     4,500    10,867    20,000
Toll revenues                       1,864    2,381    2,682     3,000     2,000    11,927    10,000
Total                              7,128     8,498    10,284    12,176    13,050    51,136    67,000
EXPENDITURES
New Construction                   2,531     3,003    2,807     5,133     7,160    20,634    35,250
Expressway                       2,330     2,690    2,350     4,500    6,500    18,370   32,000
National and Provincial roads       45       48        52       55        60       260      250
Rural roads                        156      265       405      578       600     2,004     3,000
Improvement                        2,833     2,979    4,320     2,281     2,450    14,863    13,670
National and Provincial roads    2,170     2,104    3,264     1,025     1,250    9,813     7,470
Rural roads                        663      875     1,056     1,256     1,200    5,050     6,200
Periodic maintenance                  53       90        90       99       112       444      518
National and Provincial roads       33       68        64       75        87       327      388
Rural roads                         20       22        26       24        25       117      130
Routine maintenance                  648      668       714      713       768     3,511     5,149
Expressway                           0        0        10       36        80       126      600
National and Provincial roads      502      518       550      537       548     2,655     3,549
Rural roads                        146      150       154       140      140       730     1,000
Payment of loans                   1,033     1,728    2,323     3,900     2,700    11,684    12,413
Total                              7,098     8,468    10,254    12,126    13,190    51,136    67,000
Source: Fujian Provincial Communication Department



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 35
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 3: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Second Fujian Highway Project
Project Component 1-Construction of Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway, interconnecting
and other roads -US561.0 million (total cost of component)
Project Sub-Component 1.1-Construction of Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway (ZZE - 132.5 km)
US$493.3 million
Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway (ZZE) is a 132.5 km divided, four-lane, access-controlled toll highway,
which would be connected in Zhangzhou with the Zhangzhou-Xiamen expressway section which is
presently under construction and which in turn is linked with the Quanzhou-Xiamen section which is
open to traffic. At the Guangdong border, it would be connected at Houlin to the Zhao'an-Shantou
expressway section according to an agreement reached in 1993 between Fujian and Guangdong.
According to this agreement, both sections will be constructed at the same time. MOC's expressway
standards for mountainous terrain with a design speed of 100 km/h will be applied. The project includes
several very large bridges and two tunnels of more than 2 km length each. ZZE would also include:
(a) construction of nine interchanges, (b) two service areas providing facilities for refueling and vehicle
repair, restaurants, parking and resting, (c) three additional couples of rest areas providing facilities for
refueling, parking and resting, (d) two facilities for expressway administration and maintenance, and
(e) electrical and mechanical installations for toll collection, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and
lighting of the tunnels, all interchanges and annex areas.
Project Sub-Component 1.2-Improvement of existing and construction of new interconnecting
roads
US$11.3 million
The project will include the completion of (i) a class 1, four lane, 5 km long, auto only interconnecting
road linking the expressway to several cities and towns and to the development zone and harbor of
Gangwei, (ii) a class 2, two lane, 8 km long, interconnecting road linking the expressway to several
towns. With the other existing roads in the corridor and an additional road improvement program of about
350 km length financed locally (which is not part of the project but a complementary investment), the
expressway will be linked properly to the highway network and to the cities, towns, development and
tourist zones to be served.
Project Sub-Component 1.3-Improvement of existing and construction of new other roads
US$35.0 million
The project will include three class 2 other road subprojects. The first subproject, 1.8 km long, links the
city of Baishui to the expressway and other towns through a bridge, 490 m long, crossing the Jiulong
river. The second subproject links the expressway with a poor area in Chuling with a total length of 8
km. The third subproject will complete the remaining 41.7 km Tankou-Hua'an section of the Zhangzhou



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 36
Project Appraisal Document
- Zhangping highway (with an overall length of 150 km) which will be upgraded from class 4 to class 2
as part of the project. This third road subproject is located along the Jiulong river in a mountainous area
and includes a 2.2 km long tunnel.
Project Sub-Component 1.4 - Equipment
US$4.8 million
Equipment for: (i) control of construction quality and monitoring of the enviromnent; (ii) operation and
maintenance of ZZE after its completion; (iii) maintenance of the provincial road network and RDB and
PMS. Equipment to be provided under the project has been identified by FPTD and agreed by the Bank.
The equipment list including cost estimates is available in the project file.
Project Sub-Component 1.5-Construction supervision services for ZZE, its interconnecting roads
and other roads
US$16.6 million
Based on the experience gained from on-going Bank-financed highway projects in China, a combined
team of domestic engineers, technicians and other personnel and international consultants will supervise
the above-mentioned main highways as well as the interconnecting and other road programs. The
international consultants would be integrated into the supervision organization with operational
responsibilities and would help establish procedures at all levels of the supervisory work, including on-
site inspections and laboratory testing.
The construction supervision team for ZZE would include four foreign engineers (with a total of 134
person-months), with expertise in projecticontract management, earth and pavement works, bridge and
tunnel construction, and mechanical and electrical works. The core team would also include several
domestic engineers and would be supported by a central laboratory. For field supervision of 8 ICB civil
works contracts and 4 ICB pavement contracts, three resident engineers' offices (REO) would be
established staffed with 150 persons. The estimated domestic supervision input would come to 7,200
man-months.
Project Component 2-Institutional Strengthening/Capacity Building
US1.7 million (total cost of component)
Project Sub-Component 2.1 - Studies/technical assistance in highway maintenance management,
toll rates and road safety, and developing institutional development plan.
US$0.75 million
For detailed information see Annexes 4 and 5.
Project Sub-Component 2.2 - Staff training programs, covering all aspects of highway planning,
design, construction, operation, finance agnd maintenance
US$0.97 million
The Training Program under the ongoing Fujian Provincial Highway Project, together with the outcome
of the draft Institutional and Policy Development Plan have formed the basis for the training and



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                           Page 37
Project Appraisal Document
education needs under the FH2 project. Some of the training, as started under the first project will
continue under FH2, e.g. training of supervisors. However, under FH2 there will be an extended need of
training in the fields of computerized information systems, road safety, and quality control. The new
training program for FF12 includes the specific needs of training for the Training Institutes, the Design
Institute and the Research Institute with regard to their important roles in the development of Fujian's
highway sector. In a rapidly developing society as at present in China, training and education of
personnel on all levels is essential. Therefore, a systematic approach would be taken on training. This
would also build upon the outcomes of the World Bank financed TA presently being undertaken which is
aiming at analyzing highway sector training activities both in China and abroad and trying to systematize
follow-up and evaluation of training activities in the highway sector.
Project Component 3 - Front-end Fee
US$2.0 million (total cost of component)
Project Component 4 - Land Acquisition and Resettlement
US$30.9 million (total cost of component)



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 38
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 4: POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROGRAM
Second Fujian Highway Project
1.  Introduction
1.1    The economic system in China is undergoing major changes towards a market orientation and
these changes will involve many reforms in the transport sector. These reforms will put substantial
pressure on China's highway organizations and specifically on their manpower. Therefore, there is great
need for modem and new thinking which can be achieved through training and education, the use of
modem methods and equipment and through policy and institutional development.
1.2   In discussions with FPTD in Fujian, it was agreed that several important project activities would
concentrate on Institutional and Policy Reforms. Important areas in the development of modem
thinking in infrastructure planning and implementation comprise road traffic safety, environmental issues
and quality control. Structural and system consequences of further steps towards a market economy will
also need to be analyzed.
1.3    During project preparation it was agreed by the Fujian PTD that the following should serve as
the guiding principles for the policy and institutional development process:
Since China's development direction is towards a socialist market economy, sector medium to long term
objectives would be:
(i)   to stimulate competition in the highway sector;
(ii)   to continuously increase the knowledge base of personnel;
(iii)  to improve the quality of products and services;
(iv)   to pay greater attention to environmental aspects;
(v)   to reduce the number of road traffic accidents; and
(vi)  to increase efficiency by developing and using modem equipment and management systems.
2.    Institutional Reforms
Institutional Development Plan
2.1    To create a framework for the concept of Institutional Development, it was agreed that an
Institutional Development Plan for the coming 5 years would be developed. The Plan would serve as an
overview of and guideline for the entire process and cover organizational development and strengthening
as well as training and education needs, necessary equipment, and management systems. The Plan will
cover the proposed second highway project and be coordinated with the ongoing highway project as
regards training and other institutional activities, including road safety.
2.1.1  Actions agreed (Institutional Development Plan)



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 39
Project Appraisal Document
Outputs:  -  An annual updated core document for the development of the highway sector.
Outcomes: -  Continuing dialogue and development process over a period of 5 years, which leads to a
continuously improved and extended plan.
Indicators: -  Annual update and progress report to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank
on institutional development and road safety.
Organization Development
Engineering, Environmental and Resettlement Coordinating Team
2.2    During project preparation missions continuing discussions were held on the need for improving
the communication and coordination between the Resettlement Office, the Design Institute and the
Environment Team which were not as good as this important task should be handled so as to ensure that
all aspects of highway projects from an early stage onward are properly managed. As a consequence,
environmental and resettlement issues are often not considered enough during the project design process.
Therefore, instead of carrying out the engineering design first and then considering resettlement and
environmental effects, highway design should be carried out considering the environmental and
resettlement costs and impacts with the purpose of satisfying the goals of resettlement minimization and
environmental protection.
2.3    As a result FPECD has worked out a draft proposal on an organizational structure for specific
staff to take care of the problem of coordinating engineering, environmental protection and resettlement
aspects at an early stage of project preparation. After the FH2 project will be completed it was agreed
with FPTD that this new team will continue its work on coordinating these matters within FPTD. The
suggested arrangement has been reviewed and agreed by the Bank during appraisal and was confirmed at
negotiations.
2.3.1  Actions agreed (Engineering, Environmental and Resettlement Coordinating Team)
Outputs:  -  Documentation of findings (good as well as bad) and experiences gained from measures
taken.
Outcomes: -  Improved coordination at the right time of the project process.
-  Cost-savings.
-  Increased understanding of the importance of coordination.
Indicators: -  Progress report at the yearly workshop with the Bank.
- Lessons learned and recommendation report at the end of project.
Strengthening of Project Management with Controlling Function for Road Safety and Quality Control
2.4    Quality control and safety aspects are two other components of great importance in design and
construction of road projects. There are too many bad examples to be seen with respect to failures in
these fields, even among newly constructed roads, as for example the new road to the new Fuzhou
airport. Bank mission and representatives from FPTD have discussed this matter many times so as to
avoid such failures. It was agreed to strengthen Project Management with a "controlling function"
consisting of two experienced persons, one on Quality Control and one on Road Safety. These two
persons should act directly on behalf of Project Management within their fields of specialty. They should
follow the project development from the initial design stage until the construction work has been
completed. It was agreed that, after the project period is over these staff will continue their work as



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                          Page 40
Project Appraisal Document
experts within FPTD. The Bank appraisal mission reviewed and approved a draft work program for the
quality and safety controller functions.
2.4.1  Actions agreed (Controlling Functions on Quality Control and Road Safety)
Outputs:  -  Documentation of findings (good as well as bad) and experiences gained from
countermeasures carried ouit.
Outcomes: -  Increased know-how on road safety and quality control.
-  Increased focus on quality and safety.
Indicators: -  Progress report presented on problems, measures taken, and results at the yearly
workshop with the Bank on institutional development and road safety.
- Final report on lessons learned and recommendations on how to assure good quality and
that safety aspects are considered in all development phases of the project.
Training and Education
2.5   The Training Program under the ongoing highway project includes a first attempt of training
needs under the proposed second highway project. The agreed Training Program under the ongoing
project together with the Institutional Development Plan have formed the basis for the training and
education needs under the second highway project. Some of the training which has started under the
ongoing project will continue under the second highway project. However, under the proposed second
highway project there will be an extended need for training in the field of computerized information
systems, road safety and quality control. This is well documented in the training program for the project.
The training program under the second highway project has been structured in the same way as the one
under the ongoing project. This is to ensure full compatibility and coordination between the two
programs. The cost for training is estimated at about US$0.8 million. The initial domestic staff training
program covers a period of two years with 140 people to be trained in 1999 and 150 in 2000.
2.5.1  Actions agreed (Training and Education)
Outputs:  -  Number of people that have taken part in the training according to the program.
Outcomes: -  New know-how in use.
Indicators: -  Percentage of trained people who are able to use the new know-how at the daily work.
-  Progress report presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety.
-  To fulfill its purpose, the 1raining program shall be revised and extended every second
year.
Management Systems
Road Information System (Road Data Bank)
2.6   The basic prerequisite for modem management of roads is precise and timely information about
the actual status of the road networks and the traffic and its envirornent. This information is used on a
day to day basis both for planning, construction and maintenance activities and for monitoring and
evaluation of works carried out. This information is normally stored in a Computerized Data Bank (Road
Data Bank or RDB). Without this easily accessible information it would not be rational to have other
management systems such as PMS and BMS since they receive some input data from the RDB. A study



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 41
Project Appraisal Document
on Highway Maintenance Management to be executed under the project will cover the need of integration
between all these systems.
2.7   Past experience from other countries has clearly shown that it is feasible to build up in a stepwise
fashion an Information System based on a Road Data Bank (RDB). The information covered in a first
phase should include only basic data. A limited geographical test area should be chosen and all types of
data as needed should be collected and stored from that test area. This makes it possible to test and adjust
the system before implementing it in the whole province. In Fujian Province the experiences gained from
the development of the Expressway Data Bank (EDB) could partly serve the same purpose. To develop
and implement an RDB system normally takes 3-5 years. However, by using the experiences gained in
other provinces of China and from the development of the EDB the time could eventually be shortened.
As an example Bank missions mentioned Shanxi Provincial Communications Department which has
successfully developed an RDB system. Revised TOR covering both the initial development phase and
the final phase including application and distribution to all Prefectures and Cities in the Province have
been reviewed and agreed by the Bank.
2.7.1 Actions agreed (Road Information System, RDB)
Outputs:  -  Phase 1, built on the experiences gained from the EDB development and from other
provinces, a detailed program for development and implementation of a Provincial and
Prefecture/City RDB shall be developed and documented.
-  Phase 2, distribution to and application of RDB in each Prefecture and City of the
province.
Outcomes: -  Phase 1, an RDB system consistent with the MOC recommendations and adjusted to the
initial needs in Fujian Province.
-  Phase 2, integrated with the PMS and BMS systems it will lead to an increased efficiency
in planning and maintenance of roads, which in a longer perspective will have a positive
effect on traffic flow, traffic safety and quality of work carried out.
Indicators: -  Phase 1, a report on Phase I should be available sixth months after commencing the
study.
- Phase 2, 18 months after finishing Phase 1, the final acceptance for the implementation
of RDB in the whole Province should be made.
-  The system shall be in full operation two years thereafter.
-  Progress reports (phases 1 and 2) shall be presented during the yearly workshop with the
Bank on institutional development and road safety.
3.    Policy Reforms
Road Classification
3.1   The functional classification of road networks is a rather permanent but also an evolving process
for development of the road network. It must be undertaken periodically, especially when substantial
changes have occurred in the location of residences, economic activities, or within geographical area
boundaries, when trade routes are recast, when major changes in transport policies occur or when travel
patterns have altered.
3.2    Often reclassification leads to a more efficient road network, one which is consistent either with
occurred changes in economic development or planned changes. In both cases the updated functional



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 42
Project Appraisal Document
classification enables better allocation of tight funds for maintenance, rehabilitation/reconstruction,
upgrading or new construction to reach the policy objectives.
3.3   FPTD informed the Bank that a reclassification of the road network in Fujian Province has not
been initiated since MOC has not so far initiated a review on the national level. However, when such a
review will be carried out it will lay a good foundation for the future dialogue on, among other things, the
development of maintenance standards in t]he Province.
Studies
Toll Rate Study/TA
3.4   FPTD undertook, as part of the ongoing Fujian Provincial Highway Project a Toll Systems and
Toll Standards Study for Fuzhou-Xiamen-Zhangzhou Expressway, dated November 1998. While there is
an ongoing review process and dialogue between FPTD and the Bank on this innovative and
comprehensive study under the ongoing Bank-supported operation, FPTD and Bank preparation missions
also agreed that this dialogue should continue and be expanded under the new project. It was agreed that
expansion of this TA would particularly address issues related to the overall development of toll
management systems in Fujian including electronic toll collection (ETC) technology and related issues.
As such this TA would have relevance not only for Fujian Province but also for other provinces in China.
3.4.1  Actions agreed (Toll Rate Study)
Outputs:  -  A report on toll management systems including electronic toll collection (ETC).
Outcomes: -  Increased know-how about the organizational, institutional and technological options.
-  A basis for decisions as regards toll management systems.
Indicators: -   Progress report on development and implementation to be presented at the yearly
workshop with the Bank.
Highway Maintenance Management Study
3.5   The present highway system in Fujian Province is rapidly growing in terms of road kilometers
and at the same time experiencing a continued growth in vehicle kilometers. During a period of intensive
construction of roads, maintenance cannot always keep pace. The result will be a rapidly increasing
deterioration causing the need of a total rehabilitation of the roads. On the other hand proper
maintenance will increase the lifetime of these roads.
3.6   Fujian Province is presently installing an EDB system as well as PMS and BMS systems and
later on an RDB. All of these systems are important tools in maintenance work. However, in order to use
these good instruments in an efficient way an overall system is needed. This overall system on
maintenance planning and operation could be called a "Maintenance Management System" (MMS) and
include the use of EDB, RDB, PMS and BMS. The MMS will ensure that all these systems are
adequately coordinated and that the focus is on user demand. The development of an MMS has to be
adjusted to the specific conditions in each province and to the other systems and routines used in the
province. A Highway Maintenance Management Study has been agreed upon in order to develop the
MMS.
3.7   Similar studies are being carried oult in Hunan and Hubei provinces. The study consists of two
parts, a development process (learning part) and a documentation part. The first part covers about 80% of



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                           Page 43
Project Appraisal Document
the study and is specific for each Province (cannot be transferred) and the remaining part
(documentation) depends on the first part. Therefore, each province that is going to use RDB, PMS and
BMS as efficiently as possible and avoid "sub-optimization" should carry out such a study. This was also
discussed at a World Bank seminar in Beijing on May 6, 1998 and both MOC and MOF agreed in
principle that this type of study with a great impact of "learning and adjustment process" has to be carried
out by each province. The main purposes are to:
* clarify the over all system for maintenance planning and operation, the organizational framework and
to develop a sustainable maintenance policy for Fujian Province, and
* be able to use the modern information system under implementation (EDB, RDB, PMS and BMS) as
efficiently as possible.
3.8   It was agreed with FPTD that a foreign consultant with extensive experience in modern
maintenance management and in the practical use of PMS, BMS and RDB systems would be engaged to
assist in carrying out the study. FPTD and the mission also agreed to use the experiences gained in other
provinces, so that through a close cooperation with these, the foreign consultant input could be reduced to
8 months in Fujian Province. TOR were reviewed and agreed by the Bank. The study would also cover
maintenance organization development, equipment management and planning, analysis methods, and the
integration of PMS and BMS with RDB.
3.8.1  Actions agreed (Highway Maintenance Management Study)
Outputs:  -  A long term activity plan.
- A conceptual model for PMS and BMS systems integrated with the RDB.
- A maintenance cost and fund allocation model.
Outcomes: -  Principles on maintenance cost and fund allocation (a policy) decided on by FPTD.
- A sustainable system for planning and implementation of maintenance activities (MMS).
- Adapted maintenance organization on all administrative levels.
- Increased efficiency by using PMS, BMS and RDB.
Indicators: -  Principles on fund allocation decided upon 18 months after the start of study.
- Survey and research will last about 10 months from the start of study.
- Compatibility and coordination of PMS and BMS systems with the RDB so these three
systems will benefit from each other.
- A long term maintenance activity plan should be available 24 months after commencing
the study.
- Progress reports to be presented at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional
development and road safety during both the study period and the implementation phase.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 44
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 5: ROAD TRAFFIC SAFETY PROGRAM
Second Fujian Highway Project
1.    Introduction
1.1    The road traffic accident situation in Fujian Province is at present somewhat worse than on
average in other provinces in China. The situation is already serious, and as a result of rapidly increasing
motorization and vehicle use, road traffic safety is becoming an even more serious problem which needs
to be tackled in a systematic way. Actions to reduce road accidents and their consequences in terms of
injuries and loss of life, damages to property and economic losses cover many fields. In Fujian Province
as well as in other provinces in China, the responsibility for road traffic safety rests with the transport
sector (FPTD) as well as with the public security sector (Traffic Police). The coordination lies with the
Provincial Government. FPTD retains full responsibility for all aspects of road traffic safety in highway
design, construction and maintenance.
1.2   The following statistics from Fujian province are at present available:
Road accidents     Year 1995         Year 1996        Year 1997
No of fatalities       2922              3141             3385
No of injuries         8407             11045             12599
Total number of        13849            16483             17646
accidents
Estimated cost x       62272            87424            100368
1000 RMB
1.3    The number of people in Fujian Province who have died in traffic accidents and the economic
loss is higher than the average of other provinces in the country. Therefore the road safety situation in
Fujian Province is a major problem to be tackled.
2.    Road Traffic Safety
Development of Accident Information System (AIS)
2.1    The need for an Accident Infornation System (AIS) has been discussed during project
preparation. It has been agreed that an Accident Information System is a good tool for planning and
follow-up of road traffic safety measures. The discussions have focused on the difficulties surrounding
the practical arrangements for introducing an AIS in Fujian, caused by the fact that the Public Security
Sector is responsible for the accident recording and the register, and that the register is not fully "open".
The accident information system which is with the Public Security Sector (the Traffic Police) also needs
to be further developed and modernized to become better able to serve the main purposes for road traffic
safety work in a broader perspective. However, due to administrative difficulties, for the time being this
question cannot been tackled in the project.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 45
Project Appraisal Document
Provincial Road Safety Council
2.2    Due to the limited coordination and cooperation between FPTD and the Traffic Police and since
at present there is no effective body for policy making and planning in the field of road traffic safety, a
promising approach would be to establish a more formal and organized form for cooperation, not only
involving the traffic police and FPTD but also other organizations concerned with road safety matters,
e.g. health sector institutions and education sector institutions. Such cooperative forms have been
established in many countries and are often named Road Safety Council (RSC).
2.3    However, FPTD explained to the Bank that the difficulties in arranging such formalized
cooperation at this point in time are too many, due to the very strong administrative boundaries between
the sectors concerned. The Bank and FPTD therefore have agreed, at least for the time being, to wait
with the initiation of such an organization. However, the Bank is of the strong opinion that for the future
and within a broader highway sector reform perspective, such joint and well coordinated effort among all
concerned organizations in Fujian is needed, if the continuously increasing number of road accidents is to
be reduced and the road traffic safety situation is to be improved in a serious manner.
Road Safety Seminars
2.4    To increase the awareness of the serious consequences of the increasing number of road
accidents, a series of Road Safety Seminars will be arranged in the province. There will be a lot of
important outcomes from these and some of the outcomes would be implemented during the project
period. The road safety seminars will focus on the problems road accidents are causing to society as well
as analyzing the causes. Besides the cost of property damage, road casualties are causing a severe
economic burden on the community. In addition to loss of human life and personal suffering road
accident victims occupy a high proportion of hospital beds, medical staff and medicines, which are
otherwise needed for general health service. Considering these different negative effects, it is evident
that road accidents consume a rapidly growing share of the available resources which are needed for
more productive purposes.
2.5    The basic concept for the seminars would be to create a better understanding and awareness
among decision makers and the general public. Experienced experts from China as well as experts from
abroad would be invited to participate so as to obtain the best possible information and ideas on how to
tackle the problems. An important part is to learn from other countries which are at a later stage of traffic
development.
2.5.1  Actions agreed (Road Traffic Safety Seminars)
Outputs:  -  Documentation of presentations made at the seminars.
Outcomes: -  Increased know-how about the road safety situation and how to tackle the problems.
Indicators: -  A symposium on road safety to be held every sixth month.
- Progress report at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development and
road safety.
Safety at Road Work Sites
2.6    A typical aspect of road works is that they may take place in all types of road environments. But
in each setting they constitute an abnormality, so that the traffic situation encountered by the driver



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                               Page 46
Project Appraisal Document
deviates from the situation s/he expects to meet. Thus, there is reason for assuming that road works cause
situations which are marred by exceptionally high accident risks.
2.7   It has been agreed that a manual for the safety at road work sites during construction and/or
maintenance of roads would be developed. In order to organize road works under tolerable and
economically acceptable conditions to road users and workers, a major effort is required to find solutions
appropriate for each situation: comprehensive schemes for work zones and temporary traffic operations,
technological innovations, monitoring users' behavior and traffic, etc. The aim is to reduce the accident
risk at roadwork sites. Different types of roadwork should be examined from mobile and short duration
to long duration road works, as well as equipment and accessories used for temporary signing, traffic
guidance and the protection of workers.
Safety Audit Procedures
2.8 Fujian Province is at present investing huge sums in the development of its infrastructure. This offers
a unique opportunity to create a road and street network that offers the users good mobility and a high
degree of traffic safety.
2.9    Foreign experience shows, that by using a few simple principles, land use and traffic network
planning can be carried out to ensure good traffic safety, and at the same time a high mobility, now and in
the future.
2.10   However, to reach that goal, some basic planning principles must be agreed as soon as possible.
Thereby, not all, but a good deal of the traffic safety problems which at present are at hand can be
avoided in the future.
2.11   It was agreed to develop a safety audit procedure schedule in order to guide engineers in design
work. The safety audit schedule will consist of a series of checklists and guidelines that explain how to
check highway designs to ensure good safety standards. Improvement in road safety conditions starts
with a good design of expressways, new roads and interconnecting roads.
Pilot Safety Study on "Black-Spots"
2.12   A major problem with road safety actions is to find the hazardous locations and to implement
effective measures. It was agreed that in order to develop a method to identify and remedy such " black-
spots" a study would be carried out. A good start would be to carry out a pilot safety program on a
specific road in the Province. Such a prograim for black-spot analysis would consist of three stages:
(a)    Identification methods of the black-spots, the main objective is to develop a simple
model for detecting "black-spots" and to find a sample of good examples on how to
remedy these accident prone locations;
(b)    A proposal of a program on remedial measures and its implementation; and
(c)    Before and after analysis model.
2.13   The above road safety activities (safety at road work sites, safety audit procedures and the pilot
safety program) will all be carried out by domestic consultants. These three activities have also been
grouped as "other road safety activities" with regard to outputs, outcomes and performance indicators.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 47
Project Appraisal Document
2.13.1 Actions agreed (Other Road Safety Activities)
Outputs:  -  Documentation of good examples and procedures aiming at improved road safety.
Outcomes: -  Increased know-how and ideas on some simple routines to be followed in the daily work,
which leads to improved road safety.
Indicators: -  Presentation of the results at the traffic safety symposiums twice a year as well as at the
yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development and road safety.
Remedy of Black Spots on 100 km of NR324
2.14  It was agreed that the road safety program would contain a physical road safety component.
NR324 (the existing national road) running in parallel to the proposed ZZE would serve this purpose, and
a minimum length of 100 km would be identified and investigated with respect to road safety problems
("black-spots"). Remedy of these black spots would be carried out under the new project. The physical
measures shall be implemented under due consideration of findings from the "safety at road work sites"
study and the "pilot safety study black-spot model" shall be used.
2.14.1 Actions agreed (Remedy of Black Spots on 100 km of NR324)
Outputs:  -  A plan for remedy of accident prone locations on and along NR324.
Outcomes: -  Improved safety along the actual stretch of NR324.
- Increased know-how on problems and possibilities about the remedy of black spots.
Indicators: -  Number of black-spots remedied in accordance with the agreed plan.
- Number of accidents before and after.
- Progress report at the yearly workshop with the Bank on institutional development and
road safety.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 48
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 6: CHINA'S EVOLVING HIGHWAY PROGRAM AND
FINANCING ISSUES
Second Fujian Highway Project
"Good roads, canals and navigable rivers, b) diminishing the expense of carriage, put the remote parts of the
country more nearly upon a level with the neighborhood of towns. They are upon that account the greatest of
all improvements. " Adamn Smith, An Enquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations, 1776.
1. Introduction
1.1    China's strong and sustained economic growth over the last 20 years has resulted in transport
demand growth faster than the capacity and ability of the system to deal with it. However, China has
historically underinvested in transport (less than 1.3% of GDP during 1980s compared to 3% in 1998),
and its road network ranks arnong the sparsest in the world relative to geographic area and population. A
few inter-provincial expressways have been built to date and about 20% of rural communities have no all-
weather vehicular access. In recent years, governments at all levels have embarked on a major highway
capital investment and improvement program.
1.2 At the end of 1998, China's road network exceeded 1.26 million km, but only a small part of the
system, some 5,500 kmn, consisted of high capacity toll expressways, and another 15,000 km of other toll
highways.
1.3 China is confronting a demand for new highway development and financing not presently
experienced elsewhere in the world. China is making significant progress in revenue raising and
construction funding, but continued progress will likely depend on the implementation of: (i) a well-
defined legal and regulatory framework for private investors; (ii) a comprehensive system for raising and
allocating highway user fees and other forms of finance; and (iii) a mature relationship between central
government and the provinces to guide the financing and implementation of projects.
2. Scope of the Development Program
2.1    The focus of the national highway strategy is to complete the National Trunk Highway System
(NTHS) of some 35,000 km of high-grade highways during 1999-2015 at a total cost of US$150 billion.
Government attaches high priority to completing two north-south, two east-west corridors, and several
corridors serving border areas and cross-border trade. The Ministry of Communications (MOC) has been
developing the NTHS, consisting of 12 inter-provincial trunk expressways, spanning China and
connecting the countries 100 biggest cities. To date, some 7,500 km of the NTHS has been opened to
traffic.
2.2 Operating expressways by year-end 1998 totaled over 5,500 km in length. Present toll rates on
China's expressways average in the range of US$0.03-0.05 for passenger cars and US$0.10-0.15 for
buses, trucks, and other heavy vehicles. These levels are similar to toll rates in most other developing
countries in Asia and Latin America.
2.3. In 1997, China invested US$13 billion in highways, of which US$0.7 billion was in World Bank
loans (or about 5%). In 1998, to support the government's economic stimulus program (8% growth rate),
highway spending was raised to US$26 billion, a 100% increase from  1997. Some 55% of this



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 49
Project Appraisal Document
investment (or US$14 billion) was allocated to NTHS construction, 30% (or US$8 billion) to provincial
road development and the remaining 15% (US$4 billion) to rural road improvement. World Bank
lending for highways in 1998 reached US$0.68 billion (or about 2.5% of the total). Annual multi- and
bilateral lending to the sector in recent years is about US$1.2-$1.5 billion, with about 45% from the
World Bank, 30% from ADB, and the remaining 25% from OECF.
2.4 Most observers agree that unless new sources of revenue are identified, China will experience a 30%
funding shortfall in the highway sector over the next 15 years. To address these growing requirements,
the country is exploring a variety of innovative financing techniques and sources of capital from both the
public and private sectors.
3. Ability to Mobilize Capital
3.1 China faces a difficult challenge in mobilizing sufficient resources to meet future needs for the
construction and maintenance of its highway system.
3.2 China's expanding financial markets are providing greater amounts of capital for new highway
development, and at the same time, insulating the country from the effects of the Asian financial crisis.
China's high personal savings rate has produced a total of over US$600 billion in the banking system in
1999, up 16.7% from last year. The government has targeted nearly US$40 billion in domestic debt
issuance this year, of which a large part will be used for infrastructure development.
3.3 The challenges are for China to develop more highway projects which are bankable and can be
evaluated on commercial lending criteria by local financial institutions. Many segments of the expanding
NTHS are without the initial traffic volumes and near-term toll revenue potential necessary for private
developers and commercial lenders to receive an adequate early return on their investment. Thus, the
responsibility for much of this expressway construction will continue to rest with central and provincial
highway agencies, and public revenues.
3.4 The central government has taken steps in recent months to shore-up the local financial sector in the
aftermath of the closure of Guangdong International Trust and Investment Corporation (GITIC) and
restructuring of many other ITICs due to their high foreign debt burden. Restrictions have been imposed
on unauthorized foreign borrowings by the provinces and to limit the flow of foreign capital out of the
country. The pace of highway asset securitization to raise private equity for new construction has also
slowed considerably in recent months. The number of highway projects that can be marketed (those with
strong traffic revenue potential) to private sector investors are insignificant compared to the sector's
resource requirements.
3.5 China's new Highway Law, which was passed in 1997 and became effective in January 1998,
provides for a new fuel tax to fund road construction and maintenance. This tax will possibly become
effective in 1999, and will replace the current road maintenance fee. Public sector revenues will continue
to be raised from passenger and freight surcharges, and various local fees and levies, including the
vehicle purchase surcharge. Taken together, these sources produce a modest share of the country's total
budget for highway development. Additional contributions from provincial entities, foreign and domestic
financial markets, and the private sector will be necessary.
3.6 China's capital markets are undergoing a transition, with relatively undeveloped capacity for long-
term infrastructure finance to a more dynamic, liquid supply of funding available on commercial terms
for major infrastructure projects. The central government attaches a high priority to the attraction of



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 50
Project Appraisal Document
foreign investment in highway projects, but in most cases, outside the coastal regions, these efforts have
not been successful so far. There are few bankable projects which are attractive to private investors as
start-up toll roads, and this situation will likely not change in the foreseeable future. Coastal provinces
such as Guangdong, Zhejiang, and Jiangsu have benefited from a higher concentration of population and
economic activity, and thus, are able to attract private developers with projects having greater traffic and
revenue potential.
3.7 New toll road projects pose significant construction and start-up risks for private developers. In
addition, there are commercial risks which are related to future traffic volumes which are hard to define.
China's BOT policy framework for private investors is still in the formative stage and until finally
completed and implemented, new toll road projects with private investment are likely to be very few in
number.
3.8 China is encouraging its state banks to make commercial loans to provinces for accelerated highway
construction. These funds are available for a term of 5-10 years at rates comparable to the cost of U.S.
treasury bonds, approximately 6%-8% presently. This new emphasis by the central government on
improved capital flows for highways, among other sectors, is intended to help sustain China's GDP
growth at a level of 8% for the foreseeable future and to overcome immediate transport bottlenecks that
constrain economic growth.
3.9 Asset securitization is looked upon by the government as a viable technique for leveraging the value
of existing highway assets to raise new capital for the construction of additional expressways. Asset
securitization and China's approach to refinancing existing roads are intended to attract private investors
without the construction and traffic risks normally connected to start-up "greenfield" toll roads.
3.10 Since mid-1996, 12 transactions have been completed in Hong Kong and Shenzhen with the
issuance of H and B shares to foreign investors and another three transactions in Shenzhen with A shares
for domestic investors. Total capital raised from these listings exceeds US$2 billion.
3.11   Until the onset of the Asian financial crisis in 1997/98, provincial agencies were of the opinion
that share appreciation in the Hong Kong and Shenzhen equity markets would be enough to meet
investors' demands for 20% plus returns without the payment of sizeable dividends from earnings. Now,
with the downturn in the markets and flat, or volatile share prices over the past year, provincial attitudes
may change.
3.12    To underline the present weakness of the international markets, three (non-highway) H share
issues on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange have failed to materialize in early 1999. Circumstances are
somewhat different in China's A-share market, where highway transactions are under consideration in the
Beijing-Tianjin corridor and in Guangdong and Fujian, and possibly for other provinces in the near
future.
4. Potential for Private Sector Participation
4.1 Since 1995, China's demand for private capital to finance its highway program continued at an
unabated pace, triggering the flow of an estimated US$5-6 billion in new highway capital from private
sources.
4.2 The bulk of the new capital from the private sector is equity investment. Over the past five years or
so, provincial highway agencies have engaged in over 70 cooperative joint venture toll road projects



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 51
Project Appraisal Document
valued at an estimated US$3-4 billion. These projects are almost always existing roads and bridges that
are refinanced under 20 to 30-year concessions by Hong Kong developers and mainland partners. The
proceeds are used to build or expand additional highways in the province. IFC has recently obtained
Board approval for its first investment in China's toll road sector, a US$16.1 million equity investment in
Shanghai Midway Corporation.
4.3 China's experience with BOT development of highway projects is still evolving. Although the
Junshan Bridge project was designated by the State Development and Planning Commission (SDPC) as
one of its four original pilot BOT projects in 1994, this bridge is now under construction as a public
sector project to connect the Jingzhu and Hurong expressways as part of the Bank's Third National
Highway (NH3) Project. The experience gained from the evaluation of the Junshan Bridge as a BOT
candidate is being applied in Hubei Province to an 85-km section of expressway northwest from Wuhan,
which as a BOT project or public/private partnership, will be part of a future 650-km expressway system
in the central region of the province. The Bank and Hubei Province have agreed to try to mobilize grant
funding for a network-level analysis of the system in order to develop an adequate base of capital cost,
revenue, and traffic data to discuss the new project with the private sector. Hubei is also considering the
possibility of using an outside contractor/investor to provide operations and maintenance services for a
large part of the expressway system.
4.4 China is continuing to emphasize the importance of securing long-term debt capital at relatively low
interest rates as a key factor in making highway facilities affordable to a large segment of the population.
The World Bank, OECF, and the Asian Development Bank are making important contributions in this
area, and through continued work on a legal and regulatory framework for BOT investment, China hopes
to secure the confidence and support of commercial lenders for long-term private borrowings in the
highway sector. The country has already experienced some success in this regard through financial
closure of BOT pilot projects in the power and water sectors.
4.5 Although China is making progress with the availability of medium-term debt in its domestic capital
markets, foreign commercial banks and the capital markets appear quite reluctant at this stage to support
new highway projects in China without access to sovereign guarantees. The solutions are in part
institutional and policy, or framework, oriented.
4.6    The Bank is working with central and provincial governments to begin the organization of new
toll road authorities at the provincial level with the power to raise and spend toll revenues, and to
presumably leverage debt financing for construction and operation and maintenance (O&M) of their
emerging  expressway  and  other high-grade  highway  systems.   Bank-financed  expressway
commercialization and corporatization studies are now underway in Hunan and Hubei provinces under
NH2 and NH3, respectively. A new technical assistance initiative intended to develop a model highway
shareholding company and provincial toll road authority has been agreed to recently with the Ministry of
Finance and Fujian Province.
4.7 In the absence of a BOT policy decree to resolve uncertainties and concerns in the relationship
between the central agencies and the provinces, international commercial banks and bond investors are
reluctant to accept informal arrangements for setting future tariffs and making available hard currency to
meet debt service payments and to repatriate profits to foreign developers.
4.8 China has proposed that the requirements for accessing long-term debt financing in the international
markets be considered under a new technical assistance initiative with the Bank Group (IFC/FIAS/PPI-
PSD) to revise and improve the existing BOT policy decree which has been pending before State Council



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 52
Project Appraisal Document
for more than two years. This review would also include an assessment of recent pilot BOT projects in
the power and water sectors, which unlike toll roads, have established markets and creditworthy
offtakers. It may be the case in China that the financial returns needed for highway investors relative to
the risks involved are different than the water and power sectors. Until these investors are satisfied with
the security and long-term financial viability of their venture, a policy decree will do little to alter the
fundamental economics in most toll road projects. Certainly, however, the results of this new TA can
give China new concepts and ideas for a policy, legal, and regulatory framework for private infrastructure
projects and standard documentation for concessions in the highway, power, and water sectors.
5. International Comparison
5.1     A preliminary task team estimate of total private investment in toll roads globally during the
period 1991-1998 would be in the range of US$20-25 billion for projects which have been completed.
Private investment here is defined as including equity capital and non-government guaranteed
commercial debt. A large part of this private sector capital contribution has in fact occurred in China
where more than 70 brownfield concession transactions in the highway sector have been completed until
end 1998 mobilizing in the order of US$4 billion. In addition, a dozen highway asset securitization
(asset-backed financing) transactions have raised additional US$2 billion lifting the total private funding
of toll highways in China during most of the 1990s to about US$6 billion.
5.2     On a country-by-country basis, to the extent that reliable information is available, private
investments in toll roads appear as follows: (i) United States US$0.65 billion; (ii) United Kingdom
US$0.9 billion; (iii) China US$6.4 billion; (iv) Hungary US$0.55 billion; (v) Malaysia US$3.5 billion;
(vi) Mexico US$5.0 billion; (vii) Argentina US$2.0 billion; (viii) Brazil US$1.0 billion; (ix) Chile
US$0.33 billion; (x) Colombia US$0.4 billion; (xi) Indonesia US$0.5 billion; (xii) Thailand US$0.4
billion; and (xiii) Philippines US$0.7 billion. The total of these 13 countries comes to US$22.33 billion
which would amount to about US$2.8 billion per annum for the period 1991-1998.
5.3     It is to be noted that Spain, Italy and France are not included in this preliminary analysis
although these three countries operate the largest toll road systems in Europe. However, much of their
systems was completed in the 1970s and 80s and those toll road projects that are underway now seem to
be quite limited and mostly in the development stage. Furthermore, it would appear that there was
extensive government involvement, and continues to be, in motorway development occurring and
planned in these three countries.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                               Page 53
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 7: BANK INVOLVEMENT AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN
CHINA'S HIGHWAY SECTOR
Second Fujian Highway Project
1. Introduction
1.1 China has opened some 7,500 km of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) to traffic and has
established a road network of 1.26 million km. The objective is to complete the NTHS, some 35,000 km of
high-grade highways by 2015, and construct 130,000 km of provincial and rural roads by year 2000. The
completed road network infrastructure is already contributing to the government's policy of integrating the
national economy, removing inter-provincial trade barriers, and providing an all-weather access road system to
low-income rural areas. One of the key objectives of the NTHS is to advance economic development in
China's inland provinces, which have historically carried much of the country's poverty burden. A high-grade
highway network is essential to the achievement of these goals, and it is in this area where the World Bank is
making a significant contribution.
1.2 Despite this progress, China's highway sector faces important issues relating to construction quality,
resource mobilization, maintenance, institutional management and financing, rural roads, and road safety. As
China is making substantial progress, the central and provincial agencies are doing more to address issues in a
systematic manner and with a higher sense of urgency and commitment. Sustained development of the NTHS
is regarded as a critical means of dealing with remaining poverty in the country. The construction of the
system provides an immediate economic stimulus and a permanent framework for long-term economic growth.
Sectoral issues are being addressed with the Bank through policy dialogue, lending programs, and technical
assistance, and in the context of a long-term strategic framework by focusing on key elements of policy and
institutional reforms.
2. China's Evolving Elighway Program
2.1 The government in 1998 raised its highway spending to US$26 billion, double the amount of the previous
year. China's investment mix for the highway sector is broad-based: about 55% of this allocation was
earmarked for the NTHS construction, 30% for the provincial road system, and the remaining 15% for rural
road improvement. Public financing remains predominant, with extemal financing amounting to less than
10% of total. China is committed to maintain highway spending at the 1998 level in the foreseeable future, for
which the availability of capital has become a serious, continuing challenge and will likely remain a
formidable constraint to development.
2.2 The highway sector remains an important component of the Bank's country assistance strategy, among
other things, to promote economic growth and alleviate poverty, close infrastructure bottlenecks, reduce
regional disparities, and improve rural road systems for the poor. To this end, the Bank is promoting a new
partnership between the central government and provinces to find better approaches to financing and
managing the highway system. The Bank is also working with these groups to begin organization of new toll
road authorities with financial responsibilities. In addition, the Bank is presently supporting studies related to
commercialization and corporatization of expressways, and advising MOF on administrative issues related to a
fuel tax.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                 Page 54
Project Appraisal Document
3. Scope of Bank Participation
3.1 World Bank lending for highways in China in 1998 reached US$0.68 billion (or about 2.5% of the
country's US$26 billion programn). In real ternms and share of total spending, the Bank's contribution is down
slightly from 1997, when China invested US$13 billion in highways of which US$0.7 billion was in World
Bank loans (or about 5%). Annual multi- and bilateral lending to the sector in recent years is about US$1.2-
$1.5 billion, with about 45% from the World Bank, 30% from ADB, and the remaining 25% from OECF.
3.2     Since 1983, the Bank has implemented a total of 21 highway projects with seven projects closed,
focusing primarily on the NTHS. Four new highway projects are under active preparation while five more
highway projects have been proposed for future Bank loan financing. Bank projects have incorporated
institution building features and support both economic growth and poverty reduction objectives.
3.3 By 1998, total lending to China's highway sector exceeded US$4 billion. OED ratings indicate that the
seven completed projects had satisfactory outcomes and are likely to sustain their benefits but had only modest
institutional development impacts. Recent supervision ratings and the Quality Assurance Group's "projects at
risk" report on ongoing projects indicate that all have satisfactory implementation progress and are likely to
achieve their development objectives. The economic rates of return (ERR) for China highway projects range
from 16%-39% at completion.
3.4 The Bank's highway lending achievements in China can be summarized as follows:
(i)    Expansion of road capacity to support development of coastal and inland provinces and trade and
regional economic integration by adding 2,800 km of expressways;
(ii)    Upgrading and improvement of sonme 13,000 km of secondary and rural roads to support the rural
development and poverty alleviation objectives;
(iii)   Institutional capacity building in provinces to sustain road planning and management, construction
quality control, road financing, road maintenance, environmental and resettlement requirements, traffic safety,
and to develop market-based pricing for highway services such as the establishment of road tariffs (tolls);
(iv) Support to the road securitization initiatives by permitting the use of partially Bank-funded highway and
bridge assets for securitization in the Hong Kong and Shenzhen equity markets by provincial expressway
development companies in Guangdong, Sichuan, and Zhejiang. Similar transactions are under consideration
in the Beijing-Tianjin corridor and in Guangdong and Fujian, and possibly for other provinces in the near
future.
4. Primary Sectoral Issues and Reforms
4.1  The Bank's long-term involvement in China's highway sector has succeeded in addressing a wide
spectrum of sector issues. The OED report (1999) recommends continued Bank participation in the sector
with emphasis towards broader policy and institutional reforms. Key sector issues and reforms which the
Bank intends to pursue in the future are as follows:
(i) Building Sector Institutions: Though in two decades China has taken a major leap from a primitive road
system to the fast expanding NTHS, the sustainability of the highway sector greatly depends on the strength of
its provincial and local highway institutions to address the growing challenges of road traffic safety,
construction quality standards and control, road asset preservation, network expansion, market responsive
facility provision, and resource mobilization. China is now placing greater importance on the coordination of
agencies in the area of traffic safety improvements. For instance, with some 85 fatalities and 175 injuries per



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                Page 55
Project Appraisal Document
10,000 vehicles (1997 data), China's roads are among the most unsafe in the world. Any effective solution to
the safety issue will require a stronger relationship between the provincial communications departments
(PCDs) and the traffic police which is part of the Internal Security Ministry. To support such reforms, sector
institutions will require new skills and a better understanding of new practices.
(ii) Improving Construction Quality: Highway construction quality is one of the most serious concerns
of the sector. Incidences of bridge and road failings or premature wear and tear of highway pavements occur
quite frequently. The problem has both technical and administrative roots. Contractors, mostly domestic, are
not always well managed, frequently face irregular payments, and often come under pressure to shorten the
construction period. In some cases, quality control suffers due to the lack of authority assigned to the
construction supervision agency by the owner vis-A-vis contractors. While the central government appreciates
Bank involvement in the sector due to better design reviews, supervision and resulting construction quality of
the Bank projects as compared to locally financed projects, there is a definite need to reinforce rigid
construction quality standards, control and enforcement in future Bank highway loans.
(iii)    Enhancing Accessibility to Remote and Low Income Areas: The geography of China poses
enormous demands and difficulties for the provision of basic road access in various parts of the country,
particularly in the inner and low-income provinces. Although the role of transport access to integrate the
national economy, to stimulate growth in remote areas, and to insure basic mobility needs of the poor has been
emphasized, the task is enormous and requires significant public resources. The Bank's provincial highway
program in China aims to favorably impact poverty levels, through targeted interventions in low income areas.
Provincial and central government agencies often refrain from borrowing for this purpose since no dedicated
revenue source for loan repayment is easily identified (unlike for toll roads). While a renewed effort is needed
to support road development in low income areas, China's central and provincial highway agencies are
generally self-sufficient in this regard. The Bank's future lending and non-lending services for this sector
should be focused on the development and long-term maintenance of major infrastructure projects such as
expressways .
(iv)    Sustaining Road Maintenance: China's highway network is fast expanding in all road categories,
with emphasis on high-grade highways. Over time, the demand for routine and periodic maintenance and
related resources will substantially increase. Due to the rapid pace of road expansion in many provinces,
maintenance funds are diverted to construction of new roads. The current trend and practice will soon become
unsustainable unless a new framework is developed to address future maintenance needs.  The Bank and
China's highway agencies need to look for methods of funding ongoing road maintenance requirements while
also supporting the construction of new revenue generating high-grade highways. A stronger effort on behalf
of the Bank and the relevant Chinese sector institutions is recommended to make road maintenance a more
integral and prominent part of future Bank highway projects. PCDs need to be encouraged to develop a
sustainable road maintenance policy, refine their road information systems for direct use in maintenance
planning and operations, develop sustainable funding mechanisms, and adjust their organizational structures
and training programs to devote more resources to maintenance.
5. Priorities in the Future Elighway Program
5.1 The construction emphasis of the Bank's highway program over the last 15 years needs to be expanded to
focus more intensively on policy and institutional reforms, where more should be expected.  Bank
interventions have not always been that successful in the past in dealing with important policy and institutional
matters. As time goes on, China and the Bank are developing an understanding which will support a
substantive, ongoing effort to address and resolve these issues. For example, traffic safety, road maintenance,
and toll road operation and management must be major concerns, and the Bank needs to find new ways of



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                 Page 56
Project Appraisal Document
engaging Chinese counterparts more proactively in addressing these issues and taking ownership of reforms
and the potential results they can produce.
5.2 Achievement of policy and institutional reforms on a project-by-project basis can only be modest at best.
Significant progress and lasting reforms will most likely take place over time with several operations
supporting the same initiatives.  Performance standards and methods for measuring progress toward
implementation and tangible outputs need to be agreed and put in place with the central agencies and
provinces.
5.3 The Bank should help China in its transition by shifting its lending orientation to areas where the
institution has a comparative advantage in China's highway sector: highway management, financing,
integrated planning, and the organization of highway administration. Other key reform areas that have not
received sufficient Bank attention include institutional change to retain and increase the benefits of
decentralization, the question of restructuring the PCDs to enable them to address the complex future issues
they will face, resource allocation between functional road classes, and between new construction and
maintenance, as well as lessons learned from the West regarding the need for spatial planning concepts in
highway development.
5.4 The Bank is already advocating a new partnership between the central government and provinces in
identifying better ways of financing and managing the growth of the highway network, specifically as regards
the operation and management of toll roads. The Bank is working with central and provincial governments to
begin the organization of new toll road authorities at the provincial level with the power to raise and spend toll
revenues for construction and operation and maintenance (O&M) of their emerging expressway and other
high-grade highway systems. Bank-financed expressway commercialization and corporatization studies are
now underway in Hunan and Hubei. A new technical assistance initiative intended to develop a model
highway shareholding company, and provincial toll road authority has been agreed recently with the Ministry
of Finance (MOF) and Fujian Province.
5.5 The Bank needs to continue its search for new ways of sustaining and reinforcing the sector dialogue with
relevant Chinese authorities. The Bank, jointly with the Ministry of Communications (MOC) conducted a
construction quality workshop and a high-level highway policy seminar in Beijing in May 1997. These were
followed up with a policy workshop in May 1998. In addition, the Bank, in close cooperation with MOC and
MOF, is presently undertaking a self-assessment of the impact of its highway TA. This work is considered as
a good vehicle to draw renewed attention to key sector issues and to agree with relevant Chinese authorities on
a new strategy for future highway lending and non-lending services. To that effect a new workshop will be
held with MOC, MOF, SDPC and selected provinces on May 8-9, 1999 in Beijing. This workshop will also
initiate work on a new China Strategic Highway Framework paper which the Bank and China will prepare as
part of FY2000 ESW. Several more workshops will be held during FY2000 and FY200 1.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                     Page 57
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 8: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Second Fujian Highway Project
($1.00=Y 8.3, April 1999 prices)
Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign    Total
Y mill.                      US$ mill.
Civil and E&M Works
Expressway                   1,870.49   1,091.12  2,961.61   225.36    131.46    356.82
Annex areas & adm. builds.    73.21     13.94     87.15      8.82      1.68     10.50
E & M Express.                46.48     136.95    183.43     5.60     16.50     22.10
Interconnecting Roads         57.27     16.60     73.87      6.90      2.00      8.90
Other roads                  183.26    45.82    229.08      22.08      5.52     27.60
Total Works                 2,230.71   1,304.43  3,535.14   268.76    157.16    425.92
Supervision                   76.11     32.62     108.73     9.17      3.93     13.10
Expressway                    73.79     31.62     105.41     8.89      3.81      12.70
Other roads                   2.32       1.00      3.32      0.28      0.12      0.40
Equipment                     6.64      24.90     31.54      0.80      3.00      3.80
Expressway                    2.49      24.90     27.39      0.30      3.00      3.30
Other roads                   4.15      0.00      4.15       0.50      0.00      0.50
Training and Studies          6.72      4.57      11.29      0.81      0.55      1.36
Training                      3.32      3.32       6.64      0.40      0.40      0.80
Total Studies/TA              3.40       1.25     4.65       0.41      0.15      0.56
Highway maintenance study      1.25      1.25      2.49      0.15      0.15      0.30
Toll Rates study              0.50      0.00       0.50      0.06      0.00      0.06
Road safety program            1.66      0.00      1.66      0.20      0.00      0.20
Total Base Cost              2,320.18   1,366.51  3,686.69   279.54    164.64    444.18
Physical Contingencies       230.57    133.85    364.42    27.78      16.13     43.91
Price Contingencies          476.02    143.02    619.03     57.35     17.23     74.58
Total Contingencies          706.59    276.86    983.45     85.13     33.36     118.49
Fee (Front-end)               0.00      16.60     16.60      0.00      2.00      2.00
Land Acquisition
and Resettlement             256.47      0.00     256.47    30.90      0.00     30.90
Total Project Cost          3,283.24   1,659.97  4,943.21   395.57    200.00    595.57



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                        Page 58
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 9: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Second Fujian Highway Project
($1.00-Y 8.3, April 1999 prices)
Government        Bank   Total   Foreign Costs
Provincial      Central                   % of Total
Component 1. Construction of
expressway and interconnecting roads
Works
Expressway Civil Works                 119.4           106.0   131.5   356.8        37
Annex areas & Admin. Bldgs.             8.8                     1.7    10.5         16
Expressway E & M Works                  5.6                     16.5   22.1         75
Interconnecting Roads                   6.9                     2.0     8.9         22
Other Roads                             22.1                    5.5    27.6         20
Subtotal Works                         162.8          106.0   157.2   425.9        37
Construction Supervision                9.2                     3.9    13.1         30
Equipment                               0.8                     3.0     3.8         79
Component 2. Institutional
Strengthening/Capacity Building
Training                                0.4                     0.4     0.8         50
Studies/TA                              0.4                     0.2     0.6        27
Training and Studies                    0.8                     0.6      1.4        40
Component 3. Front-end Fee                                      2.0     2.0        100
Component 4. Land Acquisition
and Resettlement                        30.9                    0.0    30.9         0
Contingencies                           85.1                    33.4   118.5        28
Project Cost                           289.6           106.0   200.0   595.6        34
Percent of Total                        49              18       34     100



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                Page 59
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 10: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
Second Fujian Highway Project
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
1. Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in Table A. The procurement arrangements
for the project have taken into account the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credit" (January 1995, and revised in January, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) as well as the
experience gained from previous Bank-financed highway projects. The documentation for procurement,
which covers the prequalification of contractors, ICB and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for civil
works, and ICB for goods has been standardized for Chinese conditions in cooperation between the Chinese
government and the Bank on the basis of model documents which would be used for all relevant procurement
processes under the project. Where no model documents exists, relevant Bank standard documents would be
used.
2. Works. The civil works for ZZE would be divided into 8 earth works contracts, with an average contract
size of about $35 million equivalent and 4 pavement works contracts, with an average contract size of about
$23 million equivalent. Electromechanical works would be handled as one contract amounting to about $22
million equivalent. Interconnecting roads, administration and maintenance buildings, service areas and toll
plazas would be carried out in several small contracts.
3. The 12 civil works contracts and one electromechanical works contract for ZZE with an estimated total cost
of about $482 million would be procured following ICB procedures. Contracts would be bid on a slice-and-
package basis; qualified contractors would be allowed to bid for more than one contract so as to attract
international and large Chinese contractors. The 1 contract for electromechanical works would be bid later
during the construction of ZZE. All bidders for the 12 civil works contracts would be prequalified. Domestic
bidders are expected to be competitive for all contracts under this project.
4. Other works, including interconnecting roads and small service facilities such as toll stations, maintenance
depots, service and rest areas, and administrative buildings would be awarded following NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. These works would involve contracts estimated to cost less than $8 million per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $60 million. Since these contracts are small in value and
scattered along ZZE and would be implemented over a four-year period, ICB would be neither justified nor
practical, but international firms would not be precluded from bidding. The Bank's assessment of NCB
procedures indicate deviation pertaining, bracketing, Shot bidding period, limitation of number of firms for
prequalification. It was agreed with the implementing agency and provincial government that the procedures
for NCB will fully comply with the Bank's requirements. The documents for NCB are prepared on this basis.
5. Equipment. Generally, all contracts for goods and equipment costing more than $250,000 equivalent
would be awarded under ICB. Domestic manufactures competing under ICB would be eligible for a margin of
preference in the comparison of bids of 15 percent for goods, or the prevailing custom duties, whichever is
lower. All other items or groups of items covering minor maintenance equipment, equipment for RDB and
PMS, laboratories, research and environmental protection purposes estimated to cost less than $250,000 per
contract package, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2.5 million, would be procured following shopping
procedures on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers from two
countries eligible under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                 Page 60
Project Appraisal Document
6. Consultants. All consultants required for construction supervision, staff training, technical assistance and
studies would be selected and employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank in accordance with
Bank Guidelines on the "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", dated January
1997, revised in July 1997 and January 1999. For Consultant Services the Standard Request for Proposals,
dated July 1997 and revised in April 1998 will be used. Selection of consultants for Construction Supervision,
Transport and Economic Integration study, Highway Maintenance Management and Expressway
Commercialization and Corporatization studies, and Expressway Safety Programs will be carried out through
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). Local expertise available from the various provincial universities
and institutes would be used as much as possible.
7. Advance Contracting. FPTD has requested advance contracting and retroactive financing in the following
areas:
(a)    Consultants for Construction Supervision of ZZE. This would allow for training of local
staff and start-up of construction supervision by the time contracts are signed with
contractors. The amounts subject to retroactive financing are estimated at $1 million.
(b)    Laboratory Equipment for Joint Local/Foreign Supervision Teams. This would permit
effective and timely construction supervision. The amounts subject to retroactive financing
are estimated at $0.2 million.
(c)    Construction of ZZE Expressway Sections and Interconnecting Roads. Early start of
construction of the ZZE sections of expressway and interconnecting roads would help
alleviate severe traffic bottlenecks and reduce traffic on the existing corridors. The amount
subject to retroactive financing are estimated at $18.8 million.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
8. Prior review procedures would be used for: (a) civil works contracts with an estimated cost of $ 2 million
(Y 17 million) or more; (b) equipment with an estimated cost of more than $ 250,000 per contract; and
(c) consulting services with an estimated contract cost of more than $100,000 for firms and $ 50,000 for
individuals. In the case of consultant' service contracts, all terms of reference and single-source selections,
regardless of the value of the contract, are subject to prior review. For contracts below the above-mentioned
limits, post-review procedures would be followed. The sampling ratio for contracts not subject to prior review
is 25 % for goods contracts.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C):  Allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C.
1.     Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): Withdrawal from the loan account would be made on the
basis of SOEs for expenditures for: (a) civil works under contracts costing less than $2.0 million, (b) goods
under contracts costing less than $250,000, (c) services provide by consulting firms under contracts costing
less than $100,000, (d) services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000,
and (e) training. The Special Account will be replenished monthly, or the account is drawn down to 50% of
initial deposit whichever occurs first.
2.     Special account: To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened in Fujian with an
authorized allocation of $12 million equivalent, the estimated average expenditures for a four-month period.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                        Page 61
Project Appraisal Document
Annex 10, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangementsl
(in US$million equivalent)
Procurement method
ICB     NCB        Other   N.B.F. b/  Total Cost
Works
Expressway Civil Works            452.0                                      452.0
(158.1)                                    (158.1)
Annex Areas & Admin. Bldgs                     13.3                             13.3
(2.0)                           (2.0)
Expressway E & M Works             28.0                                       28.0
(19.8)                                     (19.8)
Interconnecting Roads                        11.3                             11.3
(2.4)                           (2.4)
Other Roads                                  35.0                             35.0
(6.6)                           (6.6)
Goods
Equipment                            2.3                  2.5                   4.8
(1.7)               (1.9)                  (3.6)
Services
Construction Supervision                                 16.6                   16.6
(4.7)                 (4.7)
Consultants and Training                                  1.7                    1.7
(0.7)                 (0.7)
Miscellaneous
Land Acquisition
and Resettlement                                                    30.9        30.9
(0.0)       (0.0)
Front-end Fee                                             2.0                    2.0
(2.0)                 (2.0)
Total                           482.3      59.5       22.8      30.9       595.6
(179.6)    (11.1)     (9.3)      (0.0)     (200.0)
(a) Other includes international shopping, LIB, and consultants and training.
(b) N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
(c) Selection of Consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies but exclude the cost of
land acquisition and resettlement which is shown as a separate component.
1   For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A,
where applicable).



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                   Page 62
Project Appraisal Document
Annex 10, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewl
Contract Value               Contracts Subject to Prior Review/
(Threshold)  Procurement    Estimated Total Value Subject
Expenditure Category     (US$'000,000)   Method          to Prior Review (US$ million)
1. Works                      More than 10.0    ICB       13 Contracts
$480.0 million subject to prior review
More than 2.0     NCB       9 Contracts
$59.6 million subject to prior review
2. Goods                      More than 0.25     ICB       1 Contracts
$2.3 million subject to prior review
Less than 0.25    Shopping
3. Services                   More than 0.10    QCBS    Supervision Contracts $16.6 million,
for firms, more            training and studies $1.7 million
than 0.05 for               subject to prior review
individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:          $560.2 million
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and
contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                    Page 63
Project Appraisal Document
Annex 10, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
($ million)
Amount m
US$
Expenditure Category         million            Financed Percentage
Civil works
Expressway section                   140.4                   44%
Annex areas & admin. bldgs.           2.1                    35%
Interconnecting roads                 2.5                    35%
Other roads                           9.0                    37%
Electrical and mechanical works         16.5                   80%
Construction supervision                3.9                    100%
Equipment                               3.0          100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Training and Studies                    0.6                    100%
Front-end Fee                           2.0
Unallocated                             20.0
Total                                200.0



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                    Page 64
Project Appraisal Document
Annex 10, Table C-1: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
($ million)
Disburment protile ot transport
Bank FY       Annually       Cumulat.        %             projects in China
FY 2000         28             28            14                  11
FY 2001          63            91            32                  27
FY 2002          63            154           32                  26
FY 2003          38            192           19                  38
FY 2004          8            200             4                  100



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                  Page 65
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 11: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Second Fujian Highway Project
A. Project Implementation Plans
1.     This annex presents the implementation program for the various components of the project.
Table 1 summarizes the overall implementation schedule for the project as a whole.
2.     These schedules show the estimated time requirements for construction activities as well as for
pre-construction activities such as preparation of designs and bid documents, pre-qualification process,
bidding process, evaluation of bids, negotiations and signing of contracts.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                                                   Page 66
Project Appraisal Document
SECOND FUJIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                 Page 1 of 8
Implementation Program
1999       2000       1 2001      1 2002      1 2003
ID   Task Name                                                              Duration         Start           Finish      H2   Hi   H2   Hi   H2   Hi   H2   Hi   H2 |H    H2
1    1. Civil Works                                                         1076 days      Tue 11/17/98    Tue 12/31/02
2        Expressway Section - Earth Works (ICB)                              760 days      Tue 11/17/98    Mon 10/15/01
3             Submitting GNP                                                    0 days     Tue 11/17/98    Tue 11/17/98        1/f7
4             Publishing GNP in UN Development Business                       45 days      Tue 11/17/98     Mon 1/18/99
5            The Bank's "no objection" to prequalification documents          30 days       Tue 1/19/99      Mon 3/1/99
6             Prequalification docs (PQ) available for sale                   60 days        Tue 3/2/99     Mon 5/24/99
7             Last date to subtnit PQ documents                                 0 days     Mon 5/24/99      Mon 5/24/99
8             PQ documyients evaluation report & MOC review                   30 days       Tue 5/25/99      Mon 7/5/99              5/4
9             Bank review & no obj. to PQ does evaluation rep                 25 days        Tue 7/6/99      Mon 8/9/99
10            Review bidding documents by MOC                                  30 days       Mon 8/2/99      Fri 9/i0/99
11            Review bidding documents by the Bank                             30 days      Mon 9/13/99     Fri 10/22/99
12            Sell bidding docs to prequalified contractors                    90 days      Fii 10/22/99     Thu 2/24/00
13            Last date to receive bid documents                                0 days      Thu 2/24/00     Thu 2/24/00
14            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                          30 days       Fri 2/25/00      Thu 4/6/00
15            Bank review evaluation report and no objection                   30 days        Fri 4/7/00    Thu 5/18/00
16            Notify successful bidder                                          0 days      Thu 5/18/00      Thu 5/18/00                            8 
17            Negotiate and sign contracts                                     20 days       F      n 5/19/00  Thu 6/15/00
18            Construction period                                             347 days       Fri 6/16/00    Mon 10/15/01
19
20
Task                                      Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program         Split                                      Rolled Up Task                             External Tasks      LE=
Date: Wed 5/26/99                       Progress                                   Rolled Up Split              ,             Project Summafy
Milestone                                 Rolled Up Milestone  X



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                                                   Page 67
Project Appraisal Document
SECOND FUJIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                 Page 2 of 8
Implementation Program
1999            12000       1 2001        2002       12003
ID    Task Name                                                             Duration         Start           Finish      H2 | Hi   H2 I Hi   H2   Hi    H2   HI   H2   Hi   H2
21        Expressway Section - Pavement Works (ICB)                           572 days     Mon 10/23/00    Tue 12/31/02
22            Submitting GNP                                                    0 days     Mon 10/23/00    Mon 10/23/00
23            Publishing GNP in UN Development Business                        45 days     Mon 10/23/00      Fri 12/22/00
24            The Bank's "no objection" to prequalification documents          30 days     Mon 12/25/00        Fri 2/2/01
_                _~                       ~~_  _                             _                                                              V.     I
25            Prequalification docs (PQ) available for sale                    60 days       Mon 2/5/01       Fri 4/27/01
26            Last date to submit PQ documents                                  0 days        Fri 4/27/01     Fri 4/27/01
27            PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                      30 days      Mon 4/30/01        Fri 6/8/01
_       _       __                      _      __._                         _    _      _     _                                          .I                         L._'
28            Bank review & no obj. to PQ docs evaluation rep                  25 days      Mon 6/11/01       Fri 7/13/01
29            Review bidding documents by MOC                                  30 days      Wed 1/10/01      Tue 2/20/01
30            Review bidding documents by the Bank                             30 days      Wed 2/21/01       Tue 4/3/01
31            Sell bidding docs to prequalified contractors                    90 days        Fri 7/13/01   Thu 11/I5/01
32            Last date to receive bid documents                                0 days      Thu 11/15/01    Thu I 1/1.5/01           '                              .111/i5
33            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                          30 days       Fri 11/16/01   Thu 12/27/01
34            Bank review evaluation report and no objection                   30 days      Fri 12/28/01      Thu 2/7/02
35            Nofify successful bidder                                          0 days        Thu 2/7/02      Thu 2/7/02
36            Negotiate and sign contracts                                     20 days         Fri 2/8/02     Thu 3/7/02
3i7           Construction period                                             213 days         Fri 3/8/02   Tue 12/31/02
38 .   
39        Interconnecting Roads (NCB)                                         761 days       Fri 7/30/99     Sun 6/30/02
40            Completing prequalification documents                             0 days        Fri 7/30/99     Fn 7/30/99
Task                                      Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementaton Program          Split               ,                                                                         Tasks Rolled Up Task  E   Tasks
Date: Wed 5/26/99                       Progress                                   Rolied Up Split        ,,,,,,,             Project Summary _
Milestone                                 Rolled Up Milestone 0



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                                               Page 68
Project Appraisal Document
SECOND FUJIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                               Page 3of 8
Implementation Program
11999      12000        2001          02       12003
ID   Task Name                                                            Duration         Start           Finish      H2   HI   H2   HI   H2   HI   H2 I HI   H2   HI   H2
41            The Bank's "no objection" to prequalification documents        30 days        Fri 7/30/99     Thu 9/9/99, 
42            Prequalification docs (PQ) available for sale                  45 days        Fri 9/10/99    Thu 11/1 1/99
43            Last date to submit PQ documncts                                O days      Thu 11/11/99    Thu 11/11/99             *
44            PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                    30 days      Wed 3/15/00      Tue 4/25/00
45            Bank review & no obj. to PQ docs evaluation rep                30 days      Wed 4/26/00       Tue 6/6/00
46            Review bidding documents by MOC                                 30 days       Thu 2/3/00    Wed 3/15/00 
47            Review bidding documents by the Bank                           30 days       Thu 3/16100    Wed 4/26/00
48            Sell bidding docs to prequalified contractors                  91 days       Wed 6/7/00    Wed l0/1 i.M
49            Last date to receive bid documents                              O days     Wed 10/11/00    Wed 10/ 1/00      . .i
50            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                        30 days      Thu 10/12/00    Wed 11/22/00
51            Bank review evaluation report and no objection                 30 days      Thu 11/23/00     Wed 1/3/01
52            Notify successful bidder                                        O days       Wed 1/3/01      Wed 1/3/01      ,   *                             ;
53            Negotiate and sign contracts                                    17 days       Thu 1/4/01      Fri 1/26/0i
54            Construction period                                            197 days      Thu 9/27/01     Sun 6/30/02
56      OOther Roads (NCB)                                                  709 days      Wed 4/14/99    Mon 12/31/01
57            Completing prequalification documents                           0 days      Wed 4/14/99     Wed 4/14/99      I U14 '
4
58            The Bank's "no objection" to prequalification documents        30 days      Wed 4/14/99      Tue 5/25/99
59            Prequalification docs (PQ) available for sale                  45 days      Wed 5/26/99      Tue 7/27/99
60            Last date to submit PQ documents                                0 days       Tue 7/27/99     Tue 7/27/99          :17127
Task                                     Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program        Split               ,,,,,                 Rolled Up Task                            Extemal Tasks
Date: Wed 5/26/99                      Progress                                  Rolled Up Split                           Project Summary _
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                                                Page 69
Project Appraisal Document
SECOND FUJIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                               Page4of 8
Implementation Program
1999       2000       12001        2002        2003
ID   Task Name                                                             Duration        Start           Finish         H i H1 | H2   Hi | H2 FiHi | H2   Hi l H2   Hi   H2
61            PQ documents evaluation report & MOC review                     30 days     Wed 7/28/99       Tue 9/7/99
62            Bank review & no obj. to PQ docs evaluation rep                 30 days       Wed 9/8/99    Tue 10/19/99
63            Review bidding documents by MOC                                 30 days    Wed 10/20/99    Tue 11/30/99
64            Review bidding documents by the Bank                            30 days     Wed 12/1/99      Tue 1/11/00
65            Sell bidding docs to prequalified contractors                   91 days     Wed 1/12/00     Wed 5/17/00
66            Last date to receive bid documents                               0 days     Wed 5/17/00     Wed 5/17/00                             7
67            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                         30 days      Thu 5/18/00     Wed 6/28/00
68            Bank review evaluation report and no objection                  30 days      Thu 6/29/00      Wed 8/9/00
69            Notify successful bidder                                         0 days       Wed 8/9/00      Wed 8/9/00
70            Negotiate and sign contracts                                    17 days      Thu 8/10/00       Fri 9/1/00
71            Construction period - Hua'an Highway                           346 days      Mon 9/4/00    Mon 12/31/01
72            Construction period - Huxi-Chiling Highway                     346 days       Mon 9/4/00    Mon 12/31/01
73            Construction period - Baishuui Bridge                          346 days       Mon 9/4/00    Mon 12/3 1/01
74
75        Offices, Toll Stations & Service Areas (NCB)                      486 days      Mon 1122/01     Mon 12/2/02
76            Complete bidding documents                                       0 days      Mon 1/22/01    Mon 1/22/01                                 1/22
77            Bank review and no objection of BD                              22 days      Mon 1/22/01     Tue V20/01       ,
78            Sell bidding documents                                          45 days      Wed 2/21/01     Tue 4/24/01
79            Last date to receive bid documents                               0 days      Tue 4t24/01     Tue 4t24/01
80            Bid evaluation report and review by MOC                         21 days      Wed 4/25/01    Wed 5/23/01
Task                                      Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Split                  ............. Rolled Up Task                   __ Extemal Tasks
Project: Implementation ProgramStl
Date: Wed 5/26/99                      Progress                                   Rolled Up Spit    ,,,,,                  Project Summary _
Milestone                                 Rolled Up Milestone



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                                                         Page 70
Project Appraisal Document
SECOND FUJIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                     Page 5 of 8
Implementation Program
11999       12000         2001       12002         2003
ID   Task Name                                                                Duration          Start            Finish       H2   HI   H2   Hi   H2   Hl  H2   Hi   H2   HI   H2
81             Bank review and no objection                                       23 days       Thu 5/24/01     Mon 6/25/01
82             Negotiate and sign contracts                                       21 days       Tue 6/26/01      Tue 7/24/01
83             Construction period                                               354 days      Wed 7/25/01      Mon 12/2/02
84
85   2. Supplying & Installation E&M Works (ICB)                                891 days       Mon 1/31/00      Mon 6130/03
86        Finalize bid documents & submit to Bank                                  0 days      Mon 1/31/00      Mon 1/31/00
87        No objection to bid documents by Bank                                   30 days      Mon 1/31/00        Fri 3/ 1 0/00
88        Specific procurem.ent notice (UNDB)                                      0 days        Fri 3/10/00     Fri 3/10/00
89        Issue bid documents                                                     45 days      Wed 3/15/00       Tue 5/16/00
90        Last date to receive bids (stage 1)                                      0 days       Thu 6/15/00     Thu 6/15/00
91        Evaluate bid documents                                                  30 days        Fri 6/16/00    Thu 7/27/00
92        Contractor prepare financial bids (stage 2)                             21 days        Fri 9/15/00    Fri 10/13/00
93        Last date to submit financial bids                                       0 days      Sun 10/15/00    Sun 10/15/00            '10/15
94        Bid evaluation report & Govemment review                                23 days     Mon 10/16/00    Wed 11/15/00        .
95        Bank review & no objection to bid evaluation report                     30 days      Thu 11/16/00    Wed 12/27/00
96        Negotiate and sign contract                                             31 days        Thu 2/1/01     Thu 3/15/01
97        Establish letter of credit                                              33 days        Fri 3/16/01      Tue 5/1/0l
98        Manufacture & delivery of equipment                                    110 days       Wed 5/2/01       Tue 10/2/01
99        Transport of equipment to site                                          76 days      Wed 10/3/01      Wed 1/16/02
100        Installation and commissioning and trial-run of systems                60 days       Thu 1/17/02     Wed 4/10/02
Task                                        Summary                                     Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program           Split                                       Rolled Up Task                              External Tasks
Date: Wed 5/26/99                        Progress                                     Rolled Up Split                             Project Summary _
Milestone                                   Rolled Up Milestone



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                                                  Page 71
Project Appraisal Document
SECOND FUJIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                 Page60f 8
Implementation Program
|11999     |12000      |12001       |2002      |12003
ID   Task Name                                                              Duration        Start            Finish      H2   Hi   H2   Hi   H2   H  i  H2   H  i  H2   HI  H2
101       Completion                                                          318 days       Thu 4/11/02    Mon 6/30/03
102
103  3. Construction supervision                                             1225 days      Thu 3/25/99     Wed 12/3/03
104       Specific procurement notice (UNDB)                                    0 days       Thu 3/25/99     Thu 3/25/99           3Q5
105       No objection of Bank to TOR, LOI & shortlist                         30 days      Mon 4/26/99        Fri 6/4/99
106       Issue invitations to consultants                                     45 days       Mon 6/7/99        Fri 8/6/99
107       Last date to receive proposals                                        0 days         Fri 8/6/99      Fri 8/6/99
108       Evaluation of the quality (technical proposals)                      30 days       Mon 8/9/99       Fri 9/17/99          *
109       Bank review evaluation rpt (tech) & no objection                     30 days      Mon 9/20/99      Fri 10/29/99
110       Notify consultants on the opening date of the financial proposals     0 days       Fri 10/29/99    Fri 10/29/99     , .       1W29
ill       Opening of financial proposals                                        0 days       Fri 10/29/99    Fri 10/29/99            [ jIt 029
112       Complete combined quality & cost evaluation                          25 days      Mon 11/1/99       Fri 12/3/99
113       Bank review proposal evaluation rpt & no objection                   30 days      Mon 12/6/99       Fri 1/14/00
114       Negotiations with consultant & sign contract                          15 days     Mon 1/17/00        Fri 2/4/00
115       Prepare training material by consultant                              62 days       Mon 2/7/00       Tue 5/2/00
116       Train local staff                                                   120 days        Tue 5/2/00    Mon 10/16/00
117       Supervision of construction                                         904 days        Fri 6/16/00   Wed 12/3/03
118
119  4. Maintenance Management Study                                          652 days       Mon 5/3/99    Tue 10/30/01
120       TOR, short list and LOI approved by the Bank                          0 days       Mon 5/3/99      Mon 5/3/99              5/3
Task                                       Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program         Split                                      Rolled UpTask                              Extemal Tasks       __
Date: Wed 5/26/99                       Progress                                   Rolled Up Split                            Project Summary         _
Milestone                                 Rolled Up Milestone



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                                                  Page 72
Project Appraisal Document
SECOND FUJIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                 Page70f a
Implementation Program
1999      12000        12001        2002        2003
ID   Task Name                                                              Duration        Start            Finish      H2 1Hi I H2   HI   H2   HI   H2   Hi   H2 lH                H2
121       Letter issued to consultants                                          0 days       Tue 6/15/99     Tue 6/15/99
122       Consultants prepare and submit proposals                             45 days       Tue 6/15/99    Mon 8/16/99
123       FPTD evaluates Consultant's proposals                                22 days       Tue 8/17/99    Wed 9/15/99
124       Bank approves evaluation report                                      30 days       Thu 9/16/99    Wed 10/27/99
125       HPCD negotiates and awards contract                                  15 days      Thu 10/28/99    Wed 11/17/99
126       Consultants mobilize                                                 30 days      Thu 11/18/99    Wed 12/29/99
127       Execution of Study                                                  479 days      Thu 12/30/99    Tue 10/30/01
128
129   5. Read Safety Activities                                               654 days       Fri 4/30/99    Wed 10/31/01
130       Establishing leading group                                            0 days        Fri 4/30/99     Fri 4/30/99
131       Mobilizing study team                                                60 days      Mon 5/31/99       Fri 8/20/99
132       The Bank approving working schedule                                  30 days      Mon 8/23/99       Fri 10/1/99
133       Execution of Study                                                  543 days      Mon 10/4/99    Wed 10/31/01
134
135   6. Toll Rate Study                                                      650 days       Mon 1/3/00      Fri 6/28/02
136       TOR approved by the Bank                                             21 days       Mon 1/3/00     Mon 1/31/00
137       Data collection and analysis                                        130 days       Mon 7/3/00      Fri 12/29/00
138       Maintenance and operation cost data                                  43 days      Wed I 1/1/00     Fri 12/29/00
139       Revision of study model                                              65 days       Mon 1/1/01       Fri 3/30/01
140       Toll rate and traffic volume transfer analysis                      110 days       Mon 4/2/01       Fri 8/31/01
Task                                      Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Project: Implementation Program         Split                                      Rolled Up Task                            External Tasks
Date: Wed 5/26/99                       Progress                                   Rolled Up Split                           Project Summary _
Milestone                                 Rolled Up Milestone 



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                                 Page 73
Project Appraisal Document
SECOND FUJIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                       Page 8 of 8
Task                                  Summary                                Rlolled Up Progress
Project: ImplementaIton Program     Split                                  Rolled Up Task                         External Tasks
Date: Wed 5/26/99                   Progress                               Rolled Up Split                        Project Summary .
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 74
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 12: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION
Second Fiujian Highway Project
1.    The economic evaluation focuses on the Zhangzhou - Zhao'an Expressway (ZZE) with a total
length of 140.5 km (Note: While ZZE on the whole has a length of 140.5 km, the Bank-financed project
comprises 132.5 km. The initial 8 km of ZZE which are located in heavy soft soil area and which are
already under construction with domestic financing, are not formally part of the project. For purposes of
completeness, the economic and financial evaluation includes the initial 8 km soft soil section, as part of
the Beitou Village-Xifeng Ling section of ZZE). ZZE accounts for 92 percent of civil works project costs
while two interconnecting roads and three other roads account for 8 percent of civil works project costs.
The expressway was subdivided into four homogeneous sections which were analyzed independently and
as part of the entire project. The following table presents each section length and construction costs
including physical and price contingencies.
Component                 Length      Cost
(kIn)    (M Yuan)
Beitou Village - Xifeng Ling Expressway   14.2       626
Xifeng Ling - Wutian Expressway           65.4       2438
Wutian - Zhugang Expressway               24.8       899
Zhugang - Houling Expressway              36.1       1232
Subtotal                                 140.5       5195
Two Link Roads                            12.0       140
Three Other Roads                         52.6       299
Subtotal                                  64.6       439
Total                                    205.1       5634
A. Expressway Economic Evaluation
2.    Benefits and Beneficiaries. The proposed Zhangzhou - Zhao'an Expressway is the last section
of the coastal arterial highway in the south of Fujian Province to be built and the main exit of Fujian
Province to Guangdong Province. The problems with the existing main highway are as follow:
(a) heavily mixed traffic; (b) densely populated villages and towns, through which the route goes;
(c) poor road conditions and low design standards; and (d) frequent traffic accidents. The project will
satisfy the need for accelerating economic clevelopment, improve the investment environment, and will
meet the requirements for expected rapid traffic growth in Fujian Province.
3.    The major quantifiable project benefits are vehicle operating costs, travel time, and road
accidents savings. Compared with the existing road parallel to the expressway, the expressway will have
shorter length, improved surface conditions and riding comfort, and reduced traffic interference since
there would be no pedestrians, bicycles and non-motorized vehicles. Therefore, most of the long distance
traffic and some of the local traffic is expected to diverge from the existing road to the expressway
reducing vehicle operating and time costs for the expressway users. Because many users will take the
expressway, there will also be a reduction in the current congestion levels on the existing road. Thus,
users who continue using the existing road will also benefit in the form of time savings due to the
resulting higher travel speeds. Other quantified project benefits are due to the generated traffic as a result
of the lowering of transport costs and increased industrial and agricultural production. For a conservative
evaluation, other project benefits not quantified in this study are the generated traffic on the existing



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 75
Project Appraisal Document
roads due to the reduction of the current congestion level and positive effects on the non-motorized traffic
using the existing roads.
4.    The 11DM Model. Project benefits were estimated using the 1995 version of the Highways
Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) developed by the World Bank. The HDM model
predicts vehicle operating costs and travel time costs on a given road as a function of vehicle
characteristics, road geometry, road surface condition, and congestion level. The model computes free-
flow vehicle speeds and actual speeds as a function of the congestion level. The computed actual speeds
are then used to estimate the physical quantities of resource consumption (for example: liters per km of
fuel consumption or hours of delay) that are multiplied by unit costs to obtain road user costs.
5.    Data Collection. Data describing the existing road characteristics and current traffic was
collected in the field and two to three alignment alternatives were compared for all expressway sections
based on economic, engineering, resettlement, environment, and network systems considerations. The
chosen alignment was then subdivided into four homogeneous sections, for the economic evaluation,
taking into account different traffic levels, design standards and construction costs (see Table 12.1). The
expressway sections will be constructed to 2x2 lanes, with an average financial construction cost of 38
million Yuan per km, economic costs being 83 percent of financial costs by eliminating taxes, customs
duties, price contingencies, and interest payments during construction. The expressway was designed
according to MOC's expressway standards with access restricted to normal motor traffic; agricultural
tractor and non-motorized traffic would be excluded. There will be an average distance savings of 9
percent compared with the existing parallel road NR324, a class 2 highway which has been widened to 4
lanes in 1995 between Zhangzhou and the Guangdong border and which is taken as the main passage in
existing highways of south-north direction that passes roughly 60 towns and villages and has a street-
level highway section in an average interval of 3 km.
6.    Data was collected on vehicle fleet characteristics, utilization and unit costs which are given in
Table 12.2. The average number of passengers for buses is 23 and the average payload for medium trucks
is 4.8 tons and for heavy trucks is 7.5 tons. The number of kilometers driven per year is 30,000 for cars
and 60,000 for buses and trucks. The economic costs were derived from financial costs; and the value of
time was estimated to be 2.0 Yuan/hour calculated on the basis of annual income for the region and
assuming that 75 percent of passengers are traveling on work/business purposes and the value of non-
working time is 20 percent of the average income. Based on local data, accident benefits were computed
assuming that the accident rate on the existing roads is 200 accidents per 100 million vehicle-km, and
there will be a 50 percent reduction in accidents on the expressway, with a cost per accident of Y6,500.
On NR324, the estimated rates in 1996 for accidents, injuries, and fatalities are 200, 100, and 40 per 100
million vehicle-km, respectively.
7.    Projected Traffic. Origin-destination (OD) surveys were conducted, covering nine influence
areas that provided a good basis for estimating the diverted and the generated traffic. The survey revealed
the following: (a) average daily traffic (ADT) was around 9,100 vehicles per day in 1996; (b) trucks
constitute about 67 percent of ADT; (c) medium trucks represent about 29 percent of ADT and heavy
trucks represent 14 percent of ADT; (d) current car speeds during the most congested hour are about 40
km/hour on NR324, (e) current car speeds at night are about 60 km/hour on NR324; (f) expected car
speeds on the expressway are 80 km/hour; and (g) the traffic in the peak hour is about 7 percent of the
average daily traffic. The following table presents for each section the motorized traffic on the existing
road in 1999 and 2003, and the expected diverted and generated traffic on the expressway in 2003.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                Page 76
Project Appraisal Document
NR324 in  NR324 in    Diverted to   Generated on
1999      2003    Expressway in   Expressway in
2003           2003
Beitou Village - Xifeng Ling    11598     17797        8006           2668
Xifeng Ling - Wutian            12006     18639        8992           2536
Wutian - Zhugang                10204     15576        7034           1544
Zhugang - Houling               10983     16816        7817           1380
8.    On the basis of the OD surveys and considering that the expressway will be tolled at the same
levels as currently is being charged on other expressways in the region, the diversion of traffic from the
existing road was estimated to be on average 45 percent and the generated traffic to be on average 12
percent of the traffic on the existing road. Taking into consideration the economic development and
traffic growth in the past and based on the expected economic growth in the project area of influence in
the future, the traffic is projected to increase on average at the following annual rates: (a) for the period
1999 - 2003, 13 percent for cars and 11 percent for commercial vehicles; (b) for the period 2004 - 2013, 9
percent for cars and 7 percent for commercial vehicles; and (c) for the period 2014 - 2022, 6 percent for
cars and 4 percent for commercial vehicles. From 1990 to 1997, NR324 had on average a 13.5 percent
annual traffic growth rate and the traffic volumes were in 1997 in the range of 8,600 to 10,400 vehicles
per day.
9.    Methodology. For each expressway section, unit road user costs, in Yuan per vehicle-km, were
estimated using the HDM model for vehicles traveling on the expressway and on NR324 based on the
road data shown in Table 12.1 and vehicle data shown in Table 12.2. A sample of these unit road user
costs is given in Table 12.3. Road user costs are a function of the congestion level of a road, therefore,
they were computed for a series of traffic levels and a relationship between road user costs and traffic
was established for each road. This relationship was then introduced into a customized economic
evaluation model created on a Excel spreadsheet.
10.   The Excel model estimates benefits due to diverted and generated traffic on the expressway and
the remaining traffic on the existing road. For diverted traffic, benefits were taken to be the reduction on
total transport costs; and for generated traffic, benefits were taken to be one-half of the unit benefits of
the diverted traffic assuming traffic would have developed in proportion to the reduction in transport
costs. The Excel model takes as inputs the unit road user costs given by HDM for the "with" and
"without" project cases, the length of the expressway and the existing road, the construction and
maintenance costs, and the traffic assumptions; and gives as outputs the rate of return and the net present
value, at a discount rate of 12 percent, of the proposed project. The expressway is assumed to be
constructed in 4 years, opening to traffic in 2003 with an economic life of 20 years and a residual value
equal to 50 percent of the initial construction cost. Table 12.4 shows, as an example, the resulting outputs
for the Beitou Village - Xifeng Ling section.
11.   Results. The following table presents the resulting economic internal rate of return (EIRR) and
net present value (NPV), at 12 percent discount rate in million Yuan, obtained for each expressway
section and the entire expressway. The entire expressway EIRR is 19.4 percent and none of the sections
has an EIRR below 12.0 percent. The expressway section with lower EIRR is the Beitou Village - Xifeng
Ling section which has the highest construction costs due to the presence of soft soils. The section with
higher EIRR is the Xifeng Ling - Wutian which has the highest traffic.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 77
Project Appraisal Document
Economic            Net
Section              Internal          Present
Rate of Return       Value
(%)        (M Yuan at 12 %)
Beitou Village - Xifeng Ling      16.9             271
Xifeng Ling - Wutian              20.0             1862
Wutian - Zhugang                  19.5             649
Zhugang - Houling                 19.3             861
Entire Expressway                 19.4             3644
B. Link Roads and Other Roads Economic Evaluation
12.   Link Roads and Other Roads. To connect the Zhangznou-Zhao'an Expressway rationally with
other roads in the area, two interconnecting link roads are part of the project, which are Dongyuan -
Fugong and Zhao Jia Bao - Foutan link roads. Also three other roads are part of the project, which are
Huxi - Chiling road, Tankou - Hua'an road, and Baishui road and bridge. The table below presents the
main characteristics of each link and other road.
Component         Length   Road   Traffic   New alignment     Costs
(kin)    Class   2002     or upgrading    (M Yuan)
Dongyuan - Fugong     4.8          1    3267    New alignment   105
Zhao Jia Bao - Foutan    7.8       2    1892    Upgrading        35
Huxi - Chiling        9.1          2    2801    Upgrading        21
Tankou - Hua'an       41.7         2    2778    Upgrading        244
Baishui                1.8         2    1104    New alignment   35
13.   Results. The following table presents the resulting EIRR and NPV (at 12 percent discount rate in
million Yuan) obtained for each road following the same methodology applied to the expressway. That is,
computing the net benefits of vehicle operating costs and travel time savings, and comparing the with and
without project scenario based on available data on the existing roads characteristics, the proposed
projects, and the forecasted traffic.
Component         Economic Internal    Net Present Value
Rate of Return (%)     (M Yuan)
Dongyuan - Fugong              16.6                46
Zhao Jia Bao - Foutan          17.0                13
Huxi - Chiling                32.5                 46
Tankou - Hua'an               23.2                232
Baishui                       26.9                 55
C. Overall Project Economic Evaluation
14.   The overall project, which includes the expressway sections, the link roads, and the other roads,
yields a NPV of 4,036 million Yuan and an EIRR of 19.6 percent. The modified EIRR is 15.5 percent



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                               Page 78
Project Appraisal Document
assuming a 12 percent financing and reinvestment rate. The sensitivity analysis, the switching values, and
the risk analysis indicate that the project economic justification is quite robust with a most likely EIRR of
16.2 percent and a zero percent chance that the EIRR will be less than 12 percent. The following table
presents a summary of the results and the net benefits distribution which shows that cars will receive 39
percent of the project net benefits, buses 9 percent, and trucks 52 percent.
Net        Modified   Likely
Benefits  EIRR    EIRR    EIRR
(M Yuan)    (%/e)    (%/6)    (%/0)
Society                    4036  19.6%   15.5%      16.2
Road Agency               -3984
Road Users                 8019              _
Net                              Net Benefits
Benefits Percent    Cars   Buses  Trucks   Total  Cars Buses Trucks  Total
(M Yuan)   (%/.) (M Yuan) (M Yuan) (M Yuan) (M Yuan)  (%)  (%/o)  ()   (%)
Road User                   8019  100%    3148      714    4154    8019  39%   9%   52%  100%
Expressway Diverted traffic  5394   67%   1979     504    2911    5394  37%   9%   54%  100%
Expressway Generated traffic  586    7%    227      53     306      586  39%  9%   52%  100%
Existing Roads             2007   25%      935     155     917    2007  47%   8%   46%  100%
Safety                1     32    0%         6       2      24      321  18%  7%   75%  100%
15.    Sensitivity  Analysis. Table  12.5  presents detailed results of sensitivity tests which  are
summarized in the table below. The results show: (a) if construction costs increase by 20 percent and user
benefits reduce by 20 percent, the project EIRR is 15.5 percent, which indicates that even under this
pessimistic scenario the project is justified; (b) if the traffic diversion reduces by 20 percent and 50
percent, the project EIRR reduces to 17.7 percent and 13.7 percent respectively; (c) if accident benefits
reduce by 20 percent, there is a negligible reduction on the project EIRR; (d) if time savings are
eliminated the project EIRR reduces to 17.4; (e) if generated traffic benefits are eliminated, the project
EIRR reduces to 18.6; (f) the construction costs and diverted traffic have almost the same sensitivity; and
(g) a 6 year construction period decreases the project EIRR to 16.6 percent.
Case                     Scenario                      Entire Project
EIRR (%)
0     Base case                                           19.6
1     Construction costs increased by 20%                 17.4
2     User benefits reduced by 20%                        17.5
3     Combination of 1 and 2                              15.5
4     No time savings                                     17.4
5     Accident benefits reduced by 20%                    19.5
6a    Generated traffic reduced by 20%                     19.4
6b    No generated traffic                                 18.6
7a    Diverted traffic reduced by 20%                      17.7
7b    Diverted traffic reduced by 50%                      13.7
8     Traffic growth rate reduced by 20%                  16.5
9     5 year construction period                          18.1
10    6 year construction period                           16.6



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                  Page 79
Project Appraisal Document
16.    Switching Values Analysis. Table 12.5 presents the results of the switching values analysis. The
table shows that, for the entire project, construction costs have to be multiplied by a factor of 2.00 or user
benefits have to be multiplied by a factor of 0.49 to yield a project EIRR of 12.0 percent. For each
expressway section, the construction costs multiplier factor varies from 1.69 to 2.11 and the net user
benefits multiplier factor varies from 0.47 to 0.64. The analysis shows that there is a good allowance for
possible construction cost increases or reduction of net benefits. One can state that to yield a project
EIRR of 12.0 percent, construction costs would have to be multiplied by around 2 or net benefits divided
by around 2.
17.    Risk Analysis. A risk analysis was done using the @RISK software that adds risk analysis
capabilities to an Excel spreadsheet following the methodology that is explained briefly in Table 12.6.
The uncertainty for the following inputs was defined using a triangle distribution: (a) construction costs,
(b) existing traffic on the existing road, (c) diverted traffic to the expressway, (d) generated traffic, and
(e) traffic growth rate. Considering possible sampling errors associated with measured data, model
uncertainty, and uncertainties due to forecasting by judgment (e.g., optimistic and pessimistic scenarios of
economic growth), it was defined that: (a) there is an equal probability that the construction costs and
existing traffic on NR324 will be lower or higher than the estimated values and (b) there is a higher
probability that diverted traffic, generated traffic, and traffic growth rate will be lower rather than higher
than the estimated values.
18.    For construction costs and existing traffic, the most likely value was set to the estimated value,
the minimum possible value was set to 80 percent of the estimated value, and the maximum possible
value was set to 120 percent of the estimated value. These assumptions indicate that there is a 50 percent
probability that the actual values will be lower or higher than the estimated value and there is 74 percent
probability that the actual values will be between 90 and 110 percent of the estimated value. For the
diverted traffic, generated traffic and traffic growth rate inputs, the most likely value was set to the
estimated value, the minimum possible value was set to 50 percent of the estimated value, and the
maximum possible value was set to 110 percent of the estimated value. These assumptions indicate that
there is an 83 percent probability that the actual values will be lower than the estimated value, 17 percent
probability that they will be higher than the estimated value, and 62 percent probability that they will be
between the estimated value and 75 percent of the estimated value. Table 12.7 shows the frequency
distributions adopted in the study.
19.    With this information, the @RISK software evaluated 400 what-if scenarios, varying the inputs
described above accordingly to the defined input probability distributions, yielding an estimated EIRR for
each what-if scenario. The resulting frequency histogram graph and cumulative frequency distribution
graph are given in Table 12.7 for the entire project. Table 12.5 presents the resulting mean EIRR, the
EIRR standard deviation, the probability (in percent) that the EIRR will be lower than 12.0 percent, and
an assessment of a worst scenario, most likely scenario, and best scenario for all sections. In this study,
the worst scenario EIRR is defined as one which has a 10 percent probability that the actual EIRR will be
lower than it (10% percentile), the best case scenario EIRR is defined as one which has a 90 percent
probability that the actual EIRR will be lower than it (90% percentile), and the most likely scenario is
defined as one which has a 50 percent probability that the actual EIRR will be lower than it (50%
percentile). The results are summarized in the table below. The risk analysis shows that all sections and
the entire project have an EIRR greater than 12.0 percent for the most likely scenario. The entire project
EIRR is 12.6 percent for the worst scenario, 16.2 percent for the most likely scenario, and 19.7 percent
for the best scenario.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 80
Project Appraisal Document
EIRR        EIRR      Probability
Component              Mean       Standard.    EIRR <
(%)      Deviation      12%
(%)         (%)
Beitou Village - Xifeng Ling     13.7        2.6         26.1
Xifeng Ling - Wutian             16.5        2.8          8.0
Wutian - Zhugang                 16.0        2.8         8.8
Zhugang - Houling                158        2.9         10.3
Dongyuan- Fugong                 13.5        2.6         30.8
Zhao Jia Bao - Foutan            14.4        2.2         12.8
Huxi - Chiling                   28.9        3.3         0.0
Tankou - Hua'an                  20.4        2.5         0.0
Baishui                          23.4        2.7          0.0
Entire Project                   16.2        2.8         7.7
EIRR         EIRR         EIRR
Component              Worst      Most Likely.    Best
Scenario     Scenario     Scenario
(%)          (%)          (%)
Beitou Village - Xifeng Ling  10.3       13.8          17.0
Xifeng Ling - Wutian         12.9        16.6          20.1
Wutian - Zhugang             12.3        16.0           19.6
Zhugang - Houling            12.0        15.8          19.5
Dongyuan- Fugong             9.9         13.5          17.0
Zhao Jia Bao - Foutan        11.7        14.4          17.2
Huxi - Chiling               24.6        28.9          33.2
Tankou - Hua'an              17.2        20.4          23.6
Baishui                      19.8        23.5          26.8
Entire Project               12.6        16.2          19.7
20.   Conclusion. The single point estimation and sensitivity analysis indicates that the EIRRs are
greater than 12.0 percent for all sections and for the entire project. The risk analysis indicates that the
most likely EIRRs are also greater that 12.0 percent for all sections and for the entire project and that the
probability that the entire project EIRR will be lower than 12.0 percent is 7.7 percent. Therefore, the
project is economically well-justified.
D. Expressway Financial Evaluation
21.   The financial evaluation focuses on the Zhangzhou - Zhao'an expressway, which is the main
component of the project and the only one that will generate financial income with profit-making and
repayment capabilities. The toll revenue is the only mayor financial income from operation of the
expressway. Tolls will be charged as a function of vehicle type and size and distance traveled at the same
level and structure as the tolls currently being collected on Quanzhou-Xiamen expressway. The tables
below present the current tolls on the Quanzhou-Xiamen expressway and an estimate of the current tolls
on NR324 based on the fact that vehicles pay tolls per toll station and the average distance between toll
stations is 39 km. Tolls on NR324 being around 50 percent the expressway tolls indicate that the
expressway tolls are reasonable considering the much higher level of service provided by the
expressways.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 81
Project Appraisal Document
Vehicle    Trucks   Cars & Buses    Quan-Xia Expressway Tolls
Class      (tons)      (seats)          (Yuan/vehicle-km)
1          < 2.5        < 6                   0.35
2          2.5-7.0      7-19                  0.70
3         7.0-15.0     20-45                   1.05
4         15.0-20.0     >46                    1.40
5          >20.0                              2.10
Vehicle    Trucks   Cars & Buses  Highway 324 Tolls   Highway 324 Tolls
Class      (tons)      (seats)        (Yuan/toll)     (Yuan/vehicle-km)
1          <1.5         <12             6.00                0.15
2          1.5-3.0     13-24            15.00               0.38
3          3.0-7.0      > 25            26.00               0.66
4         7.0-15.0                      40.00               1.02
5          > 15.0                       55.00               1.40
22.    The financial evaluation was undertaken assuming that: (a) tolls are expected to increase about
every three years to take account of inflation, expected to be around 5 percent annually; (b) maintenance
costs and operation costs are also expected to increase at around 5 percent annually to take account of
inflation; (c) financial costs include interest on investment during the construction phase and costs during
the operational phase including maintenance costs, toll plaza management costs, administration costs, and
taxes of 3 percent of toll income; and (d) considering that some special vehicles such as: police,
ambulance, and military vehicles, will not be charged. The tolled traffic volume is 90 percent of the
predicted traffic. Considering that around 32 percent of the investment will be financed by the World
Bank with at 7.0 percent interest rate, 25 percent of the investment will be financed locally with a 10.35
percent interest rate, and the opportunity cost of capital is 5 percent, the weighted average cost of capital
is 7.0 percent. The table below summarizes the financial evaluation.
Financial           Net
Internal          Present
Rate of Return       Value
(%)       (M Yuan at 7.5 %)
Beitou Village - Xifeng Ling       11.0              330
Xifeng Ling - Wutian               13.8             2485
Wutian - Zhugang                   10.7              424
Zhugang - Houling                  11.7              783
Entire Expressway                  12.5             4021
23.   The entire expressway financial rate of return is 12.5 percent with a net present value of 4,021
million Yuan at 7.0 discount rate and an investment recovery period of 16 years. Three cases were
considered in the sensitivity analysis: construction costs increase by 20 percent, revenues decrease by 20
percent, and construction costs increase by 20 percent meanwhile revenues decrease by 20 percent. The
corresponding project financial rates of return of 10.7 percent, 10.2 percent, and 8.5 percent indicate that
even under the most unfavorable situation, the financial benefits are acceptable with a financial rate of
return over the weighted average cost of capital of 7.0 percent.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                  Page 82
Project Appraisal Document
Table 12.1 - Expressway Sections Data
Expressway  Expressway   Expressway  Expressway
Expressway section name:                                   Beitou Village- Xifeng Ling -  Wutian -    Zhugang -
Xifeng Ling        Wutian     Zhugang        Houling
Expressway financial construction cost (million Yuan):              626         2438          899          1232
Expressway economic construction cost (million Yuan):               520         2024          746         1022
Expressway length (km):                                             14.2         65.4         24.8         36.1
Expressway subgrade width (m):                                      26.0         26.0         26.0         26.0
Expressway average gradients (%):                                    1.8          0.1          0.8          1.0
Expressway average roughness (IRI):                                  3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0
Existing road length (km):                                          15.0         66.0         31.5         40.0
Existing road subgrade width (m):                                   23.0         23.0         23.0         23.0
Existing road average gradients (%):                                 3.0          3.0          3.0          3.0
Existing road average roughness (IRI):                               6.0          6.0          6.0          6.0
Motorized traffic on existing roads in 1999 (ADT):                11598        12006        10204         10983
Motorized traffic on existing roads in 2003, before (ADT):        17797        18639        15576         16816
Motorized traffic on existing roads in 2003, after (ADT):          9791         9647         8542         8999
Diverted motorzed traffic on expressway in 2003 (ADT):             8006         8992         7034         7817
Generated motorized traffic on expressway in 2003 (ADT):           2668         2536         1544          1380
Total motorized traffic on expressway in 2003 (ADT):              10674        11528         8578          9197
Total motorized traffic on expressway in 2022 (ADT):              31161        35461        24675        26697
Percent of cars:                                                    20%          35%          18%          18%
Percent of small buses:                                              7%           8%           6%           8%
Percent of medium buses:                                             6%           6%           8%           7%
Percent of light trucks (gross weight 3.0 to 6.5 t):                21%          12%          22%          22%
Percent of medium trucks (gross weight 5.0 to 16.0 t):              27%          21%          30%          29%
Percent of heavy trucks (gross weight 6.0 to 22.0 t):               16%          16%          13%          14%
Percent of articulated trucks (gross weight 13.0 to 45.0 t):         3%           2%           3%           2%
Growth rate for cars for period 1999-2003 (%):                      13%          13%          13%          13%
Growth rate forcars for period 2004-2008 (%):                       10%          10%          10%          10%
Growth rate for cars for period 2009-2013 (/6):                      8%           8%           8%           8%
Growth rate for cars fcr period 2014-2022 (%):                       6%           6%           6%           6%
Growth rate for commercial vehicles for period 1999-2003 (%):       11%          11%          11%          11%
Growth rate for commercial vehicles for period 2004-2008 (%):        8%           8%           8%           8%
Growth rate for commercial vehides for period 2009-2013 (%):         6%           6%           6%           6%
Growth rate for commercial vehicles for period 2014-2022 (%):        4%           4%           4%           4%
Cars speeds on existing roads on most congested hour (kmlhr):        40           40           40           40
Cars speeds on existing roads at night (km/hr):                      60           60           60            60
Med. trucks speeds on existing roads on most congested hour (km/hr)  40           40           40            40
Med. trucks speeds on existing roads at night (kmlhr):               50           50            50           50
Predicted passenger cars speeds on new expressway (km/hr):           80           80           80            80
Predicted medium trucks speeds on new expressway (km/hr):            70           70           70            70
Construction cost per km (million Yuan):                             44           37            36           34
Distance savings (%):                                               -5%          -1%         -21%         -10%
Diverted traffic as percent of normal traffic, in 2003 (%):         45%          45%          45%          45%
Generated traffic as percent of normal traffic, in 2003 (%):        15%          14%          10%           8%
1-'JZ- I BWAUSXL 5/5l99~



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                 Page 83
Project Appraisal Document
Table 12.2 - Vehicle Fleet Characterstics
Small             Light Medium    Heavy Articulated
Cars   Buses   Buses  Trucks  Trucks  Trucks        Trucks
Gross vehicle weight of fully loaded average vehicle (tons)  2.00  3.00    13.00  7.50    17.00    24.00    40.00
Payload of fully loaded average vehide (tons)         1.00     1.25     6.00    2.00     6.00    11.00      27.00
Gross vehicle weight of average vehicle (tons)         1.50    2.50     8.00     2.50    8.00    17.00      28.00
Payload of average vehicle (tons)                      0.24    0.48     1.80     0.85    4.80     7.50      11.00
Number of passengers (#)                                 3       15      23        0        0       0          0
Service life (years)                                    14       14       12      12       12       12         12
Kilometers driven per year (km)                      30000   30000   60000   60000   60000   60000         60000
Hours driven per year (hours)                          750      750    1500    1500    1500    1500         1500
Economic Costs
New vehicle price (Yuan)                            112500   60000   90000   37500   82500  260000    340000
Onenewtireprice(Yuan)                                  300      300     700      700      700    1100       1100
Maintenance labor cost for vehicle repairs (Yuan/hour)  15.0    5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0        5.0
Driver wages (Yuan/hour)                                9.0     9.0      9,0      9.0     9.0      9.0        9.0
Cargo costs (Yuan/hour)                                 0.0     0.0      0.0      4.0     4.0      4.0        4.0
Time costs (Yuan/hour)                                  2.0     2.0      2.0      0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0
Gas/Petrol price (Yuan/liter)                  2.0
Diesel price (Yuan/iter)                       2.0
Lubricants price (YuanAiter)                  10.0
Income  Income                           Working  Nonworking
Yuan/   Yuan/          % traveling      time    time
Year    Hour          work/business    value    value               Yuan/hr
6000      2.5           75%              100%     20%                   2.0
Real (without inflation) interest
charge on the purchase of a new vehide:         10
Articulated Trucks
Heavy Trucks    2%            Cars
Typical Vehicle Composition                                    14%                        18%
Small Buses
6%
Bses
Medium Trucks                                  7%
29%
22%
FJ2- I BI2.XLS b15/99



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                               Page 84
Project Appraisal Document
Table 12.3 - Typical Road User Costs
Small             Light Medium    Heavy rticulated
Cars    Buses    Buses   Trucks   Trucks   Trucks   Trucks
Typical Road User Costs (Vehicle
Operating and Time Costs)
Yuan per vehicle-kilometer
New Expressway                            1.10      1.09     1.61     0.71      1.14     2.31     2.81
ExistingClass2Road(1250ADT)               1.53      1.62     226      1.01      1.56     3.31     4.08
Existing Class 2 Road (5000 ADT)          1.54      1.65     2.29     1.02      1.57     3.32     4.09
Existing Class 2 Road (10000 ADT)         1.59      1.71     2.39     1.05      1.59     3.34     4.12
ExistingClass2Road(20000ADTY)             1.82      2.04     2.84     1.19      1.78     3.54     4.35
ExistingClass2Road(30000AADI)             2.24      2.70     3.76     1.47      2.14     3.95     4.82
Existing Road
C  6.oo                                                                * Car
.      5.00                                                     +             * Small Bus
1E4.00   +         +        +                +
I                                           ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~I  A Bus
0    3.00                                              I
a'                                                           n A            K Medium
' 2.00   A        A        A                                                  Truck
~~~ ~~~~~.oa                                              e~~~~~~~~~Heavy
1.00                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Truck
0
ix     0.00         I                 I        I+ Arficulated
0      5000    10000   15000   20000   25000   30000   35000    Truck
Average Daily Traffic (vpd)
Typical Road User Costs Composition
Vehicle Operating Costs
Fuel and Lubricants              0.27     0.22      0.55     0.22     0.58      0.97     1.05
Tires                            0.03     0.07     0.15      0.23     0.13      0.40     0.49
Maintenance Labor and Parts      0.52     0.23      0.17     0.20     0.36      1.05     1.39
Crew                             0.18     0.20     0.20      0.20     0.21      0.22     0.25
Depreciation and Interest        0.42     0.23     0.19      0.08     0.18      0.57     0.80
TimeCosts                                 0.12     0.67      1.01     0.09      0.09     0.10     0.11
Total                                     1.53      1.62     2.26     1.01      1.56     3.31     4.08
r .-UUXLWN



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                     Page 85
Project Appraisal Document
Table 12.4 - Excel Economic Evaluation Model Sample
Daily Ilraftic (ADI)          inancial             Net koonombc benetits (M Yuan)                   Sensltivlty Analysis
New                 lstgKoad: Constr.  uons maintel New  xpressway kxis iil   1/) Incr. 2tfo Doecr   tJombmed
wnh wibor1  Cosb ts ction nance west           erat   Road   Safety          Construct.      User    (a) & (b)
Year Divelte  Generatedi Project Project MYuan  Costs Costs Traffic   Traffic Traffic Benefis          Costs (a) Benefits (b)
1999                    11598  11598    125.3 -102.7      0      0         0       0        0    -103      -123      -103         -123
2000                     12905  12905    187.9 -154.1     0       0        0       0        0    -154      -185      -154         -185
2001                     14362  14362    187.9 -154.1     0       0        0       0        0    -154      -185      -154         -185
2002                     15986  15986    125.3 -102.7     0       0        0       0        0    -103      -123      -103         -123
2003   8006      2668    9791  17797       0.0   0.0  -1.3       33        5      10        1      48        47        38           38
2004   8678      2892   10623  19300       0.0    0.0  -1.3      38        6      14        1      57        57        45           45
2005   9407      3135   11526  20933              0.0  -1.3      44        7      18        1      69        6t        54           54
2006  10198      3399   12508  22707              0.0  -1.3      52        9      22        1      83        82        65           65
2007  11058      3685   13575  24633              0.0  -1.3      61       10      28        1      99        98        78           78
2008  11772      3923   14466  26238              0.0  -1.3      69       12      33        1    114        113        90           90
2009  12535      4177   15416 27951               0.0  -1.3      78        13     39        1    130        129       103          103
2010  13348      4448   16430  29778              0.0  -1.3      89       15      46        1    149        148       118          118
2011   14215     4737   17513  31728              0.0  -1.3    100         17     52         1    169       168       134          134
2012  15140      5045   18669  33809              0.0  -1.3    112         19     59         1    190       189       151          151
2013   15808     5268   19505  35313              0.0  -1.3    122        20      64        1    205        204       163          163
2014  16507      5501   20379  36885              0.0  -1.3    131        22      68        1    221        219       175          175
2015  17237      5744   21293  38530              0.0  -1.3    140        23      72         1    236       234       187          187
2016  18000      5999   22249  40250              0.0  -1.3    150        25      74         1    250       248       198          198
2017  18799      6265   23250 42049               0.0  -94.0    159       27      76         1    169       168       115          19t
2018  19633      6543   24297  43930              0.0  -1.3    168        28      76         1    271       270       216          216
2019  20506      6834   25392  45839              0.0  -1.3    175         29     73        2    271        276       220          220
2020  21419      7138   26538  47958              0.0  -1.3    180        30      66        2    277        275       220          220
2021  22374      7456   27738  50112              0.0  -1.3    183        31      56        2    270        268       214          214
2022  23372      7789  28993  52365             256.8  -1.3    191        32      50        2    531        581       475          526
44.1
17.1%1   15.1%     14.6%        12.8%
278      189        131          48



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                                                Page 86
Project Appraisal Document
Table 12.5 - Eaottomic Evaluation ResuIts
Senidvity Aalyss
Ecemic Inmtael Rates ofRdwn (EMIR)              Case I    Case 2     Case 3       Cse 4           C  se5         Cse 6       Cse 7      C3se     Cuse 9    Case to
20% nca. 20%. Decr. Combliod       Eliminate  Elimaate        Elirnaa    20% Deer. 20% Decr.      5 Year     6 Yer,
Base      CegSuucL        Usr  (1) & (2)       Value of   Accidert      Generated    Diested     Traffic  Contrub,  Comtu
Project Comepesot                     Case           Costs   Bestt                      Tiae    Bendits          Traffic     Trffic    Grwth       Peeod      Perid
BeitaVlllage-Xieng Ling              16.9%          15.0%      15.0%.    13.1%          15.2%      16.9%'         15.7%       15.2%      14.0%      15.7%      14.5%
XlfnggLing-Wurian                    20.0%          17.8%      17.9%     15.8'Y.        17.7%      19.9%          IS.8Y.      1.1%       16.9Y.     18.5%      17.1%
Wali-sug  n                          19.5%          17.4%      17.4%     15.5'Y.        17.7%      19.4%          1S.5%       17.6%      16.2%     I.1%       16.3%
Zbuhnag -Heallag                     19.3%          17.2%      17.3%      15.3%         17.3%      19.2%          11.5%       17.5%      16.0%      17.9%      16.4%
Deaawa- -Fugeog                      16.6%          14.8%      15.3%     13.6'Y.        15.5%      16.6'%         16.6%       15.3%      13.0Y.     15.5%      13.0%
Zhta  ia Bao-F-oatan                 17.0%          14.8%      15.1%      13.1%         14.1%      16.9Y.         17.0%       15.1%      14.7%      15.4%      13.9%
Hrd-dChling                          32.5%          29.1%      30.0%Y    26.8%         27.7%.      32.3%          32.5%      30.0%      29.3%       28.S%      25.7%
Tankn -Huos'n                        23.2%          20.4%      20.8%.   1I.2Y.          19.7Y      23.1%          23.2Y%      20.8%      21.3%      20.7%     1S5%
Baishr                               26.9%          24.1%      23.9%     21.2%Y.       24.9%       26.9%          26.9%      23.8%      24.5%       23.9%      21.1%
EntreProject                         19.6%          17.4%      17.5%     15.5%Y.        17.4%      19.3%          11.6%       17.7%      16.5%      18.1%      16.6%
Switcsdeg Vabec Analysis                                                             Risk Analysis
Ceautctus         Net Uaer                              Mema    Standard      Probabiity                  'erecatfle
Costs       Benefits                              EIER    Deviation      Oa EItR         loY.       50%        90%
Maetpelier     Multiplier                                        EIRR          <12%        Worst      Likely       Best
Factor to      Factor to                                                                Scenrio   Scetarlo   Sceasei
Yield 12%      Yield 12%                                                                    EIRR       EIRR        EHIR
BeltouVillage.XifengLing               1.69           0.64                             13.7%        2.6%          26.1%       10.3%      13.S.      17.0%.
XiftegLiag-Wtslaa                      2.11           0.47                              16.5%       2.8Y.          S.0%       12.9%      16.6%     20.1%
Wutaia-Zlghen                          2.06           0.49                             16.0Y.       2.8%           8.1.       12.3%      16.0%.     19.6%
Zhegsg-lmti.g                          2.03           0.49                              15.0%       2.9%          10.3%       12.0%      15.8Y.     19.5%
Doppgoaa -Pugeng                       1.64          0.60                              13.5%        2.6%          30.8%       9.9%'      13.5%      17.0%
Zhao lJs Bo-PFouta                     1.56           0.64                              14.4%       2.2%          12.S%       11.7Y.     14.4%      17.2%
Htoi . Chiling                         4.29           0.23                             28.9%.       3.3%           0.OY.     24.6%       28.9%     33.2%
Taakouea -Ha                           2.40           0.41                             20.4%        2.5%           0.0%       17.2%     20.4%      23.6%
Bfidhui                                3.35           0.29                             23.4%        2.7%           0.0%       19.S'%     23.5%     26.8Y.
Entire Projet                          2.00           0.49                             16.2%        21S%           7.7%       12.6%      16.2%      19.7Y.
kJ2-1035.XLS '5N/99



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                 Page 87
Project Appraisal Document
Table 12.6 - Risk Analysis
Methodology
Standard spreadsheet models analyses combine single "poinf' estimates of the model's input variables to predict a
single result. Estimates of the input variables are used because the actual values are not known with certainty. For
example:
Revenues = 100                   Costs = 90                        =>                    Profits = 10
In reality, however, things don't always tum out as planned because too conservative or optimistic estimates may have
been adopted. The combined errors in each input variable estimate could lead to real-life result that is different from
the estimated result. With risk analysis, one can explicidy include the uncertainty present in the estimates to generate
results that show all possible outcomes. For example, consider a simple case where there is uncertainty in both input
variables:
Revenues = 100 or 120                       Costs = 90 or 80
Possible Profits = >                        100-90 = 10            100-80 = 20
120-90 = 30           120-80 = 40
In a risk analysis, one includes the estimate of an input variable and some measure of the likelihood of occurrence for
that variable. The risk analysis will then use this information to analyze every possible outcome, executing hundreds of
what-if scenarios adopting in each case random inputs accordingly to the input probability distribution. For example,
consider this more complex case:
Revenues              Estimated most likely value = 100                      (triangle distribution)
Estimated minimum possible value = 90
Estimated maximum possible value = 130
Costs                 Estimated mean value = 90                              (normal distribution)
Estimated standard deviation = 20
Results:    Scenario I           Revenues = 105.9      Costs = 116.8          Profits = -10.9
Scenario 2            Revenues= 119.5        Costs = 87.2         Profits = 32.3
Scenario 300          Revenues = 103.4      Costs = 86.6          Profits = 16.8
In this case, the results are presented as probability distributions and statistics that give the decision-maker a complete
picture of all possible outcomes. For example, for the case above we have the following results:
Mean Profits = 16.7
Standard Deviation of Profits = 22.4
Probability that profits will be lower              Sb
than zero =24.1 pereent                             ai
Prof2tT
Fi2-1IBUt.XLS 515/99



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                           Page 88
Project Appraisal Document
Table 12.7 - Risk Analysis Results
Frequency distribution for
- Construction costs
- Existing traffic                '
Multiplier Factor
Frequency distribution for
- Diverted trafficI
- Generated traffic   
- Traffic growth                  -  
0)
ED
0)
LA               Il(    1.11l       
Multiplier Factor
Frequency distribution for
entire project EIRR
entirafi groweth EIR)
>~~C  6 80%)  >N   F  ,   ,l
entire projectEIRR    @ ae 80ultipier%acto
,,0  60% - Most Likealy
E reqencyScena d b   for
40%
5   0% - -Worst Scenario        |   |     .  ]    +.
0%
Economic Internal Rate of Return (%)
FJ2-TB07.XLS 515/99



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 89
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 13: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Second Fujian Highway Project
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Preamble
The objectives of the Project are as follows:
* Relieve traffic congestion and improve the mobility and integration of interprovincial trade,
commerce and tourism between Fujian and Guangdong Provinces by assisting in the development of
a key section of China's National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) in the principal coastal corridor;
*  Strengthen highway institutional capacity at the Fujian Provincial Transport Department and related
sector institutions, through provision of training, technical assistance and equipment, in planning,
design, construction, operation and maintenance of Fujian's highway network;
* Develop and sustain a policy dialogue in the key policy area of province-wide maintenance
management; and
* Improve the safety of road transport.
The main components of the Project include:
Component 1. Construction of expressway and interconnecting roads
1.1 Construction of the Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway (ZZE) (132 km);
1.2 Interconnecting road program, consisting of new construction and upgrading of roads;
1.3 Other Roads program, consisting of new construction and upgrading of existing roads and bridges;
1.4 Equipment for: (i) control of construction quality and monitoring of the environment; (ii) operation
and maintenance for ZZE; (iii) maintenance of the provincial road network and RDB and PMS;
1.5 Construction supervision services for ZZE, the interconnecting and other roads programs;
Component 2. Institutional Strengthening/Capacity Building
Studies/technical assistance in highway maintenance management, organizational reform and
development plan, and road safety; and
Staff training programs, covering all aspects of highway planning, design, construction, operation,
finance and maintenance.
Project Component 3 - Front-end Fee;
Project Component 4 - Land Acquisition and Resettlement.
Total estimated Project cost is US$595.6 million, including an IBRD loan of US$200.0 million.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 90
Project Appraisal Document
I.    Background
This report is the result of a financial management review and analysis of the Second Fujian Highway
Project (the "Project") as conducted by Tony Shen, Financial Management Specialist, EACCF, to
determine whether the Project.has in place an adequate financial management system as required by Bank
OP/BP 10.02. The review was performed in accordance with the following:
* The Guide for Review and Design o:f Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank Financed
Projects (Central Operational Services Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, December 1997)
* Review of Financial Management System (Annex II, LACI Handbook)
* Project Financial Management Manual (Loan Department, The World Bank)
The review consequently included procedures as were considered necessary and appropriate to the
Project's circumstances, including site visit, discussion and observation. As a result, the task team has
discussed and reviewed with Fujian Provincial Finance Bureau (FPFB) and proposed project management
office of the Project plans, procedures and guidelines for establishing a sound financial management
system, including staff/training, accounting, internal controls, reporting requirements, auditing and
budgeting.
II.    Organization of project financial management
1. Structure of project management
Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate (FPECD) will assume overall responsibility
of implementing and monitoring the Project while Zhangzhou Municipal Expressway Construction
Directorate (ZMECD), the proposed project management office (PMO), is responsible for direct
implementation and fund management. The task team noted that FPECD was responsible for direct
implementation and monitoring of the First Fujian Highway Project, another Bank-financed project.
2. Loan disbursement arrangements
The Project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using
PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF.
Special Account will be managed by and maintained at Fujian Provincial Finance Bureau (FPFB). Fund
disbursement will flow from the Bank to ]FPFB, FPECD, ZMECD and contractors/suppliers through loan
and on-lend arrangement.
As ZMECD is new to Bank's projects, it should work closely with FPFB in setting up policies and
procedures for the Project to ensure efficient and accurate fund management and timely disbursement.
Per review of draft Project Financial Management Manual (discussed in detail in section III) prepared by
the Project, the task team noted that detailed policies and procedures have been provided for the Project
to ensure efficient and accurate fund management and timely withdrawal applications. In addition, the
Bank will provide as and when needed training and assistance in preparation of withdrawal applications.
ZMECD will be in charge of verifying the accuracy and validity of expenses submitted and progress
reported. The application for reimbursements prepared by ZMECD will be further reviewed and
approved by FPECD and FPFB before submitting by FPFB to the Bank for reimbursement.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 91
Project Appraisal Document
FPFB to date has managed 24 Bank/ADB financed projects and therefore has accumulated extensive
experience with Bank's requirements and procedures in preparation and processing of withdrawal
application and disbursement of funds. In addition, the Bank will provide as and when needed training
and assistance in preparation of withdrawal applications.
HI.   Staff and training
Though it is expected that experience gained by staff from the first highway project will be passed on to
the new Project and some of the personnel from the earlier project will also be seconded to assist Project
management, adequate number of qualified financial/accounting staff should be recruited before
commencement of the Project. The chief accountant to be hired for the Project should have adequate
experience and credentials in financial and accounting management. In addition, he/she should be able to
maintain books of accounts, exercise adequate internal controls, safeguard Project's assets, monitor
progress of the Project and produce financial and monitoring reports required by the Bank and MOF on a
timely basis.
An accountant with an accounting major from a local university and adequate work experience has been
identified for the Project. The task team noted that the accountant is suitable for the position, based on
her educational background and prior work experience as an accountant for about a year for another
expressway located in Fujian province.
As the project management office of the Project has no prior experience with Bank projects, well
designed and focused training should be provided as and when needed (by MOF, FPFB and in particular
FPECD) for the office to ensure personnel of quality commensurate with job responsibilities. The Bank
plans to re-address in detail some of the major aspects of project financial management and reporting
requirements during the Project's launch workshop.
In addition, well-defined role, job description and operation procedures should be documented and made
easily accessible to all staff involved to guide in accounting practices and financial information
preparation and reporting. The task team has received a draft Project Financial Management Manual (the
"Manual") prepared by ZMECD for the Project. Per review of the Manual, the task team noted that
procedures and guidelines have been provided for major areas of operation of the Project and included
the following:
* General guidelines for project financial management and staffing requirements
*  Project accounting and reporting requirements
*  Cash management
*  Asset management
*  Withdrawal applications and disbursements procedures
*  Bidding management
*  Project fund management
*  Budgeting
*  Auditing arrangement



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 92
Project Appraisal Document
Final version of the Manual will be ready for use before commencement.
IV.   Financial and accounting system
The Project will use "Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for Projects
Financed by the World Bank" (i.e. Circular#127, 1993) issued by MOF as a basis for book-keeping and
preparation of project financial statements and management reports. This set of regulations was modeled
after the Accounting Standards Applicable to State-operated Construction Projects issued in 1986 by
MOF and further revised in 1998 and is geared towards infrastructure oriented projects. The regulations
also dictate chart of account and related account instructions that would therefore affect project
accounting and reporting requirements.
Accrual accounting and double entry basis will be adopted for the Project. Ledgers, journal vouchers and
original-supporting documents will be maintained at ZMECD.
V.    Internal controls
A well designed internal control system (both administrative and accounting) should be in place before
commencement of the Project. Per review of draft Manual mentioned above, the task team noted that
sufficient control procedures have been built into the system for all major areas of concern and have the
following features:
*  A system of authorization, verification, reconciliation, record procedures and project reporting
adequate to provide reasonable control over project costs, security of assets, schedules and
technical performance
*  Delegation and segregation of duties
*  Timely and accurate financial reporting
In addition, ZMECD has agreed that controls designed by FPECD for the first highway project will also
be adopted and further refined and integrated into the new Project.
VI.   Reporting requirements
The format and content of the following reports have been discussed and agreed with the proposed
project management office - ZMECD. These reports are required to be submitted on bi-annual basis to
the Bank within 3 months (i.e. before October 1 and April 1) after the end of each reporting period:
Financial statements (bi-annual basis)
* Balance sheet
*  Statement of sources and uses of fund by project activity
*  Statement of implementation of loan agreement
*  Statement of special account



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 93
Project Appraisal Document
The above project financial statements represent the standard project financial reporting package recently
agreed to between the Bank and MOF and will apply to all FY 99 projects.
Project monitoring report (bi-annual basis)
*  Statement of project progress
Procurement management reports (bi-annual basis)
*  Contract expenditure report - goods & works, consultants
* Procurement management reports - ICB & NCB
VII.  Auditing requirements
The Bank requires the Project to have its financial statements audited in accordance with standards
acceptable to the Bank. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the Project will be audited in
accordance with Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition).
Fujian Provincial Audit Bureau has been identified as auditors for the Project. Audit report on annual
project financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each reporting year,
with separate opinion on statement of expenses and special account.
VIII. Budgeting
Chapter 8 of draft Manual focuses on budgeting. Policies and procedures have been documented to guide
in budgeting process. Annual budget will be prepared by respective construction sections of the Project
and submitted to ZMECD and FPECD for further consolidation, review and approval. Comparison of
budget versus actual will be performed on a semi-annual basis and any subsequent major changes to the
original plan has to be reviewed, evaluated and approved by the Bank.
IX.   Conclusion
Based on above analysis, the task team has determined that the Project will satisfy the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the Project will
have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the Project in the reporting format agreed with
the proposed project management office and as required by the Bank.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 94
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 14: ENVIRONM]ENTAL ASSESSMENT AND ACTION
PLAN SUMMARY
Second Fujian Highway Project
1.    Background. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Environmental Action Plan
(EAP) for the Zhangzhou - Zhao'an Expressway and its interconnecting roads were prepared by the Xian
Highway Transportation University (XHTU). The EIA and EAP for the Longhai Baishui Bridge,
Zhangpu Huxi - Chiling Road and Tankou - Chengguan Highway were prepared by the Highways
Research Institute of MOC. The EA Summary for the project was compiled by XHTU. The EIA, EAP
and the EA Summary reports were prepared as per the policy and administrative requirements for
environmental assessment of development projects in China and the Bank's OD 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment. The development and review of these documents involved inputs from various Provincial
units, the local and State Environmental Protection Bureaus, research institutions and the affected groups
along the proposed highway. These documents were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with FPTD
during the various project preparation missions in May and November 1998 and in January and March
1999. The final revised EIA, EAP and EA Summary reports covering the Expressway, it's
interconnecting roads and the Longhai Baishui Bridge, Zhangpu Huxi - Chiling Road and Tankou -
Chengguan Highway were submitted to the Bank in April 1999 and were found to be satisfactory. Copies
of the environmental reports are available in the project files.
2.    Brief Project Description. The main civil components of the Expressway consist of the
construction of a four-lane, 120 km/h speed, 140 km long Expressway between Zhangzhou and Zhao'an;
9 interchanges; 5 km of Dongyuan-Fugong, Class 1 and 8 km of Huxi-Fuotan, Class 2 link roads; 1.8 km
long Longhai Baishui Bridge and approach roads; 9 km long Zhangpu Huxi - Chiling, Class 2, road; and
42 km long Tankou - Chengguan, Class 2, Highway. Other components include institutional
strengthening, training programs, highway safety and construction supervision.
3.    Baseline Environmental Description. The proposed alignment of the Expressway lies in the
southern tip of Fujian Province. The terrain rises from southeast to northwest. Section K8-K23 lies in
dense rolling area; section K74-K90 lies on hilly slope and the remainder of the alignment is located in
light rolling plain. The Expressway section contains two, 2+ km long tunnels and 17 large and extra large
bridges. The 42 km long Tankou - Chengguan Highway lies north-northwest of Zhangzhou City. For
most of the way, the alignment follows the west bank of the Jiulongjiang River crossing onto the east
bank of river before Hua'an. The realignment of the road will result in the construction of two tunnels,
one of which is expected to be over 2 km long. The land form along the highway is dominated by hills
and valleys. Based on the soil erosion information provided by the Water and Soil Conservation
Committee of the Zhangzhou City, the average soil erosion in the area of the proposed roads is between
402.5-484.2 t/km2/y.
4.    The Expressway runs through an economically developed region with intense human activities.
Population density along the proposed Expressway alignment is 34 percent higher than the provincial
average. Because of past development, dense settlement and intense cultivation, there are no virgin
forests and the original vegetation has been replaced by paddy fields, sugar cane, mushrooms, peanuts,
tobacco leaf, jute, tea, etc. The area along the proposed alignment grows a large variety of fruits and
vegetables and accounts for about 70 percent of the provincial production of bananas, pineapples and
litchis. The proposed Expressway is expected to occupy about 11,580 mu of cultivated land and 4,602 mu
of uncultivated land. In addition, 3,100 mu of temporary land will also be required. It is expected that the



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                            Page 95
Project Appraisal Document
construction of the Expressway will result in the demolition of about 70,100 m2 of housing. The
rehabilitation and construction of Tankou - Chengguan road will require only 167.5 mu of additional
land; most of which will be non farm land.
5.    There are no natural reserves along the proposed expressway and other road alignment. No rare
or endangered animal or plant species were found within the 500m zone on either side of the proposed
expressway and other roads. Along the proposed expressway alignment, lead concentration in the soil
ranged between 24.5 mg/kg and 34.6 mg/kg, significantly lower than the 300 mg/kg value recommended
by the Chinese Ministry of Agriculture as the acceptable criteria for acid soil.
6.    The project area is rich in history and culture. According to the investigation report filed by the
Archaeological Investigation Team of the Fujian Provincial Cultural and Historical Relics Management
Committee five cultural relics sites were identified near or within the project right-of-way. Of the five
sites, four are located along the expressway, one is a buried ancient kiln site (Luowanjing Kiln), two are
buried ancient building sites (Xidong and Nanshan ruins), and one is an above ground ancient building
site (Shabgabian ruins). The fifth relic is an above ground Fenglinwei Hui Temple, about 15 m from the
embankment of the Dongyuan-Fugong link road.
7.    Ambient air quality monitoring data of the past years and the monitoring at 4 sites along the
proposed expressway alignment show that NOx, TSP and CO concentrations at all locations meet the
Chinese Environmental Air Quality, Class II standards. Day time and night time noise levels were
monitored at 13 locations along the expressway. Of these, Beitou at the starting point of the Xiamen -
Zhangzhou expressway and Changmaolin, near the existing National Road 324, exceeded Class 2
standard. Along the expressway alignment, the Neixi and Houdai Primary Schools exceeded Class 1
standard. The remaining locations were below the noise standards. Along the other roads, the ambient
noise quality met the existing standards. Water quality monitoring results for major rivers and the
Yiangmei Reservoir indicate acceptable water quality.
8.    Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation Measures. The major potential
environmental impacts of the Zhangzhou - Zhao'an Expressway, the two link roads and the Longhai
Baishui Bridge, Zhangpu Huxi - Chiling Road and Tankou - Chengguan Highway and their mitigation
measures are given in the respective Environmental Action Plans (EAP). The EAPs stipulate how the
environmental impacts identified in the EIA will be incorporated in the design, and implemented in the
construction and operation phases of the project and what institutional arrangements have been made to
ensure effective implementation of the mitigation measures during the three phases. The key elements of
the EAP are summarized below.
9.    Design Phase. Three main alternative alignments and a number of sub alignments were
considered in the project feasibility and design phases of the Zhangzhou- Zhao'an Expressway. The final
alignment was selected to: minimize land acquisition and resettlement costs; minimize potential
environmental impacts of the project on farmland, residences, schools, cultural relics, flood control
systems and separation of communities; maximize economic returns; and avoid areas with poor
geographical and geological conditions. Between the starting point and Jiuzhen, the middle alternative
was selected based on favorable engineering, economic and resettlement criteria. Between Andou and
Xizhang, inner (inland) and outer (coastal) alternatives were compared. The choice was more difficult,
but based on potential detrimental impact of fog, typhoons, deep cuts, etc. on the Expressway, the inner
alignment was chosen. Between Wutian and Dapu, the Dabushan tunnel alternative was chosen over the
Baita alternative. Between Shudong and Lintou, the Southern alternative was chosen over the Northern
alternative, to minimize deep cuts, impact on farm land and reservoir, even though the cost estimate of



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 96
Project Appraisal Document
the Southern alternative was higher. Between Zhongzai and Houlin, the Southern alternative was chosen
although it is 1.1 km longer. This alternative is cheaper, is supported by the local authorities, does not
hinder the development of the City and does not interfere with the planned expansion of the railway.
Similarly in the Tankou - Chengguan section, the Hongqishan tunnel alternative was chosen to provide a
better and shorter road.
10.   The design of the expressway includes 292 underpasses and 79 grade separators to facilitate the
crossing of the expressway by local people, animals and vehicles. To reduce soil erosion, the central strip,
exposed side slopes, and road side areas will be planted with grass, shrubs, bushes, etc. Additional
measures such as subgrade drainage systems are integrated in the project design and temporary and
permanent drainage systems will be provided to minimize soil erosion and alteration of hydrological
regimes. Particular attention will be paid to balance cuts and fills, to locate suitable borrow areas in waste
lands, to minimize the use of arable lands and to minimize dust and noise problems. The materials from
the excavation of the tunnels will be utilized to reclaim wastelands and the excess will be disposed of to
minimize environmental problems. Similar measures will be applied to the link roads and the other roads.
11.   The EIA identified 65 villages, 14 schools and one hospital would be impacted by the noise from
the Zhangzhou - Zhao'an Expressway. Along the link roads, Dongyuan Middle School will be most
seriously impacted by the noise. By the year 2005, noise levels at the first row of houses in Huangzao and
Xinyu will exceed the standard. To mitigate the short and medium term (years 2000 -2010) noise
problems, a combination of measures such as resettlement, installation of noise barriers, insulated
windows, and other acoustic reduction measures such as afforestation, etc. will be undertaken. Before the
operation of the expressway, 27 villages and 2 schools will be relocated and approximately 4,200 m long,
2.5 m high noise barriers will be built at strategic locations along the expressway to protect 20 schools
and other sensitive locations. Other impacted places will be protected by raising the height of the walls
surrounding the houses, by planting forest belts, etc. In the long-term (year 2020), noise monitoring will
be continued and appropriate mitigation measures will be taken when the noise monitoring results exceed
the standards. Construction of houses, schools and hospitals will not be allowed within 150m of the
Zhangzhou - Zhao'an Expressway.
12.   Air quality forecasts indicate that there will be an increase in the concentration of CO and NOx
along the expressway and the associated roads, but the increases are predicted to be within the standards.
However, the air quality concentration along the highway will be monitored regularly and any
deterioration in the air quality due to vehicle exhaust gases will have to be dealt with by improving
vehicle emission controls and strengthening vehicle emissions inspection at the State level.
13.   For the 3 burial spots of underground historical relics located during the archeological field
investigation, and the two above ground relics, an archeological protection, preservation and salvage plan
will be developed by the Archaeological Investigation Team of the Fujian Provincial Cultural and
Historical Relics Management Committee. The plan will be approved at the State level and integrated in
the Second Fujian Highway Project. All excavation, salvage and subsequent related activities will be
carried out before the start of construction at those locations.
14.   Additional design measures include provision for adequate drainage, wastewater treatment
facilities at the service areas, toll stations and the management centers; strengthening of crash barriers at
pollution sensitive sites, and provision for adequate bridge and culvert design to minimize flooding.
15.   Construction Phase. To minimize dust during construction, road surfaces, excavation areas,
material stockpiles, storage areas, and construction sites will be sprayed with water specially near towns
and villages and near sensitive locations. Asphalt and lime stone mixing plants will be equipped with dust



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 97
Project Appraisal Document
collectors and will be located at least 300 m from residential areas on the leeward side. Additional
precautions will include covering of haul trucks and material storage piles, control of exhaust gas, etc.
Construction activities within 200 m from residences will be suspended between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., except under exceptional circumstances when a prior written approval of the local government and
the environmental protection bureau will be required.
16.   Where ever possible, borrow areas will be restricted to non forest and non arable lands, and
topsoil will be saved and returned to the land. Spoil disposal sites will be carefully selected to minimize
disruption to the farmlands. Damage to irrigation systems will be minimized by construction of temporary
channels and conduits and measures will be taken to prevent direct discharge of polluted waters and silt
from construction activities into rivers and irrigation channels. Construction camp wastes and sewage will
be collected and treated and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. Trees and grass will be
planted on side slopes, and along the roadside, particularly on sections with high fills and deep cuts.
17.   During construction, effective safety and warning measures will be adopted to reduce accidents.
This will include minimization of traffic jams, provision of efficient lighting equipment and safety signs,
restriction on blasting time and implementation of stringent controls at quarries, development of a
materials transport plan, etc.
18.   Operational Phase. During the operation phase, emphasis will be placed on better vehicle
maintenance and management to promote safety and to minimize vehicle emissions. Low-speed, badly
maintained old vehicles will be prevented from using the expressway and a minimum 60 km/hr speed
limit will be enforced. Periodic campaigns will be undertaken to educate drivers about the unnecessary
use of horns, reduction in night time speed, safe transport of hazardous materials, etc. A small fire
brigade with 2 fire engines and 12 fire fighters will be established to deal with emergencies. To avoid
future noise and air pollution problems, construction of residential buildings and schools/hospitals will be
prohibited within 150 m of the Expressway.
19.   Environmental Monitoring. During the construction and operation of the Zhangzhou-Zhao'an
Expressways, and the connecting roads, environmental monitoring will be carried out to verify the actual
impacts of the highway on the environment, to identify unexpected environmental problems at an early
stage, and to adjust environmental protection measures as appropriate. The local Environmental
Protection Monitoring Stations will be responsible for all environmental monitoring of the Expressway
and its connecting roads during the construction and operation phases. The supervising engineers will be
responsible for noise monitoring during the construction phase, while the environmental protection
section of the Expressway Company will be responsible for the operational phase.
20.   The major items to be monitored during the construction and operation phases will include air
quality (TSP, CO, NOx), noise and water quality (pH, SS, COD, and Oil). The detailed monitoring plan is
presented in the EAP.
21.   Institutional Arrangements. The EPOs of the Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction
Directory Office and the Zhangzhou - Zhao'an Expressway Construction Directory Office will be
responsible for the overall environmental protection, management and monitoring of the highways.
During construction and operation, day-to-day monitoring will be contracted out to the Environmental
Monitoring Stations of Fujian Province and Zhangzhou City. The staff in the EPOs will be assisted by at
least 18 environmental engineers - one in each contract section who will be responsible for the
environmental aspects of the project during the construction phase. Proper environmental training will be
provided to the environmental staff at all levels. About 140 staff week of training is included in the
project design. The detailed staffing and training plans are presented in the EAP.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 98
Project Appraisal Document
22.   Public Participation. About 338 families participated in the public survey carried out in October
1997 to seek out environmental and other concerns related to the construction of the expressway and
other roads. In addition, public hearings were carried out at 19 sensitive spots where 195 people
participated. The hearings held to discuss the environmental impacts of the project on the residents living
on or along the alignment. All impacted people expected to be resettled in their own village. Although
there was strong support for the construction of the expressway and other roads, about 60 percent of the
participants believed that the construction and operation of the expressway would result in adverse
environmental impacts to the nearby residents. Land acquisition, proper compensation and resettlements
topped the issues. Although the public was generally in favor of the project, it also voiced the opinion that
the mitigation measures would not be properly implemented. As a result of the consultation, the service
center, originally planned near the Yangmei Reservoir was shifted to Heken about 5 km away from the
reservoir. Similarly the alignment at about 10 sensitive locations were shifted to either prevent or to
minimize the impact of the expressway on the villages and it's residents.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 99
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 15: RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN SUMMARY
Second Fujian Highway Project
1.    Land acquisition will take place in all the road components of the project. PAPs will be affected
mainly through the loss of agricultural land. Most of the resettlement of agricultural population will be
land based. Only 827 surplus laborers will be transferred to enterprise employment.
2.    The PRO, with the collaboration of the IMO, Design Institute and local ROs has conducted
census and socioeconomic surveys of the PAPs and their assets on all components of the project
beginning in the Summer of 1998. Exact impact of the project has been identified and resettlement
entitlement policies for each category have been established; a summary of which is presented below:
Categories of Impact   Unit of entitlement         Entitlement Policy
Agricultural land      PAPs; affected production   Compensation for land; resettlement
teams and villages          subsidy; redistribution of agricultural land;
technical input to improve agricultural
productivity; provision of alternative jobs
for surplus labor due to limited agricultural
land.
Affected houses        PAPs                        Cash compensation at replacement cost of
the house; house plot; cost of leveling the
house plot; access road to new site;
provision of all affected services such as
water, electricity and other utilities;
transfer allowance; transition allowance.
Affected enterprises   Affected Units              Compensation equivalent to replacement
cost; compensation for loss of income
during move and reconstruction.
Other affected assets  Owners                      Compensation at replacement cost.
Affected infrastructure   Affected company/community  Replacement of infrastructure up to the
same standard or replacement cost.
Affected jobs          PAPs                        Replacement of employment on the same
or improved terms.
3.    Extensive work was carried out at various stages of the project to keep the alignment at a distance
from settlements and to reduce house relocation. Realignment and resettlement minimization will
continue throughout the final design. During the consideration of alternative designs the PRO,
Environment Team and local administrations collaborated with the Design Institute.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 100
Project Appraisal Document
4.    Surveys show that the project would need to acquire 15,374 mu in the main expressway section
and 498 mu in the additional sections. Temporary land acquisition will reach 2968 mu in the main
expressway section and 61 mu in the additional sections. Land acquisition will directly impact 7268
households (32,744 persons) in the main expressway section; and 507 households (2,149 persons) in the
additional sections. Among the total impact, 2,056 persons in 473 households in the expressway section
will be affected through relocation of private residential houses (172 persons in 33 households in the
additional sections).
5.    Compensation for affected assets will be paid at their replacement cost. Compensation for
affected private structures and crops will be paid to the affected households. In addition to the
replacement value of affected house, sites and services will also be provided to restore the living
standards of the PAPs. Resettlement sites will be leveled and prepared for building new houses, access
roads to the new sites will be built and all the services available to in the old houses will be provided in
the new sites. Compensation for affected land and resettlement subsidy to finance economic rehabilitation
of the affected households will be paid to Village Administrations to be used according to Village
Investment Plans (VIPs) to be prepared and reviewed before the disbursement of compensation funds. To
ensure that the benefits accrue to the PAPs, COROs and the PRO will monitor the use of land
compensation funds based on the VIPs. Affected enterprises will be compensated for the loss of their
structures, provided with alternative land and also compensated for losses incurred during the transition
period. Community infrastructure will be fully replaced by the project, or in certain cases, cash
compensation will be paid to the agencies responsible for the affected infrastructure.
6.    The project will acquire about 5.9 % of the arable land of villages in the main component (1.94 %
in the additional sections). Most of the PAPs (excepting for the 827 surplus laborers) in the main
component will continue their agricultural activities after readjustment of land. There will be no surplus
laborers in the additional components. Land compensation funds will be adequate to rehabilitate the
incomes of PAPs.
7.    In areas with limited land resources, when adequate size of land cannot be assigned to
agricultural laborers through readjustment, the affected community will be offered jobs in village
enterprises. Volunteering PAPs may then choose to change their employment from agriculture to
enterprise. Investment of compensation funds that resettlement enterprises receive (for the employment of
surplus labor) will be monitored together with the VIPs to ensure that living standards of the surplus
laborers will be enhanced or maintained at the pre-project levels.
8.    The RAP was prepared with the collaboration of the PRO, the Design Institute, the IMO and local
ROs. Special Resettlement Offices established for the project at the County level will carry out
implementation of the RAP. Leading Groups for resettlement has been established at the Province, City
and County levels, with representatives from the Department of Communications, the Bureau of Land
Administration and other concerned agencies.
9.    Cost associated with implementation of the RAPs will be a part of the project costs. The total cost
of implementing the resettlement program  is estimated to be RMB 307.36 million for the main
expressway component (10.53 million for the additional sections) including price and physical
contingencies.
10.   The RAP includes detailed implementation schedule that will be completed before the
commencement of civil works. Implementation of the resettlement program will be a participatory
exercise, along the same lines as the process adopted for preparation of the RAPs. To encourage
participation and ensure participatory monitoring, each affected household will be provided with a



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                           Page 101
Project Appraisal Document
Resettlement Information Booklet (RIB), summarizing key features of the project and the resettlement
program. Detailed entitlements of each household will also be included in this booklet. Implementation of
the resettlement program will be aided by a grievance redress procedure within the project structure.
However, if the PAPs remain dissatisfied after exhausting the channels of grievance redress outlined in
the RAP, recourse to civil courts is available as a last resort.
11.   Internal and Independent monitoring of the resettlement program will be carried out. Internal
monitoring will focus on issues relating to compliance with the quantitative targets mentioned in the
RAP, independent monitoring will evaluate both the qualitative impacts of the resettlement program and
investigate the impact on the standards of living of the PAPs. Indicators for both internal and independent
monitoring have been included in the RAP. The Fujian Academy of Social Sciences has been appointed
by the FPECD as the IMO. The PRO is required to submit periodic reports on internal and independent
monitoring to the Bank by January 31 of each year. During 2000, resettlement implementation reporting
will be every six months. Thereafter, the IMO will continue to report on the standards of living of the
PAPs annually.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                              Page 102
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 16: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND
SCHEDULE
Second Fujian Highway Project
Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                       244.5                   175.4
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          26                     20
First Bank mission (identification)              12/1997                 11/1997
Appraisal mission departure                       6/1999                  4/1999
Negotiations                                      9/1999                  5/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     1/2000                 10/1999
Prepared by: Fujian Provincial Transport Department
Preparation assistance: Engineering design review for ZZE is being undertaken by Japanese consultants
through Japanese trust funding.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Alfred Nickesen                             Task Team Leader
Alla Weinstein                                Operations
Jean-Marie Braun                               Engineering
Dick Jonsson                       Institutional Strengthening/Training
Mitchel Stanfield                          Private Infrastructure
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao                        Transport Economics
Anil Somani                                 Environment
Tosun Aricanli                                Resettlement
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                                   Legal
R. I. Gopalkrishnan                             Procurement
Tony Shen                               Financial Management
Yang Dawei                             Procurement Assessment
Liu E.                                 Highway Specialist
Maria Luisa Juico                             Task Assistant
Peer Reviewers:
Antti Talvitie                                 OEDST
Stein Lundebye                                  SASIN
Joris Van Der Ven                                EASTR
Jose Luis Irigoyen                               LCSFP



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                           Page 103
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 17: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE*
Second Fujian Highway Project
A. Project Implementation Plan, April, 1999
B. Engineering
1. Engineering Feasibility Study Report for Zhanghzou--Zhao'an Expressway (August
1998);
2. Engineering Feasibility Study Report for Zhanghzou--Hua'an Highway (March 1999);
3. Engineering Feasibility Study Report for Huxi--Chiling Highway (February 1999);
4. Engineering Feasibility Study Report for Baishui Bridge (February 1999);
C. Environment (EIA, EAP, Summaries)
1. "Environmental Assessment Summary" Zhangzhou - Zhaoan Expressway and Other
Road Projects. By Fujian Provincial Communications Department. April 1999;
2. "Environmental Impact Statement for Zhangzhou - Zhaoan Expressway in Fujian
Province" by Xian Highway Transportation University. April 1999;
3. "Environmental Protection Action Plan for the Zhangzhou - Zhaoan Expressway" by
Fujian Provincial Communication Department. April 1999;
4. "Statement of the Environmental Impact Assessment" for the Longhai Baishui Bridge,
by Research Institute of Highway, Ministry of Communications. April 1999;
5. "Environmental Action Plan" for the Longhai Baishui Bridge, by Fujian Provincial
Communications Department, Fuzhou. April 1999;
6. "Statement of the Environmental Impact Assessment" for the Zhangpu Huxi - Chiling
Road, by Research Institute of Highway, Ministry of Communications. April 1999;
7. "Environmental Action Plan" for the Zhangpu Huxi - Chiling Road, by Fujian
Provincial Communications Department, Fuzhou. April 1999;
8. "Statement of the Environmental Impact Assessment" for the Tankou - Chengguan
(Hua'an Section) Road, by Research Institute of Highway, Ministry of Communications.
April 1999;
9. "Environmental Action Plan" for the Tankou - Chengguan (Hua'an Section) Road,
by Fujian Provincial Communications Department, Fuzhou. April 1999;



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                             Page 104
Project Appraisal Document
10. "Report on the Survey and Reconnaissance of Cultural Relics for the Zhangzhou -
Zhao'an Expressway" by Archeological Study Team of Fujian Provincial Cultural Relics
Administration Commission. March 15, 1999;
D. Resettlement
1. Resettlement Action Plan for Zhangzhou--Zhao'an Expressway Project (February
1999);
2. Resettlement Action Plan for Baishui Bridge (March 1999);
3. Resettlement Action Plan for Huxi--Chiling Highway (March 1999);
4. Resettlement Action Plan for Zhangzhou--Hua'an Highway (March 1999);
E. Institutional Strengthening and Training
1. Institutional Development Plan, March 1999
2. Training Program, March 1999
F. Economic and Financial Report
1. Report of Economic/Financial Evaluation and Evaluation of the Project, December
1998
2. Further Information on Economic Evaluation, March 1999
3. Revised Traffic Projections, March 1999
G. Equipment Procurement Reports, March 1999.
H. Request for Proposals for Consultant's Services for Supervision of Construction
1. Request for Proposals for Consultant's Services for Supervision of Construction of
ZZE, January 1999
I. Prequalification Document for Civil Works
1. Prequalification Document for Civil Works, January 1999
J. Procurement Capacity Assessment Report, April 19999
K. Draft Report on Engineering Design Review, EXTEC, Tokyo, Japan, June 1999
*Including electronic files.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                                  Page 105
Project Appraisal Document
ANNEX 18: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
Second Fujian Highway Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in China
Operations Portfolio
As of 31-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                       and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                      disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                      Purpose
IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig     Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 106
Active Projects
CN-PE-3653       1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN          CONTAINER TRANSPORT                       71.00         0.00         0.00              71.00         0.00         0.00
CN-PE-36953      1999   PRC                                HEALTH IX                                 10.00        50.00         0.00              60.00         0.00         0.00
CN-PE-41890      1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN          LIAONING URB TRANSP                      150.00         0.00         0.00             150.00         0.00         0.00
CN-PE-42299      1999   GOC                                TEC COOP CREDIT IV                        10.00        35.00         0.00              45.00         0.00         0.00
CN-PE-46051      1999   PRC                                HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                       20.00        50.00         0.00              70.00         0.00         0.00
CN-PE-49665      1999   PRC                                ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                      90.00        30.00         0.00             119.00         3.60         0.00
CN-PE-50036      1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN          ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                     200.00         0.00         0.00             200.00         9.94         0.00
CN-PE-51856      1999   MINISTRY OF FINANCE                ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                       27.40         5.61         0.00              32.96         2.04         0.00
CN-PE-51888      1999   PRC                                GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                      80.00        20.00         0.00             100.00         0.00         0.00
CN-PE-56216      1999   PRC                                LOESS PLATEAU II                         150.00        50.00         0.00             200.00         0.00         0.00
CN-PE-63123      1999   PRC                                YANGTZE FLOOD ENERGY                      40.00        40.00         0.00              79.16         3.34         0.00
CN-PE-3539       1998   PRC                                SUST COAST RES DEV                       100.00         0.00         0.00              96.00          .17         0.00
CN-PE-3566       1998                                      BASIC HEALTH                               0.00        85.00         0.00              81.04         -.20         0.00
CN-PE-35698      1998   PRC                                HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                     300.00         0.00         0.00             300.00        12.00         0.00
CN-PE-3591       1998   PRC                                STATE FARMS COMMERCI                     150.00         0.00         0.00             102.59       -30.24         0.00
CN-PE-3606       1998   GOC                                ENERGY CONSERVATION                       63.00         0.00         0.00              63.00         3.18         0.001
CN-PE-3614       1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN          GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                     200.00         0.00         0.00             192.00         7.12         0.00
CN-PE-3619       1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE                2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                     123.00         0.00         0.00             123.00        20.00         0.00
CN-PE-36414      1998   CHINA                              GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                        72.00        20.00         0.00              88.81        -1.03         0.00
CN-PE-36949      1998   PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA          NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                          250.00         0.00         0.00             234.96         6.63         0.00
CN-PE-40185      1998   PRC                                SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                      95.00         0.00         0.00              92.00        23.80         0.00
CN-PE-45788      1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN          TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                       230.00         0.00         0.00             230.00        43.54         0.00
CN-PE-46563      1998   PRC                                TARIM BASIN II                            90.00        60.00         0.00             140.69         6.80         0.00
CN-PE-46952      1998   PRC                                FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                     100.00       100.00         0.00             200.68         9.17        18.34
CN-PE-49700      1998   PRC                                IAIL-2                                   300.00         0.00         0.00             280.00         7.30         0.00
CN-PE-51736      1998   GOC                                E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                     250.00         0.00         0.00             250.00       102.64         0.00
CN-PE-56491      1998   PRC                                HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                           0.00        28.40         0.00               5.66       -13.33         0.00
CN-PE-34081      1997   PRC                                XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                     430.00         0.00         0.00             323.36        92.85         0.00
CN-PE-3590       1997   PRC                                QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                      30.00       150.00         0.00             148.20        27.18         0.00
CN-PE-3635       1997   PRC                                VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                      10.00        20.00         0.00              11.98        -1.22         0.00
CN-PE-3637       1997   PRC                                NATL RUR WATER III                         0.00        70.00         0.00              62.02        11.81         0.00
CN-PE-36405      1997    PRC                               WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                     400.00         0.00         0.00             320.09        13.42         0.00
CN-PE-3643       1997    PRC                               XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II                     300.00         0.00         0.00             230.72        62.72         0.00



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                       Page 106
Project Appraisal Document
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3650      1997   GOC                             TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                   400.00        0.00        0.00            391.00      144.78        3.51
CN-PE-3654      1997   PRC                             HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                   400.00        0.00        0.00            321.24       81.22        0.00
CN-PE-36952    1997   PRC                              BASIC ED. IV                             0.00       85.00        0.00             41.32      -24.85        0.00
CN-PE-38988    1997   PRC                              HEILONGJIANG ADP                       120.00        0.00        0.00             93.02       10.70        0.00
CN-PE-44485    1997                                    SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                    400.00        0.00        0.00            382.70       35.94        0.00
CN-PE-34618     1996   PRC                             LABOR MARKET DEV.                       10.00       20.00        0.00             23.99       22.66        0.00
CN-PE-3507      1996   GOC                             ERTAN HYDRO II                         400.00        0.00        0.00             23.48      -21.26        0.00
CN-PE-3563      1996   PRC                             ANIMAL FEED                            150.00        0.00        0.00            138.78      113.97       22.13
CN-PE-3569      1996   P.R.C.                          SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                   260.00        0.00        7.75            106.81       32.91       23.25
CN-PE-3589      1996   PRC                             DISEASE PREVENTION                       0.00      100.00        0.00             68.97       59.63        0.00
CN-PE-3594      1996   PRC                             GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                     60.00       90.00        0.00            125.49       27.79        0.00
CN-PE-3599      1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.               YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                     125.00       25.00        0.00            139.11       20.95        0.00
CN-PE-3602      1996   PRC                              HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                  125.00       25.00        0.00            123.98       78.98        0.00
CN-PE-3638      1996   PRC                             SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                    80.00      20.00         0.00             73.11       22.34        0.00
CN-PE-3646      1996   PRC                             CHONGQING IND POL CT                   170.00        0.00      77.99              91.22      106.20        0.00
CN-PE-3648      1996   SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT               SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                  250.00        0.00        0.00            148.15       72.54        0.00
CN-PE-3649      1996   CHINA                           SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                     0.00      100.00        0.00             34.51       -5.88        0.00
CN-PE-3652      1996   PRC                             2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                   210.00        0.00        0.00            139.29       56.62        0.00
CN-PE-36950    1996   PRC                               BASIC ED. POOR III                      0.00      100.00        0.00              9.05      -21.13        0.00
CN-PE-40513    1996   PRC                               2ND HENAN PROV HWY                    210.00        0.00        0.00            175.14       55.81        0.00
CN-PE-3493      1995   PRC                              INLAND WATERWAYS                      420.00        0.00        0.00            270.62      -10.79        0.00
CN-PE-3571      1995   PRC                              RAILWAYS VII                          400.00        0.00       29.00            344.67      209.66        1.51
CN-PE-3585      1995   GOC                             SHENYANG IND. REFORM                   175.00        0.00        0.00             97.54       52.68        0.00
CN-PE-3596      1995   PRC                              YANGTZE BASIN WATER                   100.00      110.00        0.00             27.75      -16.90        0.00
CN-PE-3598      1995                                   LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                   110.00        0.00        0.00             64.96       54.88        0.00
CN-PE-3600      1995   PRC                             TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                   200.00        0.00        0.00            123.15       45.73        0.00
CN-PE-3603      1995   PRC                             ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                   275.00       75.00      20.00             196.98      156.61        9.26
CN-PE-36041    1995   MOF                               FISCAL & TAX REF. &                    50.00       25.00        0.00             66.29       41.78        0.00
CN-PE-3612      1995   PRC                             XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                     150.00        0.00        0.00             41.95       33.63        0.00
CN-PE-3634      1995   PRC                             MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                     0.00       90.00        0.00             18.40        9.92        0.00
CN-PE-3636      1995   PRC                              BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                    0.00      100.00        0.00              3.38        -.63        0.00
CN-PE-3639      1995   PRC                              SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                   95.00     200.00         0.00            135.27       28.38        0.00
CN-PE-3642      1995                                    ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                   400.00        0.00        0.00            129.95      -44.08        0.00
CN-PE-3647      1995   PRC                              ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                     0.00       10.00        0.00              5.51        5.72        0.00
CN-PE-36947    1995   GOC                              SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                   270.00        0.00       0.00             132.50      120.94       84.43
CN-PE-37156    1995   PRC                               IODINE DEF. DISORDER                    7.00       20.00        7.00              1.77       11.44        -.32
CN-PE-3502      1994   MON                              RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                     0.00      110.00        0.00             27.28       21.76        0.00
CN-PE-3504      1994   PRC                              HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL                  380.00        0.00        0.00             39.36       11.01        0.00
CN-PE-3540      1994   PRC                              LOESS PLATEAU                           0.00      150.00        0.00             27.92      -21.54        0.00
CN-PE-3557      1994   PRC                              FOREST RESOURCE DEV                     0.00     200.00         0.00             40.42       14.68      -30.70
CN-PE-3562      1994   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE               460.00        0.00        0.00               .48         .48        0.00
CN-PE-3586      1994   PRC                              SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                  160.00        0.00        0.00             58.50       53.61        0.00
CN-PE-3593      1994   PRC                              SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                      0.00      205.00        0.00             24.64      -11.85        0.00
CN-PE-3595      1994   PRC                              RED SOILS II DEVELOP                    0.00      150.00        0.00             40.31       17.62        0.00
CN-PE-3609      1994   GOC                              SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION        255.00        0.00        0.00            121.72       72.23        0.00
CN-PE-3622      1994   SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT          SHANGHAI MTP II                       150.00        0.00        0.00              7.36        7.37        0.00
CN-PE-3626      1994   GOC                              FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                   140.00        0.00        0.00             58.63       39.29       11.14
CN-PE-3633      1994   GOVERNMENT OF PRC                TELECOMMUNICATIONS                    250.00        0.00       30.00             14.55       44.55       -3.05
CN-PE-3641      1994   PRC                              YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                  350.00        0.00        0.00             73.39       58.82        0.00
CN-PE-3644      1994   PRC                             XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                  0.00      110.00        0.00             25.53       10.12        0.00
CN-PE-3473      1993   P.R.C.                           ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                    0.00      110.00        0.00             19.77       19.19        0.00
CN-PE-3512      1993   GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C        SHANGHAI PORT REST.                   150.00        0.00      25.74               3.88       29.27        3.20
CN-PE-3518      1993   PRC                              GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT             240.00        0.00        0.00              2.08         .06        0.00
CN-PE-3533      1993                                    TIANJIN IND. II                       150.00        0.00       40.35             13.59       44.93        9.60



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                                                       Page 107
Project Appraisal Document
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                   Purpose
IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3559      1993   PRC                             AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                     0.00      115.00        0.00             10.40       -1.16        0.00
CN-PE-3561      1993   PRC                              SICHUAN ADP                             0.00      147.00        0.00              5.48        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-3567      1993   PRC                             EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                     0.00      100.00        0.00              6.25        4.64        4.70
CN-PE-3570      1993   PRC                             RAILWAY VI                             420.00        0.00        0.00             93.77       93.12        0.00
CN-PE-3580      1993   PRC                             SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.           250.00        0.00        0.00              4.15         .48        0.00
CN-PE-3581      1993   PRC                             HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                  120.00        0.00        0.00              8.92        8.93        0.00
CN-PE-3592      1993   PRC                             REF. INST'L.& PREINV                     0.00       50.00        0.00             18.45       18.48        0.00
CN-PE-3597      1993   PRC                              TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                  100.00      100.00        0.00             47.43       43.08        0.00
CN-PE-3616      1993   PRC                             TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                    300.00        0.00        0.00             65.95       50.41        0.00
CN-PE-3623      1993   PRC                              FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                    0.00       60.00        0.00             18.53       16.33        0.00
CN-PE-3627      1993   PRC                              GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                  325.00      165.00        0.00            316.84      314.96       94.30
CN-PE-3632      1993   ROC                             ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                     0.00       50.00        0.00             10.70       11.06         .22
CN-PE-3503      1992                                    ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE                  310.00        0.00        0.00              7.63        7.64        0.00
CN-PE-3534      1992   PRC                              ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                  220.00        0.00        0.00             19.91       19.92       14.52
CN-PE-3564      1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY             BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                    45.00       80.00        0.00             25.28       20.02       12.22
CN-PE-3565      1992                                    SHANGHAI METRO TRANS                    0.00       60.00        1.69              1.32        -.08        0.00
CN-PE-3568      1992   R.O.C.                           TIANJIN URB DEV & EN                    0.00      100.00        0.00             15.49       12.42       -5.32
CN-PE-3624      1992   MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH              INFECTIOUS DISEASES                     0.00      129.60        0.00             31.45       26.83       26.79
Total                                                                                      15,138.40   4,200.61       239.52         10,322.33   3,050.80       299.73
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              8,723.74          12,531.17           21,254.91
of which has been repaid:                 73.75           2,539.74            2,613.49
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             19,025.68           9,624.01           28,649.69
Amount sold                     :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed               :           10,322.33               20.27          10,342.60
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                          Page 108
Project Appraisal Document
Annex 19: Country at a Glance
China at a glance                                                             4127199
:                                       f ~~~~~~~~~~~~Eaus: Lower.;i  f  
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           ASIa &   middler
China    Pacific  income      Developnent diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millons)                     1,227.2    1751      2,283                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas melhoLdJUS$)                    880       970     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, USS h/iIons)          1n 05.4              1 .700    2,83
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population(%)       :1.                                          13       1.2
Laborforce(X                                          1.1        1.6      15       GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (laest yar available, 19924-8)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of populatbon beow national poverty line)    7
Urban population (% oftota/lpopuiatWoe)                33        33        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70        69        69
Infant morta:0lper t1000 ive births)                   32        37        36
Child malnuitition(% ofchtdknundferS)       :          18        20        17               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populafton)                 90        77        78
iliteracy (% ofpoputaton age 15+)                   : 19         186   :: 16::
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschooalage population)  120       118       114              Chlna
Male                                                121       120  :   116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              120       119       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987     1t97    198ss
Econonmic ratiose
GOP (USS billiorrs)                        172.3    2682      902.0    956,1
Gross domestic investmentVGOP               28.5     36.1      38.2      39.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGOP            4.8     13.8      23.0      21.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  29.0     36.2      42.71     43.6
Gross national savingslGDP                  29.0     36.2      394       417 
Current account balance/GDP                  0.3      0.1       2.9       2.7     Domestic                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                         ..                0.4       0.7    Savin s
Total debWGDP                :.                      13.2       16.3     16.7
Total debt service/exports                     .      9.56       8.7      9,9
Present value of debtlGDP                     ..        .       14.9
Present value of debttexports                 ..  .1           63.9
Indebtedness
197747  1988-9S     1997       1008   1009-3
(average annual gro wth)
GDP                                 9.8    10.3       8.8        7.8      7.0               China
GNP per capita                      8.5      8.8      7.4        6,5      8.1               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      18.4     14.6     23.1       4.6       4.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investmrent X)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 29.4    26.8        18.7      17.6
Industry                                    47.1     43.9      49.2      49.3    20
Manufacturing                              31.1     34.4      37.3      37.0    10
Services                                    23.4     29.3       32.1     33.1
Private consumption                         63.4     51.3      45.7      43.7            93   94   95   90   97   98
General govemment ronsumption                7.5     12.5       11.6     12.8    1GD1                          GDP
Imports of goods and services                4.2     13.5       18.5     17.1
197747  1988-98       1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  6.4      4.4        3.5      3.5   40
Industry                                    10.9    14.1        10.8      8.8       .30
Manufarturing                              11.4     13.4       9.9       7.8   20
Services                                    12.7      8.6        8.3       8.5
Private consumption                          9.7      8.6        6.2      5.1
General govemment consumption                9.0      9.9        8.2      7.8     o
Gross domestc investment                    10.7     11.7        5.6      10.0           93   D4   ss   9s   97   98
Imports of goods and services               19.2     12.5       12.7      1.5             -    Exports        lmparts
Gross national product                      10.0     10.0       8.5       7.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond vill
be incomplete.



China: Second Fujian Highway Project                                                                                        Page 109
Project Appraisal Document
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                  3 
(% change)                                                                       30
Consumer prices                                ..     7.3       7.9     -0.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        1.6      5.1       1.2     -1.8    10
Govemment finance                                                                 0
(% of GDP, indudes cuffent grants)                                                       93   94   95   9s   97   9s
Current revenue                                ..    21.5      12.0      13.1    -10
Current budget balance                         -      4.2       0.6     -2.2             -     GDP detator   -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -2.1       -1.5     -4.0
TRADE
(US$ Millions)                             1977    1987        1997     1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  39,437   182,670  183,610    2C0000
Food                                         .. 4,781    11,054    9,960
Fuel                                         ..   4,544     6,987    2,914    150,0000               sL
Manufactures                                ..  26,206   158,767  161,935
Total imports (cif)                           ..  43,216   142,361   140,226    1t00000"       "       I      ,
Food                                         ..   3,055     6,308    6,119      s0 000013
Fuel and energy                              ..    539    10,306    9,275
Capital goods                                ..  21,110    57,930   58,515                           0
92  92  94  95  90  97  90
Export price index (1995=100)                  .      75         95       91
Import price index (1995=100)                  .      75         89       87                 a Exports     a Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                         ..     99        107      105
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                             1977    1987       1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              8,550   39,120   207,253  207,140     4
Imports of goods and services              8,148   38,880   166,755  163,266
Resource balance                            402      240    40,498   43,874      2
Net income                                    82    -164   -15,900  -19,842          fl      U          ,- II
Netcurrenttransfers                            0     249      1,832    2,163      0            93
92594    95  90  97  go
Current account balance                      484     325    26,430   26,195      2
Financing items (net)                       -390    4,458     9,427  -22,662
Changes in net reserves                      -94   -4,783   -35,857   -3,533     _
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        ..       ..  143,363
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWUS:)              1.9      4.5       8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                    Compostion of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..  35,340   128,817  146,697
IBRD                                        ..   1,427      7,616    8,239                       A: 8,239
IDA                                          ..   1,330     7,579    7,830           0:31,484           B:7,830
Total debt service                            ..   3,852    15,756   18,445                               4  D: 2,904
IBRD                                         ..    208        840      858
IDA                                         ..      12         73       81                            -       E20,782
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..    209         249      228
Official creditors                          ..    626       4,401    4,315             I\
Private creditors                           ..   5,462      6,454    8,134
Foreign direct investment                    ..   2,314    40,180   44,236
Portfolio equity                            ..       0      3,466    8,457                  F: 75,478
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..   1,306      1,900    2,425      A- IBRD                     E- Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..    702       2,097    2,275      B - IDA    D - Other multetateral   F - Pnate
Principal repayments                                97        364      377      c- IMF                      G - Shorttern
Net flows                                    ..    605      1,734    1,898
Interest paymrents                          ..    124         549      562
Net transfers                               ..    482       1,185    1,335
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                    4127199



__                       _          D~~~~~~~~~IRD 29902
l          ~~         ~          ~~70                             01 '110                                                                    I2                           0
\                                ~~~~~RUSSIAN  FEDERATION 
KAZAKHSTANtoJ                                                                  -_J.-                                                                             ,                 -
-UZBEKISTAN                             *X }  ~
1 - -#> \- } '\, ;!< Kstan /M                                             O N  G      O L I A 2ttt2^ <>,9\
KYRYZ 



-=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
t   11e'     117e                                118'                                  119                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIJSSIAN, FEDERATION   z, >
CHINA                                                 i
SECOND FUJIAN                                                     - j                                  -
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                             M L  ONGOLIA
-29~                                                                                                   P.%  >,>\Xi         F    29   -'. -#1r
0       25 i      50        75      100           Towmor        .                                                                      s.-                       .E-.5 Optm '
KILOMETERS                                                                                                         ~
This,  p sp-od-d by the Mop  -g U,t of The Ws-0d  oh          9                                         Honzhou -th-                                         -    -        SO
The hound t-r,es, ct lors. denonr,not,ors ondoonyothe,-inforrsorioehorre                 i                                        ''                     SHOt OCt GS
this -trp do not imply, on te ptet of The World 8=nk Group, 0-y                                                              0,5050A
jodm mten on she Iogolst=sue def n, serrtory or see ondoreormnt or                        t                                          GlSONi JHudI  etfs NA   -JINGU       , 
-ccopt-rco of such boond-ries.                                                             .'A                                                                     " N
TO Wokso                         (p ,0C  '";                                                                          AI       '
J2fi A  NGtXI                                                                                                      T.6 .   o r Longq-=                     G A''
ehtunjie                                                                                         120 ' w~~i 120'  ToNingb
,,~    \                           To NieoT. ngb.
Z\  nqi,o          Hut-gb..            els eoo'    Shac ,h.
27'                                                                                                 ianiou                                                                              27'
Oma > iing      S    .C                                                                 4 W          NE(-  AOG'
\Yoogdiet5~~~~~~~ JtfO '                                                                              PR ~L oyuCaIN'IRc"'fE
,,      6 fko                                                                                   FUZpn >  >. _iCA U>tE.S'  , &       -rYiia  
26'X  26' 
T.E G-h..''''''    .
*~iTA   P                                     , PiZlIOU - '  aiu
0  9>Pinhe   \\ 9    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 54m. 0 ; 'j3r->GOING POJCTWIIII
roOuoopzho         f3fs                                                                                                                     AJEENAR  E&MWORK; SON PILVRiL  '.
5    P.ti-    ~      ~     PIRA  POINILXIMN    IA
Y A N~~~~                                                                                    AIROR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZaNGj     IHOAN  I A2   :i,t 5.~ .  ..  1.  .- 
TcSkerselreo                                                                                 /0~~~~~~~~~~~~zPROJET  WffWRDSWF1ACN
PRJCTUINERCHANES
FLWA PROVINC         I ONAL,FUHU   )ARS0j
III                                                                            FF9          -        :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14k. R 2T0W
WOR SA          FW,.



