Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4502 CHA
Project Agreement
(Second Fujian Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FUJIAN PROVINCE 
Dated July 29, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4502 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FUJIAN PROVINCE (Fujian).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Fujian 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Fujian, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth wherever used herein. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Page  2
Section 2.01. (a) Fujian declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and economic practices, and safety 
and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Fujian shall otherwise agree, Fujian shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Fujian shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Fujian shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Fujian, a plan for the 
future operation of 
the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Fujian on said 
plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Fujian shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to  the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan. 
(b)
Fujian shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by Fujian of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Fujian shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Fujian responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Fujian shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section  
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
Page  3
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Fujian 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Fujian thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Fujian Province: 
The People’s Government of Fujian Province 
Hualin Rd. Fuzhou 350003 Fujian Province
People’s Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Fujian may be 
taken or executed by the Governor or a Vice Governor of Fujian or such other person or 
persons as such Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Fujian shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  4
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Authorized Representative
FUJIAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Two-stage bidding procedure 
The bidding procedure for the provision and installation of electrical, 
electronic and mechanical equipment under Part 1 (d) shall be carried out in two 
stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower, excluding 
goods manufactured in the Borrower’s Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
(d)
Dispute Review Board 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
(e)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
Page  5
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Goods which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works under Parts 1 (b) and (c) and Part 2, estimated to cost less than 
$8,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$60,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
3.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more, and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedure for the Selection of Consultants  
Page  6
1.
Individual Consultants Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
A.
Environment.  
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1.
Fujian shall: 
(a)
carry out the EAPs and RAPs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in sub-paragraph 
(a) above to the Bank for its prior approval;  
(c)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of said plans; and
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) on January 31 of each year during the construction period and for the 
first three years following completion, an annual environmental monitoring report; and 
(ii) on January 31 and July 31 of the year 2000, and thereafter on January 31 of each 
year during the period of implementation of the Project, an internal resettlement 
report prepared by the appropriate agencies of Fujian, and an external resettlement 
Page  7
report prepared by an independent entity acceptable to the Bank, on the implementation 
and impact of the resettlement activities during the immediately preceding six-month 
period or calendar year, as the case may be. 
B.
Implementation of the Project  
1.
During the implementation of Part 1 of the Project, Fujian shall: 
(a)
employ and maintain construction supervision teams with qualified staff 
in adequate number to ensure that all works are carried out in accordance with 
technical specifications and that strict quality controls are exercised on all sites; 
and 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and provide 
to the Bank a monthly supervision report on the progress of the works on the 
Zhangzhou-Zhaoan Expressway.  
2.
Fujian shall, by June 30, 2002, complete and furnish to the Bank for its review 
and comments, an analysis and recommendations on the structure of toll-rates on the 
Zhangzhou-Zhaoan Expressway, taking into consideration the results of studies on 
toll-rate structure under Bank-financed highway projects in China the experience with 
toll rates on major roads in China.
3.
Fujian shall: (i) carry out the training under Part 4 of the Project in 
accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and to that end (ii) by 
June 30 of each year, commencing on June 30, 2000, furnish to the Bank for its prior 
approval a rolling two-year training program.
4.
For purposes of Part 5 (a) of the Project Fujian shall: 
(a)
(i) by October 1, 2000, prepare, and thereafter update annually, an 
institutional development and reform plan for the next 6 years for its highway sector, 
such plan to cover the areas of, inter alia, road safety, organizational development 
and strengthening, training needs, equipment needs and management systems development; 
and (ii) furnish said plan to the Bank for its review and comments; and 
(b)
on the basis of the institutional development and reform plan referred to 
in sub-paragraph (a) above, (i) by October 1 of each year, commencing on October 1, 
2001, prepare and provide to the Bank for its review and comments an annual program of 
implementation; and thereafter (ii) take all appropriate actions to implement said 
annual program, taking into consideration the Bank’s view thereon.
5.
For purposes of Part 5 (b), Fujian shall: (a) by March 31, 2003, complete the 
development of a road information system, a quality control system and an accident 
analysis system, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) put into 
effect said management systems, taking into consideration the Bank’s views thereon.
6.
For purposes of Part 5 (c), Fujian shall:  
(a)
(i) by December 31, 2001, complete a maintenance management study under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish said study to the Bank for its 
review and comments; and thereafter (iii) implement the recommendations of said study, 
taking into consideration the Bank’s views thereon; 
(b)
(i) by December 31, 2002, complete a study on safety measures regarding 
maintenance works, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish said 
study to the Bank for its review and comments; and thereafter (iii) implement the 
recommendations of said study, taking into consideration the Bank’s views thereon; 
(c)
(i) by December 31, 2001, prepare under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, a safety audit schedule 
and a schedule of black spot identification and improvement; and thereafter (ii) 
implement said schedules, taking into consideration the Bank’s views thereon; and
(d)
by March 31 of each year commencing in 2000 through 2005, furnish to the 
Bank a report of annual highway expenditures for the preceding calendar year, said 
report to indicate: (i) the length of each class of highways classified in accordance 
Page  8
to their condition as of December 31 of such calendar year; (ii) the completed 
physical works and actual expenditures during such year with respect to new 
construction, upgrading, improvement or rehabilitation, periodic and routine 
maintenance, against the planned physical targets and budgeted funds; and (iii) the 
targets of the highway program for the succeeding calendar year in respect of new 
construction, upgrading, improvement or rehabilitation, periodic and routine 
maintenance. 
C.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting 
1.
Fujian shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
2.
Fujian shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank the following reports:
(a)
semi-annual reports, not later than March 31 and September 30 in each 
calendar year during Project implementation, commencing calendar year 2000, said 
reports to: (i) integrate the results of said monitoring and evaluation activities on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar 
semester; (ii) set forth physical and financial progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively, and in respect of said preceding calendar semester; and (iii) set 
out any additional measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the immediately 
succeeding calendar semester; and 
(b)
an annual report no later than March 31 of each year, commencing in 2001 
through 2006, which (i) integrates the results of said monitoring and evaluation in 
respect of the impact of the Project; and (ii) sets out any additional measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the immediately succeeding year.
3.
After furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 2 of this Part, Fujian 
shall exchange views with the Bank on said report, and thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the continued efficient implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
4.
By December 31 of each year, or such other date as the Bank shall request, 
commencing in 2000, Fujian shall hold a workshop together with representatives of the 
Bank to evaluate the progress in the implementation of its program of institutional 
and policy development and reform, and more specifically in regard to road safety, 
development of management systems, and road maintenance and fund allocation. 
