                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000696




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-45020)




                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                      FOR A

                      SECOND FUJIAN HIGHWAY PROJECT




                                December 27, 2007




Transport, Energy, and Mining Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 10, 2007)

                   Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan Renminbi
                          RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.1349
                          US$ 1.00 = RMB 7.413

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1-December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


       CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
       CBMS      Chinese Bridge Management System
       CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
       CPMS      Chinese Pavement Management System
       EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
       EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
       FPCD      Fujian Provincial Communications Department
       FPECD     Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate
       ICR       Implementation Completion Report
       MOC       Ministry of Communications
       NR        National Road
       NTHS      National Trunk Highway System
       PAD       Project Appraisal Document
       PAP       Project Affected People
       PDO       Project Development Objectives
       PMS       Pavement Management System
       RDB       Road Data Bank
       ZEC       Zhangzhao Expressway Company
       ZMSC      Zhangzhao Management Sub-company
       ZZE       Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway



     Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
   Country Director: David R. Dollar, EACCF
    Sector Manager:  Junhui Wu, EASTE
Project Team Leader: Aurelio Menendez, EASTE
  ICR Team Leader:   Aurelio Menendez, EASTE

                                                 CHINA
                             Second Fujian Highway Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 25
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 36
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 38
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 51
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 52
 MAPS (IBRD 29902 and 29903)

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Second Fujian Highway
Country:                China                 Project Name:
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P051705               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-45020
ICR Date:               12/27/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     FINANCE
Original Total
                        USD 200.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 196.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Fujian Provincial Communications Department (FPCD)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/16/1998    Effectiveness:         11/17/1999        11/17/1999
Appraisal:             05/12/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/24/1999    Mid-term Review:       05/01/2003
                                     Closing:               06/30/2005        06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      None


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                         Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                             100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                    Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         David R. Dollar                   Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:           Junhui Wu                         Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:      Aurelio Menendez                  Alfred H. Nickesen
ICR Team Leader:          Aurelio Menendez
ICR Primary Author:       Hernan Levy



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective was to increase economic activity along the Fuzhou-
Shenzen high-priority transport corridor through relieving congestion, facilitating trade
and mobility and helping increase efficiency and traffic safety in Southern Fujian. More
specifically, the project aimed to:

  a) improve mobility and integration of economic activities between Fujian and
Guangdong provinces,
  b) strengthen the institutional capacity of the highway sector institutions in Fujian,
  c) improve the safety of road transport, and
  d) support the development of policies regarding highway maintenance management.

  These objectives are those stated in the Loan Agreement. They are substantially the
same as those in the PAD, although the objective related to the development of policies is
formulated in the PAD as: develop and sustain a policy dialogue.




                                               ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not modified.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Average travel speed on roads (N.R. 324) parallel to the proposed highway
                (km/hr).

                Zhangzhou-Zhangpu          Zhangzhou-
                                           Zhangpu section                   Zhangzhou-

Value           section 35                 50                                Zhangpu section 51

quantitative or Zhangpu-Yunxiao section    Zhangpu-Yunxiao                   Zhangpu-Yunxiao

Qualitative)    40                                                           section 60
                Yunxiao-Zhao'an section    section 60                        Yunxiao-Zhao'an
                40                         Yunxiao-Zhao'an
                                           section 60                        section 59

Date achieved 12/31/1998                   06/30/2005                        12/31/2006
Comments        With the diversion of traffic to the new ZZ expressway, travel speeds increased
(incl. %        along the parallel highway (N.R. 324) as expected, with values similar to those
achievement)    estimated at appraisal (for end of 2005).
Indicator 2 :   Average daily traffic (ADT) on corridor (existing and proposed roads).
                                                                             On national
                                                                             highway 324
                                                                             (absolute number of

                                           Zhangzhou-                        vehicles per day):
                Zhangzhou-Zhangpu          Zhangpu section                   Zhangzhou-

Value           section 22,400             18,500                            Zhangpu section

quantitative or Zhangpu-Yunxiao section    Zhangpu-Yunxiao                   9,427

Qualitative)    22,500                                                       Zhangpu-Yunxiao
                Yunxiao-Zhao'an section    section 16,600                    section 8,311
                16,400                     Yunxiao-Zhao'an
                                           section 15,400                    Yunxiao-Zhao'an
                                                                             section 7,969.
                                                                             On new
                                                                             Zhangzhou-Zhao'an
                                                                             Xway: 10,956
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   06/30/2005                        12/31/2006
Comments        The combined ADT for both the existing N.R. 324 and the expressway reflect
(incl. %        values about 10% to 23% of those expected at appraisal (for the end of 2005) for
achievement)    the three sections of the corridor.
Indicator 3 :   Traffic accident rates on ZZ Expressway (per 100 thousand vehicles)
Value
quantitative or 1.3                        1.1                               0.76
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   06/30/2005                        12/31/2006
Comments        Traffic accidents on the expressway have been lower than expected by about
(incl. %        30%, reflecting the increasing awareness and commitment to address road safety
achievement)    issues.



                                                 iii

Indicator 4 :   Traffic accident rates on existing roads (per 100 thousand vehicles)
Value
quantitative or 5.4                        2.5                                 2.4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   06/30/2005                          12/31/2006
Comments        Similarly, on existing parallel roads, accident rates have been at the levels
(incl. %        expected at appraisal, reflecting a proactive stance in addressing road safety
achievement)    issues.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   % of civil works completed on ZZE
Value
(quantitative   0                          100%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   05/01/2003                          05/01/2003
Comments
(incl. %        Civil works for the construction of the Zhangzhou-Zao'an (ZZ) Expressway fully

achievement)    completed.

Indicator 2 :   % of E&M works completed on ZZE
Value
(quantitative   0                          100%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2003                          12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %        E&M works on the ZZ Expressway fully implemented.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   % of interconnecting roads improved/rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative   0                          100%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   05/10/2003                          05/01/2003
Comments
(incl. %        Completed in line with initial targets.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   % of other roads improved/rehabilitated
                                                                               100%, including
                                                                               additional

Value                                                                          interconnecting

(quantitative   0                          100%                                roads and six local

or Qualitative)                                                                roads added to
                                                                               make use of
                                                                               available
                                                                               unallocated funds



                                                 iv

Date achieved 12/31/1998                  06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       All roads included in the program of additional segments fully implemented.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  % of equipment purchased
                                                                            100% based on
                                                                            initial plan, 100%
                                                                            after adjustments to
                                                                            additional
                                                                            purchases to make
Value                                                                       use of additional
(quantitative  0                         100%                               resources from the
or Qualitative)                                                             unallocated
                                                                            category to
                                                                            purchase additional
                                                                            maintenance and
                                                                            axle-weight control
                                                                            equipment
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Targets for maintenance and axle-weight control equipment fully met.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Number of person-months of completed training--Domestic
Value
(quantitative  0                         310                                652
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The actual value was more than double the initial estimate.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Number of person-months of completed training--Foreign
Value
(quantitative  0                         90                                 59
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments       The number of person-time spent on overseas training was about 66% of the
(incl. %       target value. This lower number was a consequence of regulations limiting the
achievement)   maximum length of individual training (to 21 days).
Indicator 8 :  Road maintenance management technical assistance completed
                                         Road maintenance
Value                                    management                         Road maintenance

(quantitative  Not applicable            technical                          management

or Qualitative)                          assistance                         technical assistance

                                         completed                          completed.

Date achieved 12/31/1998                  06/30/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The study was completed, albeit with delays.
achievement)



                                               v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                            Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                         (USD millions)
 1    06/30/1999        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
 2    12/17/1999        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             2.00
 3    02/28/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             2.00
 4    09/08/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             2.00
 5    04/12/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           24.56
 6    12/06/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           43.05
 7    06/19/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           66.34
 8    12/29/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           89.91
 9    06/17/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          120.48
10    12/22/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          134.14
11    06/14/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          148.73
12    12/29/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          156.55
13    06/16/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          160.76
14    02/28/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          172.87
15    12/19/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          181.28
16    06/26/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          190.65



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                      vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Transport demand and supply. As a result of China's strong economic growth over the
decade preceding appraisal of the project, demand for transport services had also grown
fast, and had been accompanied by a rapid shift towards road transport. However,
China's transport system was little prepared to cope with the substantial increases in
demand. China had historically underinvested in transport and its road system, and,
furthermore, the existing road network was of low standards and unsafe. Some
expressways existed but covered a relatively small part of the country, and about 20
percent of the rural population did not have access to all-weather roads.

Investment strategy. In order to tackle the demand-supply gap, the government had,
starting in the 1980s, embarked on a major highway investment and improvement
program. This program was dramatically accelerated in the 1990s. At the central level,
the strategy consisted of the development of a National Trunk Highway System (NTHS).
The system would, at least initially, give priority to two north-south and two east-west
corridors, and to corridors serving border areas and cross-border trade. More broadly, the
NTHS consisted of 12 inter-provincial expressways spanning China and totaling some
35,000 kilometers. At the provincial and local level, the strategy concentrated on road
network maintenance and the expansion and improvement of provincial and rural road
networks. For internal policy reasons, little investment in roads had been carried out in
Fujian until the late 1990s.

Road transport policy. Several areas preoccupied the road transport policy agenda.
They can be summarized as follows: (i) removing administrative and physical barriers to
inter-provincial trade, (ii) redefining the government role in transport in light of the rapid
administrative decentralization and growing non-state sector involvement, especially
strengthening the role of the Ministry of Communications (MOC) in the areas of finance,
planning, design and operations of the NTHS, (iii) continuing the efforts of the provincial,
municipal and county governments to mobilize investment resources, including access to
private investment and capital markets and seeking greater expenditure and system
efficiency through improved highway management tools, and (iv) furthering the
development by the local governments of road user services and road construction
industry through deregulation, promotion of competition, access to better technology and
better management.

The Bank had been strongly involved with assisting the modernization and
development of China's road network. Since the early 1980s, the Country Assistance
Strategies (CASs) consistently emphasized the need for the Bank to help alleviate
infrastructure bottlenecks, and lending had followed accordingly. Further, a 1994 Bank
report: China-Highway Development and Management, Options and Strategies (Report
No. 11819-CHA, dated February 1994) provided recommendations for action and formed
the basis for Bank assistance to the road sector. Discussions between the Bank and the



                                              1

government at a high-level policy seminar largely structured along the lines of the
report's recommendations, confirmed the major policy areas to be addressed by the
Bank's future lending in the sector: (a) planning and prioritization of the highway
network, (b) highway finance, comprising public and private sources, (c) highway
maintenance, (d) highway safety, and (e) operations of the highway system with
emphasis on the modern expressways. A report by the Bank's independent evaluation
department in 1998 (the Operations Evaluation Department, later renamed the
Independent Evaluation Group) also supported the role of the Bank in China's transport
system while recommending further emphasis on institutional and policy reform.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project's development objective was to increase economic activity along the Fuzhou-
Shenzen high-priority transport corridor through relieving congestion, facilitating trade
and mobility and helping increase efficiency and traffic safety in Southern Fujian. More
specifically, the project aimed to:

a) improve mobility and integration of economic activities between Fujian and
    Guangdong provinces,
b) strengthen the institutional capacity of the highway sector institutions in Fujian,
c) improve the safety of road transport, and
d) support the development of policies regarding highway maintenance management.

These objectives are those stated in the Loan Agreement. They are substantially the same
as those in the PAD, although the objective related to the development of policies is
formulated in the PAD as "develop and sustain a policy dialogue."

Key performance indicators were:

 Traffic levels in selected road sections or National Road 324 (NR324) a highly
    congested highway that the construction of the project-financed Zhangzhou-Zhao'an
    Expressway (ZZE) would help alleviate, and along the corridor (once the expressway
    were open to traffic)
 Speed levels on NR234
 Accident rates on the ZZE Expressway
 Accident rates on NR 324

These indicators basically addressed items (a) and (c) above, for which quantifiable
indicators were possible. Indicators for (b) and (d) consisted essentially of reports
documenting progress.




                                             2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and key indicators were not modified.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries would be the users, both long-distance shippers exporting or
importing goods and travelers, of the project-financed ZZE Expressway. Compared with
the existing national road (NR324) for which the ZZE will provide a modern alternative,
the ZZE would have shorter distance, improved surface and riding comfort and reduced
interference since no pedestrians, bicycles or non-motorized vehicles would be permitted
to access the expressway. Thus, most of the long-distance traffic and some of the local
traffic would be expected to divert from the existing national road to the new expressway,
and benefiting through lower vehicle operating costs, shorter time, and safer conditions.
At the same time, because of the expected traffic diversion, users remaining on the
NR3244 would benefit from lower congestion, resulting in lower operating costs and
higher traveling speeds.

In addition, the users of the improved rural and local roads would also benefit from
improved road conditions, resulting in lower operating costs, reduced travel time and
better safety. More generally, producers and consumers were expected to benefit from
the ZZE and the rural and local roads as the lower transport costs were likely to induce
increased industrial and agricultural production.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project included the following two components:

(i) Construction of Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway (ZZE), interconnecting and
other roads (US$561.0 million), including: (a) construction of the ZZE, a 132.5
kilometer divided, four-lane, access-controlled toll highway, (b) improvement of existing
and construction of new interconnecting roads, specifically the completion of one class 1
road 5 km long and of a class 2 road 8 km long, (c) improvement of existing and
construction of new other roads, specifically three class 2 other roads, (d) equipment for
control of construction quality and monitoring of the environment, for the operation and
maintenance of the ZZE after its completion and for maintenance of the provincial road
network, for the road data bank (RDB) and for the pavement management system (PMS);
and (e) construction supervision of the ZZE, its interconnecting roads and other roads.

(ii) Institutional Strengthening/Capacity building (US$1.7 million), including
(a) studies and technical assistance in highway maintenance management, toll rates and
road safety, and developing an institutional development plan, and (b) staff training
program, covering all aspects of highway planning, design , construction, operation,
finance and management.




                                             3

The project cost also included land acquisition and resettlement (US$30.9 million) for
component (i) and the front-end fee (US$2.0 million).

1.6 Revised Components

The composition of the project was revised twice. A first loan amendment (August 4,
2004) added eight road sections (Class II roads) to the three local roads originally
included in the project. This amendment was due to the fact that the ZZE had been
completed and there had been no need to use the allowance for contingencies (physical
and price) included in the project's cost estimate. A second loan amendment (June 29,
2005) cancelled two of the additional eight road sections in Jiangle and Shaowu County
given that the expected time in surmounting the difficulties of securing the required
counterpart resources and implementing the related works was estimated to go beyond
the loan closing date (extended under that second loan amendment).

1.7 Other significant changes

The second loan amendment also increased the disbursement percentage under Part 2 of
the Project (the road works described under 1(c) above) from 37 percent to 50 percent,
and extended the closing date to June 30, 2007, to complete the implementation of the
added local roads.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Lessons taken into account. At the time of project preparation and appraisal, the Bank
had already financed 21 highway projects in China, and had therefore substantial
experience in the sector. In addition, the project was the successor to the Fujian
Provincial Highway Project (Loan 3681-CHA), that was under implementation at the
time the Second Fujian Highway Project was being prepared. While overall performance
of the highway projects in China, including Loan 3681 had been satisfactory, a number of
problems had occurred, which were taken into account in the preparation of the FH2
project. Problems included inadequate engineering designs and bid documents, including
the estimation of the costs of civil works; quality control of construction; delays in the
start of electrical and mechanical facilities; and slow progress in institutional components.
In order to prevent recurrence of such problems, a number of measure were included in
the project, such as a strong involvement of international experts in the design, technical
bid documents and costs estimates, as well as in the supervision of the works.

Risks. In view of the substantial experience with highway projects in China and the
projects' satisfactory performance, no project risks were identified that would merit a
rating of high or substantial. Government commitment was very strong as was provincial
stakeholders' involvement. However, a number of moderate risks were considered, and
risk mitigation measures adopted.       Some of the risks have been listed among the
problems addressed and described above. Other moderate risks included: (i) delays in
preparation and implementation, (ii) training programs that may not prove successful and


                                               4

managers not applying the new skills, and (iii) selection of incompetent contractors. Risk
mitigation measures included, respectively, (i) the MOC and the Bank to follow the
project closely and a project-launch workshop to be held right after Board approval of the
project, (ii) a well designed training program, strict criteria for the selection of trainees,
English language requirement and reports on the effectiveness of training and the
opportunities to apply new skills, and (iii) careful pre-qualification of contractors
following Bank procedures.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation Schedule and Delays. Thanks to the care taken during preparation to
ensure that implementation of the ZZE would proceed on schedule, this actually
happened and the expressway opened to traffic in December 2002, or just three years
after the project was declared effective.

The six additional roads sections under the local roads programs, not originally included
in the project, required preparation of engineering designs and bid documents during
project implementation since such roads had not been identified at the PAD stage.

Delays in the design phase and construction of some of the local roads were due to
difficulties in the timely availability of counterpart funding by the counties and to slow
negotiations and agreements with other agencies affected by the road improvement works.
Construction of an overpass bridge in the Tankou-Hua road was delayed as negotiations
with the railway department dragged for almost three years. Similarly, delays in the
construction of the XiXi bridge were caused by slow decisions regarding existing military
communication cables affecting the bridge.

Project Cost and Components. Contract prices for the ZZE expressway turned out to be
substantially lower than the design cost estimates. This probably was caused, at least in
part, by strong competition from a large number of contractors (with an average of 20
contractors submitting bids for each works contract). On average, contract prices for the
ZZE were 39 percent lower than design cost estimates. However, work variations during
implementation caused a cost overrun of 27 percent relative to the initial contract prices.
Further, overall costs on the ZZE were higher than originally estimated as equipment
costs for the expressway had originally been underestimated. At appraisal, a limited
number of maintenance and axle-load control equipment were included in the cost
estimates, while additional pieces of equipment were actually required, to be used for the
ZZE as well as for two other expressways managed by the Zhangzhou Management Sub-
company under the Fujian Provincial Expressway Company (FPEC), the entity entrusted
with the management of the expressway network in Fujian Province. Unallocated funds
set aside for contingencies were not needed for the original components and allowed the
addition of more local roads to the project.

Extreme weather conditions

Strong and long-lasting storms and rains in 2006 caused major flooding in the areas of
the added local roads and delayed their execution.


                                              5

Risk status: The project during implementation was not rated as being at risk.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Project was monitored through a series of output and outcome indicators that could
be measured using existing data collection mechanisms in place, such as traffic counts.
The outcome indicators were provided by the FPCD during the biannual supervision
missions. The output indicators were complemented with the more detailed reports
provided by FPCD and FPECD on the progress for each of the components and sub-
components of the project. Overall the indicators have allowed the confirmation of the
achievement of the PDO. The actual values of the indicators are reported in Part F of the
Summary Data Sheet at the beginning of this ICR.

The outcome indicator on average travel speeds on roads parallel to the ZZE, has shown
the extent to which construction of the ZZE has relieved congestion on the existing road,
while the average daily traffic on existing roads and on the ZZE, reflected the increase in
economic activity and mobility of the population along the corridor connecting the
Southern region of Fujian Province with Guangdong Province. Both indicators were
collected from traffic surveys. The two indicators on traffic accident rates has shown the
extent to which the Project has contributed to improved road safety on both the ZZE and,
more generally, on existing roads. These indicators were collected from reports issued by
the Traffic Police.

Output indicators were a mixed of numerical indicators and reports. Those related to the
ZZE, progress with construction were based on the monthly progress reports by the
supervision teams, while those for the interconnecting and other roads constructed or
upgraded, progress of work expressed in number of kilometers of roads constructed or
upgraded as described in the semi-annual progress reports and annual monitoring reports.
FPCD institutional capacity strengthening was measured through the completion of the
studies on highway maintenance and toll rates and the number of FPCD staff trained
(with the value of person-months--which was not the correct value to measure as often
the training was not measured by months but by days, creating some difficulty in
comparing the values between appraisal and completion). The development of the road
safety program was further measured with the number of black-spots identified and
improved.

The choice of indicators was reasonable as they allowed the adequate measurement of the
level of achievement of the PDO. In hindsight, however, the project's M&E, could have
been improved with the inclusion of other indicators (such as broader measures of
variations in transport costs or tariffs along specific corridors) providing a stronger focus
on outcomes. The indicators relating to the institutional strengthening actions could also
have been enhanced through variables reflecting improvements in specific areas (such as
increased allocation of resources to maintenance or reduction of truck overloading).
Nonetheless, the Bank supervision missions exchanged views with the provincial
highway authorities (and were described in the Aide Memoirs) to provide an assessment




                                               6

of the enhancements of institutional capacities related to the policies being partially
supported under the project (e.g., truck overloading, road safety, and road management).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment. The project was category A, since it included construction of a major new
expressway. At the start of the project, the Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction
Directorate (FPECD), the unit under the Fujian Provincial Communications Department
(FPCD) in charge of the construction of new expressway links, set up an Expressway
Environmental Protection Office, responsible for environmental protection during the
construction and during operations, including the organization of environmental
monitoring and the implementation of the environmental protection policies, guidelines
and regulations. In parallel, environmental protection offices were established at the
Zhangzhou municipal level and each of the counties.           In order to prepare for the
environmental monitoring work, a training course was held in April 2000, with
participants, among others, from the FPCD, FPECD, Fujian Environmental Protection
Bureau, the Zhangzhou Expressway Co., General Supervision Office, and the work site
supervision office.     The Zhangzhou Expressway Co. entrusted the Zhangzhou
Environmental Monitoring Station the preparation of an environmental monitoring plan
for the ZZE, and starting December 2000 that Station carried out regular monitoring work.
By the end of 2003, the following monitoring reports had been produced: eight
environmental monitoring reports, six survey reports on environmental protection
implementation, one report on public participation in the environmental impact survey for
the ZZE during the construction period, and two reports on operation period
environmental monitoring. These reports had the following major findings:

       The EMP was implemented satisfactorily and the environmental impacts were
        adequately mitigated.
       The expressway project had little impact on the surrounding water environment.
       The noise level measured at each of the contract sections was within specified
        limits.
       Most of the construction site had little impact on the surrounding area ambient air
        quality.

Since the ZZE opened to traffic, continuous monitoring has been carried out of noise
level in acoustic sensitive spots along the expressway in accordance with the
environmental protection plan. The EIA Administration Department of the State
Environmental Protection Administration, jointly with the MOC, organized the
completion inspection and acceptance of the environmental work for the ZZE. The
completion inspection reached the conclusion that environmental protection measures
such as noise reduction, dust prevention and control, and soil erosion, were correctly
implemented for the ZZE project.

The most noteworthy change during implementation relating to environmental design has
to do with noise barriers in the ZZE, since 10 out 19 sites with noise barriers in the




                                              7

original EAP were canceled due to further fine-tuning of the expressway alignment,
resettlement, or inaccurate information during the EIA preparation.

A sensitive environmental issue was improper disposal of spoils in the Tan-Hua road
along the Jiulong River. The spoils were dumped into the river bed without retaining or
protection measures in most of the disposal sections, leading to water pollution and soil
erosion. This issue took some time to correct, but it was eventually resolved.

Social. Land acquisition and resettlement for the ZZE was started in June 1999 and
completed in March 2000. Land acquisition and practically all the related items exceeded
the original estimates, and so was the amounts paid as compensation.                     Total
compensation payment ended up being 25 percent higher than planned at the start of the
project. The table below provides more details.

                        Table 2.1: ZZE Land Acquisition and Resettlement
            Item                     Quantity (thousand)          Compensation (CNY million)
                                  Planned           Actual        Planned*         Actual
Permanent land use                  15.4 (mu)         18.0 (mu)         132.0            154.0
Temporary land use                   3.0 (mu)          3.0 (mu)           7.0               7.0
House relocated                  58.0 sq meter   101.0 sq meters         11.0             19.0
Power/Communications                     50.3             333.8           6.0             15.0
lines
Fruit trees                              341.5            505.4          80.0            118.0
Tombs                                     4.2               4.7           0.8               0.9
Other compensation                   -                 -                 71.0             70.0
Total                                -                 -                307.8            383.9
* At the start of the project.


Land acquisition and resettlement for the ZZE was implemented without major issues,
and the increases in quantities beyond the originally estimates were appropriately
compensated. A similar underestimate of resettlement amounts and compensation
happened in the six additional Class II roads, where total compensation ended up being
about 15 percent higher than estimated. Part of the underestimation results from the
original numbers being estimated on the basis of preliminary engineering and social
surveys. The land acquisition and resettlement for the six local road subprojects were
implemented by the county and the township level administration department in
cooperation with the road project acquisition and resettlement offices under the overall
coordination of the FPCD's World Bank Project Office. The living standards of the
project affected persons (PAP) were restored and in most cases improved to a level better
than before the resettlement. Execution of the ZZE created new employment
opportunities that contributed to the raise in living standards.

Fiduciary compliance. The financial management system during implementation had no
significant changes from appraisal. The project continued to maintain the financial
management system that was acceptable to the Bank and provided reasonable assurance
that the proceeds of the loan were used for the purposes for which the loan was granted.
Regarding audit compliance, the implementing agency complied with the legal agreement
to submit annual audit reports to the Bank before deadlines. All the audit reports were



                                                  8

reviewed by the Bank and considered as acceptable to the Bank. Some financial
management and disbursement issues were noted during project implementation,
including slow disbursement, delay or lack of counterpart funds, and management fee
overruns. The implementing agency took measures to rectify and improve them. The
counterpart funding issue was partially resolved with an increase in the disbursement
ratio for the local roads component, increase made possible thanks to availability of
unallocated funds under the project.        By implementing this project, FPCD has
strengthened its financial management capacity.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Since opening to traffic at the end of 2002, the ZZE expressway has been managed by
Zhangzhao Expressway Company (ZEC), one of FPEC's 13 companies managing
expressways. As a result of a recent reform whereby there will one company per city
rather than one company per expressway, the ZEC has been transformed into the
Zhangzhao Management Sub-company (ZMSC), with responsibilities extended to three
expressways located within the Zhangzhou prefecture. This transformation is expected to
increase efficiency in the management of the expressway.

Resources to fund the operations and maintenance of the ZZE are generated by the toll
revenues.   With traffic volumes largely in accordance with forecasts, the expected
revenues will be sufficient to cover the maintenance costs of ZZE.           Maintenance
activities are being supported with the maintenance equipment purchased under the
project. Tolls graduated according to weight--using the axle load equipment acquired
under the project--are helping reduce substantially the negative impacts to the pavement
that come from truck overloading.

The local roads improved with project funding are the responsibility of the respective
county authorities, and are maintained with funding from the provincial highway budget
and the county budgets. It is not possible to provide specific information on the extent to
which the funding is sufficient for the proper upkeep of the non-expressway network.
There are indications that funding is not fully to the level required. Yet, as noted in
section 3.5(b), the installation of management systems and the increasing emphasis being
given to maintenance activities are expected to enhance the allocation of resources for the
adequate upkeep of the provincial road assets. The follow-on project (Fujian Highway
Sector Investment Project) pursues further improvements in the maintenance function by
piloting enhanced contracting-out mechanisms and targeted training on road asset
management.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project development objective was consistent with China's transport
development strategy and with the Bank's assistance strategy. The project's main
component, the ZZE expressway, is part of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS),



                                            9

China's modern inter-provincial road system, and the top priority of the Ministry of
Communications in the road sector. (The NTHS has recently evolved into the Chinese
National Expressway Network, with a larger target of kilometers.)         Expansion and
improvement of provincial and rural road networks, and improving the management of
maintenance, is a priority at the provincial and local levels.

The project objectives were consistent with current strategies delineated in the Country
Assistance Strategy for 2003-2005--and remain in line with the more recent Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2006-2010. One of the pillars in both documents seeks,
among other objectives, to improve the competitiveness of the various regions of China
and the overall investment climate, and address the needs of disadvantaged groups and
underdeveloped regions through the financing of infrastructure in key corridors,
particularly those serving poorer regions and communities. At the same time, improving
maintenance and safety were two areas identified by the OED transport sector evaluation
and by an internal Bank review of technical assistance in China carried out in 1998/1999
as priorities issues within the road sector. Such issues, which require a sustained, long-
term effort, continue to be priorities in 2007.         The new Fujian Highway Sector
Investment Project also supports strengthening of road management with specific
attention to maintenance. Yet, the formulation in the Second Fujian Highway Project of
the objective related to highway maintenance management, defined in the Loan
Agreement as `support the development of policies' and in the PAD as `develop and
sustain a dialogue' was weak.        The project included several activities related to
maintenance that would have allowed defining this objective in more specific,
appropriate and monitorable terms.

Well selected project components. On the physical infrastructure side, the mix of
investment comprising the ZZE, a major expressway, and local roads, was well tailored
to address, on the one hand, the needs of improving the long-distance transport facilities
to facilitate domestic and international trade, and, on the other hand, the needs for
mobility of the local population and for facilitating commerce by the small local
producers located in the area of influence of the improved roads.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project development objectives were largely achieved.         As shown below, the
objectives relating to improving traffic congestion and mobility, and traffic safety, for
which there were numerical targets, were achieved or surpassed. Achievement of the
other objectives is more difficult to assess.      There are strong indications that the
strengthening of the strengthening of the FPCD was fully achieved.          The weakest
achievement relates to the expected improvement in the management of highway
maintenance, although even in this area progress was made.

(a) Improving mobility and integration. Since opening to traffic in 2002 of the project's
main component, the ZZE expressway, it has effectively relieved congestion and
improved mobility and facilitated trade flows between Fujian and its neighboring
provinces of Guangdong, Zhejiang and beyond. Two key performance indicators of the
project confirm this:


                                             10

On the three highly congested (prior to the project) sections of the National Roads (NR)
324 selected for monitoring with the project's performance indicators there were
substantial changes in the traffic levels and in the operating speeds, showing that
congestion had substantially decreased.

        Table 3.1: Traffic and speed on NR 324: Baseline, Target, and Actual
   Monitoring                 Road Section         1998        2005        2006 Actual
   Indicator                                     Baseline     Target         Values
   AADT on NR 324         Zhanghou-Zhangpu         22,400      18,500         9,427
   (absolute number of    Zhangpu-Yunxiao          22,500      16,600         8,311
   veh/day)               Yunxiao-Zhao'an          16,400      15,400         7,960
   Speed on existing      Zhanghou-Zhangpu           35         50              55
   NR 324                 Zhangpu-Yunxiao            40         60              65
   (km/hr)                Yunxiao-Zhao'an            40         60              65

At the same time, overall traffic in the corridor comprising the existing road NR 324 and
the new ZZE expressway has more than doubled during 1998-2006, from close to 14,000
passenger car equivalent (pce) at start of the period to more than 30,000 pce at the end of
the period. The traffic increase is a reflection of the increased mobility and trade in the
areas served by the ZZE, which is part of the coastal corridor that connects Guangdong
with Shanghai, two of the most rapidly developing areas of China.

Strengthening institutional capacity at the Fujian Provincial Communications
Department (FPCD). The institutional capacity of the FPCD was strengthened mainly
through the conduct of an extensive overseas training program, carried out in 12 different
developed countries. Overall, 18 training courses or study tours were carried out, which
altogether trained over 100 staff, for a total of about 64 man-months. The program was
established following a need analysis, which determined the key areas where FPCD
needed to improve the qualifications and training of its staff. Areas covered included
managerial, financial and technical, such as project planning, quality control, supervision,
road safety, environmental protection, human resource development, maintenance
management, post appraisal of projects.

Staff selected for training came from the FPECD (75 percent), FPCD's transport planning
and communications department (15 percent), and from FPCD's other departments (10
percent). In order to maximize the impact of the training, trainees upon return to Fujian
were encouraged to give workshops and seminars intended to introduce the new methods
and technologies learned during the training activity. At the same time, the FPCD
collected and widely distributed the summaries of the training courses/study tours.

There are also other indications of progress with institutional capacity. The Provincial
Communications Scientific and Research Institute, which was a line unit of the FPCD,
has been converted into an independent enterprise, greatly improving its autonomy and
managerial functions. A similar conversion process of the Planning and Design Institute
is currently underway.



                                             11

The studies on maintenance management (discussed below) and on toll rates also
contributed to improving FPCD's capacity for managing and making key decisions. The
toll rate study provided useful analysis based on four different approaches--financial
return, benefit to road users, relation of toll rate to GDP/capita, and impact on traffic
diversion--to help set the rates on the ZZE.

Improving road safety, the other project objective for which performance indicators were
monitored, also was achieved, as shown below:

     Table 3.2: Accident rates on ZZE and NH324: Baseline, Target, and Actual
  Monitoring Indicator               Road Section        1998        2005       2006
  (fatalities/ten million veh-km)                       Baseline    Target      Actual
  Accident rates on ZZE            Zhanghou-Zhao'an        -         1.1         0.76
  Accident rates on NR 324         Zhanghou-Zhao'an      5.4         2.5         2.4
Source: FPCD

Several actions contributed to the improvement in road safety on the NR 324. The first is
the reduction in traffic levels, which automatically reduces the potential for traffic
accidents. The second was the identification and implementation of improvements of
black-spots (road sections with a high density of traffic accidents) financed under the
project. Twenty-four such black-spots were improved, of which six were major
(including a variety of interventions such as widening the road in key junctions,
canalization islands, and speed reduction measures) and 18 were simplified interventions
such as signs and road markings.

While it is difficult to separate the effects of lower traffic levels and improvement of
black-spots, the table below shows that black-spots, were very effective, especially the
major ones.

  Table 3.3: Accidents and fatalities in blackspots, before and after improvements
Type of black-spot                 Accidents                         Fatalities
                            Before          After            Before             After
                          (2001-2002)    (2004-2005)      (2001-2002)        (2004-2005)
Major (6)                     274            79                38                8
Minor (18)                    352           177                82                20
Source: FPCD

Road safety improved not only as a result of the physical improvements. Occasional
seminars on traffic safety were carried out and provided a forum for all interested parties
to discuss, integrate and improve the implementation of the highway safety program in
Fujian. In addition, the black-spot program required holding regular discussions with the
traffic police and seeking their assistance in providing information about the priority
black-spots and the related accident data and analysis. This type of collaboration also
helped identify actions to address the issue of truck overloading. The traffic police
became involved in the implementation of those actions and in carrying them out.




                                             12

Improving highway maintenance management. Assessing achievement of this objective
needs to consider the overall progress with improving maintenance management, rather
than the objective as defined in the Loan Agreement or the PAD, for the reasons
explained in Section 3.1.       The project included various subcomponents that were
expected to contribute to help FPCD prepare for, or actually implement, improvements in
the management of maintenance. The most substantial of such subcomponents was the
preparation of a highway maintenance management study. Other activities included
installation and use of road and bridge management systems. Overall, the outcome from
these activities was modest, although not negligible, as discussed in Section 3.5 (b).

In addition, the FPCD made substantial progress in controlling truck overloading, which
is a serious issue in China's roads. The excess weight that a truck carries beyond the
truck's nominal load capacity significantly damages the road pavement structure,
requiring more frequent and more expensive road maintenance interventions. The
company managing the ZZE set up three control points (weighing stations) close to the
border between Fujian and Guangdong, preventing overloaded trucks coming from
Guangdong to enter Fujian. Strict controls at the three points has led to a reduction in the
proportion of overloaded trucking crossing the controls relative to the total trucks
crossing, from 80 percent before installation of the controls points to 10 percent
afterwards. In addition, at all the exits of the ten toll gates computerized weighing
systems have been installed for the purpose of collecting tolls that vary in accordance
with to actual load of the truck. Weighing scales have also been installed on another four
toll gates which are close to the provincial border or NR 324. The approach consists of
two efforts: (a) to prevent overloaded trucks coming from Guangdong from entering the
expressway, and (b) for those overloaded trucks that may enter the expressway through
other points, to collect higher tolls when those trucks exit the expressway.

3.3 Efficiency

Economic efficiency. The project financed-investments are economically efficient, with
an overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of 18.3 percent, which is slightly
lower than the 19.6 percent estimated at appraisal. This overall return combines the
IERRs of the different project capital investments:

 The Zhangzhou- Zhao'an Expressway (ZZE), including the two roads link to the ZZE,
    with an EIRR estimated at 14.9 percent. This is satisfactory. The value is lower than
    the appraisal estimate of 19.4 percent due mainly to more conservative forecasts of
    traffic growth after 2006 assumed at project completion, taking into account that rates
    at the high levels since the opening of the expressway would not be sustained over the
    period of analysis. For similar reasons, the two interconnecting road links have
    yielded an EIRR of 12.9 percent compared to about 16.7 percent estimated at
    appraisal.
 The other initial local roads, with an EIRR of 47.5 percent, and six local roads added
    during project implementation, with an EIRR of 35.1 percent. Both values compared
    favorably with the EIRR values of between 23.2 percent and 32.5 percent estimated at
    project appraisal.



                                             13

Financial rate of return. The construction of the ZZE constitutes about 80% of the
project's capital investment. The financial evaluation focuses on the ZZE. Fujian
province has formed a financially independent entity, the Zhangzhou Management Sub-
Company (ZMSC), responsible for the day-to-day management, operations and
maintenance of the ZZE. The main income is the tolls charged to the road users. The toll
rates are set by the provincial government. Based on the current toll revenue and
operating costs, the entity would be able to generate enough revenue over the loan period
to finance operation, maintenance, and debt service (the Bank and domestic loans).
Based on the current financial status, the expressway is not expected to require any
additional external financial assistance in the foreseeable future. The financial internal
rate of return (FIRR) to the capital investments is estimated to be 8.0%, compared to 12.5
percent at appraisal. While traffic on the ZZE since 2004 has been consistently higher
than estimated in the PAD, the estimate of financial return is, similarly as the estimate for
the economic return, affected by the more conservative forecast of ZZE traffic growth
after 2006.

Details of the economic and financial analysis, including estimates of the economic and
financial net present values, are in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

This rating results from (i) the high relevance of project objectives and design, (ii) more
than satisfactory achievement and exceeding appraisal targets in three of the four project
development objectives, that is, those related to relieving traffic congestion and
improving mobility, improving safety and strengthening institutional capacity, (iii) a
modest achievement of the highway maintenance objective, and (iv) a satisfactory
economic efficiency of the project-financed investments.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The addition of the six local roads contributed to alleviate poverty, as these roads either
facilitated access to a poor county, or were themselves located in a poor county or
prefecture, as shown in the table below.




                                            14

        Table 3.4: Contribution of 6 added local roads to alleviation of poverty
County where                            Contribution to poverty alleviation
road located
Youxi              While this is not a poverty county, the existing road will be under water due
                   construction of a new dam, and the project-financed road will provide access
                   to some poor areas of the county.
Shaxian            The road section is the missing link for provision of access to a county
                   (Shunchang) that is classified as poor at the Provincial level.
Longyan            Longyan is a poor prefecture at the National level.
Pingnan            Pingnan is a poor county at the National level.
Jiaocheng          Jiacheng is not a poor county, but it is part of the Ningde Prefecture which is
                   poor at the Provincial level.
Fuding             The road improvement will provide access to the Zhebong county, classified
                   as poor at the National level.

At the same time, a survey of resettlement carried out by the Fujian Provincial Social
Sciences Academy has noted that the majority of the project affected persons (PAP),
whether resulting from the ZZE or the other project roads, have better living standards
after resettlement than before as the road improvement under the project created more
employment opportunities, during construction and during operations as a result of
increased economic growth locally.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The strengthening of the FPCD resulting from the well designed and implemented
training program has been described above.

On institutional change, the project's main focus area was on the management of
highway maintenance management. The key activity was the preparation of a
comprehensive highway maintenance study, expected to generate as outcomes principles
of fund allocation, a sustainable system for planning and implementation of maintenance
activities, adapted maintenance organization at all administrative levels and increased
efficiency by using the Chinese Pavement Management System (CPMS), the Chinese
Bridge Management System (CBMS) and the Road Data Bank (RDB).

The expectations of what the study could yield were high but actual achievements were
limited. This study enjoyed little ownership by the FCPD during most of the project
implementation period, was started late and received little counterpart funding and
facilitation support (for instance, in terms of complementary office and travel resources).
The fact that the consultant could not estimate the capacity of the workshops for routine
maintenance and repair of equipment because he could never visit a workshop or inspect
any maintenance equipment during his stay in Fuzhou illustrate the problems with this
study.

The final draft report on the study was submitted to the Bank only in December 2006, or
18 months later than the original closing date. This report did receive substantial inputs



                                                15

from FPCD staff, signaling that towards the end of the project the FPCD gave more
importance to the highway maintenance study. The FPCD claims that the study has been
useful to enhance the allocation of maintenance resources across the road network, define
the strategy to optimize the use of road maintenance equipment and establishing the
groundwork for the reform of highway maintenance management. For the latter, a first
step has consisted of the establishment of 94 specialized companies set up on the basis of
the previous force-account maintenance stations. A subsequent step was to entrust the
maintenance of the ZZE with Fujian Expressway Maintenance Company with a
performance-based contract, which includes incentives and penalties depending on
whether benchmarks are exceeded or not.

The CPMS and the CBMS had been developed by the MOC several years ago. Under the
project, FPCD collected data and trained staff to install and operate the two systems.
Both systems were actually established, but only partially. This was due to the limited
coverage of the network for which data was collected, and the fact that the system only
applies to bitumen-surfaced roads, and excludes concrete pavements. At present, it is
estimated that the CPMS covers 5,600 kilometers, or 80 percent of the national and
provincial road networks in Fujian province.            FPCD foresees completing the
establishment of the CPMS by 2010, when all 7,000 kilometers of national and provincial
roads will be included, as will an additional 7,000 kilometers of county and prefectural
roads. n addition to completing data collection, the 2010 target will require FPCD to
install complementary software to deal with concrete pavements, software already
developed by the MOC.

The FPCD reports that the CBMS has been installed and is operational for over 10,000
bridges, which includes all provincial, national and county level bridges. Of these, 3,666
bridges have been selected for careful attention and allocation of resources under a `deep
maintenance' program, which is carried out under contract rather than force account.

The control of overloading at the ZZE noted earlier is also a noteworthy institutional
improvement.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The contribution to poverty alleviation resulting from the six local roads not originally
included in the project was an unintended outcome.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

This is a Core ICR, and therefore a Beneficiary Survey and Stakeholder workshops are
not required.




                                            16

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The project's main component, the ZZE, and the benefits it generates, are not subject
to any significant risk. Toll revenues are sufficient to fund the maintenance requirements
and keep the ZZE in good condition. The capacity of the ZZE is large enough to provide
good service for the foreseeable future.

However, allocation of funding for the maintenance of the county roads to ensure that
their condition will not deteriorate is more uncertain since overall funding for non-toll
roads in China and in Fujian Province in particular is not yet fully at the required levels,
with funding for roads in Fujian generally sufficient for routine maintenance only on
most of the provincial/national road network.        A pilot on maintenance by contract
included in the new Fujian Highway Sector Investment Project should help FPCD
authorities see the benefit, in terms of quality and costs, of contract maintenance and
potentially reduce the cost, and therefore the funding required, to carry out maintenance
of the county roads.

Improvements in traffic safety are also likely to remain in place as black-spots are not
likely to lose effectiveness, and the reduction in congestion in the NR 324 was substantial
and unlikely to be reversed in the foreseeable future given drivers' preference for the
ZZE.

On the institutional side, the improvements in staff skills resulting from the strong
training program are likely to remain with FPCD since experience in the highway
departments in China indicate a low turnover of staff. Less certain is whether the
progress made in preparing to carry out actual improvements in the management of
highway maintenance will be continued and actual reforms implemented in the coming
years.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The project objectives related to improving traffic congestion, facilitate mobility and
integration of inter-provincial trade; improving road safety; and, strengthening the
institutional capacity of the FPCD were clear priorities and were correctly formulated.
They were highly relevant to priorities both of China's development strategy and of the
Bank's assistance to China. The need to improve road maintenance management was
also a clear priority, and the project included useful activities related to highway
maintenance and management. However, such activities were not put into an integrated
concept of what the project intended to achieve. The specific objective, whether as


                                             17

formulated in the Loan Agreement or in the PAD, was somewhat vague and difficult to
monitor appropriately.      Further, the objective as defined in the PAD, implicitly
suggesting a dialogue between the Bank and the FPCD, does not appear to be appropriate
for a Bank project. All Bank projects carry with them opportunities during preparation or
implementation for the Bank team to discuss with the relevant government and project
authorities issues of sectoral importance.

Aside from that comment, the PAD was highly detailed and provided excellent guidance
for monitoring project outputs. By taking into account the lessons from past projects in
project design and ensuring good preparation and readiness for implementation made it
possible for the Second Fujian Highway Project to launch and complete implementation
of the expressway, the project's largest component, in the timeframe foreseen in the PAD.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank missions followed the project closely, with an average of two supervision
missions per year during project implementation. The missions gave practical and useful
advice. A supervision early during ZZE construction insisted that pavement work should
not start until settlement was confirmed in sections with soft soil. Missions also insisted
that the quality of construction monitoring should be improved. Such type of advice was
instrumental in ensuring good quality construction and preventing similar problems that
had occurred in some other highway projects in China.

The missions were also concerned with enhancing the impact of institutional
development activities. That led to recommend, and achieve, an increase in the number
and type of stakeholders represented in the traffic safety seminars. Similarly, much effort
was devoted to insisting on the importance of the highway maintenance study and the
FPCD allocating sufficient resources to it (as reflected in the time dedicated to this topic
during supervision missions, the preparation of their aide memoirs, and extensive
comments to the consultants' reports), but this effort was less successful.

The missions also emphasized the importance of ensuring that ZZE traffic developed so
that the new capacity is utilized with economic efficiency. In line with this view, the
missions sought to ensure that the level of the toll rate would not be overly high thus
deterring drivers from using the ZZE. The missions also emphasized the need to control
truck overloading.

A potentially troubling aspect of the Bank supervision was the changes in the leadership
of the supervision, since during the life of the project there were three different mission
leaders. However, these changes appeared not have impacted the quality of supervision,
in part because a highly-qualified Beijing-based, local consultant engineer, was part of all
the supervision missions, and provided useful continuity to the supervision task.




                                            18

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The satisfactory rating for overall Bank performance results from satisfactory ratings for
Bank performance ensuring quality at entry and for supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance needs to be assessed at two levels, central and provincial. At
the central level, the involvement is essentially during project preparation, with technical
inputs from the MOC for the technical design and environmental assessment of the ZZE.
The latter also involves the State Environmental Protection Agency. The central
government agencies provided a highly satisfactory support for the project, allowing
good quality and rapid completion of the requirements that depended on them.

At the provincial level, the performance was generally satisfactory, although there were
weaknesses.     Examples were the significant underestimate made in the preliminary
designs of the impact of the ZZE on land acquisition and resettlement, which resulted
after the completion of the final designs in a substantial increase in the physical values
(such a PAPs and land acquisition areas) as well as in the amount of compensation
required.

Funding normally provided by the provincial government for project execution was
satisfactory in some areas and less satisfactory in others. Funding for the resettlement
compensation was provided promptly and covered the increased needs resulting both
from the underestimate of resettlement requirements and the addition to the project of six
local roads. On the other hand, counterpart funding for the local roads to be assumed by
the counties was more difficult to secure, but this task was facilitated by an increase in
the disbursement ratio of the Bank loan. Provincial funding for road maintenance has
also not been sufficient to cover the needs of county road networks, and it is a key factor
posing a risk for to the project's development outcome. This issue of funding for
maintenance does not affect the ZZE, which generates its own resources, and which are
adequate for the needs.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The implementing agency was very effective from start of the project regarding the
physical components of the project. By the time of the project launch mission in
December 1999, when the project had just become effective, contracts for some of the
interconnecting and other roads had already been awarded and construction was
underway. At that time, procurement for all eight contracts on the ZZE expressway had




                                             19

reached the evaluation stage. On the institutional side, preparation work for the training
program had already been started, as had been for other activities.

On the other hand, the implementing agency showed a halfhearted level of ownership of
the highway maintenance study. This resulted in a late start by the consultant and a
reduced support and office facilities making it difficult for the consultant to carry out
field visits and hampering overall the conduct and elaboration of the study. The sheer
magnitude of the physical investments of the project was from the start the main
preoccupation of the implementation agency and was likely a major factor in the late start
of the maintenance study.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. This is based on the ratings of
the government and the implementing agency and also considering the project outcome is
satisfactory and is deemed largely to be sustainable.

6. Lessons Learned

Several lessons can be drawn from this project, which likely confirm or complement
lessons drawn from other projects.

Taken past lessons into account is essential during project preparation. Measures
included in the project to prevent or reduce occurrence of problems, mainly related to
engineering designs, bid documents, and quality control during construction were
appropriate and did contribute to reducing problems that had happened in past projects.
However, more could have been done in further strengthening the detailed designs to
allow better estimations of resettlement needs and bid market prices, as well as in
undertaking more extensive geological investigations to reduce the amount of variation
orders and increases in the initial contractual costs. Added emphasis in these activities is
essential to strengthen the quality of the overall preparation of future similar type of
projects.

Description of project objectives is always complex, especially for institutional
objectives. Since institutional changes and reforms most of the time are long-term
endeavors, often it is difficult to define what is possible to be achieved within the
timeframe of a project. Project designers need to be careful that objectives are realistic.
Yet, the project's formulation of the institutional objective was overly vague and prudent
suggesting that from the outset was there was little hope that anything of substance could
be achieved. If this was indeed the case, then the lesson is that a project should not
contain an objective where strong doubts exist at the appraisal stage that any significant
outcome could be achieved. If this was not the case, the objective should have been
defined in more significant terms and with measurable targets, which could have been
established since the project included several subcomponents related to the maintenance
objective.



                                             20

Further improvements are needed in the estimates of the compensation amounts
related to resettlement. The project showed that in the case of the ZZE some items, such
as number of houses relocated, turned out to be close to twice as large as the initial
estimate. While final compensation payments reflected the more detailed designs and the
actual impact of the new construction, a better initial assessment would have permitted a
better budgeting of expenses and ensuring that funds were available when needed.

Financial return on toll roads should not be stressed, as it runs counter economic
efficiency. The experience in China is that drivers are increasingly understanding the
advantages of using the newly built modern roads, and are willing to pay for their use.
Yet, as in other countries, drivers do not fully internalize the cost of driving on congested
or bad roads, and therefore what they are willing to pay to use a modern expressway is a
fraction of the actual savings they achieve when they divert from a free but poorly
maintained and congested road to a modern, toll expressway. As a result, the toll rate, at
least until the traffic builds up a few years after opening of the expressway, needs to be
set a sufficiently low level to avoid deterring many potential users of the expressway
from actually using the facility, which could severely lower the economic return of the
expressway investment.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The comprehensive borrower's own implementation completion report has been
summarized in Annex 7. In that report, the borrower acknowledges that the experiences
gained from the implementation of the project "will be of great significance as a
demonstration project for modern highway development in Fujian province."                The
borrower further highlighted the following significant issues: (a) the importance of good
engineering designs, (b) the risks associated with the criterion that requires the awarding
of a contract to the lowest evaluated bidder, and (c) vehicle overloading as a key issue in
the management of highway operations. The three issues highlight genuine concerns of
the FPCD about three key elements of the preparation, procurement, and operational
phases of projects.      On (a) the Bank has increasingly emphasized more extensive
hydrological and geological investigations that can help underpin better original designs,
and has facilitated additional engineering independent reviews as a complement to the
work carried out by the Chinese design institutes.           (In fact, most recent projects
incorporate a foreign engineering firm--financed through trust fund resources--to
provide additional insights during the design phase.) On (b) the Bank has provided
extensive training to further qualify the concept of "lowest evaluated bid" and the need to
strengthen the definition and application of the relevant pre- or post-qualification
criteria--which would allow the reduction of construction risks (e.g., delays or
variations) that may originate in the application of such criterion. On (c), the comment
reflects the increasing concern about the preservation of road assets as well as road safety
conditions. Enforcement of vehicle size and weight regulations remains a key issue that
should be steadfastly strengthened to address both concerns of road safety and early
deterioration of pavements.



                                             21

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                      22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                             Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest
              Components                                                                           Percentage of
                                                (USD millions)          Estimate (USD
                                                                             millions)               Appraisal

Construction of Zhangzhou-
Zhao'an Expressway                                    389.42                     378.46                  97.2%

Improvement/Construction of
Interconnecting Roads                                    8.90                     10.48                 117.8%

Improvement/Construction of
Other Roads *                                                                    134.46

Procurement of Equipment                                 3.80                     16.85                443.42%
Construction Supervision                               13.10                      12.11                  92.4%
Construction Supervision for
Additional Roads *                                                                 1.68

Studies on Highway Maintenance,
Toll Rates, Highway Safety, and                          1.36                      1.47                 108.1%
Staff Training
Land Acquisition and
Resettlement (ZZE and initial                          30.90                      47.99                 155.3%
roads)
Land Acquisition and
Resettlement (additional roads)**                                                 11.09

                 Total Baseline Cost                  475.08                     614.59                 129.4%
Contingencies                                         118.52
                  Total Project Costs                 593.60                     614.59                 103.5%
Front-end fee IBRD                                       2.00                      2.00                 100.0%
        Total Financing Required                      595.60                     616.59                 103.5%
* These activities were not initially planned and were incorporated to the project as they complemented the initial
investments in the achievement of the project development objectives. The estimated initial costs for these additional
road works were US$107.30 million. The final cost was then 85.5% of that initially estimated cost. For supervision
activities, the initial estimated cost amount to US$1.35 million. The final cost was 124.4% of that initial value.
** This corresponds to the cost of the land acquisition and resettlement for the roads added to make use of the
unallocated funds under the loan. The initial estimated cost of these activities amounted to US$9.8 million.


(b) Financing
                                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest

              Source of Funds                       Type of           Estimate          Estimate        Percentage of
                                                  Cofinancing           (USD              (USD            Appraisal
                                                                      millions)         millions)
Government                                                             395.60            420.61             106.3%
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                                        200.00            195.98              98.0%




                                                           23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

            Component                     Output                       Comments
                    Construction of ZZE, Interconnecting and Other Roads
Physical Components
    ZZE (Expressway)                           132 km Four lane, access-controlled highway
    ZZE Interconnecting roads
(i) Interconnecting roads                          5 km Class I, four lane
(ii) Interconnecting roads                         8 km Class II, two lane
    3 Class II roads
(i) Huan'an section of Zhanghua                40.9 km
road
(ii) Longhai Xixi Bridge                     775 meters One long bridge and two smaller
                                                        bridges plus approaches
    Additional 6 roads
  (i) Youxi                                       72 km Macadam reconstruction
  (ii) Shaxian                                   9.7 km Improvement
  (iii) Longyan                                  5.1 km Improvement
  (iv) Pingnan                                 14.9 km Reconstruction plus new section
  (iv) Jiaocheng                               43.7 km New section
  (vi) Fuding                                    9.8 km New section
 Blackspots                                         24 6 major and 18 simple
Equipment
  (i) Road maintenance                           6 units In operation for the ZZE
  (ii) Weighing balances                       110 units In operation
                         Institutional Strengthening/Capacity Building
Studies
(i) Toll rates                                    Done
(ii) Road Maintenance                             Done
Training
(i) Trained personnel                       103 persons In 17 training activities, including 11
                                      1,050 person days study tours and 6 training courses
                                     in training courses
                                    992 person-days in
                                             study tours




                                               24

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction

At project appraisal, the economic analysis comprised evaluation of the two major components of
the project: (a) the Zhangzhou- Zhao'an Expressway (ZZE), including the two interconnecting road
links, and (b) the improvement of selected local roads. During the project implementation, the
improvements of six additional local roads were added to the project. The economic analysis
reflects the final implementation of the project and covers the investment components. Both costs
and benefits reflect December 2007 prices.

Traffic on the ZZE

The Zhangzhou  Zho'an expressway opened to public in December 2002. The total corridor
traffic and the traffic on the new expressway for 2003 were about 75% of the estimates assumed at
appraisal. The expressway diversion ratio (the portion of the road users using the expressway) in
2003 was estimated to be 52% which was better than the forecast of 46% at the time of project
appraisal. During 2003-2006, this ratio was further improved and was better than the forecast. This
reveals that the road users of the new expressway have accepted the toll road concept faster than the
expectation at appraisal.

From a lower traffic demand at the ZZE opening, the traffic growth rate has been growing at higher
rates (13.4%) that those estimated at appraisal (8.0%) for the period 2003 to 2006. During this
same period, the traffic growth rate for the entire corridor (9.6%) has also been higher than the
appraisal estimate (8.0%). However, for the longer춗erm forecast, it is estimated that the average
annual traffic growth rate will varied between 2.3% and 4.7% for the period 2007- 2020, compared
to an average growth rate of 5.7% forecasted at appraisal. The expressway corridor traffic and
distribution between the old and the new highway are presented in the following table, with the
values estimated at appraisal and those assumed for the economic analysis of the ICR.

             Table A3.1: Number Of Motorized Vehicle Per Day (2003-2030)
                                Appraisal (PAD)                               ICR
                    Old        New         Total       Traffic   Old    New       Total     Traffic
                    Road Expressway Corridor Diversion          Road Expressway Corridor Diversion
                    (1)         (2)       (3=1+2)      (4=2/3)   (5)    (6)     (7=5+6)     (8=6/7)
Zhangzhou - Zhao'an expressway
        2003       9,240       7,960       17,200      46.3%    6,947  7,436     14,383     51.7%
        2004       9,980       8,600       18,580      46.3%    7,415  9,449     16,864     56.0%
        2005       10,780      9,290       20,070      46.3%    7,572  10,126    17,698     57.2%
        2006       11,650     10,030       21,680      46.3%    8,102  10,835    18,937     57.2%
        2010       15,840     13,650       29,490      46.3%    9,350  13,080    22,430     58.3%
        2015       21,390     18,420       39,810      46.3%    11,200 17,840    29,040     61.4%
        2020       25,420     21,910       47,330      46.3%    11,200 20,630    31,830     64.8%
   Average growth pa
    2003-2006       8.0%       8.0%        8.0%           --    5.3%   13.4%      9.6%         --
    2006-2020       5.7%       5.7%        5.7%           --    2.3%    4.7%      3.8%         --

Sources: FPCD and Bank staff assumptions and calculations.




                                                      25

Results of Economic Analysis

        Table A3.2 summarizes the results of the economic analysis. The economic internal rate
of return (EIRR) of the ZZE, including the two interconnecting links is estimated at 14.8%; the
net present value (NPV), at a discount rate of 12 percent, is estimated at RMB 1,005.9 million.
These values are lower that those estimated at appraisal (19.6% and RMB 3,703 million,
respectively) given the more conservative assumptions about the future growth of traffic along
the ZZE, under the assumption that the recent years high rates of growth cannot be sustained in
the medium and longer term. The EIRR and NPV for the local roads improvement component is
estimated at 47.5% and RMB 1,144.5 million, compared to EIRR values that ranged from 23.2%
and 32.5% at appraisal. For the additional improvement works on the local roads incorporated to
the project (to make use of the unallocated funds), the EIRR and NPV are estimated at 35.1% and
RMB 625.2 million, respectively.

        The combined EIRR and NPV for the entire project is estimated at 18.3% and RMB
2,775.6 million which are slightly lower than the values estimated at appraisal (19.6% and Y
4,036 million, respectively) mainly because of a slightly higher overall economic capital cost
(6.7%) combined with lower (and more conservative) corridor traffic estimates for the ZZE.

               Table A3.2: Economic and Financial Evaluation Summary
                                              PAD                               ICR
                                           ENPV          FNPV                              FNPV
                                           (12%, FIRR    (7.0%,    EIRR      ENPV    FIRR (4.8%,
                                EIRR (%)    mY)    (%)    mY)       (%)    (12%, mY) (%)    mY)
 Zhangzhou - Zhao'an expressway   19.4    3,644   12.5   4,021      14.9      999.3   8.0 1,838.9
 The Two Link Roads             16.6 ~17.0   59     --     --       12.9       6.6    --      --
        Total expressway           19.4   3,703     --     --       14.8    1,005.9   --      --
 The Other Roads and Bridge     23.2~32.5   333     --     --       47.5    1,144.5   --      --
 The Local Roads Improvement        --       --     --     --       35.1      625.2

          Total project            19.6   4,036     --     --       18.3    2,775.6   --      --


Tables A.3.3.a and b provide further details of the calculations of the economic analysis of the
investment components of the project.




                                               26

                        Table A3.3 a: Second Fujian Highway Project
                                      (million RMB)

      Zhangzhou- Zhao'an Expressway       The Link Roads             Total Expressway
         Total    Total    Net cash    Total    Total  Net cash    Total    Total   Net cash
         costs   benefits   Flow       costs   benefits flow       costs   benefits  Flow

1999       198.50            (198.50)                              198.50            (198.50)
2000       725.34            (725.34)   25.86            (25.86)   751.20            (751.20)
2001      1050.65           (1050.65)   29.52            (29.52)  1080.17           (1080.17)
2002      1306.75           (1306.75)   13.03            (13.03)  1319.78           (1319.78)
2003       908.38  258.74    (649.64)   22.78     3.02   (19.76)   931.16    261.76  (669.40)
2004       229.93  383.20     153.27     0.00     5.91      5.91   229.93    389.10   159.17
2005        92.11  486.44     394.33     0.66     7.46      6.80    92.77    493.90   401.13
2006        14.75  573.98     559.23     0.66     9.59      8.93    15.41    583.57   568.16
2007        14.75  643.21     628.46     0.66    10.77     10.11    15.41    653.98   638.57
2008        14.75  720.84     706.09     0.66    12.10     11.44    15.41    732.94   717.53
2009        14.75  808.00     793.25     0.66    13.60     12.94    15.41    821.60   806.19
2010        14.75  905.99     891.24     0.66    15.28     14.62    15.41    921.27   905.86
2011        14.75  983.41     968.66     0.66    17.10     16.44    15.41   1000.51   985.10
2012        96.98 1066.41     969.43     8.69    19.13     10.44   105.67   1085.54   979.87
2013        96.98 1155.45    1058.47     8.69    21.39     12.70   105.67   1176.84  1071.17
2014        14.75 1251.05    1236.30     0.66    23.92     23.26    15.41   1274.97  1259.56
2015        14.75 1353.77    1339.02     0.66    26.75     26.09    15.41   1380.52  1365.11
2016        14.75 1464.21    1449.46     0.66    29.92     29.26    15.41   1494.13  1478.72
2017        14.75 1583.05    1568.30     0.66    33.46     32.80    15.41   1616.51  1601.10
2018        14.75 1710.98    1696.23     0.66    37.42     36.76    15.41   1748.40  1732.99
2019        14.75 1848.82    1834.07     0.66    41.86     41.20    15.41   1890.68  1875.27
2020        14.75 1997.35    1982.60     0.66    46.96     46.30    15.41   2044.30  2028.89
2021        14.75 2160.34    2145.59     0.66    52.58     51.92    15.41   2212.92  2197.51
2022        14.75 2339.85    2325.10     0.66    59.34     58.68    15.41   2399.19  2383.78

EIRR =                     14.9%                        12.9%                        14.8%
NPV (12%) =                 999.3                        6.6                        1005.9




                                            27

                       Table A3.3 b: Second Fujian Highway Project
                                     (million RMB)

       The Other Roads and Bridges  Local Road Improvement            Total Project
         Total    Total    Net cash   Total    Total  Net cash   Total     Total   Net cash
         costs   benefits   Flow      costs   benefits flow      costs   benefits   flow

1999                                                              198.50            (198.50)
2000                                                              751.20            (751.20)
2001                                                             1080.17           (1080.17)
2002        26.63           (26.63)                              1346.41           (1346.41)
2003       186.81          (186.81)                              1117.97    261.76  (856.21)
2004       136.11          (136.11)                               366.04    389.10     23.06
2005        77.59           (77.59)   183.05           (183.05)   353.41    493.90   140.49
2006         1.44   352.85   351.41   352.90           (352.90)   369.75    936.42   566.67
2007         1.44   360.21   358.77   158.36   140.66   (17.70)   175.21   1154.85   979.64
2008         1.44   367.74   366.30     2.33   267.49   265.16     19.18   1368.17  1348.99
2009         1.44   375.45   374.01     2.33   278.05   275.72     19.18   1475.10  1455.92
2010         1.44   383.34   381.90     2.33   289.05   286.72     19.18   1593.66  1574.48
2011         1.44   389.34   387.90     2.33   299.03   296.70     19.18   1688.88  1669.70
2012         1.44   395.45   394.01     2.33   309.37   307.04    109.44   1790.36  1680.92
2013         1.44   401.67   400.23     2.33   320.10   317.77    109.44   1898.61  1789.17
2014         1.44   407.99   406.55     2.33   331.22   328.89     19.18   2014.18  1995.00
2015         9.86   422.81   412.95     2.33   342.76   340.43     27.60   2146.09  2118.49
2016         9.86   427.15   417.29     2.33   356.55   354.22     27.60   2277.83  2250.23
2017         1.44   423.10   421.66    15.98   384.14   368.16     32.83   2423.75  2390.92
2018         1.44   427.54   426.10    15.98   397.69   381.71     32.83   2573.63  2540.80
2019         1.44   432.05   430.61     2.33   398.07   395.74     19.18   2720.80  2701.62
2020         1.44   436.60   435.16     2.33   413.93   411.60     19.18   2894.83  2875.65
2021         1.44   441.19   439.75     2.33   429.24   426.91     19.18   3083.35  3064.17
2022         1.44   445.83   444.39     2.33   444.08   441.75     19.18   3289.10  3269.92

EIRR =                     47.5%                       35.1%                        18.3%
NPV (12%) =                1144.5                      625.2                       2775.6




                                           28

Financial analysis

The construction of the ZZE constitutes about 80% of the total capital investment and is the only
component that generates own revenues. The financial analysis focuses on the evaluation of the
financial conditions of the ZZE. The ZZE opened to traffic on December 2002. Fujian province
has formed a financially independent entity, responsible for the day-to-day management,
operations and maintenance of the ZZE. The main income is the tolls charged to the road users.
The toll rates are set by the provincial government. The entity is planning to use the toll revenue
to cover amortization charges of the Bank and domestic loans.

Based on the current financial status, the expressway would not need any additional external
financial assistance over the life of the project. The financial internal rate of return (FIRR) to the
capital investments is estimated to be 8.0% with a NPV (at 4.8% discount rate) of RMB 1,838.9
million. These values are lower than the appraisal estimate of 12.5% and of RMB 4,021 million
at 7.5% discount rate, respectively. Nonetheless, based on the current toll revenue and operating
costs, the entity would be able to generate enough total revenue over the loan period to finance
operation, maintenance, and debt services. The results of the analysis are summarized in Table
A3.4 below. Further details of the financial parameters since opening and forecasts are provided
in Tables A3.5 a, b, c, and d.

                       Table A3.4: FIRR (in %) AND NPV (RMB million)
                                                  Appraisal (PAD)                ICR
                                               EIRR      NPV (7.0%)       EIRR NPV (4.8%)
            Zhangzhou- Zhao'an Expressway       12.5        4,021.0        8.0      1,838.9

There are two special features for the ZZE's accounting practice: (a) exemption of all taxes
(operating taxes and income tax), and (b) treating the maintenance expenditures as a replacement
for depreciation and having no depreciation reserves for the expressway.                 Without the
depreciation, the profitability of the XXE is overstated. An alternative scenario has been tested
on the basis of including the depreciation. Assuming a 30-year depreciation for the ZZE, the
FIRR and the NPV will be 5.3% and RMB 250.3 million, respectively.




                                                  29

                                    Table A3.5 a: Income Statement
                             (million RMB, year ending 31 December)
                             2003    2004   2005   2006   2007  2008    2009  2010   2011   2012

Traffic (million veh-km)      378.98 481.61 516.11 552.25 578.53 606.17 635.14 665.64 686.50 708.19



Revenue
Tolls                         274.02 398.21 422.00 443.10 455.01 475.23 496.37 596.34 613.81 631.80
Others                           5.94 10.69 12.38  13.00  14.46   15.15 15.88  16.64  17.16  17.70
Total                         279.96 408.90 434.38 456.10 469.47 490.38 512.25 612.98 630.97 649.50

Operating Costs
 Wages and benefits            31.96  29.78  19.62  22.14  23.14 24.25 25.41    26.63 27.46  28.33
 Maintenance                   12.78  48.83  51.79  57.57  57.85 60.62 63.51   66.56  68.65  70.82
 Fuel & materials                   -     -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
 Administration                  2.04  1.79   2.48   2.89  28.93 30.31 31.76   33.28  34.33  35.41
 Others                          0.55 13.05 22.16  17.68   24.88 26.07 27.31   28.62  29.52  30.45
Total working costs            47.33  93.45  96.05 100.28 134.80 141.25 147.99 155.09 159.96 165.01
  Depreciation                      -     -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
Total operating costs          47.33  93.45  96.05 100.28 134.80 141.25 147.99 155.09 159.96 165.01

Operating Profit              232.63 315.45 338.33 355.82 334.67 349.13 364.26 457.89 471.01 484.49

Financial charges:
  IBRD                         -      -      64.06 43.98  55.24  52.04 48.70    45.18 41.48  37.59
  Local Bank                   -      72.11 69.79  62.80  68.82  62.39 54.85    46.76 38.67  30.04
  Other income (expenses)      -      -       0.95   6.82   6.81  6.81   6.82   6.81   6.81   6.82



Net Profit                    232.63 243.34 205.43 255.86 217.42 241.51 267.53 372.76 397.67 423.68




Sources: FPCD and the Bank staff.




                                                  30

                           Table A3.5 b: Sources and Applications of Funds
                                (million RMB, year ending 31 December)
                1999    2000    2001  2002    2003     2004   2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012


Sources:
Net profits          -        -      -      -  232.63  243.34 205.43 255.86 217.42 241.51 267.53 372.76 397.67 423.68
Depreciation         -        -      -      -       -        -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -
State
contribution     41.88  157.99 227.37  278.15 199.21    50.56 17.84        -     -      -      -      -      -      -
Provincial
  contribution   33.02  124.57 179.28  219.32 157.07    39.85 14.06        -     -      -      -      -      -      -
Borrowing:
IBRD             53.26  200.90 289.13  353.71  253.31   64.29 22.67        -     -      -      -      -      -      -
           Local 54.66  206.21 296.78  363.06 260.01    65.99 23.29        -     -      -      -      -      -      -
Others               -        -      -      -       -        -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -
                182.82  689.67 992.56 1214.24 1102.23  464.03 283.29 255.86 217.42 241.51 267.53 372.76 397.67 423.68
      Total          -       -      -       - 232.63   243.34 205.43 255.86 217.42 241.51 267.53 372.76 397.67 423.68

Applications:
Capital
expenditure     182.82  689.67 992.56 1214.24 869.60   220.69 77.86    7.03  7.38   7.75   8.14   8.54   8.97   9.42
Other
expenditure          -        -      -      -       -        -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -
Loan repayment:
     IBRD            -       -       -      -       -        - 48.38 72.49 62.99 66.19 69.53 73.05 76.75 80.64
      Local          -        -      -      -       -   33.64 37.27 76.36 116.36 136.36 156.36 166.36 166.36 176.36
Change w/       (149.4
capital             1) (118.94)(36.02) 209.29 117.25   335.43 124.06 123.85 17.36 (1.25) (1.31) (6.05) (1.07) (1.12)

      Total     33.41   570.73 956.54 1423.53  986.85  589.76 287.57 279.73 204.09 209.05 232.72 241.90 251.01 265.30


Net Funds Flow 149.41   118.94 36.02 (209.29)  115.38 (125.73) (4.28)(23.87) 13.33 32.46 34.81 130.86 146.66 158.38

Open balance     67.50  216.91 335.85  371.87  162.58  277.96 152.23 147.95 124.08 137.41 169.87 204.68 335.54 482.20
Closing balance 216.91  335.85 371.87  162.58 277.96   152.23 147.95 124.08 137.41 169.87 204.68 335.54 482.20 640.58

D/S Cover        --      --      --    --      --      2.98    1.54   1.41  1.12   1.12   1.12   1.39   1.47   1.50



Sources: FPCD and the Bank staff.




                                                 31

                                       Table A3.5 c: Balance Sheet
                               (million RMB, year ending 31 December)
                           2003     2004     2005     2006     2007     2008     2009     2010     2011     2012

Assets:
Fixed Assets
 At cost                   3,956.67 4,230.61 4,189.10 4,196.79 4,037.65 4,037.78 4,037.92 4,040.91 4,044.05 4,047.35
 Less: Depreciation               -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
        Net fixed assets   3,956.67 4,230.61 4,189.10 4,196.79 4,037.65 4,037.78 4,037.92 4,040.91 4,044.05 4,047.35


Current Assets
 Inventory                        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
 Receivable                  114.83   100.49   103.22    50.25    70.42    73.56    76.84    91.95    94.65    97.43
 Cash                        277.96   152.23   147.95   124.08   137.41   169.87   204.68   335.54   482.20   640.58
           Subtotal          392.79   252.72   251.17   174.33   207.83   243.43   281.52   427.49   576.85   738.01
                               0.57     2.67     2.67     3.44     4.69     4.90     5.12     6.13     6.31     6.50
Other Assets
                           4,350.03 4,486.00 4,442.94 4,374.56 4,250.17 4,286.11 4,324.56 4,474.53 4,627.21 4,791.86
        Total Assets              -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -

Liabilities & Equity
State funds- Equity        1,595.58 1,515.34 1,682.77 1,760.76 1,812.92 2,047.02 2,306.77 2,675.00 3,067.02 3,484.78

L/T loans: IBRD            1,031.72 1,216.16 1,167.78 1,095.29 1,032.30  966.11    896.58   823.53   746.78   666.14
            Local          1,570.00 1,536.36 1,499.09 1,422.73 1,306.36 1,170.00 1,013.64   847.27   680.91   504.54
           Subtotal        2,601.72 2,752.52 2,666.87 2,518.02 2,338.66 2,136.11 1,910.22 1,670.80 1,427.69 1,170.68

Current Liabilities          152.73   218.14    93.30    95.78    98.59   102.98   107.57   128.73   132.50   136.40

Other Liabilities                 -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -

Total Liabilities & Equity 4,350.03 4,486.00 4,442.94 4,374.56 4,250.17 4,286.11 4,324.56 4,474.53 4,627.21 4,791.86

Debt- to- equity ratio     63/37    66/34    62/38    60/40    57/43    52/48    47/53    40/60    34/66    27/73
Current ratio                2.6      1.2      2.7      1.8      2.1      2.4      2.6      3.3      4.4      5.4



Sources: FPCD and the Bank staff.




                                                   32

                          Table A3.5 d: Assumptions for Financial Forecasts




1. Toll and Traffic (AADT):
                           Small     Medium     Large        Small      Medium       Large     Tractor
                            car       bus        Bus         truck        truck      truck     -Trailer Total

   Toll (Y/v-km) /_a        0.50      1.00       1.40         0.50         1.00      1.40       1.75
   1. Beitou - Xifeng
            2003           2,969      160        457         2,852         714       200         84     7,436
            2004           3,635      174        766         3,224        1,199      265        186     9,449
            2005           4,057       97        928         2,309        1,451      594        690     10,126
            2006           4,341      104        993         2,471        1,553      636        738     10,835
            2010           5,480      121       1,162        2,890        1,816      744        864     13,077
            2020           8,112      155       1,487        3,699        2,325      952        1,106   17,836
   2. Xifeng - Wutian
            2003           2,761      149        425         2,652         664       186         78     6,915
            2004           3,381      162        712         2,998        1,115      246        173     8,788
            2005           3,773       90        863         2,147        1,349      552        642     9,417
            2006           4,037       97        923         2,298        1,444      591        687     10,076
            2010           5,097      113       1,080        2,688        1,689      691        803     12,161
            2020           7,545      145       1,382        3,441        2,162      885        1,028   16,588
   3. Wutian - Zhugang
            2003           2,731      147        420         2,624         657       184         77     6,841
            2004           3,344      160        705         2,966        1,103      244        171     8,693
            2005           3,732       89        854         2,124        1,335      546        635     9,316
            2006           3,994       95        914         2,273        1,428      585        679     9,968
            2010           5,042      112       1,069        2,659        1,671      684        795     12,032
            2020           7,463      143       1,368        3,404        2,139      876        1,018   16,411
   4. Zhugang - Houling
            2003           3,414      184        526         3,280         821       230         97     8,551
            2004           4,180      200        881         3,708        1,379      305        214     10,866
            2005           4,666      112       1,067        2,655        1,669      683        794     11,645
            2006           4,992      119       1,142        2,841        1,785      731        849     12,460
            2010           6,302      140       1,336        3,324        2,089      855        993     15,039
            2020           9,328      179       1,710        4,255        2,674      1,094      1,271   20,511

   /_a: 15 % increase every 5 years.

2. Operating Cost:                        Increase 5 % pa.
      a. Wages and benefits           4.0% of total revenue
      b. Maintenance                 10.0% of total revenue
      c. Administration               5.0% of total revenue
      d. Others                       4.3% of total revenue

3. Borrowing:         The IBRD        5.0%, 20 year maturities, LIBOR US$ based single currency,
                                           5 years grace period and the foreign exchange risks.
                      Local Bank     4.47% average rate, flexible principal payment.



Sources: FPCD and the Bank staff.




                                                           33

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

             Names                         Title                Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Alfred Nickesen          Principal Transport Specialist        EASTR Task Team Leader
Alla Weinstein           Operations Consultant                 EASTR Operations
Jean-Marie Braun         Highway Engineering Consultant        EASTR Engineering
                                                                     Institutional
Dick Jonsson             Institutional and Traffic Safety
                         Consultant                            EASTR Strengthening/
                                                                     Training
Mitchel Stanfield        Private Infrastructure Consultant     EASTR Private Infrastructure
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao  Transport Economist                   TWUTD Transport Economics
Anil H. Somani           Senior Environment Specialist         EASES Environment
Tosun Aricanli           Resettlement Specialist               SASRD Resettlement
Hoi-Chan Nguyen          Senior Counsel                        LEGEA Legal
R. I. Gopalkrishnan      Consultant                            EAPCO Procurement

Chau-Ching Shen          Financial Management Specialist       LOAFC Financial
                                                                     Management

Dawei Yang               Procurement Specialist                EACCF Procurement
                                                                     Assessment
Liu E.                   Highway Specialist                    EACCF Highway Engineer
Maria Luisa Juico        Task Assistant                        EASTR Assistant
Antti Talvitie           Transport Economist                   OEDST Peer Reviewer

Stein Lundebye           Institutional Strengthening, Traffic
                         Safety and Training Specialist        SASIN Peer Reviewer

Joris Van Der Ven        Lead Transport Economist              EASTR Peer Reviewer
Jose Luis Irigoyen       Highway Specialist                    LCSFP Peer Reviewer
Supervision/ICR

Alfred Nickesen          Principal Transport Specialist        EASTR Task Team Leader-to
                                                                     12/00
Jean-Marie Braun         Highway Engineering Consultant        EASTR Engineering

Dick Jonsson             Institutional and Traffic Safety            Inst. Strengthening/
                         Consultant                            EASTR Training
Tosun Aricanli           Resettlement Specialist               SASRD Resettlement
R. I. Gopalkrishnan      Consultant                            EAPCO Procurement
Anil H. Somani           Senior Environment Specialist         EASES Environment
Setty Pendakur           Consultant                            INFTD Safety/IST
Bertrand Ah-Sue          Procurement Specialist                EACCF Procurement
Yasuhiro Kawabata        Senior Highway Engineer               EASTR Highway Engineer
Sivalingam Milton        Procurement Assistant                 EASTR Procurement

Chau-Ching Shen          Financial Management Specialist       LOAFC Financial
                                                                     Management
Pan Wen                  Highway Consultant                    EACCF Highway Engineer

Supee Teravaninthorn     Transport Economist                   EACCF Task Team Leader-to
                                                                     6/05
Peishen Wang             Environment Specialist                EASES Environment
Youlan Zou               Social Development Specialist         EASES Resettlement



                                            34

Toshiyuki Yokota         Transport Specialist                  TWUTR Highway Engineer
Christopher R. Bennett   Transport Specialist                   EASTR Highway Engineer
Boping Gao               Consultant                             EASTE Transport Specialist

Yi Geng                  Financial Management Specialist        EAPCO   Financial
                                                                        Management
Maria Luisa G. Juico     Program Assistant                      EASTE Assistant
Aurelio Menendez         Lead Transport Specialist              EASTE Task Team Leader

Juan D. Quintero         Senior Environmental Engineer          EASRE   Environmental
                                                                        Engineer
Jacques M. Tollie        Consultant                             EASTE Highway Engineer
Dawei Yang               Procurement Specialist                 EAPCO Procurement
Songling Yao             Social Development Specialist          EASCS Social Development

Han-Kang Yen             Research Analyst                       EASTE   Economist/
                                                                        Financial Analyst
Haiyan Wang              Finance Officer                        EACCF Finance
Hernan Levy              Consultant                             EASTE Transport Economics


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks        USD Thousands (including
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                      92.17
  FY99                                                                     133.72
  FY00                                                                       1.61
  FY01                                                                       0.00
  FY02                                                                       0.00
  FY03                                                                       0.00
  FY04                                                                       0.00
  FY05                                                                       0.00
  FY06                                                                       0.00
  FY07                                                                       0.00
  FY08                                                                       0.00
                         Total:                                            227.50
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                       0.00
  FY99                                                                       0.09
  FY00                                         9                            66.26
  FY01                                        14                            63.66
  FY02                                        16                            36.87
  FY03                                        18                            37.98
  FY04                                        13                            38.52
  FY05                                        15                            44.46
  FY06                                         7                            29.02
  FY07                                        12                            54.41
  FY08                                         4                            24.94
                         Total:              108                           396.21




                                           35

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                    36

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                  37

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Objectives Achieved
Through the implementation and completion of each component of FH2, the objectives for each
of the component have been achieved as follows:

 All of the components of FH2 have been completed, including ZZE (141 km), Dongyuan
    connection road (5 km Class I road) and Huxi connection road (8 km Class II road), the three
    interconnecting road projects--i.e. the Xixi bridge project including one large bridge (637 m
    long), one medium sized bridge (138 m long), and the newly built Class II road (2 km) of
    bridge approach, and the two reconstructed Class II road (total length of 51 km)--and the
    newly built and reconstructed 134.76 km total length of six road projects financed out of the
    Bank loan unallocated balance.
 International and domestic competitive biddings have been used for selecting the engineering
    work contractor, the engineering work supervisor and the equipment supply provider.
    Effective contract management system has been implemented based on FIDIC requirements
    for control of work quality, cost and progress. Quality assurance system was implemented
    based on the principles of lifetime responsibility for quality work and internal total quality
    control combined with independent supervision and government monitoring. As for the cost
    control, payment review was strictly carried out to ensure the engineering work progress
    going on smoothly. Quantitative rating of the quality of the engineering work was 90.6%
    during the process of the completion inspection and acceptance of ZZE, with good quality
    component engineering work ratio of 93.4%, and overall rating of the project of 91.4%, and
    project management rated as good and satisfactory, having passed through the completion
    inspection and acceptance organized by the Ministry of Communications (MOC).
 Since the end of 2002, when Zhang-Zhao expressway was completed and open to traffic, its
    traffic volume has been increasing, with AADT increased from 11,460 PCU in 2003 to
    19,109 PCU in 2006, with annual average growth rate up to 18.58%. Meanwhile, since the
    Zhang-Zhao expressway has such advantages as travel time savings, vehicle operation cost
    reduction, enhanced safety, more comfortable ride for road users, there has been substantial
    traffic diversion from the parallel national road G324. The traffic volume on Zhang-Zhao
    expressway accounts for 54.01% of the total road traffic volume of the two paralleled road
    corridor; and it has increased to 61.95%in 2006, which shows the important function of the
    expressway, as it greatly expanded the road capacity, mitigated the traffic congestion,
    increased travel speed, improved the transport efficiency, facilitated road transport service
    and promoted commercial trade between Fujian and its neighboring provinces.
 Since ZZE opening to traffic, the toll revenue has been increasing steadily, from CNY314.53
    million in 2003 to CNY 450.11 million in 2004, increased by 43.1%; to CNY 513.81 million
    in 2005, an increase of 14.2%; and to CNY578.48 million in 2006, increasing by 12.59%.
    Earnings before interest tax depreciation apportionment (EBITDA) for ZZE also increased
    from CNY 25,238.68 in 2003 to CNY 36,932.17 in 2006, with an annual average growth rate
    of 13.53%. Its loan payback capacity is enhancing year by year due to its good financial
    condition.
 Road safety has been improved greatly since the completion of FH2. The road traffic
    accident rate for the national road G324 before FH2 was 5.4 deaths per 10 million vehicle-km
    in 1998, and that in 2006 after completion of FH2 was reduced to 2.4 deaths per 10 million
    vehicle-km; and that for ZZE was 0.76 deaths per 10 million vehicle-km.
 Through the implementation of FH2 together with the interconnecting roads and other road
    construction and reconstruction projects, as well as the institutional strengthening, personnel
    training and research & development activities, the capacity of FCD and highway



                                                38

    administration agencies has been enhanced greatly. Advanced management experiences from
    foreign countries were learnt and incorporated in the implementation of FH2, with fruitful
    achievements, as the result of which a number of professional work teams have been
    cultivated in expressway design, engineering supervision, and project management. The rich
    experiences gained from FH2 will be of great significance as a demonstration project for
    modern highway development in Fujian province.

In more general terms, the completion of ZZE accommodated to the needs of the economic zone
development of the western bank of the strait in Fujian province, not only facilitating trade and
commerce among the major cities, economic zones and transport hubs in the south-eastern Fujian,
but also strengthening an important transport link connecting the western bank of the strait with
the Yangtze delta economic zone in the north and the Pearl Delta economic zone in the south.
Furthermore, the completion of Second Fujian Highway Project, including the interconnecting
roads and the six road projects financed out of the Bank unallocated loan balance also had effects
on poverty reduction for the affected rural areas by the improvement of accessibility for local
people to various social services and marketing of local farm products. The living standard of the
project affected area has been improving since the completion of the projects. For example,
Zhangzhou farmer's average net income increased from CNY 3,530 in 2000 to CNY 5,093 in
2006. Through the Resettlement Action Plan, the living standard of the project affected person
(PAP) has been improved. According the survey, the annual average family income for the
project affected family was CNY 16,714 in 2000 and that in 2003 was CNY 18,721.

Preparation of the Project
The feasibility study and the project proposal were completed in 1996. In the same year the State
Planning Commission endorsed the project in the list of the World Bank loan projects for the
period 1997 to 1999 by document No.[1996]2966. The World Bank organized the project
appraisal mission in October 1996 and March 1997 respectively in China for the preparation of
the project appraisal document on a proposed loan for the Second Fujian Highway Project.

In 1998 the State Planning Commission approved the project to be established by document No.
(1998)309 (transport & energy project) and the project was endorsed by the World Bank appraisal
mission. The project feasibility study report was reviewed and appraised at the provincial level in
1997. In August 1998, the State Planning Commission assigned the design task for the project by
issuing the document No. (1998)1596 (infrastructure), which was also endorsed by the World
Bank mission.

In September 1998, the preliminary design for the ZZE was completed and reviewed at the
provincial level and submitted to the Ministry of Communications (MOC) and the World Bank
for approval. The MOC and the World Bank organized field inspection and review mission
respectively. In March 1999, the MOC issued document No. (1999)63 (highway) endorsed the
preliminary design, which was also endorsed by the World Bank appraisal mission. The
construction plan for the first 8km section was completed in 1998 and the construction work was
commenced the same year. The construction plans for other sections were to be submitted one
after another and were to be completed by the beginning of the year of 2000. The State Planning
Commission approved the commencement of the construction work of the project by issuing the
document No. (1998)1636 (investment), which was also endorsed by the World Bank mission.

The executive board of directors of the World Bank approved the proposed loan on 24 June, 1999.
The loan agreement was signed by the World Bank and the Ministry of Finance on 29 July 1999,
which became effective on 17 November 1999.



                                                39

In early 2004, Fujian Provincial Development Planning Commission submitted to the National
Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) a proposed Program for Utilization of FH 2
Project World Bank Loan Unallocated Balance of US$33.96 million, of which US$30 million
were to be used for six local road rehabilitation and reconstruction projects. The NDRC approved
the proposed Program by issuing the document No. [2004] 1712 in September of 2004. The
program and loan allocated was subsequently approved by the Bank.

Implementation of the Project

Design. The preliminary design and the construction plan design for ZZE were undertaken by the
Fujian Provincial Planning and Design Institute (FPPDI), mainly including overall scheme design,
route design, sub-grade/pavement and protective work design, bridge and culvert design, tunnel
design, separated interchange design, environmental protection and landscape design, traffic
engineering and road side facilities, building and other engineering design, as well as project cost
estimation, etcetera. During the construction period, work site design representative was assigned
to work on each of the construction work sites by the design institute, to cooperate with the
representative of project owner and the supervision engineer in solving technical issues occurred
on the site, particularly those issues relevant to design alteration.

Tendering. There were a total 25 construction contract sections for the expressway project,
including 13 for sub-grade, 4 for pavement, 3 for building, 3 for greening works, and 2 for
electric-mechanical (E&M) works. The World Bank loan was used for all the contract sections,
except for 3 sub-grade sections (A1-1, A1-2, A1-3), 3 greening sections (G1  G3) and one E&M
(D). International competitive bidding was used for 8 sub-grade sections (A2  A9) and 4
pavement sections (B1  B4), and domestic competitive bidding was used for the rest of the
contract sections.

The procedure of the tendering is as the following: the project owner organizes a tendering
committee, bidding evaluation by experts, bidding evaluation report submitted to Fujian
Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate (FPECD) and the Fujian Provincial
Communication Department (FPCD) for approval, subject to no objection from the World Bank
for the contract sections with the Bank loan. The China International Tendering Company was
entrusted as procurement agency for FH2. A General Procurement Notice was published in
Development Business No.502 on 16 January 1999.

All the tendering processes were carried out strictly in accordance with the World Bank
Procurement Guidelines and the relevant provisions set forth by the seven ministries/commission
of the People's Republic of China, and monitored by persons from the Ministry of Supervision
and public notary to ensure the tendering evaluation work carried out under the principles of open,
equity and fair.

Construction work.         The State Planning Commission issued the construction work
commencement plan for the project in August 1998. In November the construction work for the 8
km section (A1-1, A1-2 and A1-3) with soft ground started. In May 2000, construction for all the
rest sections commenced and completed by the end of 2002, with an actual construction period of
32 months. The ZZE Co. Ltd. organized the completion inspection and acceptance of the
expressway engineering work, over 25  26 December 2002, the quality of which was rated as
satisfactory. On 28 December ZZE was open to traffic.




                                                   40

Supervision. A two level supervision system was established for ZZE construction: General
Supervision Engineer Office (GSO) and the work site Supervision Engineer Office, for each of
the contract sections. The General Supervision Engineer, the Representative of the General
Supervision Engineer and the General Supervision Office were organized and nominated by the
project owner. Wilbur Smith Associates (WSA) was selected as foreign supervision unit by
international competitive tendering according to the provisions under the World Bank Loan
Agreement. WSA sent a three persons group, with the group leader nominated as Deputy
General Supervisor's Representative, to assist the General Supervisor's and the General
Supervisor's representative's work. National public supervision unit was selected based on open
tendering to form Work Site Supervision Office of each of the contract sections.

ZZE Engineering Work Supervision Work Procedures (Work Procedures) were developed by the
General Supervision Office according to the provisions set forth by the FPECD. The engineering
work quality, progress, cost control, as well as the Supervision Office management and
monitoring for each of the work site were in accordance with the Work Procedures. Each of the
Work Site Supervision Offices compiled the terms of reference for the work site supervision work
taking into account of the specific conditions of the work site, and carried out the quality,
progress, cost control and contract management work under the leadership and guidelines of the
GSO.

Environmental protection training, monitoring, inspection, and acceptance. The project owner
attached great importance to the environmental protection work for the project. In accordance
with the requirements specified by the relevant provisions concerning highway development
related environmental protection and the World Bank policies, an Expressway Environmental
Protection Office was set up in the FPECD, responsible for the environmental protection work
during the construction period and the operation period. Meanwhile, expressway environmental
protection office was also established at Zhangzhou municipal level, and each of the counties,
with responsibility to implement the environmental protection measures, such as noise reduction,
sewage discharge from the toll collection areas, service areas and parking areas. During the
construction period, it was required that an Environmental Protection Working Group should be
set up jointly by the work site supervision office and the contractor, with designated full time
environmental protection engineer responsible for the implementation of the each of the
environmental protection measures for the contracted section. More detailed description of the
various actions are listed below:

 Environmental protection training. To carry out the environmental monitoring work, the
    World Bank Loan FH2 Environmental Protection Training Course was jointly held by the
    FPECD and Fujian Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau over 11  13 April 2000 at
    the Nanqing Dongnanhai Training Center of Zhangzhou, with participants from Fujian
    Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau, FPECD, Zhangzhou Expressway Construction
    Directorate, General Supervision Office, Work site Supervision Office, the Project Owner,
    FPCPDI. During the training course, experts from Fujian Provincial Environmental
    Protection Research Institute, the Environmental Monitoring Station, and the FPECD gave
    lectures concerning the expressway related environmental protection knowledge, including
    expressway environmental protection technology, the environmental protection action plan
    for FH2, expressway environmental monitoring technology, the environmental protection
    management and procedures for FH2, and the environmental protection provisions under the
    contract documents and the technical specifications. A special workshop to understand the
    World Bank environmental policies and environmental protection requirements was held on 8
    April 2002 organized by ZZE Co. Ltd, to clarify the responsibility to mitigate the
    environmental impact during the construction period, and a training course was held by


                                               41

    inviting the experts from Zhangzhou Environmental Monitoring Station to present lecture.
 Environmental monitoring.            Zhangzhou Expressway Co. Ltd entrusted Zhangzhou
    Environmental Monitoring Station to work out an environmental monitoring plan for ZZE
    and starting from December 2000, regular environmental monitoring work was carried out by
    the Station, as well as regular supervision and inspection of the environmental monitoring
    work. By the end of 2003, a total of eight Environmental Monitoring Reports, six Survey
    Reports on Environmental Protection Implementation, one Report on Public Participation in
    the Environmental Impact Survey for ZZE during the construction period and two Reports on
    Operation Period Environmental Monitoring were completed.            The field survey of the
    implementation of the environmental protection activities during the construction period, and
    the evaluation of the environmental monitoring results for the water resource, ambient air,
    and acoustic environment, indicated the following facts: (a) due to the environmental
    protection management work during the construction period, the expressway project has little
    impact on the surrounding water environment with the original function of the water body of
    surrounding river maintained; (b) the noise level measured at each of the contract sections
    was within the limit as specified under the national standard of Noise Limit for Construction
    Work Site (GB 12523-90) and the construction noise has little impact on the main sensitive
    pots, where noise level met with the requirement as specified under the said national
    standard; (c) most of the construction work site had little impact on the surrounding area
    ambient air quality, with the measured daily average TSP in ambient air in compliance with
    the class II standard. Since ZZE opened to traffic in 2003, continuous noise level has been
    monitored for the acoustic sensitive spots along the expressway in accordance with the
    environmental protection action plan. Meanwhile according to the advice from the noise
    barrier construction work plan review meeting organized by ZZE Co. Ltd., no more noise
    level monitoring activity should be conducted for the acoustic sensitive spots provided with
    noise barriers in the operation period. In fact the survey showed that the noise level at the
    acoustic sensitive spots was over 54.6  59.0 dB(A), not exceeding the class IV standard limit
    as specified under the national standards.
 Environmental protection inspection and acceptance. The EIA Administration Department
    of the State Environmental Protection Administration jointly with the Environmental
    Protection Office of the MOC organized the completion inspection and acceptance of the
    environmental protection work for ZZE, with participants from Fujian Provincial
    Environmental Protection Bureau, FPCD, FPECD, and the Environmental Protection bureaus
    of Zhangzhou, Longhai, Zhangpu, Yunxiao, and Zhaoan counties. The completion inspection
    and acceptance group and all the participants checked the field results, reviewed relevant
    materials carefully, and after full discussion reached the conclusions as follows: EIA and
    "Santongshi" ("Three simultaneous" i.e. installations for the prevention and control of
    pollution at a construction project must be designed, built and commissioned together with
    the principal part of the project) were carried out and environmental protection measures such
    as noise reduction, dust prevention and control, and soil erosion reduction, were implemented
    for ZZE project. Environmental protection information was published to the general public
    before the commencement of the construction work. Environmental protection office was
    jointly set up by the contractor and the work site supervision office, with designated
    environmental protection manager. The expressway engineering was in compliance with the
    completion inspection and acceptance conditions, so the environmental protection work
    passed the completion inspection and acceptance.

Equipment procurement. Under the Second Fujian Highway Project, the equipment procurement
was mainly for road maintenance work, with a total of 13 procurement contract packages in three
batches. The equipment of the third batch with total cost about US$2.1 million shall be financed
out of the World Bank loan balance US$3.96 million. The original plan is set at US$2.4 million.


                                                 42

However the US$1.56 million covered by the surplus supposed to be used for the weighing
machine used for overweight/size control and enforcement were not available owing to it was not
in compliance with the requirement of the Bank reimbursement procedure.

Electric-mechanic (E&M) works. There were two contract sections for ZZE E&M works: (a) the
contract section D including monitoring system, tolling system and communications system; and
(b) the contract section DS including tunnel ventilation system, lighting system, and power
supply system.

 Monitoring, tolling and communications system (contract section D). The work for contract
    section D includes equipment supply and installation of monitoring system, tolling and
    communications system. The installation work completed is as the following: (1) Monitoring
    system. One monitoring sub-center equipment; seven field video cameras; 42 vehicle
    detection devices; 14 single-arm changeable message signs; 12 column information signs; 2
    sets of tunnel monitoring system; over 40 km power supply lines; (2) Tolling system. One
    tolling sub-center computer system; 10 toll station monitoring room equipment; 10 toll plaza
    video camera; 66 toll lane equipment; 10 toll station CCTV system; 70 toll booth and its
    auxiliary equipment; (3) Communications system. 199 km optical cable; 180 km power
    supply cable; 890 km branch pipeline; 300 emergency telephone; One communications sub-
    center equipment; 16 unmanned communications stations equipment. The work for contract
    section D started on 28 September 2002, and the work completion inspection and acceptance
    went through on 18 July 2003 conducted jointly by Provincial Supervision Center, Provincial
    Quality Inspection Station, ZZE Co. Ltd. and the DJ Resident office. Trial operation was
    commenced on 18 July 2003. The contract section D was financed with domestic funds.
    Once all the three systems put into operation, uniform software for toll collection system is
    adopted across the province and the software functions well in meeting with the requirements.
    Part of the software functions have been further improved with accurate data transmission
    and clear graphical out. The monitoring system has functions of information collection,
    process, control, warning, capable of data statistics, enquiry, and producing back-up copy.
    The equipment type selection, configuration, and performance indicators are satisfactory and
    the construction technology is of good quality with wiring in compliance with specifications
    and clear identification labeling for equipment. Two fire alarming tests were carried out in
    2003 and 2004 respectively for the tunnel monitoring system, which indicated that the fire
    alarming system functions well with linked coordinated system being able to be actuated
    normally. Operation of the communications system, including the digital program controlled
    exchange system, SDH optical transmission system, the emergency telephone system, is
    smooth, capable of real time continuous data and graph transmission.
 Tunnel ventilation, lighting and power supply (Contract section DS). There were a total of
    two tunnels included in the contract section DS of ZZE. One is Dabushan tunnel with its left
    line tunnel length of 1,985 m and right line tunnel length of 1995 m. Another one is
    Guzhishan tunnel with its left line length of 2,545 m and right line length of 2,600 m. There
    were a total of four transformer stations, with one set at for each of the tunnel gates. Tunnel
    ventilation system, lighting system and power supply system were provided for the tunnels
    including 8 dry transformers, 15 high voltage boards, 32 low voltage boards, 4 uninterrupted
    power sources, 3873 tunnel lighting apparatuses, 47 road lighting apparatuses, 12 light
    projectors, 32 fans, 109 km of power supply cables, 162 km of electric lines, 43 electric
    boards, 17350 sets of installation bracket. Additional material supply arising from the
    alterations includes 78 m of bus duct, 4405 m of Pulika tube, 47 road lighting foundations, 43
    protective doors. The work for the contract section DS started on 1 July 2002, and completed
    on 15 December 2003 together with all the additional engineering work, and the trial
    operation of the tunnel systems started on 10 January 2004. The tunnel ventilation and


                                                43

    lighting systems under DS contract were financed with the World Bank loan and the contract
    was awarded through national competitive tendering. Since the completion of the contracted
    work, the tunnel ventilation, lighting and power supply systems are all functionally well
    without any malfunction or accident happened.

Personnel training. A total of 16 overseas training activities have been carried out under FH2,
including 11 study tours and 5 training courses and there is one training course to be implemented
this June. The overseas training and study tour are arranged in developed countries, in the north
America, Europe, Australia, and etc. The training conducted during the project implementation
covered modern management knowledge of highway planning, design, construction, operation
and maintenance, engineering supervision, road safety, tunnel engineering, traffic engineering,
environmental protection, financing and financial management, human resource development,
project post-evaluation and etc. By the end of the project, the actual cost was US$691,547.33.
To get more fruitful output from the overseas training, the project executing agencies attached
great importance to the training activities and made effort to disseminate and apply in practice the
modern and advanced management knowledge and experience learnt from overseas. Special
lectures and training courses were held to introduce the new knowledge, new technique, new
methods learnt from the overseas study, with papers and study reports compiled and printed out to
benefit more people. On the whole, the overseas training achieved good effects to the satisfaction
of the World Bank and the personnel training activities contributed a lot to the smooth and
successful implementation of the project.

Research and development. During the process of the project implementation, a number of
research and development work have been carried out under the FH2 as the following.

 Design and Application of Fly-ash in Soft-ground Reinforcement. To solve the problem of
    differential settlement between the bridge deck and its approach road arising from the soft-
    ground, so as to make sure quality work of the project, a study project of Design and
    Application of Fly-ash in Soft-ground Reinforcement was carried out jointly by FPECD,
    FPCPDI and Fujian Provincial Architecture Science Academy. The study project was
    completed in January 2007. The use of fly-ash concrete in expressway engineering
    reinforcement by the cast-in-situ fly-ash concrete sunk-tube pile has the effect of cost
    reduction as well as the enhancement of the sunk-tube pile strength. It is effective in the road
    subgrade reinforcement, particularly for bridge approach section. The bridge approach
    subgrade at Zhao'an of Dongyuan Bridge was selected as test section to use the technology,
    with the test results to be used to check the theoretical model. The study achievements is of
    practical value to ZZE engineering construction.
 Safety study  Expressway Bridge Guardrail Research and Development. The study project
    of Expressway Bridge Guardrail Research and Development was conducted jointly by
    FPECD, Zhangzhao Expressway Co. Ltd., FPCPDI, Beijing Shenhua Traffic Engineering Co.
    Ltd.. The study project was started in 1999 and completed in March 2001. As the outcome of
    the study project, a new type of structure has been developed to be used for expressway
    bridge guardrail based on the characteristics of ZZE bridge structure and its traffic condition.
    During the study period, great amount of crash accident data collection and analysis were
    made from 20 expressway routes, about 4000 km, on the basis of which collision test
    condition and evaluation criteria were proposed with reference to relevant standards and
    specifications in other countries. The new developed bridge guardrail structure, based on the
    proposed collision condition and the evaluation criteria, has gone through actual collision
    tests, which is proved to be more effective and efficient than conventional combined structure,
    with cost reduction per kilometer up to CNY96128. The study project won the first prize of
    FPCD's science and technological advancement in 2002.


                                                44

 Fujian Provincial Road Maintenance Study. The study project of Fujian Provincial Road
    Maintenance Study was carried out by Fujian Provincial Highway Administration Bureau.
    The study included six contents: maintenance purpose and criteria, maintenance management
    system, resource evaluation and fund allocation, maintenance equipment and procurement,
    road maintenance organization and personnel training. The final report of the study project
    has been submitted to the World Bank for review and comment. A more comprehensive
    refinement of the study report has been completed.
 Fujian Province Expressway Toll Charge Rate Study. The study project of Fujian Province
    Expressway Toll Charge Rate Study was carried out jointly by FPECD, the Research Institute
    of Highway (RIOH) and ZZE Co. Ltd., which was started in March 2001 and completed in
    October 2002. The contents included in the study report are: evaluation of the current status
    of toll road charge in Fujian province, analysis of the factors in determination of the toll rate,
    vehicle classification for toll collection, determination of the toll charge coefficient, toll
    pricing theory and method study, toll rate determination, toll rate adjustment, recommended
    financial assessment for the recommended toll rate and the toll pricing policy. Advanced,
    scientific and innovative method was used in the study project, which won the third class
    award of science and technological advancement of China Highway and Transport Society in
    2005. The toll pricing policy recommended in the report is operable and theoretical analysis
    and conclusions provide basis for the toll rate determination.

Land acquisition and resettlement. A total of five counties (city, district), i.e. Longhai, Zhangpu,
Yunxiao, Changshan economic development zone and Zhao'an; 19 townships, 92 administrative
villages are involved in the land acquisition and resettlement for ZZE. The land acquisition and
resettlement was started in June 1999 and completed in March 2000, with total land acquisition of
17982.2mu, 505395 fruit trees having been cut-off, 4662 tombs relocated, 34923 project affected
persons, 17445 affected laborers, in addition, there are a total of 101044 square meters of houses
relocated, involving 532 households and 2689 persons, 12 affected enterprises and affected
schools. Total compensation actually used for the resettlement is CNY384544.75 thousand, which
is CNY77184.3 thousand more than that of the appraised (CNY307360.5 thousand), increased by
25.1%.

The land acquisition and resettlement for ZZE has been implemented and completed smoothly as
organized by the land acquisition and resettlement office of FPECD and that in each of the project
affected counties and townships, which started with the draft of the Resettlement Action Plan and
personnel training of the local staff engaged in the land acquisition and resettlement work, in
accordance with the World Bank policy set out in Involuntary Resettlement. The land acquisition
and resettlement of the six local road projects were implemented by the county and township
level land administration department in cooperation with the road project land acquisition and
resettlement offices with overall coordination from the World Bank Project Office of the FPCD.
The external monitoring of the land acquisition and resettlement work was undertaken by Fujian
Provincial Social Science Academy, meeting with the World Bank's relevant requirements.

The land acquisition and resettlement preparation work, the planned targets, procedures are all in
compliance with the requirements under relevant regulations and specifications. Compensations
have been made based on reliable information from comprehensive and detailed field survey and
in accordance with the standards set by the laws and regulations also in compliance with the
World Bank policy Involuntary Resettlement.




                                                45

The targets set for the land acquisition and resettlement for the ZZE and the six local road
projects have been fully achieved satisfactorily. Most of the PAPs' living standards have been
restored and improved up to appropriate level better than before the resettlement.

Total fund input for the resettlement is CNY384.54475 million, with more infrastructure
development, which have promoted relevant industrial development, agricultural production and
local economic growth. The project affected area's people's living standards have been
improving due to FH2, which created more employment opportunities.

Interconnected road projects. There are three attached road projects: reconstruction of Hua'an
section of Zhanghua road (from Tankou to Chengguan); Longhai Xixi bridge; and reconstruction
of the road section from Zhangpu Chengguan to Shiliu.

 Reconstruction of Hua'an section of Zhanghua road. The reconstructed section with total
    length of 40.91 km is part of the provincial road No.208. The road condition has been
    improved in terms of technical standards, from Class III or IV up to Class II with design
    operation speed of 40km per hour, bridge and culvert bearing capacity up to veh.  20, trailer
     100, subgrade width of 10.5 m. pavement width of 9 m (cement concrete structure). The
    reconstruction work is divided into five contract sections. The work was started in June 2002
    and the whole section was completed and open to traffic in May 2004. After completion of
    the reconstruction, the road section' traffic volume was growing steadily, with AADT
    increased from 7674 PCU in 2004 to 17157 PCU in 2006, with annual average growth rate of
    28.1%. The original 53.8 km long road section from Tankou to Chengguan is of Class III or
    Class IV standard. After the reconstruction, the travel distance from Hua'an to Zhangzhou is
    reduced by 12 km; and the traffic from Sanming, Yongan to north Zhangzhou is reduced by
    120 km, comparing with the path via Longyan. Completion of the reconstruction had the
    effect of producing more induced traffic for ZZE.
 Longhai Xixi Bridge. Longhai Xixi bridge is located at the intersection of the provincial road
    of Zhang-Yun route with the national road G324. The engineering project is a Class I road
    bridge with total length of 2820 m, including one 637 m long bridge, and two medium sized
    bridges (138m) and 2045 meter of bridge approach road with design speed of 60 km per hour,
    over the river's Class V navigation channel. The engineering work of the bridge project was
    started in December 2003 and completed in November 2006. Since the bridge was open to
    traffic on 19 January 2007, the operation of the toll bridge has been fine, and by the 15 April,
    its accumulated traffic volume is 286569 PCU with accumulated toll revenue of
    CNY1585.363 thousand. Since the bridge is the key link for the provincial road Zhang-Yun
    route to be connected with the national road G324 and G319, the completion of the bridge
    project has solved the traffic bottle neck at the original Xixi bridge, which is at the upstream
    800 m away from the newly build Xixi bridge. The bridge will play an important role in
    facilitating the regional economic development.
 Reconstruction of the road from Zhangpu Chengguan to Shiliu. Total length of the road
    reconstruction project is 10.56 km, including 9.6 km section from G324 K373+096 at Suian
    Industrial Development Zone to Xiache village at Shiliu township; and 0.96 km access road,
    linking with Pinghe bridge head of Suian interchange (old county road). The reconstructed
    road is of Class II standard, started in August 2004 and was completed in December 2006.
    The road section from Zhangpu Chengguan to Shiliu is an important link connecting the
    Pinghe county with ZZE, but also an important connection road section for the one south-
    north and seven south-north provincial trunk roads. Completion of this important link has
    improved the local, regional and provincial road network connection.




                                                 46

Six local road projects with the bank loan balance. Total length of the six local road project
financed out of the Bank loan balance is 134.7 km, with total costs of CNY751 million, of which
CNY626 million are used for construction, land acquisition and resettlement with a total of 17
contract sections and contract sum of CNY493 million.

 Youxi road project. Youxi road project is not only an important section in Youxi county road
    system, but also the only link for Youxi county connecting with Dehua county. This section
    has been included in the provincial trunk road S206 Xixia route, which is part of the "eight
    south-north and nine east-west" provincial trunk route system. This section is also the only
    road for the Jiemian Power Station project and Banmian Power Station project. It starts from
    Xicheng township of Youxi county at the provincial road Jintai route (S304) and ends at
    Shanyan village of Banmian township, with total length of 51.52 km, improved up to Class II
    road standard. With road length reduced by 20.5 km, the road improved transport conditions,
    which will facilitate the local economic development.
 Shaxian road project. Shanxian road project starts at the border area between Shaxian and
    Shunchang, connecting with the road from Chengguan of Shunchang to Zhengfang, and ends
    at the Xiahao interchange of Beijing-Fuzhou expressway. Total length of Shanxian road
    project is 9.7 km, in hilly area Class II standard. Shaxian road project is in a densely
    distributed village and township area with rich natural, agricultural, forest and tourism
    resources to be developed. Completion of this project has improved the road transport
    condition and will promote the local economic development.
 Longyan road project. Longyan road project includes reconstruction of the existing national
    road G319 section and a newly built section after G319 passing through Kengtou village of
    Caoxi township, via Yueshan village of Caoxi township, by use of the connection road
    between Zhanglong expressway and Xiniu road when getting at east Xiaozheng village, then
    ending at Hualian road of Longyan city. The newly built road section is 5.1km long. The
    original 13 km of national road G319 in Longyan area are in an environment of ribbon
    development, seriously affected by mixed urban street traffic and transit traffic with frequent
    traffic accident and congestion and have become a bottleneck. Completion of this project has
    greatly improved the local transport conditions, facilitating local industrial and agricultural
    production and people's daily travel.
 Pingnan road project. This project is the phase II work of the south section of Ningping road,
    starting from Shangjian of Jiaocheng and ending at Zhoudi connecting with the first phase
    work. This road is 14.94 km long. The original road section was of macadam pavement in
    poor condition with many sharp turnings. Completion of this project has improved local road
    network layout, which will help bring into full play the local economic resources.
 Jiaocheng road project. This road project is a key project of Ningde municipality, as part of
    1.5 hours travel network, starting from Qiaotou of Badu in Jiaocheng area and ending at
    Shangjian of Hongkou the border with Pingnan county. The road is in hilly area built up to
    Class II standard. This road is the key link connecting Pingnan county with the eastern
    region of Fujian province, but also another coastal port distribution road linking the eastern
    Fujian with Zhejiang province, playing an important role in connecting eastern and northern
    Fujian province. Completion of this road project will facilitate the economic development of
    Pingnan county, Ningde Jiaocheng area, their surrounding area and the whole northern Fujian
    province area.




                                               47

 Fuding road project. This road project is part of east and south coastal area road in Fuding
    municipality area Fujian province. Total length of the road is 9.8 km, built up to Class II
    standard in hilly area.     Completion of this road project has played significant role in
    improving local traffic condition, the local investment environment and inter-county
    commodity flow, promoting local mountain area natural resources development and the
    cooperation between the east coastal area cities and inland hilly areas counties.

Implementing Agencies

The implementing agencies for FH2 were FPECD and Fujian Provincial Expressway Co. Ltd.
(FPE Co. Ltd), which are approved by Fujian Provincial People's Government. FPECD is
responsible for overall leadership and coordination of the planning, design, standards,
construction, quality, operation of the expressway across the province. The FPE Co. Ltd. works
as an investment entity of the provincial government for the expressway development across the
province, and is commissioned by FPCD to exercise administration function over the expressway
operation companies. In fact FPECD and FPE Co. Ltd work under the same roof, with one group
of staff working in different names as executive agency responsible for the provincial expressway
construction, operation and management.

The expressway construction and operation management system in Fujian province is based on
Fujian Provincial government policy principles of "uniform planning, uniform design, uniform
quality and uniform operation" and "financing by section, construction by section and getting
investment return by section". To implement FH2, a shareholding entity was organized known as
Zhangzhao Expressway Co. Ltd. as the project legal man responsible for overall project
construction, financing, operation and payback loan. FPE Co. Ltd and Zhangzhou
Communications Development Co. Ltd are shareholders of Zhangzhao Expressway Co. Ltd.
During the project implementation period, Zhangzhou Municipal government set up a Zhangzhou
Municipal Expressway Construction Directorate (ZMECD) under Zhangzhou Municipal
Communications Bureau. To strengthen the land acquisition and resettlement work, Zhangzhou
Municipal government established a Zhangzhou Expressway Land Acquisition and resettlement
Steering Group under Zhangzhou Land Administration Bureau. Corresponding Directorate,
Expressway Office, Land Acquisition and Resettlement Office were established at the project
affected counties (cities), responsible for coordination and management of FH2 implementation.

After ZZE open to traffic and turned into operation period, FPE Co. Ltd. takes the responsibility
to manage the expressway operation, by setting up a number of management departments,
including toll collection department, planning and financial division, maintenance division, road
administration division under Zhangzhao Expressway Co. Ltd., also included are one Monitoring
Center (i.e. Zhangpu Monitoring Sub-center), ten toll collection stations (Zhangzhou port,
Zhaojiapu, Zhangpu, Duxun, Yunxiao, Changshan, Dongshandao, Zhaoandong, Zhaoannan, and
Minyue Mainline). There are three road administration branch divisions set at Zhangpu,
Changshan and South Shaoan respectively. The FPE Co. takes overall responsibility of ZZE's
maintenance, toll collection, finance, monitoring, road administration and operation business
development management.

From the very beginning to the completion of the project, the implementation of FH2 also got the
direction and support from the NDRC, the Ministry of Finance (MOF), and the MOC. The FPCD
set up a World Bank Loan Project Executive Office (known as the Work Bank Project Office),
responsible for coordination, organization of FH2 related reconstruction project, submit the
project progress report and audit report to the World Bank, organize inspection, and supervise the


                                                 48

project implementation in accordance to the requirements as specified under the Loan Agreement
and the Project Agreement, including coordination and management of the land acquisition and
resettlement. Under each of the local communications bureaus, there is also World Bank Project
Office to coordinate and manage the implementation of the project construction or reconstruction.

Lessons learned

Design. For some sections of the expressway, information gained from geological survey is not
consistent with actual geological condition, owing to less bored sample during the field survey; so
that the actual elevation of the bridge pile is different from the design, with unexpected variation
of soil and rock components in some sections.

The design of road subgrade drainage system didn't take into account of the local water irrigation
system, so that there were quite a number of variations in the drainage system. For deep cutting
and filling section, special attentions should be paid to the field survey of the local hydrological
and geological condition, so as to get information necessary for rational design parameters. Steep
gradient should be designed in accordance with actual geological and hydrological conditions,
rather than based on engineering cost only. The concept of dynamic design should be
implemented throughout the whole process of design and construction, to make the design in
conformity with the actual condition making sure stability of the side slope during the
construction and operation period.

The dense bitumen surfacing is good against water damage, but it is not good for drainage during
rainy season, which would result in water film on the pavement surface causing accident,
effective measures should be taken in design for road safety.

Tendering.    In accordance to the tender procurement guideline of the World Bank, ZZE
contractor was selected based on least-cost principle. This may not be appropriate for China's
market situation, where the legal system is far from perfect. To get the contract, some bidders
reduce their tendering price, during the construction period, however, particularly in the initial
period of construction, they do not have enough input, which cause serious delay of the work,
creating great difficulties for the project implementation and management.

Operation management.        Overloading of trucks has great impact on both road safety and
pavement service life. Enforcement of vehicle size and weight regulations should be strengthened
to improve road safety and prevent pavement early damage.

The six road projects financed out of the Bank loan balance. Since the commencement of the
engineering work, the six road projects financed out of the Bank loan balance have been affected
by the bad weather, typhoon and continuous heavy rain, particularly since June 2006, the
engineering work has been hit by continuous storm rarely happened in the history. For example,
the typhoon "Sangmei" caused serious flood with great impact on the six road projects, which not
only left great amount of rehabilitation work but also had certain impact on the resettlement work,
so that completion of Youxi road project, Jiaocheng road project and Fuding road project was
delayed.

Fujian Provincial Expressway Development Program

According to the Strait West Bank Economic Zone Expressway Network Development Program
approved by Fujian Provincial Government in 2006, the layout of the expressway network in the
Strait West Bank Economic Zone (Fujian Province) will be "three south-north, eight east-west,


                                                  49

three rim, twenty-five connection routes", with total length of 5300 km. The "three south-north
and eight east-west routes" are trunk roads in the province, including all the national expressway,
dual national expressway and part of the provincial expressway; the "rims routes" are three urban
rim routes; the "twenty-five connection routes" include seven port connecting routes, three airport
connecting routes, ten inter-city routes and five other connecting routes.

In accordance with the implementation program, during the 11th Five-year period (2006  2010)
there are 727km of on-going expressway project, 1214 km of new expressway project, and 88km
of expending expressway project. By the end of 2010, 1275 km of expressway will be added to
the road network, of which 1126 km are trunk road and "two south-north and four east-west
routes" will be completed.




                                                 50

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    51

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank, Second Fujian Highway Project: Project Appraisal Document (Report
No. 19286-CHA), June 3, 1999.

The World Bank, Second Fujian Highway Project: Loan Agreement (Loan No. 4502-
CHA), between People's Republic of China and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, July 29, 1999.

The World Bank, Second Fujian Highway Project: Loan Agreement (Loan No. 4502-
CHA), between Fujian Province and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, July 29, 1999.

The World Bank, Aide-Memoirs of the Second Fujian Highway Project, from January
2000 to October 2007.

Fujian Provincial Communications Department, Resettlement Action Plan, February 1999.

Fujian Provincial Communications Department, Resettlement Action Plan, Volumes 2, 3,
and 4, March 1999.

Fujian Provincial Communications Department, Resettlement Action Plan, Volumes 5
and 6, April 1999.

Fujian Provincial Communications Department, Environmental Assessment Summary,
Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway and the Other Road[s] Project, April 1999.

Zhang-Zhao Expressway Corporation Ltd., Toll Expressway Pricing Study Report, by the
Research Institute of Highway, Ministry of Communications, October 2002.

Fujian Provincial Communications Department, Highway Administration Bureau, Fujian
Highway Maintenance Study, May 2006.

Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate, Zhangzhou-Zhao'an Expressway
Company Ltd., Final Evaluation Report on the Treatment of the Black Spots on National
Route No. 324, April 2006.

Fujian Provincial Communications Department, Project Completion Report, May 2007
(and complementary data and clarifications thereafter, per fax dated November 12, 2007).

Fujian Provincial Communications Department, An Independent Monitoring Report on
Projects Using Remaining World Bank Loan Funds, prepared by the Fujian Academy of
Social Sciences, July 30 and November 15, 2007.




                                           52

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 29902
                         70                            80                             90                                  10                                110                                                120                                         130



50
                                                                                                                    R U S S I A N    F E D E R AT I O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           50



                        KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tongjiang


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Manzhouli


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HEILONGJIANG




 UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HARBIN

                                               Huocheng                                                                  M O N G O L I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Suifenhe
                                                           Kuytun

                                                                             Dahuangshan                                                                                                                                 O   L                       J I L I N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHANGCHUN
                                                                        URUMQI
                KYRGYZ                                                                                                                                                                                       O    N   G

                                                                                                                                                                                                          M
40           REPUBLIC
                                                                             Turpan

                                                                                                                                                                                              N   E  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHENYANG
TAJIKIST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L I A O N I N G          DEM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S e a o f
        AN                                             X I N J I A N G                                                                                                                                                                                              PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                               Jining                                                                                J a p a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dandong       REP. OF
                                        80                                                                                                                                   HOHHOT                                                                                 KOREA
                                                                                                                                                          Yellow R.                                 BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                              BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dalian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tanggu                   Ferry

                                                                                                                                                                                        SHIJIAZHUANG                                                                       REP. OF
     This map was produced by                                                                                                           YINCHUAN                                                           HEBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yantai
     the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KOREA
     World Bank. The boundaries,                                                           Q I N G H A I                                                                                       TAIYUAN
     colors, denominations and                                                                                                                                               (Huang   SHANXI
     any other information shown                                                                                            XINING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JINAN                         Qingdao
     on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                                                          SHANDONG
     the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                    He)                              Grand                                Y e l l o w
     Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                           LANZHOU NINGXIA                                                         Canal                                    S e a
     legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                                           Xinxiang     Kaifeng
     or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                             Luoyang                                               Lianyuang
     a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h                                                                                                G A N S U            Baoji  Weinan                                 ZHENGZHOU
     boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                       Sanmenxia                               Xuzhou
                                                                                                                                                                           Tongguan
                                                                                                                                                                       XI'AN
                                                                                                                                                         SHAANXI                          HENAN                                                   JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NANJING                 Nantong
                                                          X I Z A N G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HEFEI                              SHANGHAI                        30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHANGHAI
                                          30                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ferry        E a s t
                                                                                                                          S I C H U A N                              Chang     Jiang        HUBEI                                ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                             WUHAN                  HANGZHOU
                                                                   LHASA                                                                                                                                                                                     Ningbo       C h i n a
                                                                                                                                 CHENGDU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jiujiang

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ZHEJIANG                          S e a
                                                                                                                                                              CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                         CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                   H U N A N                               NANCHANG
                                               C H I N A                                                                                                                               CHANGSHA                                                           For detail see
                                    SECOND FUJIAN                                                                                                                                                             JIANGXI
                                                                                                                                               G U I Z H O U                                                                                              IBRD 29903

                                   HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                    Hengyang
                                                                                                      ANMAR                                 GUIYANG                                                                               FUJIAN            FUZHOU
                                                                                                           MY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Quanzhou
                         NATIONAL TRUNK HIGHWAY SYSTEM                                                                     KUNMING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Xiamen            TAIWAN

                                                                                                                      Y U N N A N                            G U A N G X I                         G U A N G D O N G                    Zhanjzhou


                  MAJOR HIGHWAYS:                                      SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                       Huangpu    Tanxi
                                                                                                                                                                                          GUANGZHOU                                Shantou

                     COMPLETED                                         PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                               Longyang
                                                                                                                                                                      NANNING                  Foshan              Shenzhen
                     UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                         HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                        Beihai                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Zhuhai
                     PLANNED BEFORE 2005                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                   ANMAR                      VIETNAM                                                               MACAO, PORT.

                     PLANNED AFTER 2005                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                   MY                                                                   Zhanjiang                              0         100       200       300     400   500 MILES

                                                                                                     20                  LAO PEOPLE'S                                                   HAIKOU                               0           200         400          600    800 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                            DEM. REP.
                                                                                                     THAILAND                                                                             HAINAN                                                                  PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                     100                                                          110                                                                       120

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAY 1999

                 116                                                117                                       118                                  119                               RUSSIAN FEDERATION


                                               CHINA
                            SECOND FUJIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                    HEILONGJIANG


                         HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                           ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                    M O N G O L I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L               J I L I N
         29                                                                                                                       PROVINCE                  29                                                               O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O
                            0        25             50             75        100                                                                                                                                      M                 LIAONING
                                                                                            To Wuhan                                                                                                                                                 DEM. PEOPLE'S

                                                                                                                                                                                                           N  E  I                                   REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BEIJING
                                              KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                        Beijing

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HEBEI                             REP. OF
                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                          To Hangzhou                                                                                                   KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHANXI
                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                                                                                     SHANDONG
                    on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                    QINGHAI                NINGXIA

                    judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                                  GANSU         SHAANXI       HENAN            JIANGSU     East China
                    acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHANGHAI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                      SICHUAN                                             ZHEJIANG

                                                                                                                                                                    XIZANG                              CHONGQING
                                                                To Wuhan                                                                                                                                                     JIANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HUNAN                         Area of map
                                                                                                                                                                                                GUIZHOU                               FUJIAN


                                                                                                                                                                                  YUNNAN                                                          TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GUANGDONG
         28                                                                                                                                                 28                                           GUANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HONG KONG
                        JIANGXI                                                                                                                      To Longquan                                                             Macao, Port.
                                                                                                                              Pucheng                                     ANMAR             VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                                               MY      LAO
                                                                                                                                          205                                        PEOPLE'S                             South China Sea
                     PROVINCE                                                                                                                                                                                     HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                   THAILAND             DEM.
                                                                                                                 Chong'an                                                               REP.                                                   PHILIPPINES



                                                                              Huashanjie                                                                                                                               120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Ningbo
                                                                       Gaotien                              N A N P I N G
                                                                              Guangze                                                   Songxi
                                                                                         316                                                                       Shouning
                                                                                                                                                      Zhenghe
                                To Nanchang                                      Shaowu                     Jianyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      104       Fuding
                                                                                                                                                  Zhenqian                       Hutangban                        Zherong      Shacheng
                                                                                                       Nakou                   205
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Fu'an
                                                                                                                                                                   Zhouning
                                                                                                                                Jian'ou
         27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 27
                                                                                                Futun                                                       NINGDE
                                                                     Taining                         Xi                                                    Pingnan                                                     Xiapu
                                                                                                               Shunchang
                                                  Jianning

                                                                                   Jiangle                                                                          Ningde                                                     Lxia
                                                                                                                         Nanping

                                                                                                                         Min
                                                                                                                            Jiang316         Gutian
                                                                                                                                                                          Luoyuan


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Beijiao
                                                                      Mingxi            Dutouping            Sha Xian                              FUZHOU SHI                        104

                                                     Ninghua                                                                                Minqing            Minhou
                                                                                               Sanming              Youxi
                                                                                                                                                                 FUZHOU                     Lianjiang
                                                          Qingliu                             Xinkou
                                                                                          SANMING                                                                                        Tingjiang
         26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 26
                                                                                                                                                          Nanyu    Mawei
           To Ganzhou                                                                   Yong'an                                                                                            Changle

                                   Changting
                                                                                                                                                      Yongtai             Fuqing
                                                       Liancheng          205
                                     Hetian                                                                 Datian
                                                                                                                                             PUTIAN                                                                       SOUTH
                                          319

                          Dongshanqiao                                                                                                                          324
                                                                                                                            Dehua                 Putian                                                                  CHINA
                                 L O N G Y A N                                                                                              Xianyou
                                                                            Zhangping                                                                                                            Daqiu

                                                                                                                              Yongchun                                           Shicheng                                      SEA
            Wuping                                                                                      QUANZHOU

                                                         319            Longyan                                 SHI
                                      Shanghang                                                                   Anxi
         25                                                                                                                              Hui'an                                                                                                             25
                                                                                              Hua'an
                          205                       Kanshi                                                              Nan'an

                                                                                                                                        Quanzhou                                     ZHANGZHOU - ZHAO'AN, 132 km., CURRENT
                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT WITH WORLD BANK FINANCING

                                       Yangding                                                                                         Jinjiang                                     PROJECT INTERCHANGES
                                                                                   319
                                                                                                                         324                                                         FUJIAN PROVINCIAL, FUZHOU - QUANZHOU,
                                                                                                                                                                                     154 km., ON-GOING PROJECT WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                     WORLD BANK FINANCING
          To Guangzhou                                                                                                 XIAMEN
                                                                                      Nanjing        Zhangzhou           SHI                                                         (PAVEMENT AND E&M WORKS ONLY)

                                                                                                                      Xiamen                                                         FUJIAN PROVINCIAL, XIAMEN - QUANZHOU,
                                                                                        Pinhe             Longhai                                                                    81 km., ON-GOING PROJECT WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                     WORLD BANK FINANCING

           GUANGDONG                                                     ZHANGZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                     PRIMARY ROADS
                                                                                   SHI
                                                                                    Zhangpu                                                                                          RURAL ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                     RAILROADS
         24   PROVINCE                                                   Yunxiao                                                                                                                                                                            24
                                                                                                                                                                                     AIRPORT

                              To Shenzhen                                                                                                                                            PORT
                                                                     Zhao'an                                                                                                         PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                        Dongshan                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                           IBRD
MA                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
  Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29903
   1999
                  116                                               117                                       118                                  119                                                            120

