Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16730
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(Ln.3147-PAK)
June 18, 1997
Energy and Project Finance Division
Country Department I, South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Appraisal Year 1989    = US$ 1.0 = Rs. 17.0
Intervening Year 1994    = US$ 1.0 = Rs. 30.2
Completion Year 1996   = US$ 1.0 = Rs. 40.0
GOP AND WAPDA'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)           =    0.6214 miles (mi)
1 ton                      =    1000 kilograms (kg)
=    2200 pounds (Ibs)
1 kilovolt (kv)            =    1000 volts (V)
1 megawatt (MW)            =    1000 kilowatts (kW)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)   =    1000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)      =    1000 watt-hours (Wh)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)      =    1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AEB             Area Electricity Board
EAD             Economic Affairs Division
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
ESL-I1          Second Energy Sector Loan (Ln. 3107-PAK)
HPC             Hub Power Complex
GOP             Government of Pakistan
ICG             Internal Cash Generation
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IsDB            Islamic Development Bank
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SCADA           Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
WAPDA           Water and Power Development Authority
Vice President           Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Director          Fakhruddin Ahmed
Division Chief           Per Ljung
Staff Member             Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(Ln.3147-PAK)                                        Page No.
PREFACE                                         Table of Contents
EVALUATION SUMMARY...............................................
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Project Identity ............................1
B.   Evaluation of Objectives ...........................                                                  1
C.   Achievement of Objectives ...........................                                                 3
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................                                       7
E.   Project Sustainability ...........................                                                    7
F.   Performance of Bank and Cofinanciers ...........................                                      8
G.  Borrower Performance ...........................                                                       9
H.   Assessment of Outcome ........................... 10
I.  Future Operation ...........................                                                          10
J.    Key Lessons Learned ........................... 10
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1    Summary of Assessments ..............................................                          15
Table 2    Related Bank Loans/Credits ..............................................                      16
Table 3    Project Timetable .............................................. 19
Table 4    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ................. .............. 20
Table 5    Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..............................................      21
Table 6    Key Indicators for Project Operation .............................................. 22
Table 7    Studies Included in Project .............................................. 22
Table 8A Project Costs .23
Table 8B Project Financing .23
Table 9 Economic Costs and Benefits .24
Table 10 Status of Legal Covenants .26
Table 11 Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .26
Table 12 Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .27
Table 13 Bank Resources: Missions .28
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan) .29
B. Borrower's Evaluation .47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(Ln.3147-PAK)
PREFACE
This is the lmplementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transmission Extension and
Reinforcement Project in Pakistan, for which Loan 3147-PAK in the amount of US$162 million
equivalent was approved on December 18. 1989 and made effective on November 2, 1990. The legal
agreements were amended in May 1995 to accommodate the project revision and additrinal financing
provided by Islamic Development Bank and the French Government. The original cloM.in- date was
December 31, 1995, but the project closed on December 31, 1996 with a one year extension. The
unutilized balance of US$2.1 million of the Loan was canceled effective May 22, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Chandra Godavitarne (Municipal Engineer-former Bank staff member,
now retired) with the assistance of Rashid Aziz (Projects Advisor, Pakistan Resident Mission). The ICR
was reviewed and cleared by Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk (Task Manager), Per Ljung (Chief, Energy and
Project Finance Division) and Fakbruddin Ahmed (Project Adviser, SAI DR). The borrower and
cofinanciers were provided the draft ICR for comment, and the Borrower's comments have been
incorporated. No comments were received from the cofinanciers.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's project completion mission during
November 5-11, 1996. It is based on discussions with officials from the Economic Affairs Division and
Ministry of Water and Power of the Government of Pakistan, Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA), WAPDA's consultants and material in the project files The WAPDA contributed to the
preparation of the ICR and the mission's aide-memoire, assisting in preparing the statistical information
in the draft ICR, and preparing its own evaluation included as Appendix B.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(Ln.3147-PAK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The country's large hydropower plants are located in the north whereas most of the large thermal
plants are located in the south. During periods of low water levels in the reservoirs, hydropower plants
work at reduced capacity, which makes additional demands on thermal power stations to compensate for
lost hydropower capacity. In order to meet the increasing demand for power, the Government of
Pakistan (GOP) has, for the first time, decided to allow the private sector to construct a new thermal
power plant on Hub River near Karachi. In order to integrate this new power plant into the national grid
and improve evacuation and distribution of thermal power from the major plants at Guddu and Multan,
the country's development strategy identified the need to extend and reinforce the national 500 kV
network.
Project Objectives
The primary objectives of the project were to assist in the extension and reinforcement of the
500-kV network to ensure adequate and effective evacuation of power from the main thermal power
generation centers at Guddu and Multan to the major load centers in the middle and northern regions of
the country, and extension of the transmission link between the national 500 kV network and the Hub
Power Complex (HPC)-the first major power generation complex to be financed, constructed and
operated by the private sector. Institution building efforts initiated under earlier Bank operations were to
be continued by strengthening WAPDA's capabilities to formulate, operate and maintain an efficient and
economical transmission system.
Implementation Experience and Results
The Second Energy Sector Loan (ESL 11) program provided the umbrella of priority investments
and policy reforms to be implemented during the period FY89-93-including Loan 3147-PAK. The
project was part of a continuing effort to promote private sector involvement in energy development and
rationalizing investments in the public sector. Against these objectives, WAPDA's institutional and
financial performance under the project is judged as generally satisfactory. Except for the year 1994,
financial performance targets agreed under the loan were met; the project did not include any
macroeconomic reform components.
Soon after the project start, WAPDA identified additional sources of cofinancing from the
Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) for construction of the two transmission lines from HPC to Jamshoro,
and from the French Government for grid stations. It took considerable time, until April 1995, to finalize
the cofinancing agreement with the IsDB. Yet, the HPC-Jamshoro lines were completed in 1996 by the
time energy was available for evacuation from HPC. The Loan funds thus freed, amounting to about $36
million, were reallocated for the partial financing of the Third Jamshoro-Guddu 500 kV transmission line
(which was not part of the originally appraised project), along with funds from the Power Sector
Development Project (PSDP: Loan 3764-PAK). The closing date of the project was extended for one
year until December 31, 1996. Contractual problems have delayed the start of construction of the Third
Jamshoro-Guddu line, which is now expected to be completed in December 1999.



-ii-
Due to a number of delays that were caused by external as well as internal factors, the
implementation of some components of the project lagged slightly behind schedule. However, the core
works included in the original project have been completed. They include: (a) the HPC-Jamshoro lines I
and II commissioned on January 7, and October 28, 1996 respectively; (b) the third Guddu-Multan line
commissioned on December 8, 1994; (c) the communications system on this line commissioned on
November 22, 1995; (d) the second Multan-Gatti-Lahore line completed in two sections, the first
between Gatti and Lahore commissioned on October 14, 1993, and the section between Multan and Gatti
energized on March 1, 1995; and (e) the extension of substations at Lahore, Gatti, Multan and Guddu
were completed on September 23, 1996. Some minor works were still going on at the time of ICR
mission and are expected to be completed by July 1997. For the purposes of this ICR, the completion of
the Third Jamshoro-Guddu transmission line, the construction of which will continue under the PSDP
Loan, is not considered in the evaluation of performance for this project.
Apart from the Third Jamshoro-Guddu transmission line and the related grid stations at Moro
and Rahim Yar Khan, the ongoing work not financed by the Bank loans includes: (a) the remaining work
on the SCADA1 system at the Jamshoro substation, expected to be completed by June 1997; and (b) the
addition of auto-transformers at Guddu substation, financed under a French Protocol, expected to be
completed in December 1997.
Sustainability
The project was successful in enhancing WAPDA's capacity in transmission and distribution of
power through its extended and modernized 500 kV national network, especially in critical periods of
low hydropower capacity and increased demand for thermal power. The project was less successful in
developing the institutional capacity of WAPDA for efficient procurement management. In order to
sustain these and other benefits of the project, WAPDA will need to continue to generate adequate
revenues to meet all its obligations, provide adequate maintenance budgets, provide appropriate technical
and human resources and carry out the necessary actions as detailed in the Operation Plan (Appendix A),
agreed during the ICR mission.
Summary of Findings
The following are the major achievements of the project: (a) enhancement of an efficient
transmission system for conveying power from hydro-electric generation facilities in the north, and
thermal facilities in the south to major consumption centers; (b) incorporation of the first privately
owned and operated thermal power plant (HPC) into the national transmission network; (c) reduction in
transmission losses; and (d) improvements in voltage stability and the power factor. In addition
WAPDA's institutional capacity for the expansion of the bulk transmission network was enhanced. The
project greatly improved the transmission capacity along the north-south transmission axis, and enhanced
WAPDA's ability to provide reliable power supply in all seasons.
Although project objectives were achieved WAPDA's performance in project management
suffered from numerous problems. Difficulties were experienced in procurement under the project,
leading to complaints by bidders over bid evaluations and award decisions. There is insufficient
delegation of procurement responsibilities to senior managers. Training plans agreed during appraisal
were not fully implemented. Given the reluctance of the Government of Pakistan (GOP) and WAPDA's
authority to use loans for training, WAPDA only utilized training provided under supplier's contracts.
The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory, as: all the core infrastructure elements of
the project as appraised were completed during the project period, considerable effort was devoted to
I     SCADA - Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition.



-iii-
assist WAPDA in procurement and to remain in compliance with financial covenants. Some difficulties
were experienced during project implementation, such as: delays in providing Bank comments and
clearances for procurement documentation; inability to influence WAPDA on training; and insufficient
supervision resources requiring Bank missions to undertake supervision of three to four projects during
each mission, thereby leaving insufficient time to address the project matters in detail.
Future Operations
In order to sustain the benefits of the improved transmission network, particularly the facilities
installed under this project, an operational plan was formulated, in agreement with WAPDA, which
identifies the technical, financial and institutional arrangements necessary for the operation of the
network at its maximum efficiency. The operational plan describes the indicators to be used in
measuring the performance of the transmission lines, substations and other installed facilities. It also
describes technical and financial resources that WAPDA needs to allocate on an annual basis for the
operation and maintenance of these assets and provides timetables for monitoring the progression in
achieving the performance targets.  As part of institutional development, WAPDA needs to (a)
streamline and make transparent its procurement management as being pursued under other ongoing
projects; (b) improve revenue mobilization through: cost reduction measures, introduction of measures
to improve billing and collection, empowering the Area Electricity Boards (AEB) to pursue revenue
collection more vigorously, making the AEB's more accountable, and exploring options for privatizing
distribution; and (c) undertake a structured training program for its staff to manage the improved
transmission network.
Key Lessons Learned
An efficient, objective and transparent procurement management system needs to be developed
in WAPDA. Specific areas that need to be addressed are: explicit bid documentation, objective and
timely bid evaluations, prior agreement with GOP on procedures for opening of letters of credit, and
dispensation from seeking the Standing Freight Committee approval for use of non-national vessels for
Bank-financed procurement.  Formal training should be provided for WAPDA staff engaged in
procurement management. With respect to large core elements of a future project, the procurement
process should be initiated and bids under evaluation prior to Board approval, to avoid delays in project
implementation. The large accumulated arrears from government consumers can be reduced by
expanding the GOP's previous action to deduct at source arrears from all government consumers. In
conjunction with regular tariff increases, WAPDA needs to make an extra effort at reducing costs of
operations and reducing arrears in accounts receivables from domestic, industrial and commercial
customers, and improving the billing and collection performance of the AEBs by making them more
accountable, or privatize its distribution arm- either by contracting out the operations or selling it
altogether to the private sector. These measures are being pursued under ongoing projects.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(Ln.3147-PAK)
PART I - Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Project Idenfity
Project Name:       Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project
Loan No.:           31 47-PAK
RVP Unit:           South Asia Region
Country:            Pakistan
Sector:             Energy
Sub-sector:         Power
1.     Background. The Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) was established in
1958 as a semi-autonomous agency for coordination and development of Pakistan's water and power
resources. It is responsible for the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity throughout the
country, with the exception of the greater Karachi area. WAPDA is organized into two largely
independent wings-one for water and the other for power related activities. This report deals with power
related activities of WAPDA.
2.    The country's large hydropower plants are located in the north, whereas most of the large
thermal plants are located in the south. During low water seasons, hydro plants work at reduced capacity
which makes additional demands on thermal power to compensate for lost hydropower capacity. In
order to meet the increasing demand for power, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) has, for the first time,
decided to allow the private sector to construct a new thernal power plant on Hub River near Karachi.
In order to integrate this new power station into the national network and improve evacuation and
distribution of thermal power from the major plants at Guddu and Multan, investments for the extension
and reinforcement of the national 500 kV network were considered essential.
B.     Evaluation of Objectives
3.    Project Objectives. The primary objectives of the project were to assist in the extension and
reinforcement of the 500 kV network to ensure adequate and effective evacuation of power from the
main thermal power generation centers at Guddu and Multan to the major load centers in the middle and
northern regions of the country, and extension of the transmission link between the national 500 kV
network and the Hub Power Complex (HPC) - the first major power generation complex to be financed,
constructed and operated by the private sector. Institution building efforts initiated under earlier Bank
operations were to be continued by strengthening WAPDA's capabilities to formulate, operate and
maintain an efficient and economical transmission system.
4.    Project description. The original project as appraised consisted of the following components:
(a)   the installation of two single circuit 500 kV transmission lines, about 200 km each,
connecting the Hub Power Complex and Jamshoro;



-2-
(b)   the installation of the third single circuit 500 kV line, about 320 km long, between
Guddu and Multan and a second single circuit 500 kV line, of about 300 km, between
Multan and Lahore via Gatti;
(c)   the extension and reinforcement of existing 500 kV substations at Lahore, Gatti, Multan
and Guddu with associated facilities including the reactive compensation,
telecommunication and control equipment; and
(d)   the consulting services to assist and train WAPDA's staff in the design, construction,
operation and maintenance of the 500 kV network.
5.    Project Cost and Financing Plan. Total project cost of the appraised project, including
physical and price contingencies and taxes and duties was estimated at US$393 million. Total financing
required, including interest during construction was estimated at US$463.1 million. Of the total amount
US$162 was expected to be in foreign exchange, while the remaining US$301.1 was to be in local
currency. The Bank loan was expected to finance 100% of the foreign exchange requirements.
6.    Revised Project Cost and Financing Plan. During project implementation, other cofinancing
sources were identified by WAPDA. Cofinancing was provided by the Islamic Development Bank
(IsDB) for the Hub-Jamshoro transmission lines, and the French Government for the Jamshoro
substation. Both of these elements were to be financed under the Bank Loan. The legal agreements were
amended in May 1995 to accommodate the project revision as a result of the mobilization of the above
additional funds. The revised financing plan is as follows: Loan 3147-PAK US$160.5 million; Loan
3764-PAK US$18.3 million; IsDB US$65 million; French Protocol US$27.9 million; WAPDA US$279
million; and bidder's finance US$91.7 million. The revised project cost is estimated at US$642.4 million.
7.    Project Preparation. Design and detailed engineering for the extension and reinforcement of
the 500 kV network which included some 1,012 km of transmission lines together with upgrading of
existing substations, was carried out by WAPDA with the assistance of local and foreign consultants.
Detailed engineering designs, specifications and bidding documents were also prepared by local
consultants (NESPAK2). In view of the high moisture, salt and dust content in the coastal areas,
WAPDA was required, as condition for loan effectiveness, to hire internationally experienced
consultants to assist and advise them on the design of 500 kV networks in such areas (para 18).
8.    The national network was designed to withstand faults without system  separation, line
overloading, cascade tripping and loss of load. To ascertain adequate design for each new extension of
the 500 kV network, specific studies were carried out in the following areas: load flows for normal and
emergency conditions and in typical cases of generation during low water and high water seasons; short
circuits; transient and steady state stability; reactive power management for improvement of system
power factor; mechanical and electrical design for conductor selection; tower structure and substation
layout and control; metering and relaying scheme in association with telecommunication requirements
and integration into the system control and data acquisition (SCADA) network.
9.    Procurement and Construction.  Most of the transmission line equipment and materials
including the substations, amounting to US$296.3 million, were to be procured under the Bank
guidelines for International Competitive Bidding (ICB).  Most of the control, auxiliary and
miscellaneous equipment, amounting to US$20.5 million, were also to be procured through ICB. The
procurement contracts for equipment and materials, not exceeding US$200,000 each and amounting to
US$8 million in aggregate, were to be processed in accordance with Bank guidelines for Limited
International Bidding (LIB). Materials and tools, amounting to US$6.4 million were not to be financed
by the Bank, and were to be procured by local procedures. A portion of construction work, amounting to
2     NESPAK - National Engineering Services of Pakistan.



-3-
US$25 million, was eligible for Bank financing, and was to be procured through ICB as well, while the
remaining construction work, amounting to US$36 million, was to be procured according to national
competitive bidding.
10.   Evaluation of Objectives. Project objectives were clear, realistic and consistent with the Bank's
and GOP's strategy for the power sector. They were clearly achievable within the project period.
C.    Achievement of Objectives
11.   Sectoral Objectives. Sectoral objectives contained in the project include promotion of private
power development, satisfactory management, financial and operational performance by WAPDA and
the strengthening of its capabilities for formulating and implementing the least-cost investment program.
WAPDA's financial and operational performance during the project period was satisfactory, and it has
achieved the performance targets agreed under Bank loan agreements. No macro-economic policy
reforms were included in the project.
12.   Physical Objectives. The project objectives were achieved. Institutional improvements related
to procurement management showed little improvement in WAPDA, despite the experience with a
number of previous Bank loans. One of the main reasons for this shortcoming lies with the substantial
staff turnover within WAPDA.
13.   The project was appraised in 1989; negotiations were held during 1989; and the project was
approved by the Board on December 18, 1989. The Loan and Guarantee Agreements were signed on
February 2, 1990, and the Loan was declared effective on November 2, 1990, following an extension
requested by WAPDA due to delays in meeting the three conditions of effectiveness, namely: obtaining
the Cabinet committee approval for the project, issuing of the first bid documents for the tower material
as specified in the legal agreements, and appointing the consultant for supervision of works. The legal
agreements were amended in May 1995 when WAPDA agreed on a loan of US$65 million from the
IsDB in December 1994 and finally concluded in April 1995. The loan was used to finance all the
required equipment and services for two single-circuit 500 kV lines between HPC and Jamshoro, with
the exception of insulators and hardware, which were funded out of the Loan (3147-PAK).
14.   The legal agreements provided that no withdrawals would be made from the Loan for the
construction of two 500 kV transmission lines between Hub Power Complex (HPC) and Jamshoro until
financial closure for the construction of HPC was completed. Financial closure for the HPC occured in
January 1994 - about three years after Loan effectiveness, at which point disbursements for the
insulators and hardware for the Hub-Jamshoro lines commenced. However, the HPC was commissioned
in June 1996. Soon after the project start, WAPDA identified additional sources of cofinancing from the
Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) for construction of the two transmission lines from HPC to Jamshoro,
and from the French Government for grid stations. The Bank did not object to WAPDA securing
additional resources. It took considerable time, until April 1995, to finalise the cofinancing agreement
with the IsDB. This agreement freed up part of the Loan earmarked for the transmission lines. Upon the
request from the GOP, the Bank's management approved the reallocation of approximately US$36
million, originally allocated for these lines, to partially finance the supply of material for the Third
Jamshoro-Guddu line. The legal agreements were amended in May 1995 to include the partial financing
of the Third Jamshoro-Guddu 500 kV transmission line which was not part of the appraised project, for
which funds from Loan 3147-PAK as well as the Power Sector Development Project (PSDP: Ln 3764-
PAK) were also used. The two HPC - Jamshoro transmission lines were completed in 1996 in time to
evacuate energy from the HPC. The closing date of the project was extended for one year until
December 31, 1996. Contractual problems have delayed the start of construction of the third Jamshoro-
Guddu line, which is now expected to be completed in December 1999, within the current closing date of
the PSDP Loan.



-4-
15.   The project, as implemented, comprised of the following components:
(a)   installation of two single-circuit 500 kV lines connecting HPC and Jamshoro (cofinanced
by IsDB) in the amount of US$65 million, and Loan 3147-PAK in the amount of
US$17.18 million;
(b)   installation of a third single-circuit 500 kV line, including communications system
between Guddu and Multan;
(c)   installation of a second single-circuit 500 kV line between Multan and Lahore via Gatti;
(d)   installation of a third single-circuit 500 kV  line between Jamshoro and Guddu
(Jamshoro-Rahim Yar Khan) including links at Moro and Dadu, and switching stations
at Moro and Rahim Yar Khan (with funds provided partially by Loan 3147-PAK and
from the Power Sector Development Project, Loan 3764-PAK, and with the remainder of
financing provided by bidders and WAPDA's own funds);
(e)    extension and reinforcement of existing 500 kV substations at Lahore, Gatti, Multan and
Guddu with associated facilities including reactive compensations, communication and
control equipment;
(f)    extension and reinforcement of existing 500 kV substations at Jamshoro with associated
facilities including reactive compensations, communication and control equipment
(financed under French Protocol); and
(g)    consultancy services to assist and train WAPDA's staff in the design, construction,
operation and maintenance of the 500 kV network.
16.   Physical Achievements. Table I below summarizes physical achievements of the project. The
construction of Hub-Jamshoro 500 kV transmission lines I and II was delayed mainly due to longer than
usual time it took to arrange cofinancing from IsDB following a proposal made by a Saudi firm.
However, both lines were completed on time to evacuate energy from the HPC. They were
commissioned on January 7, 1996 and October 28, 1996 respectively. The third Guddu-Multan line was
commissioned on December 8, 1994, while the communications system on this line was commissioned
on November 22, 1995. The second Multan-Lahore line via Gatti was constructed in two sections, Gatti-
Lahore was energized on October 14, 1993, and Multan-Gatti section was energized on March 1, 1995.
The extension of 500 kV substations at Guddu, Multan, Lahore and Gatti was accomplished with 99% of
work completed. The substations were commissioned on September 23, 1996.
Table 1: Physical Achievements
Unit          Description of the Item    SAR Target        Actual
|  km               km
Transmission       First Hub-Jamshoro           200             180
Line          Second Hub-Jamshoro           200              180
Third Guddu-Multan           312             313
Second Multan-Lahore          300             316
Third Jamshoro-Guddu         N/A              645
Substations             Lahore           Additional bays,   Substantially
Gatti            shunt reactors,    completed
Multan           transformers and
Guddu             circuit breakers



-5-
17.   The Jamshoro-Guddu transmission line and the related substations at Moro and Rahim Yar
Khan are not expected to be completed until end-1999, within the project implementation period of the
ongoing PSDP Loan. Two contracts for stubs and steel towers awarded to the same contractor were
terminated following default, and the new bids have been opened on April 16 and April 28, 1997 and are
currently under evaluation. The contract for conductors is also pending resolution of a dispute between
the joint venture partners, one of whom is said to be bankrupt. The procurement of the following
material for this transmission line has been completed: (a) supply of 16,300 kg E&M strength insulators
(financed under Loan 3147-PAK); (b) supply of 8,200 kg of E&M strength insulators (financed under
Loan 3147-PAK); (c) supply of hardware (financed under Loan 3147-PAK); (d) supply of accessories
(financed under Loan 3147-PAK); and (e) supply of dampers (financed under Loan 3147-PAK). Supply
of shield wire (financed by WAPDA) is expected to be completed in August 1997. The line construction
contracts have been awarded and foundation construction is in progress; but this work will be held up
due to the delay in receipt of the stubs and steel towers. The expected date of completion for the
transmission line is June 1999. Other ongoing activities include:
(a)   the remaining work on the SCADA system at the Jamshoro substation is expected to be
completed by June 1997; and
(b)   the addition of auto-transformers at Guddu substation (financed under a French Protocol)
is expected to be completed in December 1997.
18.   Studies. As a condition of loan effectiveness, WAPDA was required to carry out a study of the
impact of high moisture, salt and dust in the coastal areas on the network elements. This study was
carried out and the study recommendations were used in the development of design specifications for the
network elements.
19.   Environmental Objectives and Achievements. Yellow Cover review of environmental aspects
noted that WAPDA was making good progress in taking into account environmental impacts of its
facilities. No significant adverse impacts were expected from the construction of the new transmission
lines in the existing corridors and the expansion of existing substations. However, the environment
division (EMTEN) recommended an environmental review for the design of HPC-Jamshoro lines by a
qualified environmental specialist, including field reconnaissance of the rights of way to assure that the
development would not adversely affect sensitive ecological areas, archeological or historic sites and
human settlements. No such study was mentioned in the final approved project documents. As a result,
there is no recorded information on environmental or social aspects, either in the Bank supervision
reports or the quarterly progress reports from WAPDA.  However, in accordance with standard
procedures agreed with the Bank, WAPDA would: coordinate the routing of lines with local authorities
to minimize their impact; provide compensation when land is required for supporting facilities; ensure
that equipment provided would have limited noise level; incorporate adequate safety standards to
minimize the risk of electrocution; and ensure that transformers to be used would not contain PCB's
(polychlorinated biphenyl). The only study that was done pertained to the safety of the conductors,
insulators and towers in the adverse coastal environment with high pollution and salt content in the
atmosphere.
20.   Financial Objectives and Performance. To ensure that adequate funds were available for the
implementation of WAPDA's investment program, the agreements between WAPDA and the Bank for
the ongoing operations include two major financial covenants. The Internal Cash Generation (ICG)
covenant required WAPDA to generate annually from internal sources at least 40% of its capital
expenditures, averaged over the previous, current and ensuing year, taking into consideration changes in
working capital. WAPDA was also required to maintain coverage from revenues of at least 1.5 times its
debt service requirements.



-6-
21.    WAPDA's overall financial performance during project period was satisfactory.  The ICG
exceeded the required 40% in all years except FY94 when it fell to 28%, while its debt service coverage
index fell to 0.9, mainly due to the retirement of its second bond issue, which it was unable to rollover in
unfavorable market conditions. A tariff increase of 24% in November 1994 improved WAPDA's
financial performance and enabled it to meet the financial covenants during FY95. While its debt-equity
ratio has been satisfactory, WAPDA has had to resort to substantial short-term borrowing in recent years,
in part due to its high levels of receivables, and difficulties in mobilizing long-term financing. In order
to meet its revenue requirements, as well as to remain in compliance with the financial covenants,
WAPDA has increased tariffs annually. Beginning in mid-1996, rather than increase tariffs on an annual
basis, WAPDA has resorted to monthly tariff increases in order to meet its cash requirements, as well as
to soften the impact on consumers. The monthly increases started in August 1996 at 1.43 percent and
gradually increased to 2 percent in December 1996. While appreciating the approach of monthly
increases in order to mitigate their impact, the Bank expressed its concern that the present increases will
not be adequate for WAPDA to generate sufficient resources to meet its obligations, including financing
of its planned investment program and debt servicing, and meeting the financial covenants. A latest
supervision mission (of May 1997) reported that without a further tariff increase during FY97, the
projected year-end result would be a self-financing ratio of 34.5 percent and debt service coverage ratio
of 1.0, both substantially below the levels agreed under the various World Bank loans.
22.    WAPDA's overall accounts receivables increased steadily over the project period, averaging at
around two months of sales for private sector collection, and until recently, six months of sales for
government receivables (against the agreed three months), and amounting to about Rs. 19 billion. A
major achievement was the GOP decision in 1995 to deduct at source from government budgetary
allocations and withhold payments due to WAPDA from Government agencies for adjustment against
arrears. This adjustment has enabled WAPDA to meet the agreement with the Bank, and improve its
financial performance, and has helped install a certain discipline in financial relationships. The coverage
of this effort will be expanded to include recoveries from all government consumers. The major area of
concern, that still needs to be addressed, however, is the arrears in accounts receivables from the
Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), Karachi Electric Supply Company and Balochistan
tubewells. WAPDA recognizes that this is a difficult problem to tackle in view of the current prevailing
practices. Stricter enforcement measures are required together with the firm support from GOP, and
WAPDA is considering a plan to make Area Electricity Boards (AEBs) more accountable. A latest
Government decision (of 1997) on metering tubewell consumers and removing the subsidy to FATA
consumers would, if implemented vigorously, enhance WAPDA's finances.
23.   Institutional Development Objectives.  WAPDA's technical staff is well qualified and
competent, and was able to undertake the project in a systematic and professional manner. However,
procurement-related expertise, especially in the areas of contract management, project monitoring and
control systems, was at times lagging resulting in substantial implementation delays in some of the
project's components. Due mainly to staff turnover, some difficulties were experienced under the project
in the preparation of bid documents, following Bank guidelines, and preparation of bid evaluations in a
timely, objective and transparent manner. WAPDA has agreed to hire management consultants to assist
in the improvement of its managerial operational and financial efficiency.
24.    Although WAPDA has a comprehensive training program with eleven training establishments in
eight cities, which provides training for the managerial, technical and accounting staff, one of the major
components of the project was to provide training for WAPDA professional staff in the areas where
local expertise is insufficient. However, the training of WAPDA staff in the design, construction,
operation and maintenance of the 500 kV network has not taken place. WAPDA has traditionally
arranged external training of its staff through equipment supply contracts only, not necessarily focusing
on specialized training related to transmission lines and substation management. WAPDA used limited
project funds to finance training provided by equipment suppliers, and provided training to lower cadres
at its training centers. The project objective was to provide more specialized training to enable the mid-



-7-
level and senior technical and management staff to be at the cutting edge of technology and management.
Given GOP's reluctance to use Loan funds in pursuing such training, the institutional objectives related
to this aspect were only partially met, using, in particular, bilateral grant funds.
D.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
25.   Factors Not Subject to Government or Implementing Agency Control. A number of factors
that caused delays in project implementation were beyond the control of the GOP and WAPDA.
Unprecedented rains and floods, particularly in 1992 and 1994, caused significant delays in delivery of
material to construction sites. As a consequence of damage suffered by the existing Jamshoro-Guddu
transmission line in the local cyclone in 1992, the third Jamshoro-Guddu line was rerouted which caused
some change in design and hence, delay. Adverse law and order situation in some parts of the country,
together with the default of the contractor for the supply of stubs and steel towers, delayed the
construction of some of the transmission lines.
26.   Factors Subject to Government Control.  GOP procedures required the issue of a "no
objection certificate" (NOC) on a case by case basis from the Standing Freight Committee for the use of
non-national vessels. This procedure took considerable time, and no attempt was made to provide a
blanket NOC for Bank-financed procurement. Similarly, opening of letters of credit was subject to
considerable delays, mainly awaiting the State Bank of Pakistan to nominate one of the three
nationalized commercial banks, despite the availability of the Special Account. Although WAPDA
routinely seeks bidder's financing for equipment, arranging bank guarantees has not been easy. The
major factor in the delay in implementation, however, was the lengthy process for finalization of
cofinancing agreement with the IsDB, before which, the work on two transmission lines between HPC
and Jamshoro could not begin, nor could the decision on funding of the Third Jamshoro Guddu
transmission line be taken. However, as mentioned earlier (para 16), both lines were completed on time
to evacuate energy from the HPC, and completion of the Third Jamshoro-Guddu transmission line is
expected during implementation of the PSDP.
27.   Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control. Delays in approval of import licenses and
in clearing imported goods from customs, mainly due to lack local currency allocations for the project
due to cash flow problems, caused delays in project implementation. Delays in implementation were
encountered both on the transmission lines and substation extension components primarily due to
procurement problems arising from: not observing procurement rules and procedures; inadequate
attention to bid document preparation; lack of objectivity and transparency in bid evaluations; and the
time taken to make award recommendations. Despite the experience with Bank procurement procedures
and the agreement on standardized bid documents, it took 15 months for one contract to be signed,
counting from the day the bidding was first announced, and for another it took almost a full year. The
process of bid evaluation and awarding of contracts was particularly rife with problems, and the Bank
was frequently called upon to act on contractors' complaints and insist on correcting the errors. In the
majority of cases the Bank considered WAPDA and its consultants at fault, primarily for failure to
observe the procurement rules and guidelines.
E.    Project Sustainability
28.   The project was successful in enhancing WAPDA's capacity in transmission and distribution of
power through its extended and modernized 500 kV national network, especially in critical periods of
low hydel capacity and increased demand for thermal power. In order to sustain these and other benefits
of the project, WAPDA will need to provide adequate maintenance budgets, technical and personnel
resources and conduct all the necessary actions to realize the full asset life of the investments, as detailed
in the Operation Plan (Appendix A, Annex 3) which was agreed during the ICR mission.



-8-
29.    Economic Rate of Return (ERR): Based on the assumptions detailed  below3, the revised
ERRs are estimated at 9.3 percent and 12.2 percent for the two scenarios of electricity prices. These are
in line with the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimates of 8 percent and 14 percent, respectively, for the
corresponding price scenarios. The assumptions used for the ERR calculations in this ICR are the same
as in the SAR. Total costs include: actual FY90-96 WAPDA investments4 expressed in economic costs5
actual operations and maintenance expenditures; and (actual) incremental fuel cost, converted to border
price equivalent. As in the SAR, incremental electricity sales up to three years after FY96 were
attributed to the investments incurred during FY90-96, and thus included as the benefits for the ERR
calculations. Following the SAR (Annex 5.1, pages 2 and 3), two scenarios were used for electricity
prices: (i) actual average price during FY90-96 expressed in 1989 terms, and maintained at the FY96
level for subsequent years; and (ii) actual average price between FY90-96, and between FY96-99,
average price reflecting the real increase required to meet the financial covenants, and maintained at
FY99 required level for subsequent years. Actual fuel costs and sales during FY96 for WAPDA system
were distorted from the normal trend'- fuel costs rose abnormally (by 33 percent compared to an average
of 22 percent during FY90-95), while sales growth was depressed (only 5.4 percent in FY96, compared
to an average growth of 7.7 percent during FY90-95). Actual incremental fuel costs and sales in FY96
were thus replaced by the average increment during FY90-95, for the purposes of these ERR
calculations. The ERR calculations are illustrated in Table 9.
F.      Performance of Bank and Cofinanciers
30.    Bank preparation and appraisal of the project was consistent with the energy sector policies of
the GOP and was based on WAPDA's plan for the extension and reinforcement of the national 500 kV
network. The SAR identified specific actions that were essential to meet project objectives, and thus
provided an overall framework for undertaking this project. During the course of previous projects, the
Bank and WAPDA agreed on a standardized set of procurement procedures, from preparation of bidding
documents to awarding of contracts and contract monitoring. The overall performance of the Bank
during preparation and supervision was satisfactory. Considerable efforts were made by the Bank to
assist WAPDA improve bid documentation, and to ensure that procurement guidelines were observed.
There were, however, a few instances of delays in communicating Bank decisions and 'no-objections'.
On one occasion, the review and clearance of bid documents had taken over one year due to the
complexity of preparing bid documents for turnkey projects (for which the Bank had no sample bidding
document at the time), and the slow response by WAPDA. Despite representations by WAPDA
regarding Bank disagreement with WAPDA on award decisions, exclusion of bids for reasons of non-
responsiveness, and recommendations for rebidding, these decisions were made correctly in conformity
with Bank procurement guidelines. To streamline Bank's efforts in enhancing WAPDA's procurement
capability (as recorded in the June 1996 Bank mission's aide-memoire for all power sector portfolio),
measures have been agreed to improve and streamline the process. Follow-up action is necessary to
3      In the economic analysis of the SAR, it was indicated that benefits were expressed in economic terms by
applying a standard conversion factor of 0.85 to electricity prices. However, in Annex 5.1, the ERR
computation did not apply this conversion factor to electricity prices. Therefore, such conversion was
also ignored for the ERR calculations in this ICR.
4      Private sector investments, as well as additional sales resulting from these investments, were not included
in the analysis, since private investments are still evolving. In particular, only one private project (the
Hub project) had started operations in 1996, while investments are ongoing at about 16 private plants.
ERR calculations based on actual private investments during FY90-96, and sales resulting from these
investments alone, would have thus artificially distorted the results.
Net of taxes and duties, and local component discounted by the same standard conversion factor as in the
SAR.
6      International fuel oil price increased from about US$70/ton to about US$1 10/ton in the first half of
FY96, but have subsequently fallen back to the previous levels. This temporary distortion led to an
abnormal increase in WAPDA's fuel cost in FY96. Since the SAR used the levels of FY96 costs and
benefits as the basis for all subsequent years, an adjustment was required to remove such distortion.



-9-
ensure that the necessary improvements take place, includinig structured training for WAPDA's
procurement staff. Project files do not have in forimiationl on the performance ol cofitianiciers, hence no
assessments have been attempted in this report.
31.    WAPI)A made formal representation in 1997 claiming three instances where the Bank released
the last ten percent payments. in 1994, for supplies prior to certification of acceptance of material by
WAPDA. Inquiries have revealed, however, that the Bank acted correctly making these payments only
after receiving confirmation from WAPDA's bankers who were acting on the instructions of WAPDA.
32.    The Bank carried out eighit supervision missions maintaining continuity of experienced staff.
The missions reviewed critical aspects of the project, identified factors impeding implementation and
suggested remedial actions to be carried out by WAPDA. The frequency of missions was adequate.
However, duc to the large agenda of cachi mission, supervising three to four projects during cachi visit,
and the law and order situation in somile of the project areas, it is judged that the missions had insufficient
time to carry out detailed reviews anid site visits. On one occasion, the Bank was able to convince
WAPDA management to undertakc a pilot scheme to test introduction of new equipmeilt in the
transmission system.
G.    Borrower Performance
33.    WAPDA has successfully established the capability to transmit power at full capacity on the
north-south axis with reduced losses and improvements in reliability of supply, voltage profiles, power
factor in areas served by the substations and the transient stability of the network. This is especially
significant in low-water season because with the extension of its 500 kV network and commissioning of
the HPC. WAPDA is also able to compensate for the losses in hydro-electric power capacity. WAPDA
undertook the project with lull commitment for the obvious gains it had to offer, but its perlormance
suffered due to a number ot external constraints and internial inefficiencies, which caused project
implementation delays. In spite of the above problems in procurement, WAPDA has been able to
achieve the project objectives and was able to have the transmission facilities completed in time to
evacuate energy from the HPC.
34.    WAPDA's procurement management for some of the contracts related to this project and the law
and order situation in some of the project areas were the major source of delays in the implementation of
some of the project components. The situation deteriorated during the last two years of the project
mainly with the procurement process of the equipment required for the third Jamshoro-Guddu and the
turnkey contracts for supply and installation of substations: Bid documents deviated from agreed
formats, and lacked clarity in conditions of contract and specifications, inter alia, conditions regarding
joint ventures and insurance. This entailed considerable efforts by the Bank to improve bid documents
prior to clearance. In one case, which was also reviewed by the Operations Procurement Review
Committee, the Bank insisted on re-bidding due to bidder's deviation from bid conditions relating to
insurance. The Committee warned that unless something was done about insurance aspects, specifically
about consequential and indirect damages, problems with bids are bound to continue. Validity of bids
was extended well beyond the original periods, in some cases, to over one year. Delays in finalizing
award decisions resulted from the time taken to reach award decisions by the procurement staff and the
WAPDA tender committee (The Competent Authority), the need to deal with contractor complaints, and
the delays in providing clarifications to the Bank. There is little delegation by the Competent Authority
of procurement responsibilities to senior managers.
35.    Often bid evaluations did not follow Bank procurement guidelines, specially with regard to
minutes of bid opening, interpretation of bid conditions, which evoked complaints from the bidders.
Among them were allegations of partiality to some suppliers, of attempts to thwart entry of new suppliers
to Pakistan, and declaring bids non-responsive without adequate justification. On some occasions, the
Bank disagreed with WAPDA's evaluations, insisting on reversal of award decisions and even re-



-10-
bidding. The response to clarifications sought by the Bank took, in some cases, four to five months.
Opening of letters of credit and establishing of bank guarantees took sometimes exceptionally long time.
As no blanket exemption was sought or granted for use of foreign vessels, applications were made to the
Standing Committee on Freight for each case causing additional delays. No attempt was made to resolve
these matters despite the project being externally financed.
36.   While WAPDA benefited from the professional experience gained through managing the project,
further improvement in WAPDA's management skills, specifically in the areas of procurement, contract
administration, revenue mobilization and human resources development is necessary. It is creditable,
however, that despite many procurement problems, WAPDA was able to complete implementation of the
project as appraised within the project period. If such problems could be avoided, the potential for
improvement in WAPDA's project management performance would be great. Overall, the performance
of WAPDA is considered satisfactory.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
37.    The following are the major achievements of the project: (a) enhancement of an efficient
transmission system for conveying power from hydel generation facilities in the north, and thermal
facilities in the south to major consumption centers; (b) incorporation of the first privately owned and
operated thermal power plant (HPC) into the national transmission network; (c) reduction in transmission
losses; (d) improvements in voltage stability and the power factor. In addition WAPDA's institutional
capacity for the expansion of the bulk transmission network was enhanced. Due to the delay in
completion of the third Jamshoro-Guddu transmission line, full advantage of the north-south
transmission axis will not be realized until 1999. Nevertheless, the project greatly improved the
transmission capacity along the axis, and enhanced WAPDA's ability to provide reliable power supply in
all seasons. Overall, the project met its objectives and the implementation is considered satisfactory.
I.     Future Operation
38.   In order to sustain the benefits of the project over the life of the assets, an operational plan was
formulated in agreement with WAPDA, which identifies the technical, financial and institutional
arrangements necessary for the operation of the network at its maximum efficiency. The operational
plan (Appendix A) describes the indicators to be used in measuring the performance of the transmission
lines, substations and other installed facilities. In addition, the plan identifies staffing, technical and
financial resource requirements that WAPDA needs to allocate on an annual basis for the operation and
maintenance of these assets, provides timetables for monitoring the progression in achieving the
performance targets, and lists the agreements reached between the Bank and WAPDA on follow-up
actions.
J.     Key Lessons Learned
39.   A number of key lessons learned should be used in the design and implementation of future
Bank-financed projects, and should be agreed prior to project approval:
(a)    Sectoral Policies: Promotion of the private sector in the production and operation of
power plants remains an attractive option to meet the growing demand for power in
Pakistan;
(b)    Management: To promote efficient project management, appropriate powers and
responsibilities should be delegated to senior managers of WAPDA.
(c)    Administrative Procedures: Administrative procedures that hinder efficient project
implementation  should be amended for externally-financed projects.  (Blanket



-11-
exemptions should be granted to the use of shipping vessels of member countries of the
World Bank for Bank-financed procurement. Measures to facilitate opening of letters of
credit should be agreed with the GOP/Bank of Pakistan for anticipated foreign currency
requirements based on SAR estimates, and one commercial bank should be identified for
such transactions. WAPDA should have the use of funds in the Special Account to meet
necessary eapenditures
(d)    Procurement: Efficiency, economy and transparency of procurement administration
needs to be institutionalized in WAPDA. Standard bidding documents approved for use
in Pakistan or agreed with Bank should be used exclusively with explicit and
unambiguous conditions of contract and specifications. Bank procurement guidelines
should be followed exclusively in procurement management. Bid awards should be done
within the original bid validity period. The procurement process should be made
transparent and objective, and the confidentiality of the bidding process should be
maintained. WAPDA procurement staff should receive periodic training to upgrade their
skills. Senior managers of WAPDA should be given procurement responsibilities.
(e)    Revenues and Cash Requirements: Adequate budget provision should be made to meet
operational requirements, and efforts to mobilize revenue should be enhanced.
(Adequate budgets are required for operational needs of WAPDA. Adequate local
currency allocations should be provided for obtaining import licenses and for payment of
customs duties and taxes. Revenue mobilization should be done through a mix of
appropriate tariffs, cost reduction measures including reduction of losses, and efficient
billing and collection. Arrears in accounts receivables should be reduced through
enforcement of sanctions against all delinquent consumers, and recovery of dues from all
government consumers at source. The structure, powers and responsibilities of AEBs
should be changed to enable them to act as agents responsible for bulk power purchase
and distribution with efficient operation, billing and collection. Pilot operations to
appoint private sector companies for distribution should be tested).
(f)    Training: Structured training for senior, middle and operational staff should be agreed at
project start. Project technical assistance funds dedicated for training should not be
reallocated for other purposes. (Senior and middle level managers should be provided
training in the management of 500 kV transmission networks. Training curricula at
WAPDA's training institutes should be reviewed and made more focused and more
responsive to current needs.)






-13-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(Ln.3147-PAK)
Part II - Statistical Tables






-15-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial      Partial       Neliible      Not applicablk
Macro Policies                    0              0               0                El
Sector Policies                   0              10              0                0
Financial Objectives              El             0               0                O
Institutional Development         0              E               0                0
Physical Objectives                              0               0                0
Poverty Reduction                 0              0               0                0
Gender Issues                     0              0               0                0
Other Social Objectives           0              0               0                0
Environmental Objectives                         O               E0l              0
Public Sector Management          0              0               0                0
Private Sector Development        0              0               0                0
Other (specify)                   0              0               O                El
B. Project Sustainabilitv            ULx                   Unlikely                Uncertain
0                ~~~~~~0                   0
C. Bank Performance                  Satisfactorv        Satisfaclr                DeficLent
Identification                    0                       0                       0
Preparation Assistance            00                                              0
Appraisal                         0                       El                       0
Supervision                       0                       0                       0
HIly
D. Boffower Performance                    Satisfactory    Satisfactorv   Deficient
Preparation                                0              0I             0
Implementation                             0              0              0
Covenant Compliance                        0              0              0
Operation (if applicable)                  0              0              0
Highly                                         Hwhy
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactr   Satisfactoa   Unsatisfactor    unsatisfactory
0              E               0                0



-16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Cr./Ln. No.                                    Yr. of
and Title                Purpose              Apprv.       Status       Connnents
A.  p= f  Operafi_ ____
Cr. 213-PAK          Upgrading capacity of          1970     Closed        Completed with delay
WAPDA Power          Transmission Network                    (12/31/78)    of five years.
Project
(WAPDA I)
Ln. 1208-PAK         Finance part of 500-kV Trans.    1976   Closed        Successfully completed,
Second WAPDA         System, connecting hydro in             (9/30/82)     with 1 year delay.
Power Project        north and thermal gen. in south
(WAPDA II)
Cr. 968-PAK Third    Finance 4-year tranche of      1979     Closed        Successfully completed
WAPDA Power          program for development. of             (12/31/85)    but with 3 year delay.
Project              secondary transmission
(WAPDA III)
Ln. 2499-PAK         Finance 4-year tranche of      1985     Closed        Successfully completed,
Fourth WAPDA        program for development of               (12/31/92)    but with 3 year delay.
Power Project        secondary transmission.                               PCR dated 6/21/95.
(WAPDA IV)
Ln. 2556-PAK Fifth   Assist WAPDA in reinforcement  1985     Closed        Completed but with a
WAPDA Power          of EHV power transmission               (12/31/93)    delay of 3 years.
Project (WAPDA V)   network reducing transmission                         Guddu-Jamshoro
losses                                               section completed in
August 1995.
Ln. 2698-PAK Kot    Installation of 200 MW additional  1986  Closed       Completed with two
Addu Combined        generating capacity at Kot Addu         (6/30/93)    years delay. PCR dated
Cycle Power Project   Power Station.                                       11/27/95.
(WAPDA VI)
Ln. 2792-PAK Power  Finance program for             1987     Closed        Completed with two
Plant Efficiency     rehabilitation of 7 power plants        (6/30/94)     years delay.
Improvement Project  and addition of combined cycle                       ICR dated 3/6/96
(WAPDA VII)          generation at 2 power plants.



-17-
Cr./Ln. No.                Purpose             Yr. of       Status          Comments
and Title                                     Apprv.
B. Folowing Operations
Ln. 3148/Cr. 2078-    Extending the supply of      1989      Ongoing      Original Closing Date
PAK Rural            electricity to new villages and         after        12/95; extended to 6/97.
Electrification Project  settlements; connecting to the      substantial
(WAPDA IX)          grid settlements of electrified          delays in
villages; expanding consumer           start-up.
connections; reinforcing and
rehabilitating existing distribution
network; extending electricity
supply to tubewells; mapping of
all villages and settlements; and
installing load management
schemes.
Ln. 3764-PAK Power  Restructuring and privatization  1994    Ongoing      Closing Date 6/99
Sector Development   component to implement a
Project (WAPDA X)   Strategic Plan including
reorganization and
corporatization of WAPDA;
investment component to
implement a timeslice (1995-
1998) of WAPDA's investment
program.
Ln. 3965-PAK Ghazi  Assist GOP in its efforts to: (a)   1995  Project     Closing date 6/2002
Barotha Hydropower   develop domestic energy                 approved
Project (WAPDA XI)  resources and reduce load-               12/19/95 and
shedding in a cost effective and       made
environmentally sustainable            effective
manner; (b) reinforce and               6/27/96
complement the reform program
for the power sector; (c)
strengthen WAPDA's capability
to address environmental and
resettlement issues related to
hydropower projects; and (d)
further rationalize the use of
electricity.
C. aLoans
Ln. 2552-PAK        Finance GOP's program for      1985     Closed        Successfully completed.
Energy Sector Loan    policy reform and inst.               (12/31/88)
development during Sixth Five
Yr. Plan (FY83-88).



-18-
Cr./Ln. No.                Purpose             Yr. of       Status          Conmients
and Title                                     Apprv.
Ln. 3107-PAK        Finance GOP's program for      1989 &   Closed        ICR prepared.
Second Energy Sector  policy reform and inst.      1991      (12/31/94)    Performance Audit
Loan                development during Seventh Five                       Report under preparation
Yr. Plan (FY89-93)                                   by OED.
Ln. 2842-PAK        To improve operational         1987      Ongoing      The balancing and
Refinery Energy     efficiency at NRL by reducing                         modernization
Conservation and     energy consumption, increasing                       components have been
Modernization Project crude processing capacity, and                      completed; Closing date
modifying the output mix to                          extended to June 30,
better match product demand.                          1996 to allow for
completion of captive
power plant utilizing
exhaust gases
Ln. 3252-PAK         Finance program for           1990 &   Ongoing
Corporate           restr./privatization of SNGPL,    1991
Restructuring and   and expansion of its transmission
System Expansion    and distribution network capacity
Project             by about 50%. Under the
project, SNGPL constructed a
pipeline between Multan and
Kot-Addu for supplying natural
gas to the power station
Ln. 3500-PAK        Accelerate development of      1992      Ongoing
Domestic Energy     hydrocarbons by PS resources,
Resources           delivery to consumers, enhancing
Development Project  commercial orientation of public-
sector entities, and GOP
regulation/policy-making
Ln. 2982-PAK        Assist GOP in mobilizing private  1988   Ongoing      Implementation of
Private Sector Energy  sector financing for energy                        private sector projects
Development Project  investments and develop                              was substantially delayed
(PSEDP I)           institutional framework for                           during FY90-93;
sustaining private sector                            construction of Hub
investment/operations in the                         Power Project is now
sector                                               completed and operating
satisfactorily. Closing
Date extended to
12/31/99 (to correspond
with PSEDP-II)
Ln. 3812-PAK        To replenish the PSEDF         1994     Ongoing
Second Private Sector  established under Ln. 2982-PAK
Energy Development  for fnancing private sector
Project   (PSEDP-  investments in energy and
II)                 infrastructure projects.



-19-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification / Preparation                                       See note
Appraisal                                                          June 1989
Board Presentation                                                 December 18, 1989
Signing                                                            February 2, 1990
Effectiveness                                May 3, 1990           November 2, 1990
Amendment of Legal Documents                                       May 1995
Project Completion                           June 30, 1995         December 1999 (est.)
Loan Closing                                 December 31, 1995     December 31, 1996
Note: Project identification and /preparation efforts were undertaken as part of supervision activities
for ongoing projects at that time. MIS records on time recording reflect this also (See Table 12).



-20-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: C umlative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
Appraisal      Actually     Percentage    Cumulative
Estimate     Disbursed      Disbursed   Disbursement
FY 1990
July-Dec 89
Jan-June 90           2.6
FY 1991
July-Dec 90           9.6
Jan-June 91          14.0           6.6           4.05            6.6
FY 1992
July-Dec 91          17.0           4.2           6.66           10.8
Jan-June 92          23.0           12.5         14.36          23.3
FY 1993
July-Dec 92          21.0           11.2         21.25          34.5
Jan-June 93          22.0           17.5         32.08          52.0
FY 1994
July-Dec 93          22.0           9.0          37.65          61.0
Jan-June 94          14.8            7.9         42.50          68.9
FY 1995
July-Dec 94           8.0           4.8          45.48           73.7
Jan-June 95           8.0           18.6         56.97          92.3
FY 1996
July-Dec 95             0           19.3         68.88          111.6
Jan-June 96             0           13.2         77.03          124.8
FY 1997
July-Dec 96             0          27.3          93.88          152.1
Jan-June 97             0            7.8         98.70          159.9
Date of final disbursement: May 22, 1997.



-21-
Table 5: Ke Indicators for    j             a
I. Key implementation indicators in SAR
Estimated             Actual
1. HPC-Jamshoro 500 kV transmission line
(a) No. of circuits                                   2                   2
(b) Line length of each                            200 km               180 km
2. 3rd Guddu-Multan, 2nd Multan-Lahore 500 kV
(a) Line length (3rd Guddu-Multan)                   312                 313
(b) Line length (2nd Multan-Lahore).                 300                 316
3. 3rd Jamshoro-Guddu 500 kV transmission line            -                  645
4. Extension of Substations
(a) Guddu         (i) No. of lines to be terminated       1                   1
(ii) No. of bays                       1                    1
(iii) No. of shunt reactors            1             1 set + I (spare)
(iv) No. of circuit breakers           3                    3
(v) Auto transformer                                      Iset
(b) Multan        (i) No. of lines to be terminated       2                   2
(ii) No. of bays                       1                1/3+2/3
(iii) No. of shunt reactors           1 set               1 set
(iv) No. of circuit breakers           3                    3
(c) Gatti         (i) No. of lines to be terminated       2                   2
(ii) No. of bays                      1/3                  1/3
(iii) No. of shunt reactors            1                  1 set
(iv) No. of circuit breakers           1                    1
(d) Lahore        (i) No. of lines to be terminated       1                   1
(ii) No. of bays                       1                    1
(iii) No. of shunt reactors
(iv) No. of circuit breakers           3                    3
(e) Jamshoro     (i) No. of lines to be terminated       -                   3
(ii) No. of bays                                            2
(iii) No. of shunt reactors                         2 sets + 1 (spare)
(iv) No. of circuit breakers           -                    5
(f) Moro          (i) No. of lines to be terminated       -                   3
(ii) No. of bays                                            2
(iii) No. of shunt reactors                         2 sets + 2 (spare)
(iv) No. of circuit breakers           -                    5
(g) Rahim         (i) No. of lines to be terminated       -                   3
Yar Khan          (ii) No. of bays                                            2
(iii) No. of shunt reactors                         2 sets + 1 (spare)
(iv) No. of circuit breakers           -                    5



-22-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating indicators in
SAR/Presidents Report                Estimated                      Actual
1. None
II. Modified indicators
1. None
III. Operation Plan indicators
1. Completion of the       December 1996                 December 1999
Jamshoro-Guddu T/L by 1999                             _
2. Completion of switching    December 1996              Decemberune 1999
substations at Moro and
Rahim Yar Khan along with
Jamshoro-Guddu T/L
3. Stable voltage profile with  Not available            Monitoring required against
minimal losses, tripping                                 standards
and/or faults
4. Adequate operations and   Not awarded: cash flow      Annual adequate provision
maintenance budget         problems                      required
5. Standardized procurement  At project start
management
6. Training                Overseas training for senior and   Structured training program
middle-level managers        required
7. Privatized (initially on a    Proposed but not done   Pilot privatization of distribution
pilot basis) power distribution                          required
Table 7: Studies Inluded in Project
Purpose as defined
Study         at appraisal/redefined       Status           Impact of study
Impact of Coastal
Climate on           Design Specifications   Completed           Appropriate Design
Transmission Network
Automated Accounting  To improve financial   Completed           Not fully implemented.
and Financial        management
Management System
Actuarial Study      To determine self     Completed
insurance contributions



-23-
Table 8A: Proiect Costs
Presentation of appraisal estimates follows the format shown in the SAR and actual results
are given for each item to facilitate comparison
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)    Actual/latest estimate (US$
l________  million)
Local    Foreign              Local    Foreign
Item               costs     costs     Total      costs     costs     Total
1. HPC-JamshoroT/L             54.10      43.10     97.20     33.95     82.18    116.13
2. Guddu-Lahore T/L             71.80     47.80    119.60     20.30     73.77      94.07
3. Jamshoro-Guddu T/L              0         0          0    122.40     84.10    206.50
4. Substations                  27.80     31.00     58.80     76.91    123.31    200.22
5. Consultancies and training   20.70      3.60     24.30     25.44         0      25.44
Base Cost                      174.50    125.50    300.00    279.00    363.36    642.36
Physical Contingencies           8.40      6.20     14.60         0         0         0
Price Contingencies             48.20     30.20     78.40         0         0         0
Total Project Cost             231.00    162.00    393.00    279.00    363.36    642.36
Interest During Construction    70.10         0     70.10     64.77         0      64.77
TOTAL COST                     301.10    162.00    463.10    343.77    363.36    707.13
Table BR: toject Finn
Presentation of appraisal estimates follows the format shown in the SAR and actual results
are given for each item to facilitate comparison
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)    Actual/latest estimate (US$ million)
Local     Foreign                Local      Foreign
Source           costs      costs      Total       costs      costs      Total
IBRD/IDA
3147-PAK             0      162.00      162.00         0      160.44      160.44
3764-PAK             0           0          0          0        18.3        18.3
Cofinanciers
IsDB                    0          0          0           0      65.00         65
French                  0          0          0           0      27.92       27.92
Other external
sources                 111.70          0      111.70          0       91.70      91.70
Bidder's
Domestic contribution
WAPDA's own        189.40          0      189.40     343.77          0      343.77
resources
TOTAL                   301.10      162.00     463.10     343.77      363.36     707.13



-24-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Case 1: Economic Rate of Return                   9.34 percent
Fiscal   Capital    Capital    Actual   Increment-  Increme   Price in  Increment-  Net Benefits
Year   Expend.   Expend.   O&M Rs.   al Fuel         ntal      Real    al Revenue   Rs. million
Local Rs.   Foreign    million     Cost      Sales     1989    Rs. million
million     Rs.                 Border      Gwh    Ps/kWh
million               Price
1989                                                           94.44
1990     4756.0    6738.2    2350.8        259.4     2139      98.54      2107.9    -11996.7
1991     3769.2    7180.1     1026.7      1229.1     4603      97.19      4473.7     -8733.6
1992     3699.0   10843.8    1911.9       2103.9     7285      96.81      7052.6    -11505.9
1993     4464.2   10341.0    2136.8       2239.4     9290      89.91      8352.6    -10827.8
1994    4548.1   12236.3    2664.1        3492.1    10149      87.22      8852.0    -13986.7
1995     3768.4    8750.9    3223.0       3973.5    13050      86.62     11303.9     -8411.9
1996     4929.7    9606.7    3818.6       5251.8    14943    101.67      15192.5     -8414.1
1997                          3818.6      5676.3    17159    101.67      17445.0      7950.2
1998           T          1   3818.6      6126.4    19507    101.67      19832.7      9867.8
1999                          3818.6      6603.4    21996    101.67      22363.6     11941.7
2000                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2001                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2002                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2003                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2004                          3818.6      6603.4                         22383.6      11941.7
2005                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2006                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2007                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2008                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2009                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2010                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2011                   __     3818.6      6603.4        _____            22363.6      11941.7
2012                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2013                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2014                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
2015                          3818.6      6603.4                         22363.6      11941.7
Total   29934.6   65696.0   89585.2   142609.7                          474794.1    146968.0
Case 1: Based on actual average electricity revenues expressed in 1989 Terms and maintained at the FY96 level
for subsequent years.



-25-
Case 2: Economic Rate of Return                    12.18 percent
Fiscal    Capital   Capital     Actual   Increment-  Increme   Price in  Increment-    Net
Year    Expend.    Expend.   O&M Rs.   al Fuel        ntal     Real   al Revenue    Benefits
Local Rs.   Foreign    million     Cost       Sales    1989    Rs. million  Rs. million
million   Rs. million            Border      Gwh    Ps/kWh
Price
1989                                __                         94.44
1990     4756.0     6738.2    2350.8        259.4    2139      98.54      2107.6   -11996.7
1991     3769.2     7180.1     1026.7      1229.1    4603      97.19      4473.7    -8733.6
1992     3699.0    10843.8    1911.9       2103.9    7285      96.81      7052.6   -11505.8
1993     4464.2    10341.0    2136.8       2239.4    9290      89.91      8352.6    -10827.6
1994     4548.1    12236.3    2664.1       3492.1   10149      87.22     11303.9    -13988.7
1995     3768.4     8750.9    3223.0       3973.5   13050      86.62     15192.6    -8411.9
1996     4929.7     9606.7    3818.6       5251.8   14943    101.67      18428.3    -8414.1
1997                           3818.6      5676.3   17159    101.67      24413.3      8933.5
1998                           3818.6      6126.4   19507    101.67      26266.9    14468.4
1999                           3818.6      6603.4   21996    101.67      26266.9    15845.0
2000                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2001                           3818.6      6603.4      _ _          _    26266.9    15845.0
2002                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2003                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2004                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2005                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2006                           3818.6      6603.4                   _    26266.9    15845.0
2007                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2008                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2009                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2010                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2011      _                    3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2012  _                        3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2013                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2014                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
2015                           3818.6      6603.4                        26266.9    15845.0
Total   29934.6    65896.0   89585.2   142609.7                         546714.4   218888.4
Case 2: Based on actual average electricity revenues expressed between FY90-96 and between FY96-99, average
revenue reflecting the real increase to meet the financial covenants, and maintained at FY99 required level for
subsequent years.



-26-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant   Status                Description of Covenant                 Comments
Agreeient: Guarantee
3.01  |    02          C     GOP to cause federal and provincial agencies to settle
I.                     bills within three months.
Agreemt: Loan
5.01       01        Soon   GOP  to have accounts and financial statements  Audit completed,
(b)(i)                      including special accounts audited by independent and the audit report
auditors.                                        is being sent to the
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ B ank
5.01       01         C      GOP to furnish audit reports on project accounts,
(b) (ii)                     including separate opinion on SOEs.
5.02       02          C     WAPDA to finance 40%  of average annual capital Not  expected  to
(a)                         expenditures from internal sources.              comply      within
______  __________                                         ~~~~~~~~~FY97
5.03       02         C      WAPDA to maintain 1.5 times debt service coverage
(a)        _                ratio.
Status:
C            Complied with
CP           Compliance after delay
NC           Not complied with
SOON         Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP           Complied with partially
NYD          Not yet due
Covenant Class:
01           Accounts/audit
02           Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Project preparation, appraisal, negotiations and Board presentation were carried out in accordance with all
Bank policies.



-27-
Table 12: BankResources Staff Inguts
Planned               Revised               Actual
Stage of                                                       Staff    US$'000
project cycle       Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$       Weeks
Preparation to appraisal                                  -          See note   See note
Appraisal                         _          _          _               2.7        6.3
Negotiations through     _                                              7.0       12.6
Board approval                                                  _ _        _ _
Supervision                                                            77.9       220.1
Completion                   _               _            _             3.4        11.7
TOTAL                    _                                             91.0       250.7
Notes:
1     MIS data shows information beginning in 1990 only. This reflects that identification/preparation
activities were undertaken as part of supervision activities for ongoing projects (Ref. Table 3).
2     US Dollar amounts include salaries and travel costs.



-28-
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
._____________   _________  ___________  Performance  rating
Stage of project    Month/   Number  Days in   Specialized  Impleme  Develop   Type of
cyde          year        of      field    staff skills    ntation    ment   problem
persons                          status   objective
Through             n.a        n.a      n.a        n.a.
appraisal 
Appraisal        June 1989     4        n.a.    EC, PE, FA,
through                                             CO          -         -
Board approval              _                _        ___             _
Supervision      May 1991       3       29*       PE, FA        2         1        LC
June 1992     3        3*     PE, FA, CO       2         1       FP
Mar 1993      2       22*       PE, EE         2        1        PR
Nov 1993      3       16*    PE, EE, PA        2        1        FP
May 1994      2        17*      PE, PA         S        S        FP
April 1995    3       20*     PE, FA, PA       S        S        LC
April 1996    2        16*      PE, FA         S        S        PM
Completion       Nov 1996       1        6         ME                     -         -
Note: MIS data shows information beginning in 1990 only. This reflects the fact that identification and
preparation activities were undertaken as part of supervision activities for ongoing projects.
*     Indicates number of days in field for all projects supervised by the mission.
Key:
PE:   Power Engineer
FA:   Financial Analyst
ME:  Municipal Engineer
PA:   Project Advisor
EC:   Economist
EE:   Economist
CO:   Consultant
LC:   Compliance with Legal Covenants
FP:   Financial Performance
PR:   Procurement Progress
PM:  Project Management Performance



-29-
Appendix A
Page 1 of 10
PAKISTAN
Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project (Ln 3147-PAK)
Implementation Completion Report Preparation Mission
Aide Memoire7
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Chandra Godavitarne (Consultant) visited Lahore and
Islamabad during November 5 through 11, 1996 to discuss arrangements for preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project
which is scheduled for closure on December 31, 1996. The mission had discussions with officials from
the Government of Pakistan (GOP), Water and Power Development authority (WAPDA), and their
consultants. A list of persons met is given in Annex 1. The mission held a wrap-up meeting with the
Managing Director, Transmission and Grid Stations and his staff. This aide memoire summarizes the
findings and recommendations of the mission, which are subject to confirmation by Bank management.
The mission wishes to record its appreciation for the courtesies and cooperation extended by WAPDA.
The Mission
2.    The mission's objectives were to: (a)  brief the concerned officials of the process for
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), (b) discuss and agree on the person(s)
from WAPDA that would provide the coordination, the scheduling and support for the preparation of
ICR, including the inputs required from WAPDA, and (c) obtain a preliminary evaluation from
WAPDA of the project implementation experience.
3.    The objectives and rationale for the preparation of ICRs are to make an independent assessment
of the experience of project implementation relating to design and preparation, implementation, status
of completion and operation of the assets created, and to make an assessment of the projects'
developmental impact, sustainability of the investments, the Borrowers' and the Banks' performance, so
that lessons may be learnt for use in future operations. Bank procedures require that the ICR be
prepared no later than six months after the close of the Loan
4.    It was agreed that every effort will be made to adhere to complete the ICR by end-March 1997.
The Chief Engineer, E.H.V (South) will coordinate the preparatory support, liaise with the Bank and
be responsible for the preparation of the Borrower's Assessment on behalf of WAPDA.
7     The Aide Memoire and Annexes have been updated on June 9, 1997 to reflect current information on
project implementation.



-30-
Appendix A
Page 2 of 10
A.    The Project
5.    Project Objectives: The project objectives were to: contribute to the implementation of the
Core Investment Program (CIP) for FY 89 - 93 through: (a) extension and reinforcement of the 500 kV
network to ensure adequate and effective evacuation of power from the main thermal power generation
centers at Guddu and Multan to the major load centers in the middle and northern regions of the
country; (b) extension of the transmission link between the 1,300 MW Hub Power Complex (HPC),
the first major power project to be financed, constructed and operated by the private sector, and the
national 500 kV network, and (c) continue institution building efforts indicated in the Banks' earlier
lending operations by strengthening WAPDA's capabilities for implementing, operating   and
maintaining an efficient and economic transmission system.
6.    Project Description: The project, as appraised was to comprise:
(a)   installation of two single-circuit 500 kV lines, about 200 km each, connecting the
Hub Power Complex and Jamshoro;
(b)   installation of a third single-circuit 500 kV line, about 312 km, between Guddu and
Multan, and a second single-circuit line of about 300 km, between Multan and Lahore
via Gatti;
(c)   extension and reinforcement of existing 500 kV substations at Lahore, Gatti, Multan and
Guddu with associated facilities including reactive compensation,
telecommunication and control equipment; and
(d)   consulting services to assist and train WAPDA's staff in the design, construction,
operation and maintenance of the 500 kV network.
7.    Project Cost: The total cost of the project, including price and physical contingencies and
customs duties, was estimated at US$393.0 million equivalent, of which taxes and duties were
estimated at about US$153.7 million equivalent. The total financing required for the project, including
interest during construction of US$70.1 million equivalent, was about US$463.1 million. Of the total
financing required, US$162.0 million was to be in foreign exchange, and the remaining US$301.1
million was to be local costs.



-31-
Apel2ndixA
Page 3 of 10
8.    Project Financing: The Bank Loan of US$162.0 million was made to WAPDA with GOP as
the guarantor. WAPDA would bear the interest rate risk and any cost overruns. GOP would bear the
foreign exchange risk and provide the repayment guarantee to the Bank, for which WAPDA would
annually pay 3-1/2 percent on the outstanding loan amount to the GOP, representing the foreign
exchange insurance premium which is collected by the State Bank of Pakistan. The Loan would cover
100 percent of the foreign exchange requirement and represents about 35 percent of the total financing
required. Of the local cost requirements, about US$189.4 million equivalent would be financed by
WAPDA from internal resources, and the balance amounting to US$111.7 million equivalent through
local borrowings.
9.    Project Preparation: The design and engineering of the 500 kV grid, totaling about 1,012 km,
and substations were prepared by WAPDA with the assistance of their local consultants (NESPAK)
who had been retained by WAPDA in previous projects for the engineering design and project
management of the 500 kV network. In view of the high moisture, salt and dust content in the coastal
areas, WAPDA was required to hire, as a condition of Loan effectiveness, internationally experienced
consultants to assist and advise on the design of the 500 kV networks in these areas. This study was
carried out by NGK Japan.
10.   The national 500 kV grid has been planned to withstand faults without system separation, line
overloading, cascade tripping or loss of load. To ascertain adequate design for each new extension of
the 500 kV network, including the proposed project, specific studies were carried out in the areas of:
load flows for normal and emergency conditions and in typical cases of generation during low water
and high water seasons; short circuits; transient and steady state stability; reactive power management
for improvement of system power factor; mechanical and electrical design for conductor selection;
tower structure and substation layout and control; metering and relaying scheme in association with
telecommunication requirements; and integration into the system control and data acquisition (SCADA)
network.
11.   Project Implementation: The management and supervision of construction of the project is
performned by WAPDA with the assistance of their consultants (NESPAK). Implementation
responsibility is assigned to Chief Engineers who have Project Directors who are responsible for the
various elements of the works. NESPAK is the designated 'engineer under the contract', and is
responsible for day to day project management with the WAPDA staff.
12.   The issuance of bidding documents for at least 25 percent of requirements for towers and
earthing material was set as a condition of effectiveness of the Loan. Bid document preparation was
expected to be a routine matter as bidding documents standardized in previous projects were to be used.
Despite this, WAPDA was not able to carry out procurement efficiently due to factors both within and
outside its control. Some of the external factors that resulted in delays include: approvals from the
standing freight committee for the use of non-national vessels, approvals of import licenses, opening of
letters of credit, delayed clearance of goods from customs and obtaining import licenses due to the lack
of local currency allocations for the project, finalization of the cofinancing agreement with the Islamic



-32-
Appendix A
Page 4 of 10
Development Bank (IsDB), procedures to provide guarantees for bidder's finance, and default of the
contractor responsible for supply of stubs and steel towers. WAPDA terminated the contracts for the
supply of tower material. on August 20, 1996 due to contractor's inability to supply the material as per
tenns of the contracts.
B.    Project Implementation and Completion Status
13.   Project Revision: The legal agreement provides that no withdrawals would be made from the
Loan for the construction of the two single-circuit 500 kV transmission lines from HPC to Jamshoro
until  financial commitments for the construction of the Hub Power Complex are satisfactorily
completed. As WAPDA had not finalized the financing arrangements, the construction of the two 500
kV transmission lines from the HPC to Jamshoro commenced only in May 1995, after financing was
finally secured in December 1994. This led to a project revision, in May 1995, to finance the Third
Jamshoro-Guddu 500 kV transmission line using funds from Loan 3147-PAK and the Power Sector
Development Project (Loan 3764-PAK). This additional transmission line was not expected to be
completed by December 31, 1996, the closing date of Loan 3147-PAK, and is not strictly part of this
project.
14.   The project, as implemented, comprises the following components:
(a)   Installation of two single-circuit 500 kV line, (each about 180 km), directly connecting
the HPC and Jamshoro ( co-financed by the Islamic Development Bank and Loan 3147-
PAK in the amounts of US$65 million and US$17.18 million, respectively);
(b)   Installation of a third single-circuit 500 kV line (about 313 km), including ground wire
wrapped optical fiber (GWWOP) communication system between Guddu and Multan
(financed fully under Loan 3147-PAK);
(c)   Installation of a second single-circuit 500 kV line (about 316 km), between Multan and
Lahore via Gatti ( financed fully under Loan 3147-PAK);
(d)   Installation of a third single-circuit 500 kV line of about 645 km between Jamshoro and
Guddu (Jamshoro-Rahim Yar Khan) including link at Moro and Dadu and switching
stations at Moro and Rahim Yar Khan.
(e)    Extension and reinforcement of existing 500 kV substations at Lahore, Gatti, Multan and
Guddu with associated facilities including reactive compensations, communications and
control equipment (financed fully under Loan 3147-PAK);
(f)    Extension and reinforcement of existing 500 kV substations at Jamshoro with associated
facilities including reactive compensations, communications and control equipment
(financed under French Protocol).



-33-
Appendix A
Page 5 of 10
(g)    Consultancy services to assist and train WAPDA's staff in the design, construction,
operation and maintenance of the 500 kV network.
15.   The amendment, referred to above, provided for the installation of a third single-circuit 500
kV transmission line (about 645 km) between Jamshoro and Guddu (Jamshoro- Rahim Yar Khan)
including links at Moro and Dadu, and switching stations at Moro and Rahim Yar Khan, financed
partially under Loan 3147-PAK and Loan 3764-PAK, bidder's financing and WAPDAs own funds.
16.   Status of Project Implementation: On the whole, project implementation is satisfactory. Due
to various factors within and outside its control, WAPDA has not been able to adhere to the
procurement plan agreed at project start.
17.   Delays have occurred primarily due to the late agreement on the funding arrangements for
HPC and the consequent decision to include in the project, the Third Jamshoro-Guddu transmission
line. Some factors affecting the implementation schedule have been outside the control of WAPDA,
namely, the timne taken: to obtain no objection certificate (NOC) from Standing Freight Committee to
use foreign flag vessels, for the State Bank of Pakistan to nominate a bank to issue the letters of credit,
and to obtain the letters of credit. Under WAPDA's control were priorities in local currency allocation
for the project that resulted in delayed customs clearance and obtaining import licenses, better
procurement planning and contract administration anticipating the in-country conditions, and bid
conditions that require suppliers to bear costs of opening letters of credit and lack of price variation for
raw material used in the manufacture of materials.
18.   The status of implementation, activities completed or to be completed by Loan closure, and
plans to complete the remaining activities for the various components are described below:
Activities Completed:
19.   The following activities have been completed:
(a)    Hub-Jamshoro 500 kV Transmission Lines I and 1I have been commissioned on
January 7, 1996 and October 28, 1996, respectively;
(b)    Third Guddu - Multan 500 kV transmission line was commissioned on December 8,
1994. The GWWOP communications system on this line was commissioned on
November 22, 1995.
(c)    Second Multan - Gatti - Lahore 500 kV transmission line was constructed in two
sections. The Gatti-Lahore section was energized on October 14, 1993, and the Multan-
Gatti section was energized on March 1, 1995.



-34-
AppendixA
Page 6 of 10
(d)    Extension of 500 kV substations at Lahore, Gatti, Multan and Guddu were
commissioned on September 23, 1996; 99 percent of the outstanding works have been
completed by December 1996.
Ongoing Activities:
20.   The following activities are ongoing:
(a)    The remaining work on the SCADA system at the Jamshoro substation is expected to be
completed by end-June 1997.
(b)    Addition of auto-transformers at Guddu substation, financed under a French Protocol, is
expected to be completed in December 1997.
(c)    Construction of switching substations at Moro and Rahim Yar Khan has not commenced.
The award decision is pending final review of bid evaluations by the WAPDA
Competent Authority.
(d)    Training of WAPDA staff, utilizing project funds of about US$2.3 million, in the design,
construction, operation and maintenance of the 500 kV network has not taken place. WAPDA has
traditionally arranged external training of staff on specific aspects through equipment supply contracts
only, and not necessarily focusing on specialized training related to transmission lines and substation
management. Funds provided under the project were for more specialized training to enable the middle
and senior technical and management staff to be at the cutting edge of technology and management.
WAPDA has completed foreign training of Switchgear Group under Contract 1150-31 (Lot I and III)
with actual expenditures to be reimbursed by IBRD against allocated amount of US$2.3 million.
(e)    Studies: As a condition of loan effectiveness, WAPDA was required to carry out a study of the
impact of high moisture, salt and dust in the coastal areas on the network elements. This study was
done and the study recommendations were used in the development of design specifications for the
network elements.



-35-
Appendix A
Page 7 of 10
21.   Third Jamshoro - Guddu 500 kV transmission line is still under construction, having started
late, in May 1995, after the financial arrangements for the HPC were finalized. It was not contemplated
that the construction of this line would be completed by the closing date of Loan 3147-PAK, as it is
also financed out of the proceeds of Loan 3764-PAK. However, construction has delayed considerably.
The contractor who was to supply stubs and steel towers has defaulted on two contracts. It has taken
two years from signature of the contract to its termination for default. As per advice of the Bank, bids
on retendering of contracts 1150-21A and 1150-21B for supply of steel towers are currently on sale,
with bid opening dates of April 16 and April 28, 1997 respectively. The supply of conductors is also
held up awaiting financial closure with the Canadian supplier, for want of guarantees to be provided by
WAPDA. Bids for the grid stations at Moro and Rahim Yar Khan were opened on December 1, 1996
and are under evaluation. Despite the optimistic projections made earlier, it is now reported that this
line is expected to be completed only in late 1999. There is the real prospect that line construction
contractors would become idle waiting for tower material, generating claims. A detailed account of the
procurement and implementation status is provided in Annex 2.
22.   Revised Project Cost: The latest revised total project cost estimate is US$642.4 million,
excluding interest during construction, comprising US$279 million local costs and US$365 million
foreign costs.
23.   Revised Project Financing:. The agreement with the Islamic Development Bank (IsDB) in
December 1994, also provided an additional US$65 million for financing the HUB- Jamshoro
transmission lines. This IsDB's funding released US$36 million from the Loan 3147-PAK, which the
Bank agreed could be used to finance the 645 km third single-circuit 500 kV transmission line between
Jamshoro and Guddu including associated works. This transmission line and associated works are
financed through Loan 3147-PAK (US$31.0 million), Loan 3764-PAK (US$18.3 million) and
WAPDA's own financing. The extension and reinforcement of existing 500 kV substation at Jamshoro
and associated works are financed out of a French Protocol (US$28 million). The current financing
plan (in US$ millions) is indicated below:
IBRD loans:         3147-PAK                    160.5
3764-PAK                    18.3
French Protocol                                  27.9
IsDB                                             65.0
WAPDA (excluding bidder finance)               279.0
Bidder's finance                                 91.7
Total        642.4
24.   On the basis of the above estimates and excluding bidder's finance, WAPDA would finance
US$279 million or 43.3 percent of the total project cost through internally generated funds.



-36-
Appendix A
Page 8 of 10
25.   Disbursements: Disbursement from the Loan up to the end of January 1997 was US$154.16
million. WAPDA estimates that all but about US$1.0 million of the Loan will be disbursed by Loan
closure. For completion of the remaining works, WAPDA would require about US$5.5 million for the
tower material, about US$29.2 million for conductors, US$57 million for the Moro and Rahim Yar
Khan switching stations, and Rs 5,000 million for the line construction contracts, and custom
duties/taxes etc., totaling US$91.7 million and Rs 5,000 million.
26.   Compliance with Covenants: Over the project period, WAPDA has substantially complied
with the two major financial covenants. These relate to financing 40 percent of its capital investments
through internal cash generation, and not to incur additional debt unless its revenues are at least equal
to 1.5 times its debt service requirements. Compliance in respect of the internal cash generation
covenant was not achieved only in FY93. WAPDA has complied with the audit covenant during the
project period, except for FY95.
C.    Financial Management
27.   Tariff Increases: WAPDA has annually increased tariffs to meet its revenue requirements as
well as to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under this and other Loans from IBRD.
The estimated tariff increase for FY97 was about 14 percent. Rather than increase tariffs once
annually, WAPDA has resorted to increasing tariffs more frequently to meet its cash requirements as
well as to soften the impact on consumers. Tariffs have been increased this fiscal year in August,
September, October and November by average monthly increases varying between about 1.4 percent to
1.8 percent.
28.   Cost Reduction Measures: There is recognition of the need to avoid frequent and relatively
large tariff increases through the introduction of measures to reduce operational costs, particularly,
when losses are in excess of 24 percent. While there is every intention to undertake this task, there is a
degree of skepticism over the extent of cost reduction possible and the prospects for its achievement in
the prevailing climate. The mission believes that, despite the prevailing country conditions, there is
plenty of scope for improvements. While there are definite gains to be achieved through reduction of
costs, the cost and benefit of specific actions will be analyzed in the preparation of such a plan. This
task is yet to commence in earnest, and would require more serious attention of WAPDA
29.   Accounts Receivables:  Arrears in accounts receivables have not changed substantially from
the Rs. 19.0 billion reported early in 1996. A major achievement, however, was the GOP decision, in
1995, to deduct at source the dues from Provincial Government consumers, through which these
arrears have been reduced, and a certain discipline installed. The coverage of this effort will be
expanded to include recoveries from all government consumers. The major area that remains to be
addressed is the arrears in accounts receivables from domestic, commercial and industrial consumers.
WAPDA recognizes that this a difficult area to tackle in the prevailing environment, and stricter
enforcement measures are required with the support of GOP. WAPDA has plans to make the Area
Electricity Boards (AEB) more accountable rather than be confined only to billing and collection. In



-37-
Appendix A
Page 9 of 10
this regard, supply in bulk to the AEB's is an option under consideration. GOP support is vital if
WAPDA is to achieve progress in this area.
D.      Operation Plan
30.   The mission discussed with WAPDA the plans for operation of the transmission lines and
substations installed under the project, to assure that the benefits of the project would be sustained until
the end of their useful life. As part of the ICR process, WAPDA will prepare the Operation Plan which
would cover institutional arrangements for effective operation of the assets, performance indicators,
targets, arrangements to assure adequate annual fund allocations for operation and maintenance, and
indicative timetables for WAPDA and the Bank to monitor the achievement of the monitoring
indicators. A draft Operation Plan prepared by WAPDA is attached as Annex 3. WAPDA will refine
and finalize this Operation Plan by end-March 1997.
E.    Clients' Evaluation
31.   WAPDA is satisfied with the implementation progress achieved despite the various difficulties
it has faced - some of which are beyond its control. Among the reasons attributed to delays are: the
time taken to obtain NOC from Standing Freight Committee and establish letters of credit, local
currency shortages resulting in non-clearance of material from customs for long periods and payment of
import license fees, performance of materials suppliers and construction contractors, delays in line
construction due to lack of right of way, the law and order conditions, particularly in Punjab and Sind
areas that hampered transport of material, and heavy rains during the years 1992 and 1994. The major
delay has been caused by the default of one contractor who was to supply stubs and steel towers for the
Third Jamshoro- Guddu transmission line.
32.   WAPDA also attributes some delay to the Bank's performance in the area of procurement
decisions. The examples quoted are: Bank decision on the contract for the supply of spacer dampers
took over six months, and the Bank's insistence on re-tendering the contract for extension of the
existing 500 kV substations. WAPDA also indicated three instances where it appears that the Bank has
released the last ten percent payment for supplies under letters of credit prior to certification of
acceptance of material. However, this case will be examined to ensure that there has been no fraud,
before making a formal representation.
F.    Conclusions
33.   Partial benefits of the investments made under the project have been realized, even though the
Third Jamshoro-Guddu transmission line is being substantially delayed. The additional transmission
capacity has facilitated transmission of power from the south to the north of the country where the load
centers are located. The full utilization of the benefits of the HPC would be achieved on the completion



-38-
Appendix A
Page 10 of 10
of the above transmission line. The project also facilitated improvement in the voltage profile and
power factor in areas served by the substations, and the transient stability of the network.
34.   In order to sustain the benefits of the project over the life of the assets, WAPDA would need
to:
(a)    provide adequate annual maintenance budgets, and technical and personnel resources
required;
(b)    conduct systematic reviews of the achievement of performance indicators and conduct
efficiency tests to reduce the high level of losses in the transmission and distribution
network;
(c)   identify further needs for strengthening any areas of the network to obtain
improved system efficiency; and
(d)   review periodically power demand projections in view of the changing use patterns of
consumers.
Annex I      List of Persons Met
Annex 2      Status of Implementation of the Third Jamshoro-Guddu 500 kV
Transmission Line and Substations
Annex 3      Operational Plan
November 11, 1996 (Modified)



-39-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 1
PAKISTAN
Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project (Ln 3147-PAK)
Implementation Completion Report Preparation Mission
List of Persons Met
Government of Pakistan
Mr. Saleem Sethi, Deputy Secretary (WB), Economic Affairs Division
Mr. Sahibzada Masood Ali, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Water and Power
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
Mr. Akbar Khan, Managing Director, Transmission and Grid Stations
Mr. Aftab Ahmad Khan Leghari, Managing Director (Distribution)
Mr. Nabi Hussain, General Manager, Transmission and Grid Stations
Mr. Rizwan Ali Shah, General Manager, Finance (Corporate)
Mr. Iqbal Khan, Chief Economist
Mr. Pir Mian Jan Said, Chief Engineer, EHV (South)
Mr. A. M. Rajput, Director (P&D) E.H.V (South)
Mr. Ch. Muhammad Hussain, Senior Budget & Accounts Officer, EHV (South)
NESPAK
Mr. Amjad Javed, Project Coordinator
Mr. Mahmood ul Hassan Khan, Principal Engineer



-40-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project (Ln 3147-PAK)
Implementation Completion Report Preparation Mission
Status of Implementation of the Third Jamshoro - Guddu 500 kV Transmission
Line and Substations
Financing
Foreign exchange requirements for materials for the construction of this transmission line are met from
IBRD Loans 3147-PAK, Loan 3764- PAK and bidder's finance in the amounts of US$31.0 million,
US$18.3 million and US$91.7 million, respectively. The construction of the line is being financed out
of WAPDA's own resources.
Estimated Completion Date
This line is now scheduled for completion by December 1999.
(i)    Status of Procurement of Line Materials
Contract No. 1150-21 (Package I) for supply of stubs and steel towers (financed through Loan 3764-
PAK): A contract was signed on August 18, 1994 with Demas Demir, Turkey for the supply CIF
Karachi at a price of US$12.6 million. The contractor has defaulted without commencing any supply,
and the contract was terminated on August 20, 1996. As per advice of the Bank, the contract was
retendered and new bids were opened oii April 16, 1997. The Engineer's estimate is now US$18.3
million.
Contract No. 1150-21 (Package II) for supply of steel towers (financed under Loan 3147-PAK): A
contract was signed on March 22, 1995 with Demas Demir, Turkey for the supply CIF Karachi at a
price of US$3.8 million. The contractor has defaulted without commencing any supply, and the
contract was terminated on August 20, 1996. WAPDA has now reinvited tenders for stubs and steel
towers to be financed under Loan 3764-PAK and on the basis of bidders' financing. Bids have been
opened on April 28, 1997. The Engineer's estimate is US$5.5 million.



-41-
ADnnex
Page 2 of 4
Contract No. 1150-22 (Item 1) for supply of 16,300 kg E&M strength insulators (financed under
Loan 3147-PAK): A contract was signed with Mitsui & Co, Japan on April 14, 1996 at a price of
US$21.0 million, and with a variation order issued on April 27, 1996, the revised contract value is
US$24.2 million. All the insulators have been delivered.
Contract No. 1150-22 (Item 2) for supply of 8,200 kg of E&M strength insulators (financed under
Loan 3147-PAK): A contract was signed with EMCO, Pakistan on March 28, 1996 for ex -works
contract price of US$0.3 million plus Rs1O.2 million. A variation order issued on April 27, 1996
revised the contract value to US$0.4 million plus Rsl1.8 million. One hundred percent of the order
has been delivered.
Contract 1150-22 (Item 3) for supply of hardware (financed under Loan 3147-IN): The contract was
signed with Sicamex, France on May 23, 1996 for the supply CIF Karachi at a price of FrF13.5
million. One hundred percent of deliveries have been completed by December 1996.
Contract 1150-23 for supply of conductors (financed through bidder's financing of US$29.2 million):
A contract signed with Alcan-CCL Consortium on October 29, 1995 is still not operative as WAPDA
has not been able to arrange a bank guarantee from the National Bank of Pakistan and the Habib Bank
Ltd.
Contract No. 1150-24 (Item 1) for supply of accessories (financed under Loan 3147-PAK): A
contract was signed on September 19, 1995 with Dulmison, Thailand for the supply CIF Karachi at a
price of US$0.7 million. A variation order issued on April 27, 1996 revised the contract price to
US$0.8 million. The full order has been delivered.
Contract No. 1150-24 for supply of dampers (financed under Loan 3147-PAK): A contract was
signed on September 19, 1995 with Dulmison, Thailand for the supply CIF Karachi at a price of
US$2 million. A variation order issued on April 27, 1996 revised the contract price to US$2.3 million.
All items have been delivered.
Contract No. 1150-25 for supply of shieldwire (financed by WAPDA): A contract was signed with
Chemical Complex Ltd./China Shenyang Corporation Consortium on November 7, 1996 for ex-works
contract price of Rs22.74 million. Complete ordered quantity is scheduled to be delivered by August
4, 1997.



-42-
AnnexI
Page 3 of 4
(ii)    Status of Line Construction Contracts
Line construction is planned as four contracts. Progress, as of June 1997 is as follows:
(a)    Jamshoro-Moro-Dadu Line Section I (255 kms): Contract signed on November 7, 1995 with
PCC-NEIE China Joint Venture at a price of Rs673.6 million. Route checking for the whole section
has been completed. Construction of foundations is in progress and so far, 170 out of 595 conventional
foundations, and 18 out of 115 pile foundations have been completed.
(b)     Moro-Goth Qazi Line Section II-A (170 Ian): Contract was signed on November 15, 1995
with Ramzan-Beijing Joint Venture at a price of Rs321.2 million. Route checking has been completed.
Foundation work is in progress. So far, 199 out of 355 conventional foundations, and 44 out of 103
pile foundations have been completed.
(c)     Goth Qauzi Mahar- Rahim Yar Khan Line Section I1-B (160 kIn): A contract was signed
on January 10, 1996 with Henan China at a price of Rs2O2.0 million. Route checking for the whole
section been completed.  Construction of foundations is in progress.  About 253 out of 411
conventional foundations, and all of the pile foundations (without pile caps) have been completed.
(d)     Linking of RahimYar Khan Substation with Third Guddu-Multan 500 kV Line Section
III (60 km): A contract signed on November 7, 1995 with Potential Engineers at a price of Rs. 376.3
million. Route checking for 55 km have been completed. Thirty out of 58 conventional foundations,
and 28 out of 46 Indus River crossing pile foundations (without pile caps) have been completed.
(iii)   Extension of 500 kV Substations at Lahore, Gatti, Multan and Guddu
(a)     Contract No. 1150-31 for extension of substations in Lahore, Gatti (Lot 1) and Guddu
(Lot III) was signed on February 3, 1994 with Cogelex-Alsthom, and for extension of Multan
substation (Lot II) was signed on February 3, 1994 with Siemens. Commissioning of extension works
for all the substations was completed on September 23, 1996; 99 percent of outstanding works have
been completed.
(b)      Contract No. 1150-32 for extension of 500 kV bays at Jamshoro substation has been
financed out of a French Protocol. A contract was signed on January 30, 1993 with Merlin Gerine,
France at a price of FrF104.1 million plus Rs85.5 million.  A variation order  (for temporary
energization through the middle breaker of bay 4 at Gatti 500 kV substation) was signed on August 23,
1993 for FrFO.9 million plus Rs2.3 million. All extension work has been completed, and all equipment
and the new 500 kV bays have been energized, and the commissioned substation was handed over to
WAPDA in June 1995. Work on shifting of lines was completed in November 1995. The remaining
work on SCADA is expected to be completed in June 1997



-43-
Annul
Page 4 of 4
(c)   Contract 1150-35 for addition of three 150 MVA, 500/220 kV auto-trasformers at Guddu
substation (financed under the French Protocol) was signed on February 23, 1995 with Cogelex-
Alsthom, France at a price of FrF43.0 million plus Rs24.0 million. This work is expected to be
completed in December 1997.
(d)   Moro and Rahim Yar Khan Switching Substations: Bids have been opened on December 1,
1996. WAPDA has requested bidder's finance for this contract. Award of contract is yet to be
finalized.



Annex 3
PAKISTAN                                                   Page 1 of 3
Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project (Loan 3147-PAK)
Operations Plan
ITEM            PRESENT STATUS AND FUTURE PLANS                PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                         TARGET DATE
Project         1. The Third Jamshoro-Guddu 500 kV transmission  - IBRD's decision on the issue of termination of April 16 and 28,
Construction    line is likely to be considerably delayed due to the Contracts 1150-21 Packages I and 11 for steel 1997
Completion      non-availability of tower material and conductors, and  towers, and  the  procurement procedure  and
the delay in completing the grid stations.     financing for Contract 1150-21 Package II.
Bids for construction of substations (Moro and Rahim  - WAPDA  obtains bank guarantees for EDC,
Yar Khan) are under evaluation.                Canada to come to financial closure on Contract June 30, 1997
Bids on re-tendering for towers against contracts  1150-23- Supply of Conductors.
1150-21A and 1150-21B have been invited and are - Contingency plan prepared by WAPDA  for
scheduled  for opening  on  April 16  and  28  expediting critical and alternative arrangements for
respectively,                                  evacuation of power to the north of the country.  March 1999
- Annual budgetary allocations by WAPDA to
assure timely payments against transmission line
contracts financed from WAPDA's own funds.    Immediate
2. Extension work of the existing 500 kV substations Full completion and commissioning of sub-stations.  June 30, 1997
at Lahore, Gatti, Multan and Guddu  are almost
complete..
3. Contract 1150-35 for addition of 3x 150 MVA, -Adequate budgetary allocations by WAPDA have to  Immediate
500/220 kV autotransformer bank (T 3) for the  assure timely payments for the local component to
Guddu substation is being financed through a French  the contractor.
protocol.  The contract with Cogelex Alsthom,
France was signed on February 23, 1995, and the
work is expected to be completed by December 1997.
- The contractor provides a project schedule for the March 31, 1997
remaining works.
4. Bids for the Moro and Rahim Yar Khan substations Financial closure  on  the  bidder's  financing  June 30, 1997
(switching stations) are due on December 1996. The  arrangements including provision of guarantees as
award of contract and the construction works are  required.
expected to be substantially delayed, and expected to
be completed no earlier than 1999.



PAKISTAN                                                    Annex 3
Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project (Loan 3147-PAK)                    Page 2 of 3
Operations Plan
ITEM            PRESENT STATUS AND FUTURE PLANS                  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                          TARGET DATE
Project         WAPDA Overall
Operations.     1.WAPDA to make adequate budgetary allocations to  1. Realistic estimating and allocation of O&M   July 1, 1997
Institutional   meet operation and maintenance costs - currently  budgets consistent with requirements.
Arrangements   considerably under-funded.
2. WAPDA needs to provide adequate capital funds 2. WAPDA provides internally generated funds, Annually
for strengthening transmission and distribution lines, secures multi- and bilateral funds, or encourages
and strengthening of substations, to ensure system  private sector investments.
reliability and stability.
3. Financial obligations under the private power 3.  WAPDA   enters  into  formal  contractual
purchase agreements are creating cash flow problems  arrangements with GOP for its operations, and also  July 1, 1997
in WAPDA.  Cost recovery (tariffs, billing and  makes contractual arrangements with the Area
collection) performance, and cost reduction through  Electricity Boards to achieve a greater degree of
efficiency improvements are weak, leading to cash  accountability.  Concurrent action on (a) tariff
flow problems for capital works and O&M activities. increases, as required; (b) improved billing and
Billing and collection performance and cost reduction  collection  performance  including  disconnections
plans will be implemented in a serious manner.  enforcement (with  the  support of GOP  and
Provincial Governments); (c) formulation and
implementation of cost reduction measures, and
increase cost recovery.
4. Project management weaknesses have led to  4. Managing Director (Transmission and Grid
inefficiencies  in  procurement and  construction  Stations), Chief Engineers and Project Directors to  Continuous
completion.  Project management needs  to  be  improve project monitoring and oversight, and
improved.                                       improve response time for decision-making on
implementation matters.



PAKISTAN                                                     Page 3 of 3
Transmission Extension and Reinforcement Project (Loan 3147-PAK)
Operations Plan
ITEM            PRESENT STATUS] AND FUTURE PLANS                 PERFORMANC  INDICATORS                          TARGET DATE
Project         Project Specific
Operations.     1. Though the third Jamshoro-Guddu transmission  1. New  tendering  for procurement of tower June 30, 1997
Institutional   line was not part of the original project, it is material. The guarantees required for the Canadian
Arrangements    nonetheless important for evacuation of power to the  supplier to commence supply of conductors have to
load centers. It's completion is considerably delayed, be resolved immediately.
and its completion date cannot be forecast with
certainty, even though it is projected to be completed
in late 1998.  The procurement of tower material
could easily take up to two years. The provision of
guarantees to the Canadian suppliers of conductors
has been under process for many months. Efforts
will made to resolve all outstanding issues.
2. Alternative means to evacuate power to the north  2. Adequate budgetary allocations should be made to  Immediate but no  O
needs to be  finalized, due the delays mentioned  meet payments to suppliers and contractors.   later than  June
above.                                                                                          30, 1997
3. Completion  of the  transmission  lines, and                                                 Annually
substations, as originally formulated, has improved  3. Comparison of before and after status should be
WAPDA's capacity to transmit power to the north of done including: energy transmitted, reduction in the
the country further strengthening needs will be  level of system losses, and frequency of faults.
studied.



47-                       AppendixB
Page lof 8
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3147-PK )
Borrower's Evaluation



-4 8-                        ppendix B
Us.F-.                                                          Page   o  8
Pakistan Water And Power Developmt3nt \'.'+-ty
OPPICLk (OF' THi
T          9202656                                            ,NGINSRCHluV  r;I&: E.IHV SOUTH
r^t^s g  2202656                          ~~~~~~L.IA'ISONi OLITICE1' Xt s
Telograme   WAPDiTOI!PAK                                4 36 '4WA fWUt;E LAHOiU4.
TELEX NO.44869 WAPDA gAlK
TELEFAX NO.9202656.                  _-__
V/OIt .2                                                    ^_ 2-  ZG,.5_-C)LOID0  '5 91.
_rhe World Bank
Intern8 tiono LJ3;nk  tor
ReconsItruction & Development
World B;nk Building
20/A1 Bank Rload, Islamabad.
Subject: - TRANSMIIS<I)ON EXTEINSllON AND REFlNF17otCErLEN1T PtOJiUCT
LOAN 3147 PAK PPJlPAi'.T ION OF 'TEiE IMIPLi!:'NTATION
COMP5LE'TION REPORT.
Ref: World 13ank Aide  lenMoiLre of Jan 17,19971 received
through G.M .Coordin&ition letter NJo. GMt(C)T-30
dated 2.2.1997.
Kindly find onclosed the followings with
regaird to Complrtion of Implementa tion Conr.ole tion report
(ICIR ) by ttie World Bank.
1,  Copy of Aide Nleinoire of World Bank htission of
NovmnbFr 4,1996 on preparation of (ICR) with our
commieriL;s narkod on it cleairly.
2.  Copy of Annex: No.2 of Aide .ernoire duly rnark2d,
wi-th latest status of Implementation regarding
Third Jainshoro-Guddu 500KV T/L and Subs tations.
3.  Revised draft operation plan with our comments
marked on it,
4.  Borrower's evaluaition including asse3oment of pr-ijact
imple-ientation experience project resa,Ltand the/ oporational
D.A. h3 ABOVE.                     CI1I'.F ;_G1         SOUTH.
CCI.                                          -
1. J Managing Director ( T &G3))WAPDA Lahore.
2. General Manager GSC WAPDA Lahore.
3. Director (P&D)EIIV South WAPDA tSuk'cUr.
4. Master file.                                   'R I)
i.~v ~7 41 7 I



-49-                           Appendix  B
Page  3 of 8
Borrower's evaltiatiLiLitic  iLLNctsintnt fJproject holenlerietation exogripice,
2roiect resixlts 1fi  tlie ooer Iijonaj hjaL
. Borrower's Assessinent
(a)   Project Objectives
Devclopenctt and(i Control of Power System  in Pakistan except lor tile
powcr rietwork ol Karachi and its environis is the rcsponsibility of Pakistan
Water anid Power [)evelopmenc Autchority (WAPDA). The mtiain objective
of the power (leveloptncrti  programmne during  thc Scventh  P,lan and(
suibsequenit years is to providle adlcqujarc generation, transinissioii all(l
dlistributio n  facilitics iii clhe system  to  lulfil the targets tixe(l in the
indiustrial, agricultural andl social sectors of the economny. This couldl be
achtievcd( by increasing the system  generation andl transmissioni capability
which would( not onily cater for the normiial growth of loads in all parts ot
rthe WAPDA's power systemn but also ovcrcome load sheddiings bIeing
carried out.
In or(der to nmcet tihe increasinig powcr ncedls of Pakistan a nulbllrer of
generation scheines liave been planne(d in the seventh  five year plaii.
'Illoughi main ciiiplasis was oni ini(ligcnious resources but dluc to acutc
shortfall of hydlcl power in low water inonitlhs, thermal powcr requiremeiti
significantly increasc(l.  Dlue to thIe availability of limited resources in the
ptLblic sector. (JovertmenCt of P'akistan tior the first time decide(d to allow
the conlstruction of a 1292 MW  thermal power station at the moutl ort Ilubh
River near Karachi in thle private sector. In addition co this more thermal
generation was also plamniel in south.   In view  of thermal gceleration
corninig up in 1993-94 aned onward in south and power coinplex at Hub
River, a third circuit of 500 kV l,ctweei Jainshoro and Multan andl a secolnd
circuit of 500 kV betwcecn Mulian anid Lahore via (Gatti an( two4 circuits
between Hub anLd Jknisloro to transmiiit this power to nortlh were essetiially
necessitated.
Thc project envisaged tle cotistrucEtioni of 1Q12 kilometers long 500 kV
transrtissiorn linte alo<ng withi installation of additional line bay Facilities and
shiunit reactors at Janishoro, Guddu. MltitanlC Gatti aned Lahore substationls.
(h)  Design & Scope
'lhe  Project  has  becn  designated  as  Transmission  Extension  and
Rcin lorceciienc l'roject anidl comprises of the following:



-50-                             Appendix B
Page 4 of 8
(i)   Insitallalioll of two single circuit 5(0kV 'I'ransmission Lines, about
180 km eacih comil2cctinig the I tub Powcr Complex and JarTslioro.
(ii)   hisrallatio.in of a tlhird single circuit 500 kV line about 313 kill
bctwcCni Guddu and Multan and a second single circuit 50  kV line
of about 316 kin bctwecn Multani andl Lahore via Gatti.
(iii)  Installationi of 3rd Jainslioro-Guddu 500 kV  transmissioni line of
about 645 kin (Jamslhoro-Rahiimyar Khan including links at Moro and
C'liachraO).
(iv)  l'Xtension andt reiinforceiiefit of existing 500 kV  Substatiohnrs at
Lalhore. G(ati, Multan and (uGiddu with associated raciliLies inclu(ling
retetive coitpcinsationt tclecomitnunicatiotis alid control equipment
antl
(v)   Lxtension andl reilnforceLnetiE of existing 500 kV  substation at
Jamsiloro withi associated facilities including reactive compensation,
telecomnmunications anid coItrol equipment.
'Tlhe coinpooienic (i) lhas been co-finaiicecl by IDB and IBRD to dihc elTcct of
US S 65 millionl anid llS $ 17. 18 millioni respectively. Supply of material
(except insulators. hardwarc and grounding material) and conlstlluctioUl of
transmissioii line have been unl(lcrtaken by Saudi Cables Co. Marketing
(SCCM) of Saudli Arabia.
l he foreign exchianige requirements for the coinponents (ii) and (iv) of tile
project are fully finaiiced  titi o,wgh II3RD  loan No. 3147-Pak and rile
component (iii) is partially finwiced through IBRD loans No. 3147 Pak &
3764-l'ak. TIlie colllpolnelIt (v) is riin2iiced by Frencih Protocol.
(c)  Implemnesitatiniu
Thie followinig arrangements were  mnade to effectively implenielw the
lP<roject:
(i)   WAPL)A appointed a Chlief Engineer/Project Director to oversee the
imnpleniciitationi of the Projecr on behalt of Authority.
(ii)   WAPDA engaged NEiSPAK as Conisultants to carry outt necessary
enginieerinig and coistructioni supervision.
(iii)  'rotil Projccr was (livi(lded in various comnponents for iridcpeiident
planning antd cxecutioni.
2



- 51-                            Appendix B
Page  5of 8
(iv)  Various coniract packages werc prcpared for the procureoent of
matcrials and  works tlirougli ii ternational compctitivc bidklding.
'I'hesc packages werc prcparecl accorling to IBRD guideliines.
(v)   Iii order to effectively mnonitor thie Project, (CPM  networks were
developed andl progrcss was continiuously reviewed by WAPDA anid
the ComstiltaLits in order to ticterinine the botticnecks arid lake
corrective mneasures.
(vi)  WAI'DA  mobilized all recluisite resources in shape ot mianpower.
funds andl cquipmncint for compiction of the Project in a souind( anit
eftficieit nmanner.
(vii)  A system of regular rcporting wa.s established at all levels o)t Irojctc
imianiageitncilt.
(d)  Operation Experiemice
WAPDA hNs a stronlg andl cfficicnt leam of F:nginieers anid Technicians to
operate and mailuiain Lran.sinission Iincs and substations. The orgaiization
to perform these jobs is knowii as Grid Systein Operation (GSO) wliiclh is
lheaded by a CGencral Manage Operationi andI Maintenance activities are
beinig supcrviscd by  the  Four Rcgionial Chief Engineers stationed at
[slamaabad,  lwaorc  Multan  amid  Hyyderabad.   To  ensitre mnax  titnuin
availability of 500 kV transmission lines. WAPDA hias trained its crews for
hot line rnainitcnianicc as wcll.
Originially. rmute of thc Secoid  500 kV  Multan-Guddu ajind CGtddu-
Jamshoro Transmission Line was selecred in parallel and in vicilnity of tile
already existinig 50() kV transmnission linie. During April, 1992, dtec tn local
cyclone borh the trransnist.ion lines collapsed near Ouddu. As such, it was
decided by WAPDA to nmodify the route of Jamshoro-Guddu Transmiiission
l.inc to obtain an approximnate separation of 4 km between the exitinlg and
the ncw  line.  I'lwereforc the routc ol 3rd Jamshoro-Guddu T/L  Ltider
construction lias beci finalized on the lcft bank of Indus river. Designi of
the windlow of the Transmirssioni l.incs towers has been reviewedl to iect
the requiremenrs of 11ot line mainittciazice. As such, the design of tower, ftur
this transmission linie is suitable for hiot line mainteniance.
2.   Evulumation of Borrtower's Owni Perort:nance
WAPDA hias generally perforimied all obligations required for completioll of the
Project. Efforts were iiacle to ilnobiliz.c aoequate hiuinan and financial resources
diligently and( efficiciitly to achieve the targets. I lowever, various factors created
.3



-52-                                7   e        o
-52-                     ~~~~Appendix  B
Page 6 of 8
.serious constraints on thle colmpletioll of work bothi for transmi.ssion lilnt andl
sul,scationl. Somle of the major reasons causing delay werc as under:
(i)   Adverse law and order .sicuation in certaini areas and (letatlt ot the st'ipplicr
of tower stecl iln fulfillinig hlis contractual obligations havc a(vtrscly
affected clic constrUction of Lallllsloro-r(UddU Section of the irallsin ission
line.
(ii)  Utnprecedenitcd rains and(i floods particularly in 1992 and( 1994 resulte(d in
delays it dcelivcry of material at site.
(iii)  Shortage of local currenicy coiiponetit led to in boniding of variotis line
material. Fxhoniiding of this ii;aterial resulted  in dclays in delivery of
material at sitc.
(iv)  Procedural delays ill estalblishlimieint of r.ettcr of Credit and linport licenses.
(v)   Procedural dclay in realloca .on of fundcls by IBRD from  Hulb-Jaznlshoro to
3rd 50(kV Jamsihoro-Guddu Tran.sm ission Line.
3.   Evaluation Of Batlk Pcrtforiiance (AWi. Co-frnanciers)
I'o meet withi the scarcity of ftund(s a loani No. 3147 Pak aiounoing co iUJS$
162.010 iillion was obiained frorn IBKI) co titianice Transmission Extcasion and
Reinforcement Project.  'IThe procelure of withdrawal of fun(d was rltrougih
submission of witlidrawal application for eacli andl every job donc, to tile Workl
Bank. which (directly tranisferredl ctie amounts inito lie bank accounts of respcctive
contractors/supplicrs. Tlhc mnode of paymnent by withdrawal applications wsas
100% of invoice in C.LSC of supplier's contract anid 80% of invoice in caise of
construction contracrs. 'Ihlie oanl was regulated by certain gencral conlditions ol
the agreement, whicih were suppuscCI to contribute in achievinig an el ficienit
adiiniiistrative amid financial practices omi thle part of WAPDA  and ill making
timely payimcits against withdrawal applications on the part of the R3imik to
achiieve above objective. This was because of thie consideration that tlhc limiely
payment to thie contractor is a sin q[ua lion for the tiinely coimpletioln  , the
Project. Furthier as per loan  con(litions  revolvitig  fund  account was also
Imlainltainled wittl N13P for an amounti  of IJS$ 6 tnillion. Thie invoices of the
contractors/suppliers below US$ 1.2 imillionl hlave beei met from  this bank- A/C.
Overall we hlave not taced any serious problem  in making disburscmelits tihrogh
witlhdrawal application or revolvinig funlld account mnaintained withi NBP.
4



-53-                            Appendix B
-Page  f8
4.   Plan for Operational Phlasc of the Project
'rie Project conisists ol the followings major phiysical comnponcilts witil present
status.
1.   2nid 5VOIkV Multan-Gatti-l-ahorc T/Line    316 km        Prcsenct Status
i)    Multan-Garti ScCtionI                222 km        Completed Oil
1.3.1995
ii)   Gatti-Lallore Scctioii               94 km         Completed on
(4. If). (993
2.   3rd 5O(kV Mulian-Ouddu '['/Line.            313 km       Completed on
8.12.1994
3.   3rd SOOkV Jainshoro-(Guddu T'J/Line         645 km       lxpected  on
31.03.199(
4.   F.xtensioni of 5U(kV Ladiore S/S                        (Conpleted oi
26.6. 1 996
5.   Extension of 5UOkV Gati .S/S                             Complecrd on
2.7. 1996
6.   Fxtensioni of 5(1kV Multan S/S                           Completed oi
3(.8. 1 996
7.   E,xtensionc of 5OkV Guddu S/S                           (onipIclero  on
12.8. 19 )6
8.   Extcuisioni of S((kV Janislioro S/S                      Coimpleted( on
14.6. 1995
Overall project colplepioii date                              31.03.1999
(Expecer(l)
Partial coimpletioin of the Projcct h.as increased tlc Transmission line capability of
WAPDA System. The Projcct will imiprove the reliability of supply bccwcCIl
.South anid Nortlh regions. Durinig the low  water months whern thei hydel
generation reduces drastically all tlhc tlhernial stations are required to operate at
miaximnumii to incet the power reqruiremiientes of major load centers located ill t(le
cenitral regioni of the Country. 5()0 kV Transmission lines are needed to tr;isillit
the bulk of powcr froin Soutlh to Central regioni during low water monthds and
from North to Sotlth region durinig highi water months.
5



-54-                            Appendix B
F age u ot 8
rhe fkcitities installed uncler tle Prujcc  irc beinig opcrated and maintaiteiV  by
expericnced and.traincel crews of (Grid System Operation organization headed by
a (;Geeral Manager with  four regionial C(hief Engincers. Engineer  antd
Technicians responsible for operation and maintcnance of the Project have been
trained locally as welt itS abroad. oAd1 tlow stdlies are being conductetl regularly
b)y General Manager Planning Power to W1S4CS5 and envisage thlc primary
traLsmission systemn reqluiredl for the di.s'pcrsal of added gcneration in the ccmiuitry
tor thc future years. On the basis of loal tlow  studies future projeles in
rransmission line Subsmtiau ctc. arc idetitified.
Four engincers/ccIchicians under this Project, have received trainiili for
operation and mainteitnce of thc Substatiois in France. Training is also 6eiug
impartedl by M/s Cogelex/Alsthom of France for the operation andl maintenla;cc
ft fiult and event recorder installed at 5OOkV substations in Pakistan. As Stich,
tlie implementationt of clic Project hais strengthened WAPDA's instiltrional
capability.
. . _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~#












IMAGING
Report No.:          16730
Type:      ICR



