Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A-A'  L3/4i-7- Pkk
Report No. 8006-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 27, 1989
Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
TIis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVA=NT
Currency Unit                               -  Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00                                     -  Rs 21.6 (October 1989)
IIEASURES AND  E QgVAMr
Barrel of oil (bbl)                       -  O159 cubic meters
i Hetric Ton of Oil (mtoe)                  -  7.4 bbl
- IC million kilocalories
I Million cubic feet of gas                 -  24.3 toe
1 Kilometer (km)                            -  0.6214 miles (mi)
'Ton (t)                                    -  1,000 kilograms
1 Kilovolt (kW)                             -  1,000 volts (V)
1 Megawatt (M3W)                            -  1,000 kilowatt (kW)
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)                     -  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 Kilowatt hour (kWh)                       -  1,000 watt-hours (wh)
I Gilawatt hour (CWh)                       -  1,000.000 kilowatt hours
1 Kilocalories (Kc.l)                       -  3.97 British Thermal Units
ABBREVIATIONS AND ARNH
ADB      -     Asian Development Ban.:
AEB      -     Area Electricity Boards
AG       -     Auditor General of Pakistan
ANL      -    Argonne National Laboratories
ARL      -    Attock Refinery Limited
BHC            Basic Health Centres
CDWP     -     Central Development Working Party
CIDA     -     Canadian International Development Agency
CIP      -    Care Investment Program
DDP      -     Distribution Development Program
DOFMA    -     Department of Forestry in the Ministry of Agriculture
ECC      -     Economic Coordination Committee
ECtlEC    -    Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
ERG      -     Energy Review Group
ESL I          Energy Sector Loan I
ESL 11         Energy Sector Loan 11
ENERPLAN       National Energy Planning Office
ENERGON  -     National Energy Conservation Centre
FAS      -     Fuel Adjustment-Surcharge
FXtIP          Financial Management Improvement Plan
FY             Fiscal Year
CDP      -    Gross Domestic Product
GOP            Government of Pakistan
HPC      -    Hab Power Complex
ICB      -     International Competitive Bidding
IC¢      -     Internal cash Generation
IERR     -     Internal Economic Rate of Return
KESC     -    Karachi Electric Supply Company
LES      -     Long-Term Energy Strategy
LIB      -     Limited International Bidding
LCB      -     Local Competitive Bidding
LRHC     -     Long Run Marginal Cost
IAED     -    Model for the Analysis of the Energy Demand
MOP      -    Ministry of Production
MPNR     -    Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
NPD      -    Ministry of Planning and Development
MWP      -    Hinistry of Water and Power
NDFC     -    National Development Finance Corporation
NEPC     -    National Energy Policy Committee
NESPAIC   -    National Engineering Services Pakistan Pvt. Limited
NPL      -    National Petroleum Limited
NRL      -    National Refinery Limited
OGDC     -    Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PARCO    -     Pak-Arab Refining Company
PERAC    -     Petroleum Refinery and Petrochemicals Corporation
PFP      -    Policy Framework Paper
PCR      -    Project Completion Report
PLC      *     Power Line Carrier
PlDC     -    Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
POL      -    Pakistan Oilfields Limited
PPAR     -    Project Performance Audit Report
PPL      -     Pakistan Pecroleum Limited
PRL      -     Pakistan Refinery Limited
PS       -     Private Sector
PSEDF    -     Private Sector Energy Development Fund
PTAT     -    Principal Technical Assistance Team
RE       -    Rural Electrification
REFKP    .     Rural Electrification Master Plan
PSO      -    Pakistan State Oil Limited
SAL      -     Sructural Adjustment Loan
SCADA    -     System Control and Data Acquisition
SNOPL          Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
SOE      -    Statement of Expenditures
SSGC     -     Sui Southern Gas Company
USAID    -    United Stated Agency for International Development
WAPDA    -    Water and Pover Development Authority
WASP     -    Wein Automatic System Planning
GOP's FISCAL YEAR (PY)



-.~ I I   AL    ,  .aY
!AKISAN
TRANSNISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Aorrower:               Water and Power Development Authority
Guarantor:              Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                 US$162 million
Terms:                  Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Description:    The proposed Project would comprise:
(a)   installation of two single 500-kV circuit transmission lines,
about 200 km each, connecting HPC and Jamshoro;
(b)   installation of a third single-circuit 500-kV line, about 312
km between Guddu and Hultan, and a second single-circuit
500-kV line of about 300 km, between Multan and Lahore via
Gatti;
(c)   extension and reinforcement of existing 500-kV substations at
Lahore, Gatti, Multan, Guddu with associated facilities
including reactive compensation, telecommunications and control
equipment; and
(d)   consulting services to assist and train WAPDA's staff in the
design, construction, operation, and maintenance of the
500-kV network.
Benefits:         The benefits associated with the proposed Project are expected from
incremental sales of electricity and from the improvements in the
overall operating efficiency of power plants and reduction in losses
in networks. The inten._l economic rate of return for the proposed
Project is about 14X based on incremental sales of electricity which
were valued on the basis of the projected increases in tariffs
required to achieve the 40X self-financing ratio agreed to under the
Second Energy Sector Loan (Loan 3107-PAK).
This document has a mestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



- ii -
Risks:            The Project consists of normal electric utility work entailing no
unusual risks, and no particular difficulty is foreseen in its
execution. The Project cost estimates and implementation schedule
are based on similar work currently in progress in the country and
on contracts let out in the Second and Third Quarter of 1989, so
thern should be little risk of substantial cost overrun or of
extended slippage. There is, however, the risk that the Hab Power
Complex would slip by six months because of delays in financial
closure.   The potential for this delay is being minimized by
arranging interim financing while the negotiations of the commercial
loans are under way to cover the initial payments for equipment
requiring long lead time to manufactcre and commence civil works.
Project linancing Plan
Local   FrgO.iM   Total
(US$ Million)
Proposed IBRD Loan     0.0    162.0    162.0
WAPDA                189.4       0.0    189.4
Local Borrowings     111.7       0.0    111.7
TOTAL            301.1    162.0    463.1
Disbursements
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
FY                1990       1991     1992       Ja2       1994     1995
Annual             2.6       23.6      40.0      43.0      36.8     16.0
Cumulative         2.6       26.2      66.2     109.2    146.0    162.0



- iii 
P.^lSTA^N
TRANSMISSION EMTENSION AND REINFRCEMENT ?ROJEQt
DRAFT YELLOW COVER
STAF ARISALU
Table of Contents
Pase No.
I. ENERGY SECTOR .................................................       1
A.   Introduction ...........................................      1
B.   Sectoral Setting  .....................................       2
C.  Developments in the Sector, FY79-FY88 ..................       3
D.   Implementation of LES:  Progress under ESL I
and the Program for ESL II ...........................     3
E.   Bank Group's Role in the Energy Sector and
E.xperience with Past Lending .........................    8
II.  BORROVER ......................................................      9
III.  THE PROJECT ...................................................    12
IV.  FINANCES ..........................                   .........    21
V.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ............. ............................    29
A.   UAPDA's Actual and Forecast of Electricity Sales .29
B. Least Cost Alternative .30
C.   Internal Economic Rate of Return .30
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED (ND RCOMMNDATION. .31
This report ia based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Pakiste.a in
June 1989, consisting of M. Sharma (Economist), A. Adamantiades (Senior
Engineer), C. Gavino (Financial Analyst) and S. Kondziolka (Consultant).
Messrs. A. Oduolowu (Soeior Petroleum Specialist) and Rashid Aziz (Economist
Resident Mission) also contributed to the preparation of this report.
Secretarial assistance was provided by MNes. Anne Haldar, Hannah Pratt and
Young Ok bsog.



- iv -
ANREXS                                                     ..............................Page No.
1.1   -          Organization Chart - Energy Sector .....................                                33
2.1     -        Organization Chart  - UAPDA  ............................                                34
3.1     -        Project Description  ...................................                                 35
3.2     -        Project  Cost Estimate  .................................                               40
3.3     -        Project  Implementation Schedule  .......................                               41
3.4     -        Disbursement Schedule  .................................                                43
4.1     -        WAPDA's  Financial  Statements  ..........................                              44
4.2     -        UAPDA's  Capital Expenditure Program  (FY89-FY98)                         .......        51
4.3      -       WAPDA's  Generation Forecast  ...........................                                54
4.4      -       Organization Chart  - UAPDA's  Finance  Function  ....                     .....         55
5.1     -        Assumptions  for and Calculations  of IERR  ....                      ..........        56
Map No. IBRD 21855



PAKIAI
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ENERGY SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01     Pakistan's economic performance during the Fifth and Sixth Plans (FY79-FY88)
was impressive.  Growth in GDP averaged about 6.5X annually, and was spread across
virtually all sectors of the economy. The overall improvement in econom1c performance
was fostered by prudent economic management and structural reforms, including the
deregulation of controls over investment, import liberalization and the adoption of
a flexible exchange rate policy; rationalization of prices, particularly of
agricultural and petroleum products; and directing public development expenditures
toward priority sectors.
1.02     Despite these acLievements, macroeconomic imbalances were   concern by FY88.
In the 1980s, public sector expenditures increased faster than revenues, resulting in
a high fiscal deficit, which reached 8.71 of GDP in FY88 compared to 5X in FY80.
Inflation began to increase in FY88, reaching about 101 in FY89. While the merchandise
export volume continued to grow, a deterioration in the terms of trade and generally
accommodative domestic credit contributed to an overall increase in tbe trade deficit.
These developments together with the continuing erosion in remittances from Pakistanis
abroad brought the current account deficit to about US$1.7 billion or 4.11 of GDP in
FY88. More critically, the Central Bank's gross foreign reserves in September 1988
were equivalent to less than two and a half weeks of annual imports of goods and
services, and less than the external short-term liabilities of the banking system.
These imbalances together with the low rates of savings and investment, which averaged
between 12.51 and 15.9X in relation to historical GDP growth, are unlikely to support
future economic growth of the order of 5.51 and above annually on a sustained basis,
especially in view of the continued neglect of the physical infrastructure and, until
recently, low levels of investment in social sectors.
1.03     In FY89, GOP adopted a medium-term macroeconomic adjustment program to address
.hese imbalances. The program was set forth in a Policy Framework Paper (PFP), which
was reconfirmed by the new Government headed by Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. The
Bank's Executive Directors considered the PFP on December 19, 1988, and the Fund's
Board approved a 15-munth Standby Arrangement and a Structural Adjustment Facility
(FY89-91), supported by the PFP, on December 28, 1988. The key policy requirements
of PFP are: (a) a reduction of the fiscal deficit, through an enlarged sales ta.- and
other measures to broaden the tax base and the substantial containment of the growth
of expenditures; (b) additional trade policy reforms with significant liberalization
of non-tariff barriers; and (c) financial sector reforms with a view to improving the
efficiency of the banking system and to strengthening managtment of domestic public
debt, money and credit according to market principles. Review of the first year's
performance indicates that GOP is in general compliance with the program.



- 2 -
B. Sectoral setting
1.04     Energy Resources.  Pakistan's commercially exploitable energy resources
consist of hydropower, natural gas, oil and coal.   The hydropower potential is
estimated at about 30,000 MW.   Proven and probable reserves of natural gas are
estimated at about 16 trillion cubic feet (TCF) and 3.3 TCF, respectively.   Oil
reserves, both probable and proven, are estimated at about 58 million tons. Coal and
lignite deposits are estimated at about 900 million tons, of which 175 million tons
are proven. In addition, the country has a large base of traditional fuels in the form
of fuelwood and agricultural and animal waste, which provide a major share of rural
consumers' energy needs.   Despite its endowment of energy resources,  Pakistan's
dependence on imported liquid hydrocarbons is expected to continue over the fo.eseeable
future, particularly in light of the long lead time and vast financial resources
required for the impiementation of the major hydro sites.  This dependence, however,
can be reduced by: acc3lerating the development of the smaller hydro sites, and also
oil, gas and coal, and encouraging the latter's substitution as well as that of
imported coal for higher value petroleum products; restraining the growth of demard
for energy through price and non-price measures, including rehabilitation and
retrofitting of power plants, refineries and energy-intensive industries; expanding
and reinforcing the infrastructure for the transport and delivery of energy products;
and strengthening the implementation capabilities of the entities involved in the
sector.
1.05     Institutional Setting.  Four ministries share the responsibility for the
energy sector: the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR), the Ministry
of Water and Power (MW?), the Ministry of Production (MOP), and the Ministry of
Planning and Development (MPD). Coordination between the ministries on energy matters
is provided by the Energy Wing of MPD, which acts as a secretariat for the National
Energy Policy Committee (NEPC) and Energy Review Group (ERG). NEPC is responsible for
the formulation of GOP's overall energy policy. The review of the investment plans
of the sector and the approval of energy pricing proposals is under the jurisdiction
of the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC). The Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC) and Central Development Working Party (CDWP) review and
approve major proposals and projects for all sectors, including energy.
1.06     The management of aay-to-day operations in the energy sector is vested in a
number of public and private sector entities. The public sect-or entities are: the
Water and Power Development Authori_y (WAPDA), which is responsible for developing
Pakistan's water resources and for the construction, operation and maintenance of power
generation, transmission and distribution facilities throughout the country, except
the Karachi area; the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) for exploration and
development of oil and gas; the Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC) for
the exploration and development of mineral resources; the State Petroleum Refinery and
Petrochemical Corporation (PERAC) and the ..ational Refinery Limited (NRL) for
processing crude oil; and National Petroleum Limited (NPL) for a proposed hydrocracker
project. Also involved in the energy sector are a number of semi-autonomous entities
in which GOP has, either directly or through public inqtitutions, a controlling
interest. These are: Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC), which is responsible
for the construction, operation and maintenance of generation facilities, as well as
the transmission and distribution of electricity in the Karachi area; Sui Northern Gas
Pipelines Limited (SNGPL) and Sui Southern Gas (Corporation (SSGC) for the transmission
and distribution of natural gas; and Pakistan State Oil Limited (PSO) for marketing
and distribution of petroleum products. Private Sector (PS) entities include: a large
number of Pakistani coal mining companies; two refineries, the Attock Refinery Limited
.. (ARL) and Pakistan Refinery Limited (PRL); and five oil and gas development companies,



3 -
namely Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL), Pakistan Oilfields Limited (POL), the Fauji
Foundation, Union Texas and Occidental Petroleum Limited. As shown in the organization
chart (Annex 1.1), all operational entities (public and semi-autoniomous) are under the
jurisdiction of MPNR, except for WAPDA, KESC, NRL and PRL.  NWP thas jurisdiction over
WAPDA and KESC and MOP over NRL and NPL.  In addition, the Dv.partLent of Forestry,
Kinistry of Agriculture (DOPMA), is responsible for afforestation and the Environment
and Urban Affairs Division, .4inistry of Housing and Works, for the implementation of
GOP's environmental policies.
C. Develogents in the Sector. FY79-FY88
1.07     The Fifth Plan (FY79-FY83) emphasized the accelerated development of domestic
energy resources and rationalization of energy prices.   However,  financial ard
implementation constraints impeded the achievement of the supply targets for all energy
products except natural gas. The largest shortfall was in the oil and power subsectors
where only 64X and 501 of the output targets, respectively, were achieved.  These
shortfalls together with the rapid growth of consumption, precipitated by GOP's policy
of underpricing energy to stimulate growth, increased the country's dependence on
imported energy. In recognition of the growing supply gap, GOP accorded high priority
to restructuring the sector during the Sixth Plan (FY84-FY88). Its objectives were
to accelerate and rationalize the development of energy, correct distortions in energy
pricing, streamline the institutions and agencies in the sector, and increase private
sector involvement in the development, production and delivery of energy. As these
objectives were not translated into concrete policies and programs, in the first two
years of the Plan only one-half of the planned investment progrsm for the sector was
implemented, energy prices were allowed to decline in real terms, and the institutions
in the sector remained unresponsive to the pressing needs of the economy.   These
setbacks prompted GOP to formulate a Long-Term Energy Strategy (LES), covering the
period 1986-2010. It calls for the implementation of integrated programs of structural
reforms over five-year intervals, corresponding to the planning cycle in the areas of:
resource development and energy investments; pricing, resource mobilization and demand
management; and institutional development.
1.08     To assist GOP in implementing the reforms called for by LES, a series of
sector loans were envisaged by the Bank, each in support of a monitorable core program
of policy actions and priority investments, which would form the umbrella for the
Bank's lending for specific energy investments and for the more effective coordination
of external financing for the sector. The first phase of those reforms was implemented
successfully under ESL I during the last three years (FY86-FY88) of the Sixth Plan.
Support for implementing the second phase, which constitutes an integral part of the
medium-term macroeconomic adjustment program (para 1.03), is being provided under ESL,
which covers the first three years (FY89-FY91) of the Seventh Plan. A review of the
progress made under ESL I and of the measures to be implemented under ESL II is
presented below.
D. Imnlementation of LES: Progress under ESL I and the Progran for ESL II
1.09     Energy Investments.  As a first step towards rationalizing investments and
minimizing the shortfalls in energy supply, a Core Investment Program (CIP) of priority
projects was agreed to under ESL I, including the sources of financing for its
implementation such as the contribution of GOP through the Annual Development Plan
and that of the sector entities from their internally-generated funds. In keeping with
this agreement, GOP to4,k all necessary actions required to mobilize resources for the
implementation of the priority projects. As a result, actual investments between FY86
and FY88 were only 8X lower than envisaged, Rs 46 billion compared to Rs 50 billion.



- 4 -
This represents a substantial improvement relative to the past, when actual investments
were as much as 50X lower than planned.
I 10     To ensure consistency between the sectoral and the medium-term policy
f.axework targets, a detailed forecast of demand for energy for the Seventh and Eighth
Plans (FY89-98) was prepared based on tLe projected rates of growth for the main
sectors of the economy and increases in the domestic prices of energy products. The
ongoing and new projects required to meet the forecast demand were identified and their
financial requirements were matched with the  implementation and self-finane .ng
capabilities of the public sector and semi-autonomous entities. Projects which c' uld
not for financial or other reasons be undertaken by the public entities were earma -ked
for implementation ty PS to reduce potential shortages in energy supply. The CIP for
ESL II comprises ongoing and new projects to be implemented by both the public and
private sectors during the first three years (FY89-91) of the Seventh Plan (FY89-93).
Implementation of this CIP, including the measures to mobilize resources from both the
public and private sectors, would be monitored by the Bank and reviewed with GOP on
an annual basis.
1.11     Resource Development.  In keeping with the objectives of LES of developing
8,700 MW of new hydropower potential by the year 2010, GOP agreed, under ESL I, to
initiate by December, 1986, a feasibility study for Basha (2,40C MW), which was to be
implemented after Kalabagh (2,400 MW). This study, however, could not be initiated
because WAPDA's views concerning the scope and timing of the work to be undertaken
differed markedly from those of the consultants who had prepared the prefeasibility
study for Basha. To resolve these differences, an international panel of experts was
appointed by GOP in 1988 at the behest of the Bank.   Based on a review of the
prefeasibility study, the panel outlined a work plan which has been approved by GOP
and the Bank. The appointment of consultants for the preparation of the feasibility
study for Basha has been set as a condition of release of the second tranche of ESL
I. Moreover, as the implementation of Kalabagh has also been delayed because of
unresolved issues concerning the allocation of water and compensation for land to be
inundated, detailed studies for the development of the sites at Chashma (240 MI),
Taunsa (110 NW), Jinnah (110 MW) and Ghazi Ghariala (1,000 MW) would be accelerated
under ESL II to offset, at least rirtially, the 2,400 MW shortfall in hydrocapacity
resulting from this delay.
1.12     Under ESL I, two studul.  were completed on issues relating to the coal
subsector.   The first identified the main operational constraints impeding the
development of coal and outlined a comprehensive program to assess the reserves at
Lakhra and Sonda Thatta. The assessment of PMDC's lease area at Lakhra was completed
in 1986 and proven reserves sufficient to produce 4 million tons annually were
identified. The second study outlined a strategy for restructuring PMDC to promote
the more efficient operation of mines in the public sector, and provided a basis for
reviewing the role of the public sector in coal mining. The recommendations of this
study would be reviewed under ESL II with the view to separating PMDC's coal and salt
mining activities and establishing a Mineral Development Board. As a condition of
effectiveness of ESL II, GOP would also be required to approve, in principle, the
development of the proven reserves at Lakhra through a joint venture between PMDC and
PS. Finally, GOP has agreed to complete a study which would review the institutional
arrangements for granting coal concessions and the existing fiscal incentive framework
for investments in coal development with a view to encouraging investments by PS.
1.13     In keeping with the objectives of LES -f accelerating the exploration and
development of oil and gas, a new gas producer pricing formula was adopted (para 1.16)
and a national policy aimed at increasing the level of foreign and local private equity



investment and balancing the involvement of public and private sectors in the
exploration and development of oil and gas was outlined under ESL I. As a result, new
oil and gas fields were discovered and a number of already discovered oil fields and
non-associated gas fields were developed. In addition, a detailed H.ydrocarbon Habitat
Study of all onshore basins in the country was completed and a concession promotion
map of the high priority and accessible areas was prepared. Areas where exploration
would be undertaken by OGDC and PS were identified and successfully promoted to PS in
December 1988. Under ESL II, GOP has agreed to further accelerate the development of
already discovered fields and review the progress made in exploration by both the
private and public sectors.
1.14     Households are the single largest consumers of energy in Pakistan, accounting,
in 1987, for approximately 45X of total energy consumed. The decline in firewood use
by households, together with the increase in the use of other biomass fuels suggests
that the forest cover is being rapidly depleted with attendant adverse environmental
consequences. However, the existing data are inadequate for formulating a policy aimed
at optimizing the mix of biomass and modern fuels for household consumpticn. Under
ESL II, GOP has agreed to develop a comprehensive database on household energy use
patterns and formulate a household energy strategy as well as a monitorable timetable
for its implementation; and review the ongoing work on forestry inventory, identify
gaps in the work program and formulate a long-term reforestation program.
1.15     Pricing. Resource Mobilization and Demand Management.  In order to enable
WAPDA to finance 40Z of its investment program from internal sources,   as was agreed
under ESL I, the level and structure of tariffs was adjusted and measures were
initiated to promote the integrated operation of WAPDA and KESC. Details relating to
the adjustments in tariffs implemented under ESL I and those on which agreement has
been reached under ESL II are discussed in paras 4.03 and 4.04.
1.16     To increase the participation of PS in gas exploration, a new gas producer
Rrice formula was introduced under ESL 1   It links the producer price of gas to
two-thirds the border price of fuel oil,  less a negotiated discount, based on
geological conditions of the concession involved.  PS, both local and foreign, has
responded favorably and on the basis of this formula contracts have been signed for
thirteen new concessions and negotiations for several others are under way.   To
maintain this momentum, GOP expanded the application of this formula to already
discovered fields, provided the concessionaires are willing to renegotiate their entire
contracts. Despite these efforts, the recent downturn in the international price of
oil has dampened the interest of oil companies in undertaking new exploration
activities, particularly in high cost offshore areas in Pakistan. Therefore, with the
objective of providing additional stimulus for private sector exploration, GOP has
agreed under ESL II to adopt a revised gas producer price formula for new concessions
in offshore areas, which would link the price of non-associated gas to full parity with
the border price of fuel oil, less a negotiated discount.
1.17     The consumer price of gas, which until 1981 was maintained at low levels
relative to that of its stbstitutes, has since been increased six times, averaging
about 23X annually in nominal terms. With the introduction of a 331 increase in the
consumer price of gas to households, effective December 1, 1988, the weighted average
consumer price of gas is now slightly higher than the border price of fuel oil
(Rs 41.6/MCF   compared to Rs 40.7/MCF), which is well above the target of 661
originally agreed to under SAL I, and reaffirmed under ESL I.  Despite this progress,
distortions persist in the structure of the consumer price of gas.   As these
distortions are resulting in the uneconomic use of gas, GOP has agreed under ESL II
to: (a) maintain the consumer price of gas to industrial and commercial sectors et



full parity with the domestic price of fuel oil; (b) increase the price of gas to:
(i) the power subsector to reach full parity with the domestic price of fuel oil by
June 30, 1994, with appropriate discounts for the power subsector's investment in gas
transmission; and (ii) households to reach parity with the border price of fuel by June
30, 1993; (c) assess the impact of higher gas prices on the ex-factory fertilizer price
and identify investments in retrofitting and substitution that would allow the industry
to absorb higher gas prices; and (d) undertake a study to assoss the potential for peak
shaving and establishing a tariff structure which would promote operational and
allocative efficiency.
1.18     In order to provide incentives to refineries to improve their product-mix
and efficiency, a new formula for ex-refinery nricing was introduced in 1988 for the
two refineries in Karachi.  This formula, however, was not appropriate for the Attock
refinery, as it has access to only locally-produced crude oil, the production of which
varies from year to year leading to widely fluctuating costs of refining per unit of
output, since most of the costs of the refinery are fixed. This, in turn, results in
widely fluctuating profit levels. Under ESL II, GOP has agreed to develop and install
a detailed refinery processing simulation model within the Directorate General Oil,
NPNR, with assistance from consultants, to review the experience of the two Karachi
refineries with the new pricing formula and on a basis of this review, revise the new
pricing formula for ex-refinery products for the Attock refinery.
1.19     In 1981, GOP adopted the policy of passing on the higher cost of Retroleum
groducts to fival consumers.  This policy, and the fact that domestic retail prices
were reduced only marginally in response to the decline in the internati--.al price of
oil has enabled the petroleum subsector to become th. principal contributor to the
national budget. The weighted average retail price in June 1988 was about 170l of the
weighted average border price. The Bank supports GOP's pricing policy, except for the
fact that domestic prices of industrial fuels should be maintained at parity with
border prices to avoid any adverse impact on the competitiveness of the Pakistani
economy.   Therefore, with the objectives of mobilizing resources and preserving the
competitiveness of industry, under ESL II, GOP has agreed to maintain:   (a) the
domestic prices for higher value products, such as gasoline, and naphtha, above border
prices to mobilize resources, and adjust them in line with any movement in border
prices; and (b) the domestic prices of fuel oil, diesel, and kerosene at parity with
average border prices plus inland handling charges.
1.20     Unlike electricity, gas and oil, the price of coal is not regulated by GOP,
but determined by market forces. On a price basis alone, coal is competitive with
fuel oil (and also with wood and charcoal). Accordingly, no action on coal pricing
policy is being sougks under ESL II.
1.21     Unlder ESL I, a National Energy Conservation Centre (ENERCON) was established
to serve as the focal point for all conservation activities.  In keeping with its
mandate, ENERCON has initiated training and outreach programs, and completed audits
in 43 private sector and 27 public sector industrial plants. In addition, a Building
Energy Code has been drafted and a program to audit 300 tubewells and retrofit 100 of
them has also been launched.  Under ESL II, GOP has agreed to undertake detailed
engineering and feasibility studies in 40 of the largest industrial energy consuming
plants in the country; prepare self-standing energy conservation projects; and complete
a study with assistance from consultants, to identify the constraints to conservation
arising from tax, industrial and trade legislatUon and formulate a package of
incentives to promote energy conservation.



- 7 -
1.22     Institutional Development. In order to streamline the decision-making process
and improve the operating efficiency of the power subsector, under ESL I, a study aimed
at reorganizing WAPDA was completed by GOP with the assistance of consultants financed
by USAID. The study recommended the separation of WAPDA's distribution function from
generation and transmission. This recommendation has been accepted, in principle, and,
under ESL II, GOP has agreed to establish, in accordance with a dated and monitorable
action plan, a distinct and self-contained distribution wing within WAPDA with its own
accounts, investment program, t.ommercial arrangements for the purchase of power from
WAPDA's generation/transmission wing, as well as, an agreed financial performance
criteria.
1.23     GOP has also reviewed wi4.th the Bank, the implications of WAPDA taking over
the generation and high voltage facilities of KESC and restricting the activities of
the latter to the bulk purchase of power from WAPDA for distribution in the Karachi
area. The Bank has ascertained that in order for this plan to be realized, a financial
restructuring program for KESC would have to be implemented, given its precarious
financial situation. Presently, KESC is not in a position to mobilize the large amount
of resources required to rehabilitate its distribution system, where losses are in
excess of 30X of gross generation and the quality of service is poor and eroding. In
order to address these problems, under ESL II, GOP would develop a financial and
organizational restructuring plan for KESC.
1.24     In the oil and gas subsector, as OGDC was expected to assume an expanded role
in exploration and development during the Sixth Plan, GOP agreed under ESL I to
strengthen its managerial capabilities and move towards financial self-refinance.
Accordingly, the corporation's investment program for FY86-88 was rationalized and,
more recently, a decision was made to remove OGDC from the budget and reorient its
operations along commercial lines. As this decision would require strengthening the
Cori ration's financial capabilities, GOP has agreed under ESL II to implement a
financial restructuring plan for OGDC, increase the wellhead price of gas to OGDC to
enable the Corporation to achieve agreed internal cash generation targets and, as an
interim measure, provide in the form of loans, resources required for OGDC's investment
program.
1.25     The office of Energy Planning (ENERPLAN) was established under ESL I with
USAID financing. In 1986, ENERPLAN was merged with the existing Energy Wing in MPD.
Since its establishment, the Energy Wing has been involved in all aspects of planning,
including the preparation of the energy chapter of the Seventh Plan.  It has also
successfully served as the main interlocutor between the Bank and GOP under ESL I as
well as coordinator of all energy sector entities under that operation, a fu.action it
would retain under ESL II. Despite the significant progress the Energy Wing has made
in developing expertise in plan formulation, project appraisal, and in establishing
data bases, it continues to remain weak in the areas of financial and economic
analysis. There are also uncertainties surrounding the status of its existing staff
as they were hired as contract personnel rather than full time regular employees of
GOP, a situation which could impair future continuity in terms of its staff and its
role.  Therefore, under ESL II, GOP would be required to:  (a) absorb the suitable
existing contract personnel of the Energy Wing as regular employees of GOP on a
permanent basis; and (b) create additional positions within the Energy Wing for a
Finance and Economic Section headed by a Chief and supported by at least two positions
each for financial analysts and economists.
1.26     Environmental AsRects.  Following the approval of the Pakistan Environmental
Protection Ordinance in 1983, GOP established the office of Environmental and Urban
Affairs Division in the Ministry of Housing and Works. Similar provincial agen.ies



have been established in Punjab and Sind, and steps are currently being taken to
establish these in Baluchistan and North West Frontier Province.   Despite this
progress, actions need to be initiated to address the prevailing environmental
problems.   Therefore, under ESL II, GOP would develop  a monitorable  ongoing
Environmental Action Plan which would include: (a) adoption of selected environmental
standards for energy projects; (b) adoption of environmental impact assessment
guidelines; (c) further development of environmental capacity in key institutions in
the sector; and (d) adoption of improved health and safety and emergency management
standards. In the meantime, the standards consistent with Bank guidelines are being
followed.
E. Bank GranD's Role in the Energj  Sector and ESperience with Past Lending
1.27     The Bank Group's involvement in Pakistan's energy sector started in 1955,
with a loan to KESC for the construction of a thermal power station. Since then, it
has assisted in the implementation of projects in all energy subsectors. Prior to
1985, the Bank Group had made 16 loans/credits to Pakistan for energy projects. In
the power subsector, the Bank had participateC in the Indus Basin Development Frojects,
and provided a series of four credits/loans to KESC and three to WAPDA.  In the
petroleum subsector, the Bank's involvement included five loans to Sui Northern Gas
Pipeline Ltd. (SNG:L) for the expansion of the infrastructure for the transmission and
distribution of gas, three to OGDC for exploration and development of oil and gas and
one to the National Refineries Ltd. (NRL) for improving its energy efficiency. All
of these loans/credits have been completed, except for SNGPL V (Loan 2324-PAK) and the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Loan 2351-PAK), both of which are being
implemented satisfactorily despite an initial delay in startup.
1.28     In addition to ESL I and ESL II, the Bank has made seven new loans in the
energy sector. These include: WAPDA IV and V (Loans 2499-PAK and 2556-PAK) for the
least cost expansion and reinforcement of the secondary and high voltage transmission
grid. The Petroleum Resource Joint Venture Project (Loan 2553-PAK) to assist GOP in
mobilizing PS involvement in exploration and development of oil and gas; the Kot Addu
Combined Cycle Power Project (Loan 2698-PAK) to add another 250 MW of generating
capacity through the conversion of combustion turbines to combined cycle operation;
the Power Plant Efficiency Improvement Project (Loan 2792-PAK) for the rehabilitation
of existing power plants and conversion of combustion turbines to combined cycle
operation; the Refinery Engineering and Energy Efficiency Project (Loan 2218-PAK) for
restructuring product output and streamline existing systems; and the Private Sector
Energy Development Project (Loan 2982-PAK), the first of its kind to be approved by
the Bank (FY88).
1.29     The proposed Project would be the Bank's ninth operation with WAPDA including
the proposed Rural Electrification Project (RE) which is expected to be presented to
the Board concurrently in FY90. The first three operations have been completed and
the remaining four are being implemented satisfactorily. The Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) and the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Power Project (Loan
968-PAK and SAC 39-PAK) was distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1989. The
PPAR concluded that the project not only improved the supply of electricity, but also
all aspects of WAPDA's operations including administration, technical and financial.
Despite these achievements, the project was completed three years behind schedule.
Similar delays also were experienced in the two previous projects.   These are
attributable to delays in the appointment of consultants, the award of contracts and
clearance of PC-1 documents, as well as the periodic scarcity of local funds. In order
to minimize delays in start-up, the Bank, under subsequent operations, has assisted
WAPDA in preparing standard bidding documents and has provided training to its staff



-9-
in the Bank's procurement procedures. Moreover, through the sectoral approach to
lending which was initiated under ESL I, the Bank has also been able to reduce
slippages in project implementation stemming from resource constraints (para 1.09).
This approach is being continued under ESL II.
II. THE BORROWER
Organizaticn
2.01     WAPDA, the Borrower of the proposed Loan, was established in 1958 as a semi-
autonomous agency to coordinate the development of Pakistan's water and power
resources. It is divided into two largely independent 'wings': one for Power and the
other for Water. The Power Wing is responsible for the planning, construction and
operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities throughout the
country, except the Karachi area which is served by KESC.   The Water Wing is
responsible for the overall planning and investigation of water resources, and the
design and construction of surface and groundwater development projects for the federal
and provincial governments. WAPDA's governing body, referred to as the "Authority",
consists of a chairman and three members who are in charge of power, water and finance,
and are designated Member (Power), Member (Water) and Member (Finance), respectively.
The members of WAPDA's governing body are appointed by the Government.
2.02     The organization of the Power Wing of WAPDA, which for convenience is herein
referred to as WAPDA, is shown in Annex 2.1. Member (Power) is assisted by seven
general managers in charge of thermal generation, hydel generation, transmission and
grid stations, distribution, finance, coordination and planning, system operation and
load dispatch and inventory control. Although WAPDA is highly centralized with respect
to decision-making, its distribution department is divided into eight Area Electricity
Boards (AEBs), which were established in 1981 to take over the responsibility for local
electricity service. Each AEB has a chairman, who is the chief engineer for the area,
appointed by WAPDA for a five-year term; three full-time members, who are also
directors in charge of departments; and three part-time members representing local
interes:s, one of whom is normally a representative of the Provincial Government. The
members of AEBs are appointed for a period of three years.
2.03     In October 1988, WAPDA had about 150,300 employees; 4,320 engineers, 980
other professionals, 11,230 technical and other staff, 28,030 administrative and
accounts staff, 69,430 skilled workers and about 36,310 other employees including
unskilled workers. The number of consumers served by WAPDA in 1988 was about 5.7
million,  representing  about  38  consumers  per  employee.    The  relatively  low
consumer/employee ratio reflects the overstaffing of the distribution department. The
inefficiencies resulting from this overstaffing, together with the relatively high
level of losses in distribution, stemming from inadequate investments in the past, are
contributing to substantial leakages in revenues and denying WAPDA the resources
required for implementing an expanded investment program. The agreement reached under
ESL II on the establishment of a self-contained distribution wing within WAPDA
supported by comprehensive technical assistance, financed by USAID, in the areas of
finance, billing, collections, data processing, servicing and operations and
maintenance, is designed to address these issues (para 4.16).
Existina Facilities
2.04     In January 1989, WAPDA's total installed generating capacity was 6,149 MW.
About one-third of this capacity (1,710 MW) was commissioned during the last three
years of the Sixth Plan (FY86-FY88) when slippages in project implementation were
minimized through agreement on a CIP. The existing generating system consists of 2,897



- 10 -
MW (471) of hydel capacity and 3,252 MW (531) of thermal capacity based mainly on fuel
oil and gas. WAPDA's primary transmission system consists of 1,614 km of 500-kV lines
and 4 grid stations whose aggregate capacity is about 3,600 MVA.  The secondary
transmission system consists of 20,116 km of 220-kV, 132-kV and 66-kV lines and 822
grid stations, with a total capacity of soout 15,881 MVA. The distribution system
consists of 33-kV, ll-kV and 0.4-kV lines.
Load Xanagement
2.05     Despite the substantial increase in generating capacity between FY86 and
FY89, load-shedding cnntinues.   In June 1988, the shortfall between demand and
generating capability was about 1,000 MW.  Although load shedding is expected to
continue well into the mid 1990s, the projected increase in the installed capacity by
the private and public sectors (para 2.09) and better management of demand through
price and non-price measures are expected to reduce the capacity shortages during the
dry season to about 600 MW by FY93. In the area of pricing, GOP has agreed under ESL
II on the adjustments in the level and structure of tariffs and on the introduction
of peak/off-peak pricing for 300 of the largest industrial consumers of electricity
(paras 4.03 and 4.04).   As for non-price measures, GOP plans to continue direct
curtailment of supply to major industrial and agricultural consumers on the basis of
an agreed schedule to allow consumers to adjust their activities and rotate load-
shedding to household consumers.   In addition, under the Bank's Private Tubewell
Development Project, WAPDA is implementing a pilot program to assess the technical and
economic viability of restricting tubewell operations through ripple control, time
switches and splitting and controlling residential and tubewell load by phases.
Provision has been made under the proposed RE Project which is being processed
concurrently with the proposed Project, for the installation of:   (a) specially
designed meters required to introduce peak/off-peak pricing for 300 industrial and bulk
consumers; and (b) the equipment proven viable for restricting the operations of
tubewells.
Power Planning
2.06     Power system planning is carried out in-house by WAPDA's staff.  The first
national least-cost generation expansion program was formulated under the Fourth Power
Project (Loan 2499-PAK) with the assistance of Argonne National Laboratory (ANL, a US
agency) under financing from UNDP with the Bank as the executing agency. In addition,
training was provided to WAPDA's staff by ANL, under the auspices of the International
Atomic Energy Agency, in the use of the Model for the Analysis of the Energy Demand
(MAED) and the Wein Automatic System Planning (WASP) computer models, which were
installed on WAPDA's computer in early 1986. This ha; enabled WAPDA to revise the
least cost program, as and when needed, to incorporate the updated information on the
operation of the subsector including hydruljgy, water management and pattern of the
electricity consumption. Transmission and distribution planning is also carried out
on an ongoing basis by WAPDA's staff and consultants recruited as and when needed.
CIDA has assisted WAPDA since 1974 in developing in-house capabilities for the 500-kV
network and, under a Distribution Development Program (DDP), USAID is presently
strengthening the distribution planning function.
Training
2.07     Training in WAPDA is a separate activity and is well-supported.  Each of the
main functions, generation, transmission and distribution operate technical training
schools in a number of locations, which are efficiently run. There is a Management
Training Centre located in Tarbela which provides a comprehensive list of training



- 11 -
courses. For training in specialized areas, support has been provided to WAPDA by
bilateral and multilateral agencies.   In particular, CIDA has provided extensive
training to WAPDA's staff in planning, design, construction, and operation and
maintenance of the 500-kV network, USAID in the area of distribution; and the Bank in
the areas of generation planning, maintenance and spare-parts management and in
financial and commercial areas.
Development Progrxa.m
2.08     WAPDA's generation, transmission and distribution development programs for
the Seventh and Eighth Plan periods were reviewed by the Bank under ESL II with respect
to size relative to the availability of resources, composition and status of
preparation of projects, and implementation capabilities of WAPDA. On the basis of
this review, a CIP, covering the period FY89-FY93, was outlined, which represents the
maxit=m program to be implemented during this period (para 1.10).   Based on the
availability of financial resources, the projects to be implemented by WAPDA were
identified and the balance was earmarked for implementation by PS. This CIP would
receive priority in terms of resources and its implementation would be monitored on
an annual basis by the Bank.
2.09     Generation Program.   Based on the long-term least cost development plan,
WAPDA's generating capacity is forecast to increase by nearly 68X during the Seventh
Plan period, from 6,149 MW in January 1989 to about 10,308 MW in 1993. During the same
period, an additional 2,300 MW (approximately) capacity is expected to be installed
by PS. The units that are scheduled to come on stream by 1994 are as follows:
Additions to CaRacitv During The Seventh Plan Period (FY89-FY93)
Unit     Total
Capacity  Capacity
Plant Name    Plart Tyne   Comm. Date  Unit Number  (NW)  (NW)
1. Public Sector
WAPDA
Tarbela     Hydro         1993     11 through 14   432    1728
Manglt      Hydro         1993     9 and 10       100      200
Chashma     Hydro        1994      1 through 22   12.3     271
Jamshoro    Steam        1990      1 through 3    210      630
Jamsharo    Steam        1991      4              250      250
Muzaffargarh   Steam     1992-93    1 through 3   210      630
Ouddu        Combined Cycle  1993  1              300      300
Lakhra      FBC          1992      3              50       150
Subtotal    4159
KESC
Ben Qasim                 1989     3 through 5    210      630
Subtotal           630
II. Private Seetor
Nab River   Steam        1993      4              323     1292
Habibullah 1   Steam     1993      2             16.5      33
Habibullah 2   Steam     1993      2             16.5      33
Intrag      FBC          1992      1ad 2          45        90
Nooriabad   Diesel       1991-92    1 through 6    21      126
Paktand     FBC           1992     1 through 3     44      132
Deutsche Babcock Steam   1993       1              88       88
Hadson      Steam        1993      1               55       55
Nab Chauki   Steam       1993      1              120      120
FsuJi       Steam        1993      1              300      300
Subtotal    2269
Total



- 12 -
2.10     Distribution and Rural Electrification Program. WAPDA's original distribution
development plan had called for investments in loss reduction, load management and the
expansion and reinforcement of the low voltage networks in urban and rural areas. In
addition to the urban distribution system, the program called for connecting 15,000
new villages and 35,000 tubewells during the Seventh Plan period. In the context of
ESL II, these targets were reviewed and found to be large relative to available
resources.   As a result, the targets were reduced to 11,700 villages and 27,000
tubewells and the phasing of expenditure associated with these was realigned by
extending the period required to implement the revised program from five to seven
years. The xvtised program constitutes the CIP for RE.
2.11     Transmission Program.  Major hydro resources are located in the north and
thermal facilities and load centers are concentrated in the center and the south.
Hence, for the efficient evacuation of electricity over long distances, in the early
1970s WAPDA initiated the implementation of a least cost national program for the
development of an extra high voltage (EHV) network to connect the major generating
plants to the main load centers in the country with the 500-kV grid. The first EHV
line between Tarbela and Faisalabad, was completed in 1977.   Since then, further
sections have been successively built southwards with assistance from CIDA and the Bank
(Loans 1208T-PAK and 2556-PAK).   Presently, three EHV lines are in operation and
another two are under implementation. The 500-kV lines in operation include two routes
between Tarbela and Faisalabad and one between Faisalabad and Jamshoro via Multan and
Guddu. Those under implementation include two additional 500-kV lines between Tarbela
and Lahore and between Lahore and Jamshoro via Sahiwal, Multan, Guddu and Dadu. The
Tarbela-Lahore and Lahore-Jamshoro lines are expected to be completed by 1991 and 1992
respectively.
2.12     WAPDA has recently updated its least cost program for the development of the
EHV network, which takes into account the forecast expansion of generating capacity.
In addition to completing the ongoing projects including the 500-kV lines as well as
the expansion and reinforcement of the secondary transmission grid, the program calls
for the installation of: two single circuit 500-kV lines between Hab Power Complex
(HPC) located in Baluchistan, and Jamshoro; a third single circuit 500-kV line between
Guddu and Multan; and a second single circuit 500-kV line between Multan and Lahore.
This transmission expansion program constitutes the CIP for the Seventh Plan period.
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Setting
3.01     One of the objectives of the medium-term macroeconomic framework is the
reduction of fiscal deficit and inflationary pressures. This is to be achieved through
the curtailment of expenditures by the public sector; the mobilization of resources
through improved taxation; better pricing and phasing out of subsidies; and the
enhancement of the role of PS in the development of key sectors such as energy,
industry, including financial intermediation, and transportation. In order to support
GOP's effort in implementing this framework, a package of policies to support the
structural adjustment of the energy sector, and a CIP for the Seventh Plan was agreed
with the Government. The CIP is comprised of investments, private and public, critical
to achieving the objectives of the Seventh Plan, while ensuring that outlays for energy
remain within the overall investment and credit ceilings set under the medium-term
framework. The CIP for the power subsector for FY89-93, calls for the development of
7,058 MW of generation capacity, of which 4,789 MW would be implemented by WAPDA and
KESC, and the remaining 2,269 MW by PS (para 2.09). The financing for WAPDA's and



13 -
KESC's power generation development program is identified, and the financing for the
distribution is either secured or is about to be secured through financing by USAID,
Japan and the Bank for the rural electrification; and the United Kingdom, the Asian
Development Bank and Japan for urban distribution. By contrast, the financing for
transmission is still incomplete.
3.02     During the Fifth Plan and Sixth Plan, WAPDA experienced shortages of financial
resources which forced it to concentrate its resources on generation and, to much
lesser extent, distribution. As a result, transmission was developed on an ad hoc
basis, dictated by the need to evacuate power. ESL I and WAPDA IV and V have rectified
some of this imbalance; however, additional investments at the 500-kV level are still
required, if the network is to develop in step with the generation development program
agreed under CIP. In fact, the inadequacy of this network is increasingly becoming
a constraint on WAPDA's ability to efficiently dispatch power to meet the demand for
electricity at least cost.
3.03     In anticipation of the increased role PS is expected to play in the
development of energy, GOP created the Private Sector Energy Development Fund (PSEDF)
under financing from the Bank (Loan 2982-PAK), cofinanced with bilateral agencies.
The Fund would cover 30X of the total cost of PS investments for the development of
energy, through loans at the prevailing domestic market interest rates and repayment
over 23 years, including 8 years grace. The remaining 70X of the financing is to be
secured through equity (25%) and commercial loans (451) extended without sovereign
guarantee. So far, GOP has received several proposals which would provide 2,100 MW
of the projected 2,300 MW called for under CIP for 1989-1993. The Hab Power Complex
(HPC), the first and largest proposal to be financed, constructed and operated by PS,
would provide 1,292 MW of oil-based thermal power generation. The power plant would
be located in Baluchistan, 30 miles north west of Karachi. The feasibility study for
the complex has been completed. Negotiations of the security package, comprised of
a set of interrelated agreements, designed to safeguard the interests of the lenders,
Government and investors, is expected to be initialled before December 31, 1989.
Financial closure is expected by early 1990 and the commencement of the implementation
of the complex shortly thereafter.
3.04     Under the security package, the investors assume completion and operational
risks while GOP guarantees the performance of its agencies in terms of the purchaee
of power by WAPDA and the supply of fuel oil by either PSO or PARCO.  Failure by
investors to complete the power station as agreed, or to supply the power contracted,
would reduce the returns of the investors and, in extreme cases, diminish their equity.
On the other hand, failure by WAPDA to purchase power in the agreed quantities would
require GOP to pay for the power contracted for with HPC. The evacuation of power from
HPC would require interconnection between the complex and the national grid at the 500-
kV level. Moreover, in view of the requirement that PS investments be financed under
limited recourse, the security of lenders, in terms of repayment, hinges on the
revenues to be generated by the project. Unless concrete steps are taken by WAPDA to
implement the transmission link, necessary for HPC generation of revenue, the
international financial community would be reluctant to move to financial closure.
This would delay the implementation of CIP for FY89-93 and in turn undermine GOP
initiative in mobilizing PS investments for the development of energy.
Proiect Obiectives
3.05     The proposed Project would:  (a) contribute to the implementation of CIP for
FY89-93 for transmission through:   (i) extension and reinforcement of the 500-kV
network to ensure adequate and effective evacuation of power from the main thermal



- 14 -
power generation centers at Guddu and Multan to the major load centers in the middle
and northern region of the country; and (ii) extension of the transmission link between
the HPC (1,300 MW), the first major power project to be financed, constructed and
operated by PS, and the national 500-kV network; and (b) continue institution building
efforts initiated under the Bank's earlier lending operations by strengthening WAPDA's
capabilities in implementing, operating and maintaining an efficient and economic
transmission system.
Proiect Descrition
3.06     The proposed Project would comprise:
(a)   installation of two single circuit 500-kV transmission lines, about 200 km
each, connecting the Hab Power Complex and Jamshoro;
(b)   installation of a third single-circuit 500-kV line, about 312 km between
Guddu and Multan, and a second single-circuit 500-kV line of about 300 km,
between Multan and Lahore via Gatti;
(e.)  extension and reinforcement of existing 500-kV substations at Lahore, Gatti,
Multan and Guddu with associated fanilities including reactive compensation,
telecommunication and control equipment; and
(d)   consulting services to assist and train WAPDA's  staff in the design,
construction, operation and mainteiance of the 500-kV network.
Details of the proposed Project are described in Annex 3.1.
Prolect Cost
3.07     The total cost of the proposed Project,  including price and physical
contingencies and customs duties, is estimated at US$393.0 million equivalent, of which
taxes and duties amount to about US$153,.7 million equivalent. The total financing
required for the proposed Project, including interest during construction of US$70.1
million equivalent, is about US$463.1 million.   Of the total financing required,
US$162.0 million would be in foreign exchange, and the remaining US$301.1 million
equivalent would be in local costs.   The cost estimates are based on quotations
received by WAPDA over the past 12 months for similar equipment, services and works,
updated to June 1989 prices. A provision of 51 of the base cost has been made for
physical contingencies, based on the experience with similar projects currently under
implementation. Escalation of foreign costs was assumed to be 7.2% for FY90, 6.51 for
FY91, 5.01 for FY92, and 4.51 per annum thereafter. Escalation of local costs was
assumed at 10.01 for FY90, 8.0X for FY91, 7X for FY92, and 6.51 per annum thereafter.
Total price escalation amounts to 24.91 of the base cost plus physical contingencies.
A summary of project cost is presented in Table 3.1 below and details are given in
Annex 3.2.



- 15 -
Table 3.1 Summary of Project C08t
(Rs Million)                (US$ Million)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total
A. HPC - Jamshoro Transmission Line  1,171.3   933.1 2,104.5    54.1   43.1  97.2
B. Guddu-Lahore Transmission Line   1,555.4 1,034.2  2,589.6    71.8   47.8  119.6
C. Substations                         602.2   671.9  1,274.0    27.8   31.0   58.8
D. Consulting and Training             448.6     78.0   526.6      20.7     3.6  24.3
Total Base Cost a/               3,777.9  2,717.1  6,494.7    174.5   125.5  300.0
Physical Contingencies             181.1   153.2   316.3         8.4    6.2  14.6
Price Contingencies               1,042.5   654.7  1,697.1    48.2    30.2   78.4
Total Project Costs            5.001.1 ,3507.3  B.508.4   231.0  162.0  393.0
Interest During Constr. (IDC)        1.517.7      0.0 1.517.7    70.1    0.0  70.1
Total Financing Required        6,518.8  3,507.3 10,026.1   301.1  162.0 463.1
a/ Base costs in FY90 constant prices.
Prolect Financing
3.08     The proposed Loan of US$162 million would be made to WAPDA with GOP as the
guarantor. WAPDA would bear the interest rate risk and any cost overruns. GOP would
bear the foreign exchange risk and provide repayment guarantee to the Bank, for which
WAPDA would annually pay 3-1/21 on the outstanding loan amount to GOP, representing
the foreign exchange insurance premium which is collected by the State Bank of
Pakistan. The proposed Loan would cover 100X of the foreign exchange requirement and
represents about 35Z of total financing required. Of the local cost requirement, about
US$189.4 million equivalent would be financed by WAPDA from internal sources, and the
balance amounting to US$111.7 million equivalent through local borrowings.   The
financing plan for the proposed Project is summarized in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
------Rs Million-------     ------US$ Million------
Local   Foreign   Total     Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD Loan              0.0  3,507.3  3,507.3       0.0     162.0   162.0
WAPDA              4,100.2      0.0  4,100.2    189.4        0.0   189.4
Local Borrowings   2,418.6      0.0  2,418.6    111.7        0.0   111.7
TOTAL          6,518.8  3,507.3 10,026.1    301.1      162.0  463.1
The financing requirements of the proposed Project are within the limits agreed to
under ESL II to contain the growth of expenditures with a view to reducing the fiscal



- 16 -
deficit and dampening the potential for inflation.   For the period FY90-FY93, the
expendit-ines to be incurred under the proposed Project amount to US$ 216.0 million
equivalent, compared to the agreed target of US$ 192.0 million equivalent.   The
increase in expenditures is attributable to higher inflation than was envisaged at the
time of the appraisal of ESL II. It is important to note that as the proposed Project
is part of WAPDA's CIP for FY89-93, the local borrowings for the proposed Project are
part of WAPDA's overall borrowing program for the FY89-93 period.
Proiect Preparation
3.09     Technical and economic justification, load flow and stability studies, design
criteria, environmental considerations, cost estimates and implemertation schedules
for the proposed lines and substations have been completed. Substation extension will
require no additional land, and the equipment, materials and civil works required for
the completion of this component, have been identified. The project document (PC-1)
for the HPC-Jamshoro line, summarizing the technical and economic justification, cost
estimates and financing plan, has been submitted to GOP for approval. The PC-1 was
reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. The PC-1 for the Guddu-Lahore line and
associated substation extensions is under preparation and will be submitted to GOP in
November 1989 for approval. However, to ensure timely implementation of the pronosed
Proiect. auproval by ECNEC of the PC-ls for all comRonents of the pronosed Proiect is
set as a condition of effectiveness (gara 6.02(a)).
Design and Engineering
3.10     The national 500-kV network,       been planned to withstand faults without
system separation, line overloading, cascade tripping or loss of load. To ascertain
adequate design for each new extension of the 500-kV network, including the proposed
Project, specific studies were carried out in the following areas: load flows for
normal and emergency conditions and in typical cases of generation during low water
and high water seasons; short circuits; transient and steady state stability; reactive
power management for improvement of system power factor; mechanical and electrical
design for the conductor selection, tower.structure and substation layout; and control,
metering and relaying scheme in association with telecommunication requirements and
integration into the system control and data acquisition (SCADA) network.   These
studies have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
3.11     The detailed engineering for the HPC-Jamshoro lines were prelarad by NESPAK,
a local consulting firm. Route alignment and most of the detailed survey has been
completed.   Site investigation would commence in December 1989.   Based on past
experience with similar investigations, no difficulties are envisaged. Detailed survey
and alignment of the Lahore-Gatti segment of the proposed Project has been completed.
The Multan-Gatti segment will be constructed parallel to the existing 500-kV line and
soil investigation for this component will be initiated in Jan'wry 1990.  The line
design,  including tower design, cable configuration and othe- aspects have been
completed by NESPAK (Details are presented in Annex 3.1). Design and engineering of
the Guddu-Lahore line and its associated substations is under preparation and is
expected to be completed by January 31, 1990. The proposed date for the completion
of the design is reasonable in v4ew of the fact that it represents a repeat of work
already performed on lines which are currently either in operation or under
implementation. The Bank has reviewed NESPAK's past experience and performance in
design and administration of 500-kV lines as well as its workload and staff resources
assigned to the proposed Project and is satisfied that it has the capability for
completing the engineering and design of the proposed Project in a timely fashion.



- 17 -
3.12     Since the HPC-Jamshoro line is to be constructed in a coastal area of high
moisture with relatively high salt and dust content, and in view of NESPAK's limited
experience in this area, specialized technical expertise would be needed to review
the design and implementation. The cost of these consulting services would be covered
under the proposed Project. A preliminary draft of the TORs for the consultants were
reviewed during negotiations and the recruitment and appointment of the consultants
would be in accordance with Bank guidelines. It is estimated that these services would
require about 80 man-months. In order to ensure the timely completion of the design
and implementation of the proposed Project, the appointment of internationally
experienced consultants to assist and advise WAPDA in the design and implementation
of lines in areas of high moisture with salt and dust content is set as a condition
of effectiveness for the proRosed Loan (Rara 6.02(b)).
Proiect ImRlementation
3.13     The supervision of construetion of the proposed Project would be performed
by WAPDA with  assistance  from  consultants.    Delays were  experienced  in  the
implementation of the Jamshoro-Lahore line, financed under WAPDA V (Loan 2556-PAK).
These were attributable to delays in preparing bidding documents acceptable to the
Bank. Some delay was also caused by changes in WAPDA's generation expansion program
stemming from the need to reduce expenditure by the utility to maintain its investment
program within CIP for FY86-86, agreed wi..h Bank under ESL I.  Since then, agreement
has been reached on standard bidding documents, and the generation development program
covering the Seventh and Eighth Plan periods (FY89-FY98) has been firmed up. Moreover,
the preparation of the bidding documents are a repeat of those prep.r':i -'or similar
equipment, materials, and works financed under WAPDA V (Loan 2556-PAK). Consequently,
no delays are anticipated in the preparation of bidding documents. Nevertheless, in
order to ensure the timely implementation of the proposed Project, the issuance of
bidding documents for the supply of towers. which regui.re a long lead time to
manufacture. and earthing materials is set as a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Loan (para 6.02(c)).
3.14     WAPDA has established two regional offices, one in Hyderabad and one in
Lahore, headed by Chief Engineers, to supervise the implementation of the 500-kV
network in the northern and southern areas, respectively. Each office is adequately
staffed with experienced persontnel in transmission line construction supervision and
management.   The Bank reviewed the capabilities of these offices and found them
satisfactory.
3.15     Completion of the first 500-kV HPC-Jamshoro line is scheduled for September
1992 and the second for June 30, 1993, in time for the expected commissioning of HPC
units.   The schedule for the Guddu-Lahore  line is as follows:   Lahore-Gatti,
January 31, 1994; Gatti-Multan, June 30, 1994; and Multan-Guddu, December 31, 1994.
This schedule is consistent with the scheduled commissioning of the generating
capacities. Taking also inco account post-commissioning item3, the proposed Project
is scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1995. Details of the implementation schedule
are shown in Annex 3.3.
3.16     Since the HPC-Jamshoro line would be dedicated to the evacuation of power
rrom PS power plants, the generation and transmission projects are closely
interdependent. Therefore, assurance of timely completion of HPC is essential for the
utilization of HPC-Jamshoro line. The implementation agreement between GOP and HPC
consortium and the power purchase agreement between WAPDA and HPC consortium are
scheduled for signature before the end of November 1989.   To ensure integrated
development of HPC and the HPC to Jamshoro com=onent of the proposed Project. evidence



- is -
from the Borrower satisfactory to the Bank that all necessary_jrangeements to secure
Rreliminary financial commitments have been completed for the gonstAuction of HPC is
set as a condition of disbursement of expenditures for the HPG component. under-the
orooosed Proiect (para 6.03).
Procuremenmt
3.17     WAPDA is currently implementing, with the assistance of contractors, the
second 500-kV Jamshoro-Lahore line und - WAPDA V (Loan 2556-PAK). The procurement
arrangements agreed under the above project would be followed under the proposed
Project. Most of the transmission line equipment and materials (towers, conductor,
ground wire, insulators and hardware) and substation, representing an amount of about
US$296.3 million, would be procured under Bank guidelines for International Compe.itive
Bidding (ICB). Local suppliers and manufacturers competing for supply of goods under
ICB would have a preference of 15X or the applicable duty, whichever is less.
Similarly, most of the control, auxiliary and miscellaneous equipment, representing
about US$20.5 million, would also be procured through ICB.   Smaller amounts, not
exceeding US$200,000 each and representing about US$8.0 million in the aggregate, would
be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines for Limited International Bidding (LIB)
by inviting bids from a list of potential suppliers, broad enough to assure competitive
prices.  Materials and tools valued at US$6.4 million would be procuree by local
procedures and would not be financed by the Bank. A portion of the construction work
(erection of towers, stringing of conductor and shield wires and civil works),
representing an amount of about US$25.0 million would be procured under ICB consistent
with Bank guidelines. These contracts would be eligible for financing under the Bank
loan provided that erection and works packages would be floated for whole line segments
as defined by substations line terminations and that no segment would be subdivided
int3 smaller lots unless the segment was equal or longer than 300 km as was the
practice under WAPDA V. Discounting for more than one lot in the same procurement
package would be allowed. This arrangement would ensure that each contract would be
of a size that would attract foreign bidders.  Accordingly, it was agreed during
negotiations that financing of civil works and line erection contracts would be done
up to 80X of each ICB contract, according to the following schedule: Tender I. HPC-
Jamshoro first line; Tender II: HPC-Jamshoro second line; Tender III: Guddu-Multan
transmission line, Lots I and II; Tender IV: Lot I, Multan-Gatti, and Lot II, Gatti-
Lahore transmission lines; Tender V: 500-kV Jamshoro and Guddu substations; and tender
VI: Multan, Gatti and Lahore substations. The remaining construction work and the
engineering and administration work, estimated at a total of US$36.0 million, would
be carried out under local procedures and would not be financed by the Bank. Se-eral
local contractors have already gained ample experience in the construction of 500-kV
lives. Table 3.3 summarizes the status of procurement arrangements.



- 19 -
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements I/
(US$ Million)
team                                 ICB      LIB     Other L   Total
----                 ---      ---     ....~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. .
1 Land and Rights of Way                  -       -         .6        2.6
2 Transmission Line equipment           218.3                -      218.3
and Materials                      (91.2)    -                 (91.2)
3 Substation equipment                   78.0     -          -       78.0
(32.4)                     (32.4)
4 Capacitors and Control Equipment       15.6                -       15.6
(6.8)    -         -       (6.8)
5 General Ecuipment                       4.9    8.0       6.4       12.9
(2.0)  (5.0)       -       (7.0)
6 Line Erection and Civil Works          25.0     -        8.3       33.3
(20.0)    -         -      (20.0)
7 Engineering and Administration           -      -       27.7      27.7
8 Corsulting and Training                  -      -        4.6        4.6
-      -       (4.6)     (4.6)
TOTAL                        341.8     8.0     43.2     393.0
(Bank)                       (152.4)   (5.0)   ( 4.6)   (162.0)
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
LIB: Limited International Bidding
Other: Other Procurement Arrangements
a/ The figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts which would be financed by
the Bank.
Lb/ Includes civil works contracted locally, and technical services for which Bank
guidelines for consultants use would apply.
3.18     Bidding documents and recommendations for each contract, exceeding the
equivalent of US$1,000,000 to be financed under the proposed Loan, would be subject
to prior approval by the Bank.  This would amount to Bank review of more than 70% of
the total contracts financed under the proposed Loan. Other Bank-financed contracts
would be subject to post-award review.   Consultants for studies and technical
assistance would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines and employed under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursement
3.19     The proceeds of the proposed Loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of
the CIF cost of imported goods and services; or (b) 100% of ex-factory costs of locally
manufactured goods, both being subject to ICB. Eighty percent of the erection costs
up to a total of US$20.0 million would also be financed under the proposed Project,
subject to ICB. Disbursements would also be made against 100l of the foreign exchange
cost of consultancy and training services. Disbursements up to US$5 million would also
be made against the CIF cost of goods procured through LIB.   To facilitate
disbursements, a Special Account shall be established by WAPDA with a commercial bank
in Pakistan.   The Special Account would cover about four months of average loan
expenditures, equivalent to US$6.0 million, replenished and operated in accordance with



- 20 -
Bank pracedures.   Disbursements would be fully documented except for payments not
exceeding US$100,000.   Such disbursements would be made against statements of
expenditures (SOE), the documentation of which would not be submitted to the Bank, but
retained for inspection by the Bank's supervision missions. Standard procedures for
auditing SOEs would apply. The audit reports required to be submitted in accordance
with the Bank's audit covenants (paras 4.18 and 4.19) would include a statement
verifying that the amounts disbursed against SOEs have been used for the purpose they
were intended. A schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 3.4. The closing date
for the proposed Loan would be December 31, 1995. This is about 18 months less than
the Bank-wide average for power ..ransmission and distribution projects, which is
reasonable in view of the experience gained under similar ongoing projects.
Training
3.20     A training program has been instituted by WAPDA for the last 15 years to
develop the necessary personnel for the planning, operation and maintenance of the
generation,  transmission and distribution systems (para 2.07).   In the area of
transmission, special emphasis was on the training of staff to operate and maintain
the 500-kV lines and grid stations. Canadian utilities, under CIDA financing, have
provided substantial assistance to WAPDA. The initial phase of the training started
in 1974 when the first team of WAPDA engineers were trained in Canada using the
services of British Columbia Hydro. In 1981, a more comprehensive program started with
the establishment of a specialized training center at Tarbela, and over a period of
two years Ontario Hydro has provided experts to train WAPDA's staff and instructors
in the areas of line maintenance, grid station operation and maintenance, and
associated protection and instrumentation.   A follow-on,  five-year program was
instituted by WAPDA with support from CIDA and with participation of Ontario Hydro to
provide on-the-job training for the staff after their initial training at the Tarbela
school and to assist in the development of a head office team of technical support
within the Transmission and Grid Department. The program included also the training
of WAPDA's staff overseas .wd the purchase of equipment and tools and essential spares
for the conduct of the field training. WAPDA has also installed at the Faisalabad
Training Institute a grid simulator which enables its staff to be trained regularly
in the operation of the system.
3.21     Under the ongoing CIDA sponsored training program considerable progress has
been made in line maintenance. However, this program is to be concluded within one
year, and WAPDA and the Bank are of the view that the program needs to be continued
to improve the utility's capability to maintain the transmission line at a high degree
of reliability. The proposed Loan would finance the continuation of training in the
areas of line maintenance and computerized inventory control and ztores systems, etc..
The training program would require about 180 man-months of training overseas plus
travel and subsistence and training fees, amounting to about US$2.3 million, and would
be covered under the proposed Project.
3.22     The development of power projects by PS would attract skilled personnel from
WAPDA. This would not significantly affect WAPDA's capabilities because the absorptive
capacity of PS is less than the available pool of trained personnel and the fact that
PS is presently concentrating on generation.
Environment and Safetv
3.23     As in  the case of previous  Bank-financed WAPDA projects,  design and
construction of the transmission lines will minimize any adverse environmental effects
on public health and safety. The line would be routed to ensure a distance of about



- 21 -
200 meters from habitation. Tower design would incorporate adequate provision to avoid
electrocution of birds and animals. The use of 500-kV lines would also minimize right-
of-way requirements. The conductor selection has been carried out to minimize corona
discharge and hence the possibility of radio and television interference, audible
noise, and ozone generation.
Risks
3 24     The proposed Project consists of normal electric utility work entailing no
unusual risks, and no particular difficulty is foreseen in its execution. The project
cost estimates and implementation schedule are based on similar work currently in
progress in the country and on contracts let out during the Second and Third Quarter
of 1989, so there should be little risk of substantial cost overrun or of extended
slippage. In addition, provision has been made for extra heavy design of insulator
strings and towers near the sea coast. There is, however, the risk that HPC would slip
by at most six months because of delays in financial closure. The potential for this
delay is being minimized by arranging interim financing while the negotiations of the
commercial loans are under way to cover the initial payments for the equipment
requiring long lead time to manufacture and commence civil works, and hence
implementation of the HPC would be maintained in line with the forecast timetable.
Project Monitoring
3.25     WAPDA will submit to the Bank quarterly reports,  covering the work of
consultants, physical progress, project costs, disbursements and administrative aspects
of the Project.  In addition, it would also submit quarterly and annual financial
reports and other pertinent information to the Bank. WAPDA would also undertake to
prepare and furnish to the Bank, within three months after the closing date, or such
later date, as will be agreed for this purpose, a Project Completion Report of such
scope and detail, as the Bank shall reasonably request.
IV. FINANCES
Introduction
4.01     WAPDA's financial affairs are governed by the WAPDA Act which requires the
utility to generate sufficient revenues from electricity sales to cover operating
costs, including depreciation and debt service, and achieve a reasonable return on
investment. Under the First WAPDA Power Project (Credit 213-PAK), WAPDA agreed to
achieve a rate of return of 8% on revalued average net fixed assets in use. However,
because of GOP's reluctance to revalue assets, this covenant was replaced in FY76,
under the Second WAPDA Power Project (Loan 1208-PAK), by an internal cash generation
(ICG) covenant. It required WAPDA to generate annually from internal sources, 30% of
the capital expenditures, averaged over the previous two years and the current year
without taking into account the changes in working capital. In order to ensure that
adequate local funds were available for the implementation of WAPDA's expanding
investment program, the ICG requirement was raised to 40% in FY80 under the Third WAPDA
Power Project (Credit 968-PAK). In each of the following six years, except FY85, WAPDA
was able to comply with this covenant. This compliance was achieved at the expense
of substantial slippages in WAPDA's investment program facilitated, in part, by the
retrospective nature of the ICG formula which encouraged the postponement of
investments when tariff increases to comply with ICG covenant were deemed politically
unacceptable. 't was in the context of these slippages and the accompanying shortfalls
in generating capacity that agreement was reached with GOP and WAPDA under ESL I on



- 22 -
a Rs 30 billion CIP for the period FY86-88. The purpose for agreeing on a CIP for
each year over a three year period, clearly allocating resources to generation,
transmission and distribution, was to eliminate the option of postponing investments
in order to avoid tariff increases to meet the ICG covenant. Furthermore, begin.'Ing
FY89, the formula for computing ICG was changed, to consider the average of investments
over the revious, current and ensuing year as well as the changes in working capital
other than cash. The new formula changed the requirements for calculating ICG from
retrospective to a prospective basis which together with the agreed CIP ensures that
the revenues needed for the new agreed investment program are generated.
4.02     To finance WAPDA's investment programs, GOP has, in the past extended rupee
loans to WAPDA.   In a move to enhance the Authority's autonomy in managing its
financial affairs, GOP has stipulated that effective FY89, WAPDA would not receive any
rupee loans from GOP's budget. Rather, WAPDA would borrow from the local financial
markets on the strength of its financial performance. In view of the limits on the
amounts that WAPDA could borrow and given that the size of the local financial markets
is small relative to the requirements of the utility, WAPDA would, under the proposed
Rural Electrification Project, implement a Financial Management Improvement Plan
(FMIP), including actions in the areas of consumer contributions, security deposits
and accounts receivables, that would increase the utility's ICG with moderate tariff
increases. In addition, in order to manage expanding investwents and operations and
accommodate the separation of the distribution function, the FMIP for WAPDA includes
the strengthening of its accounting systems and redefining its financial organization
(para 4.17). These actions are discussed under the relevant headings in this chapter.
Electricitv Pricing
4.03     WAPDA's average revenue includes a fuel adjustment surcharge (FAS) which is
calculated on the basis of the average fuel cost incurred in the 12-month period ending
two months prior to the month of billing.  Prior to FY87, the fuel surcharge was
applicable to all consumer categories other than residential and agricultural
consumers, which account for 351 of total sales. As a result, WAPDA was unable to
fully recover the cost incurred in meeting the demand for electricity. Recognizing
that this adversely affected the availability of local resources for the CIP, GOP
extended the applicability of the fuel surcharge clause to residential consumers
consuming more than 300 kWh/month. In order to comply with ICG covenant (para 4.06),
WAPDA's tariffs were increased in each of the years FY86-89 by an average of 6.5X per
year in nominal terms, which, together with the increase in revenues from the fuel
surcharge has increased the average revenue/kWh from Rs 0.74 in FY86 to Rs 0.94 in
FY89.  Furthermore, the Bank's  projections show that in order to comply with the
financial covenant during FY89-93, WAPDA's tariffs need to be increased annually by
an average of about 9.4% in nominal terms, representing an annual increase of 1.8% in
real terms based on an annual average inflation of about 7.6X.  In July 1988, GOP
unified the tariffs of WAPDA and KESC as a first step toward fully integrating the
operations of the two systems and ensuring equity among consumers of electricity
throughout the country. The projected increases in average revenues would raise the
average tariff level for KESC and WAPDA's integrated system from 741 of LRMC in FY89
to about 901 in FY93 ard to full parity by FY95, instead of FY92 as was originally
projected during the appraisal of ESL II. The delay in achieving parity with LRMC is
largely due to the fact that inflation in FY88 and FY89 was higher than projected.
Actual inflation was 81 and 121 in FY88 and FY89, respectively, compared to the
projected rates of 6.11 and 9.1. Consequently, the levels of real tariffs achieved
in FY88 and FY89 were lower than projected. The Bank's forecast shows that in order
to meet the 401 cash generation target for FY90, tariffs should be increased by 15X
effective July 1, 1989, in addition to any changes needed to recover nearly 1001 of



- 23 -
the fuel cost to be incurred in FY90. To this end, GOP has changed, effective July 1,
1989, the fuel surcharge recovery formula to enable WAPDA to recover nearly 100% of
the fuel cost. In view of the critical need to mobilize revenues in a timely manner
for CIP, GOP and WAPDA have agreed to implement all necessary actions, including
increasing in electricity tariffs, to enable WAPDA to comply with the 40X ICG covenant
for FY90 as a condition of effectiveness of ESL II (Ln. 3107-PAK).   Accordingly,
failure to comply with this condition of effectiveness of ESL II would result in all
future Bank lending in energy to Pakistan being held in abeyance. However, GOP has
increased WAPDA's electricity tariffs by an average of 161 effective September 1, 1989,
which would result in an average increase in tariffs for the whole of FY90 of about
121. Although further details are awaited, preliminary estimates indicate that the
recent tariff increases, together with the enhanced recovery of the fuel cost for FY90
through the change in FAS, would enable UAPDA to comply with the 401 ICG covenant for
FY90.
4.04     Since the initiation of ESL I, GOP, WAPDA and KESC have taken steps to
rationalize the structure of electricity tariffs such as broadening the applicability
of the fuel surcharge clause (para 4.03), and increasing the tariff for agricultural
and household consumers by 211 compared with an 11 increase for industrial and bulk
consumers in FY89.   As a result, residential consumers who account for 79% of
connections and consume 351 of electricity sold, accounted for 291 of the revenues in
FY89 compared to 251 in FY88. Similarly, agricultural consumers who account for just
over 201 of the connections and consume 211 of electricity sold, accounted for 151 of
the revenues in FY89 compared to 111 in FY88. In contrast, industrial, commercial and
bulk consumers who account for just over 161 of the connections and consume 42% of the
electricity sold, accounted for 481 of revenue in FY89 compared to just over 571 in
FY88.  Despite these improvements, there is still, however, a need for an overall
rationalization of the tariff structure. Therefore, under ESL II, GOP has agreed to
increase the agricultural tariffs at a higher rate than for other consumers in FY90
and FY91. Accordingly, during the recent tariff increases effected in September 1989
(para 4.03), the tariffs for agricultural consumers were increased by more than 27%
compared to 141 for resident consumers, 91 for industrial and 151 for commercial
consumers. Furthermore, as a component of the proposed Rural Electrification Project,
peak/off-peak pricing would be introduced to the 300 largest industrial consumers,
which account for about 201 of electricity sales, by providing them with specially
designed m-nters. This would contribute significantly to rationalizing electricity
consumption during seasonal and daily peak demanct periods.
Past Operations
4.05     Financial statements showing WAPDA's performance during the period FY85-89
are presented in Annex 4.1 and summarized in Table 4.1.
Tabte 4.1: WiPMAs zsratfto Results. FY85-FY09
FY85   FY86    FY87    FY8   FY89
kWh Generation (N)  18,780  21.055  23,630   27,451  29,084
kWh Sold (M)        13,756  15,504   17,745   20,702 22,221
System Losses (t)     27      26      25      25    24
Ave. Revenue per kWh
Sotd (inct. FAS)(Paisa)    64  74    70       83    94
Operating Rev. (Rs N)    8,992  11,760  12,588   17,623 21,314
Operating Exp. (Rs N)    6,473  7,816   8,800   11,732  13,113
Net Optng.1ncome (Rs h)   1,085  2,213   1,577    2,818  4,394
Int. Cash Gen. Ratfo (X  37   50      35      44    33
Rate of Return on Hist.
j         Valued Assets (X)   12.0   14.8    11.5      14.4  17.3



- 24 -
WAPDA's electricity generation increased from 18,780 GWh in FY85 to 29,084 GWh in FY89,
averaging about 11.6% annually, as a result of increases in generating capacity from
4,339 MW in FY85 to 6,149 MW in FY89, all of which were thermal. WAPDA's electricity
sales during the period FY85-89 followed a pattern similar to that of generation,
increasing at an annual average rate of 12.71. The higher rate of increase in sales
than in generation was due to the fact that WAPDA was able to reduce system losses from
27% in FY85 to 241 in FY89 by extending and upgrading the transmission network, and
by establishing the new thermal capacity closer to load centers. WAPDA's operating
revenues increased from Rs 8,992 million in FY85 to Rs 21,314 million in FY89
representing an average annual increase of 241, while operating costs increased at an
average annual rate of only 19.31 during the same period. While the greater reliance
on thermal capacity and increases in the prices of fuels caused the fuel costs to
increase from 371 of total operating costs in FY85 to 481 in FY89, the steps initiated
in FY87 to recover a higher proportion of the fuel costs incurred (para 4.03) was the
major reason for operating revenues increasing at a higher rate than costs.   The
proportion of fuel costs recovered averaged 82X in the period FY87-89 compared to 62X
in FY86.
4.06     Compared with the 401 ICG covenant agreed with the Bank under the Third WAPDA
Power Project (para 4.01), the ICG level was 371 in FY85 as a result of actual capital
expenditures being larger than planned without corresponding tariff increases.  In
FY86, however, in accordance with the agreement reached under ESL I, initiation of
measures to ensure compliance with the ICG covenant, including a 9% across-the-board
increase in tariffs for all categories of consumers, resulted in an ICG level of 501,
but in FY87, the ICG level dropped to 351 despite the broadening of FAS (para 4.03),
primarily because of a decline in revenues due to the introduction of flat rate tariffs
for agricultural consumers'/ and a lower hydel generation than forecast.  In FY88,
following a 13.41 tariff increase, the ICG level reached 44X. However, for FY89, WAPDA
achieved an ICG level of 331 despite a tariff increase of 12.81 effective July 1, 1988.
The primary reason for the shortfall in ICG from the covenanted level of 40% is due
to the switchover from the retrospective to the prospective ICG formula (para 4.01).
Under the retrospective formula, the average 12.81 tariff increase would have resulted
in an ICG level of 441 for FY89. In view of the fact that asset commissioning closely
followed the CIP, variations in operating income were the main cause for fluctuations
in the utility's return on historically valued net fixed assets in use, from 121 in
FY85 to a low of 11.51 in FY87 and improving to 17.31 in FY89.
Consumer Contributions
4.07     During FY89, capital contributions collected from new consumers to defray
the cost of connecting them to the system amounted to Rs 1,297 million. The full cost
of connections is recovered from residential, commercial and industrial consumers.
However, from agricultural consumers only connection c sts in excess of Rs 30,000, if
any, are recovered. Based on the 27,000 agricultural consumers to be connected to the
system under the proposed Rural Electrification Project, WAPDA' s unrecovered connection
charges are estimated at Rs 1.1 billion. WAPDA should be authorized to annually borrow
either from GOP or from a GOP designated financial intermediary, an amount equal to
the cost of connecting tubewells.    Thereafter, these connection costs should be
amortized and collected from the consumer over the economic life of the tubewells,
Prlor to the Introduction of flat rate tariffs for agricultural consumers in FY87, the expected
average rvenue per kWh, including FAS, from this category of consumers was 61 paisas in Punjab/Sind provinces
and 47.4 in NWMP/Baluchistan provinces. Following the introduction o,f flat rate tariffs. the corresponding
average revenue/kWi realised, wa 27.1 palsas and 11.8 paisas, respectively, resulting in a revenue reduction
of about Rs 550 millon.



- 25 -
which is about seven years.   Such a measure would:   (a) not be a burden on the
agricultural consumer; (b) provide necessary funds to WAPDA to in fact carry out the
tubewell electrification; and (c) eliminate the financial burden on WAPDA. GOP and
WAPDA have agreed under the proposed Rural Electrification Project to be presented to
the Board in FY90, to take, by July 1, 1990 the necessary measures to enable UAPDA to
recover the connection costs from agricultural consumers over the economic life of the
tubewell.
Customer Security Deposits
4.08     Customer security deposits should be r-lated to the current average billing
rates for each category of consumers. WAPDA's security deposits, which had not changed
since 1969, were adjusted in 1988. Despite this adjustment, the levels of security
deposits do not reflect current rates of billing.   If the security deposits were
adjusted to reflect the current average billing, the incremental cash flow to WAPDA
would be about Rs 500 million during the Seventh Plan at the projected tariff levels.
WAPDA has agreed, as a part of the FMIP, under the proposed Rural Electrification
Project to be presented to the Board in FY90, to review the security deposit rates at
the end of each financial year and adjust them to reflect the ensuing year's average
billing for each category of consumers.
Accounts Receivable
4.09     Accounts receivable as of March 31, 1989, amounted to Rs 4,510 million and
Rs 3,285 million of these are considered overdue, i.e. they are outstanding for more
than three months. Of the overdue amounts, Rs 1,568 million are from GOP departments
and agencies and the balance of Rs 1,717 million are from private consumers.
Receivables from private consumers represent about two months' average sales and from
GOP departments and agencies, 2.7 months' average sales. Under the Fourth WAPDA Power
Project (Loan 2499-PAK), GOP is to ensure that receivables from its departments and
agencies are not more than three months' average sales to them. Overall, accounts
receivable represent 2.2 months' sales which is satisfactory, but a large portion of
the outstanding accounts is overdue and may be uncollectible as summarized in Table
4.2.
Table 4.2: WAPDA's Aping of Receivables as of March 31. 1989
Up to    3-6       6 mos.      1-3       over
3 mos.   mos.      1 year     years    3 years      Total
Rs Million       1,225    725        757        878         925       4,510
Z of total          27      16        17         19          21         100
WAPDA should identify and write-off the receivables deemed uncollectible and those
receivables outstanding for more than three years. WAPDA has agreed, as part of the
FMIP under the proposed Rural Electrification Project to be presented to the Board in
FY90, to carry out, by December 31, 1990 a comprehensive aging analysis of its account,
receivables and by June 30, 1991, adjust its Accounts Receivable on its Balance Sheet
to reflect only those receivables that are outstanding for less than three years and
those deemed collectible. In addition. GOP agreed to cause all federal and provincial
governmental agencies and departments to settle all bills for the supply of electricity
by WAPDA within three months of receipt of bills (para 6.04(a)).



- 26 -
4.10     At the end of FY89, WAPDA's debt/equity ratio was 58/42 compared to 52/48 at
the end of FY85 due to large investments during the per'od FY85-89 being financed from
debt. Despite the deterioration in the debt/equity ratio, the capital structure remains
satisfactory. Since FY88, WAPDA's local debt 4 -s comprised funds borrowed through the
issuance of bonds in the local financial markets with five-year maturities. Through
such bond issues, WAPDA was able to raise about Rs 3.1 billion in FY88 and Rs 5.7
billion in FY89. As these bonds can be encashed prematurely and WAPDA had not set up
a sinking fund to retire these bonds, the National Development Finance Corporation
(NDFC), the manager of the FY89 Bond Issue, has retained Rs 500 million from the
proceeds of these bonds. These funds are being utilized by NDFC to discount the bonds
for any bondholder that wishes to encash the bonds prematurely. Such a mechanism
provides liquidity to the l-ndholders, giving hope to the possibility of a longer term
maturity for any future instrument issued on the domestic financial markets.   In
addition, WAPDA has now set up a sinking fund to avoid steep increases in tariffs in
the year of retiring the bonds, since the repayment of bonds is a part of the debt
service for that year.   Nevertheless,  in view of the fact that bonds worth
approximately Rs 8.8 billion are outstanding, the funds set aside for carrying out
discounting of bonds could become insufficient.  In addition, in order to improve
WAPDA's financial discipline and mitigate the need for sharp tariff increases, there
is a need for regular monitoring of the amounts set aside in the sinking fund. WAPDA
has agreed, as part of the FMIP under the proposed Rural Electrification Project to
be presented to the Board in FY90, agreed to review with the Bank, not later than June
30 of each year beginning with 1990, the arrangements for setting aside annually,
amounts in a sinking fund to be used to retire the bonds issued by WAPDA in FY88 and
FY89.
Capital Expenditure Proxram and Financina Plan
4.11     WAPDA's capital expenditure program for the period FY90-95, covering the
project implementation period together with the annual phasing of expenditures for
ongoing and new projects is presented in Annex 4.2. The program and proposed financing
plan are summarized in Table 4.3 below.   The first three years of this program
constitute CIP agreed to under ESL II.
Table 4.3: WADAs Cmital Exmenditum Pruri mid Fimcim Reminmnts CFT90 - FY95)
Rs Million      Us# Mition       X
Recuirements
Capitat Investment:
Generation                    75,639             3.494         52
Transmission                  21,377              987          15
Distribution                  32.U4              1.498         22
Subtotal                     129,U0              5,979         89
Working Capital Increase             ,                 706          1
Total Requirements           t44.727             6.685        100
Sources
Gross Intemal Sources             14,067              6,654
Less: Debt Service L               79.292             3662
Net Internal Cash Generation       64,775             2.992         45
Borrowings:
Local Loans                   28,615            1t322          20
Foreign Loans                 47,830             2,209        33
Proposed Loan                  3.51 62                          2
Total Borrowings              79,952             3,693         55
Total Sources                     M§.=                68           100
/a Includes interest during construction ard an aljt payment of Rs 20 million payment to GOP
for assets earlier transferred to WAPDA.



- 27 -
4.12     The Bank has reviewed the investment and financing plan for its content, size
and allocation and found it satisfactory. However, there is a need for an annual
review with the Bank of WAPDA's investment program during the Seventh Plan. Therefore.
WAPDA agreed to review before May 15 of each year. its capital expenditure orogram and
financing plan for the ongoing and the ensuing year and agree with the Bank on steps
necessarv for implementation (Rara 6.01).
Future Finances
4.13     Forecast balance sheets, income statements and sources and applications of
funds statements for the period FY90-95 are shown in Annex 4.1. A summary of forecast
operating results for this period are presented in Table 4.4.
Table 4.4: VAPDA's Forecast ocrtins Results Fr90-95
FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Generation (GMh)     33.806  33.711  38,293  43,294  50,151 53.767
Sales (G01h)          26,030 25,957 29,486 33,336 38,616 41,401
Ave. Revenue per
kWh Sold (poise)      112.8  120.5  129.8  150.9  165.5  172.9
Operating Rev.(Rs N)  29,914  31,905  38,963  51.045  64,720 72,496
operating Exp. (Rs N)  17,442  18,035  24,193  33,635  42,231 49,215
Net Income (Rs N)     8,175  8,887  9,742  12.459  17,726 18,287
Int. Cash Gen. Ratio CX)  40.8  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0
Rate of Return on Hist.
Valued Assets (X)     22.0  20.7  19.0  19.5  21.9  19.3
Debt/Equity Ratio     55/45  52/48  49/51  45/55  44/56 43/57
Debt Service Coverage   1.6   1.5   1.5   1.6   1.9  1.8
4.14     UAPDA's financial projections are based on forecast increases in electricity
generation together with purchases from private sector power plants (Annex 4.3).
Electricity generation and sales are forecast to increase at an average annual rate
of 10.5%. Under the ongoing Bank Group operations, WAPDA had agreed that it would
generate each year from internal resources 40% of its average capital expenditures.
Therefore, in order to ensure that sufficient resources are available to implement
WAPDA's capital investment program, this covenant would be repeated under the proposed
Project, which provides for WAPDA to generate for each year from internal sources 40%
of its capital expenditures averaged over the Rrevious. ongoing and one ensuing year
(Rara 6.04(b)).
4.15     In order to ensure that coverage of WAPDA's debt service by gross internal
cash generation continues to be satisfactory, the debt limitation covenant under
ongoing Bank Group operations would be repeated under the proposed Project, which
provides that WAPDA would consult with the Bank. should it incur new debt that would
result in its gross internal cash generation before debt service (including payment
to GOP) falling below 1.5 times the debt service requirement (Para 6.04(c)).
Accounting ftsta ms
4.16     WAPDA has about 400 accounting units distributed over a wide geographical
area.   To cater to this large number of accounting units, WAPDA has adopted a
K        decentralized, accrual-based accounting system, designed and implemented during FY82-
84 by consultants under the Second and Third WAPDA Power Projects (Loan 1208-PAK and
Credit 968-PAK). While the accounting system is sound in structure, the utility is
not deriving full benefits from the system primarily due to: (a) non-availability of
trained accounting personnel required to maintain the decentralized system,



- 28-
particularly in the distribucion areas; and (b) the manual system of maintaining the
accounts which causes significant delays in the flow of accounting information through
WAPDA's hierarchy. In order to address the lack of trained accounting personnel in
the distribution area, WAPDA is implementing a comprehensive training program under
the USAID-financed DDP (para 2.07) with the help of a consortium of US consultants
referred to as Principal Technical Assistance Team (PTAT).  Furthermore, under the
ongoing Fifth WAPDA Power Project (Loan 2556-PAK), WAPDA is implementing a training
program for the remaining accounts personnel in Generation, Transmission and
Headquarters with the assistance of Electricity Supply Board of Ireland under Bank
financing. As regards automation of the accounting system, the USAID-financed DDP
would provide the necessary assistance to automate the accounting and financial
information system in the distribution area. The automation of the accounting and
financial information system for the generation, transmission and other functions at
headquarters is a part of the FMIP under the proposed Rural Electrification Project
to be presented to the Board in FY90. Under this proposed Project, WAPDA agreed to:
(a) recruit by September 30, 1990, consultants whose qualification, experience and
terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank Group, to exist WAPDA in the design
of the automated accounting and fisancial information systems; (b) complete i.nd furnish
to the Bank Group, by September 30, 1991, the design of the automated accoux.ting and
financial information systems; and (c) implement the automated accounting and financial
information systems by September 30, 1992.
Financial Organization
4.17     The organization chart of the financial function of WAPDA is presented in
Annex 4.4. WAPDA's financial function is headed by Member Finance, while the day-to-
day management of the financial function is the responsibility of General Manager
(Finance), assisted by 10 senior finance managers and their staff. The appointment
of a General Manager (Finance) in compliance with a condition of effectiveness for the
Fourth WAPDA Power Project (Loan 2499-PAK), has enhanced the role of the Finance
function within the organization. However, there is a need for a detailed review of
the financial organization in order to:   (a) accommodate the separation of the
Distribution function which would entail entering into commercial arrangements for the
sale of electricity between the Generation/Transmission and the Distribution functions;
(b) address the problem of an excessive number of senior managers (10) reporting to
the General Manager (Finance) which has reduced financial control in general; and (c)
segregate the complex tasks of accounting and financial management (including
management of cash, short and long-term debt and financial planning), particularly in
light of the recent mandate from GOP that WAPDA should mobilize all local resources
on its own for development.  WAPDA has furnished a proposal for reorganizing the
finance function which was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. In view of
the need to have an appropriate financial management structure in place and operate
more autonomously, WAPDA agreed, as a part of the FMIP of the proposed Rural
Electrification Project to be presented to the Board in FY90, to implement the
reorganization plan for the finance function by December 31, 1990.
Internal Audit
4.18     Although WAPDA has a large Internal Audit Department,  its systems and
procedures are outdated and its responsibilities have not been enhanced to suit the
utility's recent growth in size and complexity. In recognition of this, WAPDA, under
financing from USAID, has engaged consultants to develop a modern internal auditing
system. The consultants have completed their work and the draft final report is under
review by WAPDA and the Bank. In order to strengthen the internal audit function,
which is fundamental to the evaluation of the utility's internal control system as



- 29 -
well as to the finalization of the external audit of WAPDA within a reasonable
timefran . WAPDA has agreed, as part of the FNIP of the proposed Rural Electrification
Project to be presented to the Board in FY90, to furnish to the Bank by June 30. 1990,
a datei and monitorable action plan to implement by June 30, 1991, the agreed
recommendations of the Internal Audit Study.
xternal Audit
4.19     The responsibility for auditing WAPDA's accounts rests with the Auditor
General of Pakistan (AG) who discharges this responsibility through a Director General.
The Director General, WAPDA Audit, is assigned to WAPDA on a permanent basis together
with a staff of about 400. WAPDA is required by the WAPDA Act, which mirrors the
Bank's audit requirements, to finalize the annual accounts and have them audited within
six months of the end of the financial year. However, the inordinate delays in the
flow of financial information and the absence of an effective internal audit system
which is needed to support the external audit in view of the geographical spread and
magnitude of WAPDA's operations, preclude the fulfillment of the WAPDA Act stipulation.
At present, the AG's Preliminary Audit Observations are issued within six months of
the end of the financial year, together with the utility's certified financial
statements.   With the improvement envisaged in the flow of financial information
through the automation of its accounts system and financial information (para 4.16)
and the strengthening of the internal audit function, it is expected that WAPDA would
be in a position, beginning FY92 to have its finalized annual accounts audited within
six months of the end of the financial year. Nevertheless, in order for the Bank to
preserve the right to request an audit of WAPDA's finalized accounts withir. six months
of the end of the financial year, the Bank's standard audit covenant which is included
under all ongoing WAPDA Power Projects is repeated under the proposed Project.
Therefore. WAPDA has ag-reed to have its finalized accounts audited and furnished to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such yea. (gara 6.04(d)).
Insurance
4.20     Prior to 1977, WAPDA placed its insurance with the National Insurance
Corporation of Pakistan, a Government-owned insurance company.  Due to difficulties
in settling its claims with this agency, WAPDA elected to insure its assets under a
self-insurance scheme. This scheme was established in 1981 with the assistance of
actuarial consultants, and covers substations, power houses, machinery and workshops
against loss from fire and machinery breakdown. Since that time, WAPDA's assets have
increased f,urfold, and therefore there is a need for a new actuarial study to be
conducted to determine rates of annual contributions to the self-insurance scheme in
order to set aside sufficient funds for covering losses from fire and machinery
breakdown.  As part of the FMIP under the proposed Rural Electrification Project to
be presented to the Board in FY90. WAPDA agreed to:  (a) appoint, by no later than June
30, 1990, consultants whose qualifications, terms of reference and experience are
satisfactory to the Bank to complete an actuarial study for the utility by March 30,
1991; and (b) implement the recommendations of the study by June 30, 1991.
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. VAPDA's Actual and Fogecast Electricity Sales
5.01   WAPDA's electricity sales increased over the past decade at an average annual
rate of about 12X, from 6,490 GWh in FY78 to 20,702 GWh in FY88. This relatively high
rate of growth is attributable to:   (a) the unprecedented growth in demand for



- 30 -
electricity by the industrial sector, particularly the newly established electricity
intensive industries; (b) the continued, albeit declining, worker's remittances from
the Gulf countries, whicn supported a buoyant demand for electricity by the household
and conmercial consumers; (c) the rapid conversion of tubewells for irrigation pumping
from diesel to electricity; and (d) until recently, the inadequate adjustments in
tariffs relative to the increases in the general price level, which further stimulated
the demand for electricity. A summary of the actual and projected electricity sales
for the period FY78-9b is presented in Table 5.1 below.
Tabte 5.1: MM$'. Actil   d Forecnt Electricity Sales f -S
Actuat                  FarlAt
vAaae Annual Growth Rate (X} Averae Annual Growth Rate (1)
F178-88                  F-"
Energy Sold        12.3                     10.5
Residentlot        20.1                     14.1
Cmwercal           13.2                     12.7
Induatrial         9.1                      9.2
AgrIculture        9.9                       5.6
5.02     The forecast of electricity sales is based on a projected growth of the
economy. GDP is projected to increase at an average annual rate of about 5.51 up to
FY92, 61 between FY93 and FY95 and then resuming its historical trend of about 6.51.
As a result, WAPDA's sales are expected to increase at an average annual rate of 10.51
between FY89 and FY98 which is lower than the 12.31 experienced between FY78 and FY88.
Moreover, as generating capacity constraints are likely to persist until the end of
the Eighth Plan (FY94-FY98), GOP intends to minimize their adverse impact through
better demand management, including direct curtailment of supply to various cons-1mer
categories and introduction of load management devices to rationalize consumption
during peak periods and implement measures to reduce transmission losses.   These
measures, together with the rationalization of the level and structure of tariffs, as
well as the implementation of conservation measures agreed to under ESL II are expected
to bring about a reduction in the rates of growth of electricity consumption by the
various consumer categories, with the exception of the industrial consumers whose rate
of growth would remain at its historical level of 9.21.
B. Least Cost Alternative
5.03     The proposed Project has been prepared by WAPDA with the assistance of
consultants, NESPAK.  The options considered by WAPDA for the HPC-Jamshoro and
Jamshoro-Lahore lines included alternative routing, voltage levels, line configuration,
etc. The analysis, which was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory, showed that
the selected lines would effect evacuation of power at least cost in terms of capital
and operating coste and would minimize transmission losses.
C. Internal Economic Rate of Return
5.04     Although the proposed Project is essential for the optimal operation of the
power system, its benefits cannot be isolated from those required for the overall
development of the subsector.   Consequently, the return on the investments to be
undertaken by both WA2DA and PS during the period FY90-95, is taken as a proxy for
the return on the proposed Project. The internal economic rate of return (IERR) for
the investment program is about 81, based on measurable costs and benefits.   The
measurable costs include: (a) capital costs of the generation, transmission and



- 31 -
distribution development program to be implemented by WAPDA and the new generating
capacities to be brought onstream by PS, both of which constitute the CIP for the
Seventh Plan and the first two years of the Eighth Plan; (b) operation and maintenance
costs, which were estimated about 3X of the capital costs; and (c) incremental fuel
costs, which were valued at their respective border prices. Local costs were expressed
in their equivalent border prices using appropriate conversion factors. The measurable
benefits attributable to the investment program are expected from incremental sales
of electricity which were valued at WAPDA's prevailing average revenue of Rs 1.07/kWh,
which is taken as a proxy for the consumers' willingness to pay. The benefits were
expressed in economic terms by using the standard conversion factor of 0.85.
5.05     The IERR of 8X which was based on the prevailing tariff is lower than the
opportunity cost of capital of about 10.  This is a reflection of the deviation
between the prevailing tariff and the economic cost of supply (LRMC) rather than a
measure of the economic merit of the proposed Project. WAPDI.'s prevailing average
revenue reflects sustained increases in tariffs which were initiated under ESL I, and
reinforced through project lending thereafter. These increases have raised the average
revenue from 521 of LRMC in FY85 to 741 in FY89. Under ESL II, GOP has agreed to
continue the adjustment of tariffs in order for WAPDA to meet from internal sources
40X of CIP for FY89-93. These increases would amount to an average annual rate of
about 10, which would raise the average revenue to about 90% of the LRMC by FY93.
If the average revenue resulting from tariff increases agreed under ESL II are taken
as a proxy for the consumers' willingness to pay and hence, the estimation of the
measurable benefits associated with the proposed Project, the IERR would increase to
142 which is a better measure of the economic merit of the proposed Project. Details
relating to the assumptions and calculatigns of the IERR are presented in Annex 5.1.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.06     The proposed Project is an integral part of the ESL II program, which provides
the umbrella of priority investments and policy reforms to be impleriented during the
period FY89-93. ESL II is aimed at assisting GOP in implementing LES and achieving
a crucial objective of a medium-term mac;oeconomic framework agreed to with the Fund
and the Bank, that of reducing the fiscal deficit to sustain the economy's growth
momentum and control inflation. The Bank's support of this project is to be viewed
in the context of its continuing role in both promoting privare sector involvement in
energy development and rationalizing investments in the public sector.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     During negotiations, WAPDA has agreed to review, before May 15 of each year,
its capital expenditure program and financial plan for the ongoing and the ensuing year
and agree with the Bank on steps necessary for implementation (para 4.12);
6.02     The following have been set as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Loan:
(a)   approval by ECNEC of the PC-Is for all components of the proposed Project
(para 3.09);
(b)   appointment of internationally experienced consultants to assist and advise
WAPDA in the design and implementation of lines in areas of high moisture
with salt and dust content (para 3.12); and



- 32 -
(c)   issuance of bidding documents for the supply of at least 25X of requirements
for towers and earthing materials (para 3.13).
6.03     Furthermore, submission by the borrower of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank,
that all necessary arrangements to secure preliminary financial commitments for the
construction of HPC have been completed is set as a condition of disbursement for the
HPC component (para 3.16).
6.04     In addition, the following covenants which are in effect in ongoing projects
have been agreed to under the proposed Project:
(a)   GOP to cause all Federal at.d Provincial Governmental Agencies and Departments
to pay all bills for the supply of electricity by WAPDA within three months
of the receipt of such bills (para 4.09);
(b) WAPDA to take all necessary actions to generate each year from internal
sources 401 of its capital expenditares averaged over the previous, ongoing
and one ensuing year as stipulated under Loan 2499-PAK (para 4.14);
(c)   WAPDA to consult the Bank should it seek to incur new debt that would result
in WAPDA's internal cash generation before debt service and payment to GOP
falling below 1.5 times the debt service requirement (para 4.15); and
(d)   WAPDA to submit to the Bank its finalized accounts within six months of the
end of the financial year (para 4.19).
6.05     On the basis of the project justification and the agreements rexched with GOP
and WAPDA, it is recommended that the Bank support the proposed Project with a loan
of US$162 million to WAPDA with GOP as the Guarantor, for a term of 20 years, including
a five-year grace period.



PAKISTAN'
TRANSMTSSION EXTENSION AND REINFPORCEMENT PROJECT
-snergy Sector
Organizatlonal Chart
~~~~~~an)~~~~~~
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~b.mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rll~~__________~~~ l.    F1b
_~~~~~ ~  ~      ~~~~~~~~  Aumm&                               (S) Ib~w        ( o
I                                                             I d  -
Fb4      9                              S_d r,    SW ECNEC  ' '- 
u01  AI  SIC   t*V-   G6P   FA           E9;rV
:-GbrdblwtCI_                      ---- -    -twd  SffuS             -- WE-d        *Pll tll
C- Cl~.w' lvCao_~m,i             G5P- Gzeblcd  P            I      t -d t~td~AU 
ELO  CEC --_u dit                    FR-    Lttd                         - td-btd_a-ntd WJUd  hVW  l)
Esn Cacg-MaOw Lttd                                              -        D _bwd  A
OGOC- CilGJrudC_ 5al Pl -P    bQC  td                               Mxi -       Mws9g *,aw~
- Pd,MuGo   T Lavtd               PDsSbmCt t                     ALC- DC
- Pd,tWamB Ltd                  CIX - Cde9fAs                      -  km Sv*g&DPe<>6tV
a- q.j o                        II  - 9. _GotwmGPt.t             ECN B  LgvF,  bCVmt '
WON - Wdn ImCo dIAl                SGIC -b_c bD W     u t
S:- SmSGo(~



-34-                        Annex 2.1
-a    __
Nco



-35-
Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
TRANSMISgION EXTENSION ANp REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
Project Descrintion
1.          The Project consists of four components:  (a) two 500-kV transmission
lines from HPC to Jamshoro; (b) a third 500-kV transmission line from Guddu to
Multan and a second 500-kV line from Multan to Lahore via Gatti; (c) substation
extensions on the third Guddu to Lahore line; and (d) consulting and training
services. A single-line diagram indicating the major physical components of the
transmission system and the Project are shown at the end of this Annex.
A. HPC to Jamshoro Transmission Lines
2.          This component will include two single-circuit 500-kV transmission
lines, 200 km cach, from HPC, which is to be built ar4 operated by the private
sector, to the existing 500-kV substation at Jamshoro. The lines would provide
service with the single failure reliability criterion applied to the entire 500-
kV transmission system. The average span between towers will be 350 meters, and
the conductor configuration has been selected as a 4-conductor bundle per phase,
with an appropriate spacing between phases noted below and clearance between
conductors and tower steel members of 4.00 meters. High density and mild steel
will be used in the fabrication of the towers (with a yield strength of 55,000
and 44,000 psi respectively). The two HPC to Jamshoro lines will require the
erection of about 1150 towers divided into suspension and angle-type towers in
proportion of 92X and 8Z respectively, and the installation of about 3500 strings
of insulators. Due to the humid and salty conditions in the first 140 km of the
line that lies near the ocean, special consideration has been given to the
required design of the insulator strings to prevent flashovers. Whereas a creep
path length of 3.94 cm per kV is allowed under normal air conditions, a higher
creep distance is required under heavy pollution as encountered in desert areas
near the sea. Thus, for the first 140 km from HPC, 52 fog-type insulators (54
when required) will be used per string instead of the normal 29 fog-type
insulators or 38 standard insulators. Similarly, in the remaining 60 km segment
of the line, where pollution is lower but still higher than normal, 41 fog-type
insulators (43 when required) will be installed. This leads to the necessity
of heavier towers to sustain the longer and hence heavier insulator strings.
In the first line segment of 140 km the phase spacing is about 13.5 meters and
the average weight of a suspension tower is about 10.5 tons and of an average
angle tower 18.0 tons. In the second line segment of 60 km the phase spacing
is about 11.2 meters and the towers will weigh about 10.0 tons and 17.0 tons
respectively.
3.          These figures are about 20X higher than normal weight towers.  In
addition, in order to minimize the corrosion and erosion effect of the pollution-
carrying winds special provision for rubber paint coating on the towers has been
made. V-strings were choren as their performance under contaminated conditions
is superior to that of vertical strings for the following reasons: (a) tests
have shown that the amount of contamination deposit is 80X of that of a vertical
string; (b) higher washing performance can be achieved; and (c) slurry spray
tests have demonstrated a higher flashover withstand capability.   Although



-36-
Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 4
material-wise, the V-string configuration requires twice as many insulators as
the vertical string configuration, t-his additional cost is partly offset by
savings in structure height, spread of x-arms and right-of-way width.
4.          The selection of the line route was made after a series of analytical
studies were performed to examine load flow, angular displacement, and stability
studies of the 500-kV transmission system under a variety of fault conditions
for two alternatives. Alternative I consisted of a connection HPC to Jamshoro;
Alternative II consisted of a direct connection HPC to Dadu. A review of the
technical studies shows that alternative I generally causes a smaller angular
displacement between HPC and Tarbela, leads to line overloads that are within
the thermal limits of the unbroken line, and causes a smaller swing in the
generators under fault conditions than alternative II. In addition, Alternativei
I is shorter and less expensive than Alternative II.  As a result of thes.e
studies Alternative I was selected.
B. Third Guddu to Multan and Second Multan to Lahore Transmission Line
5.          The expansion of the 500-kV transmission system north of Guddu
provides for an additional 500-kV transmission line as follows:
(a)   The Guddu - Multan segment will follow approximately the existing
path of the two 500-kV lines Guddu-Multan on the west bank of the
Indus river, crossing the Indus and Jhelum river before reaching
Multar&. It will be about 312 km in length, and would require the
installation of about 910 steel towers, (4-bundle per phase) Drake-
type conductor and associated hardware, insulators and communication
equipment.
(b)   The Multan - Gatti - Lahore segment will follow the route of the
first 500-kV line to Gatti on the north side of the Ravi river,
where a major 500-kV substation exists connecting to the Tarbela
hydrostation. This segment, which creates a 500-kV ring with the
second 500-kV line through Sahiwal for greater reliability and
economy, would be about 300 km in length.   It would require the
installation of about 875 steel towers and associated hardware, (4-
bundle per phase) Drake-type conductors, insulators and communication
equipment.
C. Substations on the Guddu to Lahore Line
6.          The 500-kV substation facilities of the Project consist mainly of
the equipment shown in the Table 3.1 below.



-37-
Anngx 3.1
Page 3 of 4
Table 3.1: 500-kV Substation Extension Eguip-ment
No. of        No.                      No. of
Lines to be     of    No. of Shunt       Circuit
Substations               Terminated    Bays    Reactors ^/       Breakers
Guddu Extension                   1         1             1              3
Multan Extension                  2         1             1              3
Gatti Extension                   2         1/3           1              1
Lahore Extension                  1         1                            3
al Tentative requirement.  Actual requirement/rating will be established after
detailed studies.
7.      Extension of existing substations at Guddu, Multan, Gatti and Lahore will
take advantage of existing infrastructure facilities and will add the necessary
additional works and equipment to accommodate connections with the third line,
500/200-kV transformers and 220-kV facilities, compensation reactors, and
monitoring and control equipment. The 500/200-kV transformers would consist of
three single-phase 150-MVA units, making a bank of 450 MVA. Similarly, the 500-
kV reactors would consist of single-phase shunt reactors.   The 500/220-kV
facilities at Guddu, Multan, and Lahore are provided under the ongoing WAPDA-V
transmission project (Lr.. 2556-PAK). The protection scheme for the lines would
be based on two main protection systems and one back-up. Fault location and
oscillograph facilities would be provided for analyzing the faults.   The
telecommunications system would use power line carrier (PLC) using up-to-date
solid state and integrated circuit technology with a frequency range of 50 to
500 kHz.
8.      The selection of the third Jamshoro-Dadu-Guddu-Multan line of which the
proposed Project is part, was made after an alternative route was considered.
In a study dated June 1988, WAPDA considered the technical merits of utilizing
an alternative route from Hab Chauki to Multan via Khuzdar and Quetta.  The
analysis of this proposal consisted of load flow studies to determine power flows
from this diversion of the 500-kV line from the main stream of 500-kV network
planned from Jamshoro to Guddu to Multan. This study concluded that there are
no technical gains in diverting the 500-kV line from the mainstream.   An
additional argument against this alternative route was the difficulty of access
during construction and during operation and maintenance of the line.
D. Consultancv Services and Training
9.      This component will be required to:  (a) assist WAPDA in the design,
engineering and construction of the transmission lines and substations;
(b) provide an independent review of line design by expert consultants;
(c) provide consulting services required to solve difficult or unique problems
such as the high pollution levels in the Karachi area; (d) assist WAPDA to
install and operate up-to-date monitoring systems of the transmission system
including the use of advanced sensors, display and recording systems; (e) assist



-38-
&nnx 3. 1!
Page 4 of 4
WAPDA to acquire from the international and local markets and implement up-tc-
date computer-based methods of transmission system analysis operation, fault
detection, protection and maintenance, thus reducing line downtime and losses
and leading to higher reliability, efficiency and economy; (f) train WAPDA
personnel in modern methods of transmission system planning, operation and
maintenance in foreign facilities; and (g) continue WAPDA's training program in
maintenance with live line working equipment and procedures in foreign facilities
having the required experience and equipment, in order to minimize maintenance
outages.
;



PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
SIngll Une Diagram
TAREELA                       LAHORE          SAHIWAL                                     HAS RIVER SITE
A41 80 NW
482 17 178 I7T 17T 482  43
iw mw N   @W mw mw   |  h dw am
4m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    S 
4     4 4    r   v=evrvfii  "  Rf i p*                                                                      £
_  ExEdt~w ct8 zder    4a t                                       Q                                                    *nI
~~~GATT-ASsALA.SAD                         '           GUDDU                             DADU                 '                |w
X THE PROJECT                                                        J
...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'
x  x x ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~        m~0



1111S113
7iiislISSIOI 111115101 130 miIIocmllt PROJICt
Project Cost Estiute 1/
(Is lIllios.                                                                (US$  llio)
-----------------------------------.-                                 .. ... .... .... .................. ................................. ......... .............. ... ..
IC-       oeldd-kltua-                 Isg'g,Coault                         IPC-      Guidu-Iltu-                  bgma,Couelt
Cost llemeat                            Jamhoro t.L. Lakor t.L.  Substatious aut TralloI                 Total      Jamehoro t.L. Lahore ?.L.  Substatios old Traiagls               Total
...-----  -----.. :::    :::: ::::::::::: :::::::::::::: ::::::::
I. lad A1cqulatlot                                 21.3           30.6                                      5l.9                 1.0           1.1            0.0           0.0           2.4
3. Iquipast                                                                                                                       0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.6
Coaatructo"m Iqlpat                         1,615.2       2,123.4        1,241.0                     5,042.6               77.4          98.1           51.5            0.0        232.0
Cean)l tulpe t                                 U3.0         134.5            0.0                       217.5                3.8            6.2           0.6            0.0         10.0
.                  ................        -- - -         -- - -        -- --.- - -                  - - -      - -    . . ..          - - -          - - -         . . .         . . .
Subtotal CIqip et                          1,156.2        2,257.9        1,244.0           0.0      5,260.1                81.2         104.3           57.5            0.0        213.0
C. Ereetiom  mad Clivi  lorkt                      2U.?           221.1           30.0                      539.8                13.3          10.2            1.4           6.0          24.0 9
3. Ilmerilg  aid £dubolatrtlot                        6.0           0.0            0.0         448.6         448.6                0.0           0.0            0.0          20.7          21.1
1. Tran lulg                                                                                    78.0          7J.O                0.0           0.0            0.0            3.6          3.6
I. Other kpiig                                      31.3           60.0            0.0                       116.3                1.7           3.?            6.0            0.1          5.4
.... ..       .....          ....          ......        .... ...            ---            ...           ---            ...          ---
Total 14 e Cost                            2,101.5        21,589.6       1,214.0         526.8       6,914.1               91.2          119.6          53.1           24.3        361.0
..............                              ----           ---            ---           ...           ---   --          ----          ....           ----           ....          ....
6. hpiwcal Comtiegeaosiu                           102.3          123.9           63.1          26.3         316.2                4.1           5.7            2.9            1.2         14.6
t. trlie Ctoaitgemoisa                             405.7          199.6          344.1         141.1      1,697.1                16.1          36.9           15.5            6.1         11.4
------ ------     -----         ......        ......              .....         .....          .....          ... ..       . ... .. 
TOTAL mmOJICT COSt                         2,612.5        3,513.1        1,632.4         700.0       1,508.0              120.1          162.3          77.1           32.3        313.1
T?as                                       1,11l.6        1.397:1          751.1                     3,321.3               54.3           64.6          31.8            0.0        153.7
1oreig  kcbage                             1,135.0        1,3714.4         835.2          99.4       3,494.0               52.4          63.5           40.9            4.6        111.1
1/ Izhebme nrt:         21.? . h/ItS
3owe.ber 3. 1, 9 
w



PAKISTAN
TRANSIMSSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
HPC - Jamshoro 500 KV Transmwlaslon Lines (LUh I & U)
nImplementation Schcdul
_   1989                1990                199&1               1992                 19.
ROUTE SLuCTION& SURVEY 1.O.W LAND   LIE I                                   I
ACQIIS TON., SO  IUVEST & FDO DESIGN                                          I F I
TOWER DESIGN AND TESTING
STEEL TOWERS                                                           T
CONDOUCTOR. S#eLWWM a
ASCESSORES & NPO                 I
GENERAL FELD EQUFKGEtdT.
LIE COE4STMRJCTIO a SOE  SSININ    LIE 
ILTNA TER NJAnm ASHORO) 
L I   END OF ATMTY UNE I               so   90 OPEO                  FBN 50f POOUNIO
L I   END OF AClVETY L IEI                   VAAFO                   E    wR
19   -  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KW59 
TD                                     AV    C RA11A81R3BW40l
Tr   IDW@ OEAQTM                      PAOMAUACt                       CM000OKO
BP   eM)mao&e  BSUPAAFN                S     MMWE   QPMN RCFAT



PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
Ouddu - Mudtan - Gatti - Lahor* Lhw
_hkUo entation Schedu_
1990             11991t            1992              1993              1964
ACTMrY DESCRTION        J IFIM4A^M|JIJI a 0 180N ID J |F ||MIA |l IJi |^ 810NlXJ IF |M|A MJ|J |A|^||0N"XJ IFMA |"^ "|J  J|^8a HE mJ ~IF|AMSJ | J AlS|O|N 
-LTA   GATTIW
AOCA.TIC GMalW H E l1 INVESTIi!i:ION
PRCFIEIDEN   T                      j 68A$ tl MM                  I           ___ _1_          FI 1
I_  IOOF 11VI1Y LIE                          lllllllSFl .   I    SIRT FOWQ11ON
TT      W R ¶CMl 18mG             W   MM?11 1 111 0 1CM               Z  .OOfi                                           0.     1      1
111111111  ~~~~ llllll lltl                                                     N I    
TOWWERO SOOTEE
GENRA FEW t QlOC ET I AW                 8EPE                              I _F
ROUT SELE  tK T SURVE R.OD   81EEANWDW  a
ACQLNSFTr nA SO  NET14O



-43-
ANNEX 3.4
PAKISTA^N
TRANMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursemenits
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year          Disbursements          Cumulative
and Semester              in Semester          Disbursements      Cumulative X
1990
June 30, 1990                   2.6                   2.6                1.6
1991
December 31, 1990               9.6                  12.2                7.5
June 30, 1991                  14.0                  26.2               16.2
1992
December 31, 1991              17.0                  43.2               26.7
June 30, 1992                  23.0                  66.2               41.0
1993
December 31, 1992              21.0                  87.2               54.0
June 30, 1993                  22.0                 109.2               67.4
1994
December 31, 1993              22.0                 131.2               81.0
June 30,1994                   14.8                 146.0               90.0
1995
December 31, 1994               8.0                 154.0               95.0
June 30, 1995                   8.0                 162.0              100.0



PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEPENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INCOME STATEMENT
............ ................................
(RUPEES MILLION)
----------Actual----------  (Unaud) -.........................FORECAST -.................-------
FY85    FY86   FY87  FY88    FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93   FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
....    ----   . ----  ----.  ----     ----. .. ....   .....  ----   ----.  ----   ----.  ----   ----.. ... ..... ........ ....... ..... .........
KWh GENERATED (MILLIONS)       18780   21055  23630 27451  29084 33806 33711  37718  43919  51208  54824 60004  66950  73972
KUh SOLD (MILLIONS)            13756   15504  17745  20702  22221  26030 25957  29043 33818  39430  42214 46203  51552 56958
Klh SOLD/KWh GENERATEDCX)         73      74    75      75      76     77    77      77    77      77    77      77     77    77
AVE. REVENUE/KWh SOLD(PAISA)  63.83   74.39 69.61  82.89   93.6  112.8  120.5  129.0  151.9  166.8  174.0  187.6  185.6  187.5
X INCREASE IN AVE. REVENUE       1.7   16.6  -6.4  19.1    12.9  20.4   6.9    7.0  17.7   9.8   4.3    7.8  -1.1    1.0
AVE. TARIFF/Kih SOLDCPAISA)    52.9   57.6  55.4  59.9   67.6  77.7  89.3  90.2  103.2  113.0  114.1  121.6  121.6  121.6
X INCREASE IN AVE. TARIFF       -0.5     8.8  -3.7   8.1    12.8  15.0  14.9   0.9  14.4   9.6    0.9    6.6  -0.0  -0.0
OPERATING REVENUE (RS MILLION)
.... .... ... .... ... ......
SALES OF ELECTRICITY            7280    8925   9836  12406   15021  20236  23192  26192 34886 44565  48163  56199 62705 69282
FUEL S2RCHARGE                  1500    2609   2517   4753    5782  9116  8094  11276  16475  21206 25307 30500 32962 37517
OTHER OPERATING REVENUES         212     226   235    464      511    562   618    680    748   823    905    996   1095   1205
.... ..... ....     .... .. .. ... .........  .... .. .. .. . ....... ....... ....... ...............
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES        8992   11760  12588  17623   21314  29914  31905  38148 52109 66594  74376 87696 96762 108003
OPERATING EXPENSES(RS MILLION)
.................. ............................
PURCHASE OF POWER (w/o Fuel)    491      388    143    91        8      0      0    374  4466   6873   7202  7391   7626  7861
FUEL COST                       2406    3200   3714   5465    6300  9116   8319  11589  16932  21794  26010 31347 33876 38558
MAINTENANCE                      708     769    872   1037    1230   1834   2147   2479  2868  3365   3975   4721   5587  3021
OPERATION & ADMINISTRATION      1758    2096   2370   3100    3169   3644   4191   5029  5784  6651   7649  9179  10555  12139
DEPRECIATION                    1110    1363   1701   2039    2406  2847  3379   3955  4566   5284   6198   7322  8696  10292
.... ..................................... ..........  ..................  .    ..........  ................................. ........... ....................... ....
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES        6473    7816   8800  11732   13113  17442  18035  23426 34616 43966  51033  59958  66340  71870
NET OPERATING INCOME            2519    3944   3788   5891    8201  12472  13869  14722  17493  22627 23342  27737 30422  36133
OTHER INCOME                     210     206    333    182    200   220    242    266   293    322    355    390   429   472
NET INCOME AVAILABLE FOR FIXED  2729    4150  4121   607    8401  12693  14111  14989  17786 22950 23697 28127 308S1  36605
CHARGES
FIXED CHARGES
.... .........
INTEREST                        1897   2302   3171   3948    5386  6413   7016   7256  7310  7560  8520   9593  10703  11783
LESS:INTEREST CHARGED CONSTN.    273    385    647    713    1399   1915  1811   1981   2097  2478  3168  3888  4751   5504
INTEREST CHARGED OPERATIONS     1624    1917  2524   3235    3987  4498   5204   5274   5213  5082  5352   5705   5952  6279
INCOME                          1105    2233   1597   2838   4414   8195   8907  9714  12573  17868  18345  22422  24898 30326
LESS:PAYMENT TO GOVERNMENT        20      20     20     20      20    20      20     20    20      20     20    20      20    20
.. ..... ........... .... ....... ............. ........ ........... ............................................................x
NET PROFIT                      1085    2213   1577   2818   4394  8175   8887   9694  12553  17848  18325  22402  24878 30306
RATE OF RETURN ON FIXED ASSETS                                                                                                                           .h F
......        C      V..........ALD  12.___ -I
HISTORICALLY VALUED     12.0   14.8   11.5  14.4   17.3  22.0  20.7  18.9  19.6  22.0  19.4  19.4  17.7  17.7



PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ACTUAL AND FORECAST BALANCE SHEET
.............................................................  .............
(Rupees Million)
----------Actual--------- (Unaud)        ......-...................FORECAST-----------------------
ASSETS                            FY85    FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
___........ .. ....                       ....      .....  ....   .....  ....    .....  ....    .....  ....    .....  ....    .....  .... ... ..... ..... ..... ..... .. 
FIXED ASSETS
............
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION        34288   43531  54723  62238   74088  88609 104453 121534 139373 162555 191610 226790 270119 317990
LESS:DEPRECIATION RESERVE         7817    9171  10928  12965   15371  18218  21597  25552  30117  35401  41599  48921  57617  67909
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION  26471   34360  43795  49273   58717  70390  82856  95983 109255 127154 150011 177S69 212502 250081
WORK IN PROGRESS                 10181   10062   9389  14184   17775  21009  23388  25167  26235  34508  43144  52153  64297  70611
........._.. ...... .....  ................. ........... ............................... .................................. .... ...... ....................
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS               36652   46422  53184  63457   76492  91400 106245 121150 135490 161662 193155 230021 276798 320692
CURRENT ASSETS
..............
CASH                               433     504    470    775    2006   1678   1686   2239   3456  4448   5156   6053   6629 7082
INVENTORIES                       1895    2092   3135   3957    3704   3987   5223   6077   6969   8128   9581  11339  13506  15899
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE               1770    2270   2502   2858    3873   565   5424   64?5   8859  11321  12644  14908  16450  18361
WATER WING ACCOUNTS                304     311    284    496    .521    547    574    603    633    665    698    733    770    808
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS              1459     847   1018   2267    2516   2831   3184   3582   4030   4534   5101   5738   6456   7262
_ ................................................................................. ......................................................................................................................._  _  _.................................. 
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS              5861    6024   7409  10353   12620  14129  16091  18987  23946  29096  33179  38M   43810  49412                                         b
........ .............. , ....... .. ..,,.................................... .......... ..................................................................................................... .................................................  _  _
TOTAL ASSETS                     42513   50446  60593  73810   89112 105529 122335 140137 159437 190758 226334 268793 320608 370104
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT             2437    2437   2437   2437    2437   2437   2437'  2437   2437   2437   2437   2437   2437   2437
GOVERNMENT EQUITY CONTRIBUTION  2901    3304   3574   3813    3813   3813   3813   -813   3813   3813   3813   3813   3813   3813
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION              2027    2750   3781   4907    6204   7666   9269  11030  12961  15079  17403  19952  22748  25813
RETAINED EARNINGS                11632   13760  15319  17952   22346  30521  39408  49102  61655  79503  97828 120230 145109 175415
_.......... ......... ..................... .............................................. ........................................
TOTAL EQUITY                    18997   22251  25111  29109   34800  44436  54927  66381  808S5 100832 121481 146433 174106 r'7477
LONG TERM DEBT                   20349   24740  31412  38457   47400  53424  58787  63795  66431  78422  91893 107468 129818 143952
CONSUMER DEPOSITS                  299     325    358    395       494    568    653    751   864    994   1143   1314   1511   1738
INTEREST ACCRUED                  1034    1117   1200   1283    1366   1449   1532   1615   1698   1781   1864   1947   2030   2113
CURRENT LIABILITIES               1834    2013   2512   4566    5052   5651   6436   7595   9579   8729   9954  11632  13143  14824
.............. ........... .......... ................... ............................................ 
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES  42513   50445  60593  73810   89112 105528 122335 140136 159436 190757 226334 268793 320608 370104
DEBT AS % OF DEBT+EOUITY            52      53      56     57       58     55      52     49      45     44     43      42     43      41                                 >
0 .
EQUJITY AS % OF DEBT+EQUITY         48      47      44     43       42     45      48     51      55     56     57      58     57      59                              ,, 



PAKISTAN
TRANSHISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ACTUAL AND FORECAST SOURCES AND USES Or FUNDS
..... __.............................. ..... .........___
(RUPEES NILLION)
----------Actual--  ------- (UnaU) --------------------------.FORECAST---------------------------
SOURCES OF FUNDS                FY85   FY86  FY87  FY88   FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
..... .......  ......         .... .....     . ....   .....  ....  ......... ....  .....  ....  .....  ....  .....  ....  .....  . ..... . .._ ..  ..... ..   
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS
NET INCOME FOR FIXED CHARGES 2729   4150  4121   6073   8401  12693  14111  14989  17786 22950 23697 28127 30851  36605
DEPRECIATION                  1110   1422   1764   2126   2406  2847  3379  3955  4566  5284  6198  7322  8696  10292
__.............. ..................... ............................................ ................................... _
SUBTOTAL FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS 3839   5572  5885   8199   10807  15540  17490  18943  22352 28234 29895  35449 39547 46897
GOVERNMENT GRANT                        403   274       0       0      0      0      0      0      0      U      0      0      0
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS           449    723   1030   1126    1297  1462  1604  1760  1931   2119  2324  2549  2795  3065
SECURITY DEPOSITS                24      26    33      37      99    74    85    98    113   130   149   171   197   227
BORROWINGS
RUPEE LOANS                  2115    2547  3628  3361    5700  3665  2796  3838  3273  7671   7581   6168  7442   1846
FORCIGH LOANS                2854   2571  3991   4665    5000  5497  6561   6049  5466  10794  13463  18290  24495  22625
PROPOSED IBRD LOAN              0       0      0      0       0    56   511   866   931    797   346           0      0      0
SUBTOTAL BORROWINGS            4969   5118  7619   8026   10700  9218  9868  10753  9670  19262 21391  24458 31937 24471
.. ._. . ......... .... _._________. ._. .. . .. ....... .... __..... .. .. ._. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .............................. .. .__
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS         9281   11841  14841  17388   22903 26293 29047 31554 34066 49744  53759 62627 74476 74660
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
_._..... .----... .
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
PROPOSED PROJECT                0       0      0      0       0    81  1032  2248   1824  2583  2258           0      0      0
OTHER CONSTRUCTION           6768   8739  9872  11597   14042  15759  15380  14631  14985  26394 32265 40300 so57   48681
........ .............. ........... ..................... ............................................ _. _.
SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM  6768   8739  9872  11597   14042  15840  16412  16879  16809 28977 34523 40300 507M  48681
DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST                     1897   2302  3171   3948    5386  6413  7016  756  7310   7560  8520  9593  10703  11783
LESS:INTEREST ACCRUED         83      83    83      83      83    83    83    83    83    83    83    83    83    83
AMORTIZATION                   599    725   919   981    1757  3194  4505  5745   7034  7270  7920  8882  9587  10337
.,... ........ ................. .... ......_.__.... __.... .............. ............................. _.......... . ...... 
SUBTOTAL DEBT SERVICE           2413   2944  4007  4846    7060  9524  11438  12917  14261  14747  16357  18392 20208 22037
PAYMENT TO GOVERVNENT            20      P0    20    20        20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20
CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL
CASH                          -68      71   -34   305    1231  -328         7   554 1217    993   708   897   576   452
OTHER THAN CASH               149      67   976    620      550   1237  1170   1184   1759  5007  2151   3018  2950  3469
NET CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL    81     138   942   925    1781   909  1177  1738  2976  5999  2858  3915  3526  3922
.... ...  ................. ......................... ... ..__......................................................................  
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS    9282  11841  14841  17388  22903 26293 29047 31554 34066 49744 53759  62627 74476 74660
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO      1.6    1.9   1.5   1.7       1.5   1.6   1.5   1.5   1.6   1.9   1.8   1.9   2.0   2.1                                    a
SELF FINANCING RkTIO-3 Yr. AVE  36.6   50.0  34.5  44.7   33.1  40.8  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  41.6  49.6                                       ° .



-47-                    Page4 of 7
PAKISTAN
TRANSHISSION EXTENSION AID REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
NOTES AND ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL FORECASTS
Income Statement
Sales of Electricity
1.    The forecast sale of electricity is based on projected generation from
WAPDA's plants presented in Annex 4.1, together with purchases from private
sector power plants as follows:
FY90 FY91 FY92 FYn9  FY94 nY95 FY96 FY97 FY98
Private Sector Gen. (GME)  0    0  490 5421 7885  7885  7885  7885  7885
Fuel Cost (Res HlUozn)  0    0  290 3464 5330  5586 5732 5914  6097
0GI Debt Service and ROE
Costs (Rs tllion)      0    0  375 4466 6873 7202 7390  7626  7861
Total Power Purch.Cost (Ra M)  0    0  665 7930 12203 12788 13122 13540 13958
Details of WAPDA's power purchases from the Private Sector are shown in Annex
4.1, page 7.
Average Revenue ner kWh Sold
2.    The average revenue per kWh sold reflects the fuel adjustment surcharge,
as well as tariff increase necessary to meet the 40X Internal Cash Generation
Covenant and the Debt Service Coverage Ratio Covenant.
Other ODerating Revenue
3.    Other operating revenue consists principally cf miscellaneous services such
as transfer/replacement of meters, application fees, reconnection of service,
etc. These revenues are shown to increase by 10 per year based on the increase
of the number of consumers.
Fuel Cost
4.    The projected consumption by type of fuel is shown below:
FY90   FY01  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Gas (MCF)   113651  96772  SI565  90611  101955  108979
ElSD (H Lit)    704   331   360   293   387   639
Fuel Oil (Nr)  1732  2061  2781  2542  2774  4165
Coal (MT)     26    62    70   458   673  1387
Maintenance Expenses
5.    Maintenance expense is related to plant in service and is forecast at 1.9X
taking into account past experience and the increasing proportion of thermal
plant in the system.
a: income



-48-                       Anx A.
Page 5 of 7
Operation and Administration Expense
6.    Operation and maintenance expense is forecast to increase by 151 annually,
taking into account system expansion, inflation and also past experience.
However, every fourth year, the increase is assumed to be 20X to account fot the
general wage increase.
7.    WAPDA is applying a composite rate of depreciation of 3.51.  This rate is
realistic and has been used in the forecasts.
Other Income
8.    Other income includes interest, sales of scrap and rental of office space,
and is shown to increase by 101 annually.
Payment to Government
9.    WAPDA has been remitting Rs 20 million annually to Government for assets
earlier transferred to WAPDA. Forecasts show this payment continuing.
BALANCE SHEET
Cash
1.    'ash balances are projected on the basis of about six weeks cash operating
expense.
Inventories
2.    Inventories are forecast at 51 of gross fixed assets in operation.
Accounts Receivables
3.    WAPDA's accounts receivables are forecast to be equivalent to two months'
billings.
Other Current Assets
4.    Other current assets include miscellaneous receivables,  advances and
clearing accounts. Forecasts assume a 51 annual increase.
Current Liabilities
5.    Current liabilities include accounts payable, depositi. for works to be
carried out for other agencies, contractor deposits, duties payable and accrued
salaries. Based on past experience, current liabilities are forecast at between
25X and 401 of current assets.
a: tncw-e



Amex 4.1
Page 6 of 7
Security DeDosits
6.    Security deposits are forecast to increase at 15  per annum.
Capital Contributions
7.    Consumers' capital contribution assumed to increase by 10  annually.
!               a: Inco



PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ESTIMATED ENERGY PURCHASES FROM PRIVATE SECTOR
FY89     FY90     FY91     FY92     FY93     FY94      FY95     FY96     FY97     FY98
Inflation Estimates                          12.00Q   10.00Q    8.00X    7.002    6.50X    6.50X   6.50X   6.502    6.50X    6.502
Escalation Factors                                     1.18     1.24     1.28      1.38     1.46     1.53     1.57     1.62     1.67
Generation
Nab River Complex                                       0        0      392     4337     6308      6308    6308      6308     6308
FauJi Fourdation                                        0        0       98     1084      1577     1577     1577     1S77     1577
, ...   ...     ....   .  .... ..... ..... ..... ..... .. ..... ..
Total Generation                                          0        0      490     5421      7885     7885     7885     7885     7885
Tariffs (Constant 1989 Rs)
Hab River corpLex                                    1.06     1.06     1.06     1.06      1.06     1.06     1.06     1.06     1.06
FauJi Foundation                                     1.06     1.06     1.06     1.06      1.06     1.06     1.06     1.06     1.06
Tariffs (Nominal Rs)
Nab River complex                                    1.25     1.31     1.36     1.46      1.55     1.62     1.66     1.72     1.77
Fauji Fourdation                                     1.25     1.31     1.36     1.46      1.55     1.62     1.66     1.72     1.77
Fuel Costs/kWh (Constant 1989 Rs)
Nab River Complex                                   0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463
Fauji Foundation                                    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463    0.463
Fuel Costs/kWh (Nominal Rs)                           0.546    0.574    0.593    0.639    0.676    0.708    0.727    0.750    0.773
Nab River Complex                                   0.546    0.574    0.593    0.639    0.676    0.708    0.727    0.750    o.m
Fauji Foundation
Fuel Costs (Nominal Re Million)
Nab River Complex                                       0        0      232     2771     4264     4469      4585     4731    4877
Fauji Foundation                                        0        0       58      693     1066      1117     1146     1183     1219
Total Fuel Costs                                          0        0      290     3464      5330     5586     5732     5914     6097
O & M, Debt Serv.& ROE Costs/kWh (Constant 1989 Rs)
Nab River CompLex                                   0.597    0.597    0.597   0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597
Fauji Foundation                                    0.597    0.597   0.597   0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597    0.597
0  N, Debt Serv.& ROE Costs/kWh (Nominal Rs)
Nab River Complex                                   0.704    0.740    0.764    0.824    0.872    0.913    0.937   0.967    0.997
Fauji Foundation                                    0.704    0.740    0.764    0.824    0.872    0.913    0.937    0.967    0.997
0    M, Debt Service & ROE Costs (Nominal Rs Million)                                                                                                         °Q 
Nab Rfver Complex                                       0        0      300    3573      5498      5762     5912     6101     6289                          (Dg
Fauji Foundation                                        0        0       75      893     1375      1440     1478     1525     1572
...      ...     ...      ....     ....     ...       ....     ....     ....                          0-*--
Total O&N, Debt Ser.& ROE Costs                           0        0      374     4466     6873      7202     7391     7626     7861
Total Power Purchase Costs (Nominal Rs Million)
Nab River Complex                                       0        0      532    6344      9762    10230    10498    10832    11166
Fauji Foundation                                        a        0      133     1586     2441     2558      2624     2708     2792
Grand Total                                               0        C      665     7930    12203    12788    13122    13540    13958



PAKISTAN
TRANSNISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PROGRAN FY89 - FY98
................................................
(RS NILLION)
Generation                       FY89      FY90     FY91     FY92     FY93     FY94      FY95     FY96     FY97    FY98
.......  ........... ...         ....   . .. ....   ....  .  .. ....  ....  .  .. ....  ....   . .. ....   .... . .. .... ........... .............. ..
ongofng Investments
Gudxu CC                         83      272         0        0        0        0        0         0        0       0
uzuaffararh (1 - 3)             781      2239     1400     1800     2000        0         0        0        0       0
Muzaffargarh (4 - 6               0         0        0        0        0     1000      2050     3000     4000    2358
Kot Addu Ccmb. Tur. (5 - 8)    1243      366         0        0        0        0        0         0        0       0
Kot Adcka CC (9 &10)           1178      1086      500      294        0        0        0        0         0       0
Kot Adau CC (11 &12)              0         0        0        0        0     1000      1000     1000     1500     360
Jaashoro Olt 1                 1174      1139      264        0        0        0        0         0        0       0
Jaishoro II-IY                 129N      2175     1337     1006      27n        0        0         0        0       0
GSlgit Diesel Sets                15       10        1        0        0        0        0         0        0       0
Guddu CC                          0       160     1200      500      400        0        0         0        0       0
Thenal Rehab.                   465      385       800      311        0        0        0         0        0       0
Iaport. Coal Engr.               10       22         0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0
Centr. Test Lab.                 25        12       32        0        0        0        0         0        0       0
Tarbela 11-14                   993      1480     1400     1900     2200      802        0         0        0       0                                       1
mangla 9 & 10                    64       180      150      350      560        0        0         0        0       0                                       Un
P&  Low Nead Nydel               30         9        0        0        0        0        0         0        0       0                                       F
ev. of Hirpur                    25         5        0        0        0        0        0         0        0       0
..... _..  ..... ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
Stbtotal (Ongoing)               7381      9540     7084     6161     5432     2802     3050     4000      5500    2718
UM JnfestnAefts
Coal F.B.                       120       160      800      900      330        0        0         0        0       0
Lakhra Coal F.B. t4 - 6)          0         0        0        0        0      105      500      1000     1500     295
Lakhra Coal F.B. C7 - 9)          0        0         0        0        0      790     1500     2000      2600     760
Jamh. 5-7 Engr.                   0         7        0       20       32        0        0        0         0       0
Iworted Coal (Unit 1)             0        0         0        0        0     1258     2358     3000     3530    2247
1I orted Coo  (tUnit 2)           0        0        0         0        0     1700     2500     3000     4000    2281
Iwported Coal (Unit 3)            0        0        0         0        0     1000     2000     2400     3200    6162
iqported Coat (Unft 4)            0        0         0        0        0     1000     1500     2400     3200    5081
Imported Coal (Unit 5)            0        0         0        0        0        0      500     1000     2500    4481
imported Coal (Unft 6)            0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0     1000    3581
Sorida (Unit 1)                   0         0        0        0        0     2900     3500     3800      835        0
Others                            0        88        0      610      870        0        0         0        0       0
Chasins                          30       30       250      550     1050      477        0        0         0       0
BashaEngfneering                  8        35       50      100      700      232        0         0        0       0
Gaz Ghar. Engr.                  10        15       40       70       90       21        0        0         0       0
Chazf Ghar. (Units 1-2)           0         0        0       50      100     1332     2300     2400     4820    8157
Ghaz Ghar. (Units 3-4)            0        0         0        0        0        0        0      900      1000   2681
Taunisa                           8        0        50      100      300     1700     1700     1800      587        0                                     Fdt1
Jinnab                            0        0         0      100      500     1250     1450     1800     3000      742                                     o00
SthtotaL  Noa mv.)176  335  190  2500  972    1376  19808    2500    31772 36468                                     p.
Total (Generation)               7557     9875      8274     8661     9404    16567    22858    29500    37272   39186
==        mS;    ===       ==      ~sX      ===       c==     E=S       U-SX   St5;



PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
CAPITAL EXPEIIDITURE PROGRAM FY89 - FY98
.  .....  ........ ................ _................ ........
(RS NILLION)
Traumlssion                      FY89    FY90    FY91        FY92    FY93    FY94,  FY9          FY9       FY97   FY96
............                     ....  .  .....    ... ....  .... . . ....  ....  .... .    ....  .... . . .... ... ....... ...... ...... ..
Ongoing Investmnt
F/abud-Mutt-Kar.chf              95        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0       0
Tarbeta-Falstldbed                3        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Fafselabad-Sahhigt                I        1        0         0        0        0        0        0        0       0
MerdmnPbamer                     39       177      125        0        0        0       .0        0        0        0
Dack-Khudmr                      96       100      230        0        0        0        0        0        0       0
Nodor.Deepatchi Can.            398      250       200      182        0        0        0        0        0       0
A.C Network Nodern.              22        8         0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0
Tarbeta-Lahore                   91      400      400       282        0        0        0        0        0       0
Lahore-Jinmhoro                1228     1312      500      1000      668        0        0        0        0       0
.....    ..... . . .....   .....    .....      .      . .....   ..... . . .....  ...... ................. ..........
Sub-total (Ownopi)               1973     2248      1455     1464      668        0        0        0        0        0
New In estient
Trm  PC I1                       41        0       58         0        0        0        0        0        0       0
Lsdmmla-Dadi.le                   0        2      600       138        0        0        0        0        0       0
Ptmn. St. (PC-11)                 9        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0
Guda-sibi-ltta                   4       80      400       136        0        0        0        0        0       0                                        1
T/L Losd I tels.                  0        0         0        0       70      225      175        0        0       0                                       U
Karachl-Jamboro                   0        0      500       300      142        0        0        0        0       0
Jdhboro-mult.n                    0        0      600      1000      400        0        0        0        0       0
Nuttn-Labore                      0        0         0        0      300        0        0        0        0        0
m  tffarghar-Nut'ton              0        0        50       60       35        0        0        0        0       0
muaffarfrar-Nultan                0        0        75       20        0        0        0        0        0       0
Sande                             0        0         0        0        0      300      400      400      100       0
2nd SOO KV Leor-Nultan            0        0        0         0        0      700        0        0        0       0
Kot Addu-Lorslai                  0        0       100      200      240        0        0        0        0       0
1st SOOKV Kot Addu - Lorela       0        0        0         0        0     1100     1250      100        0       0
3rd SO0v Dau-mNuttUn             0        0         0        0        0      500      600      900     1600    250
Lakhra-Dadu                       0        0         0        0        0      150      300      400       75       0
Ludmista-Gatti                    0        0         0        0        0      100      300      300      400     100
Ludemia-Daudkhel                  0        0         0        0        0       75      150      150      250      50
Peshaw.r-G Gharfate               0        0         0        0        0        0        0      200      400     700
SOKV 2nd C. Tarbeta-Lahore       0        0         0        0        0        0        0      400      900    1400
Chass-iulttan                     0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0      400     600
Basha-Rmaat                       0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0     500
Guddu-Sibbi                       0        0        0         0        0      150      300      400      700     100
Tarbela-Rewat-Lahore              0        0        0         0        0      175      200      200        0       0
muttan-Gudmu                      0        0         0        0        0      100      300      500      750     250
KoLabsch-multtn                   0        0        0         0        0      100      450      800     1000     250
Daudchal-Kalabegh                 0        0         0        0        0       2S      100      200      125      50
2nd 200KV Katabogh-Kchat          0        0         0        0        0       25      100      200      400     9f                                     DI
2nd 220KV Kot Addu-Loratal        0        0        0         0        0       10       40      150      250      50                                    OF i
SOOKV tine to Dadu                0        0        0         0        0      400      800     1200     1600     400                                      0
Tarbtela - Gattf                  0        0        0         0        0      375        0        0        0       0                                    'J
Others                            0       61         0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0                                    O
Sub-total (New Irw.)               54      143     2383      1854     1187     4S10     5465     6500     89S0                                           47947
... ........ .  .... ... .... ... ....  ....  ....  ......  .....  ....    ....
Total (Transr ssion)             2027     2391     3838      3318     1855     4510     5465     6500     8950    4795
U~                      3f   _3~        22         U3     Uu         U:3   3U33



PAKISTAN
TRANSNISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PROGRAM FY89 - FY98
................................................
(RS MILLION)
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97   FY98
........ .... ........ .... ......    ....    ----. .. ----  ......    ....  .......    ....  .......   ....
Suory
Generstion                     7557    9875    8274    8661    9404   16567   22858   29500   3727  39186
Trafmission                     2027    2391    3838    3318    1855    4510    5465    6500    8950   4795
Sec. T/L & Grid Stn.            1560    1574    1800    2000    2200    3500    3100    2700    2800   2900
Rural Electr.                   1237    1238    1800    2000    2200        200     200      200      200    200
Distrib. of Power               1299     340      600      700     800    4200    2900    1400    1500   1600
Loss Reduct.& Ld. Mgt.            8      400      100     200      350        0       0        0        0      0
Distribution Rehab.             354        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0      0
Others                            0       22        0       0        0        0       0        0        0      0
..   .....   ...         ...   .....   .....   .....   .....   .....  .....
Grsnd Total                    14042   15840   16412   16879   16809   28977   34523   40300   50722  48681
3=      333       3=m 3333         33      33=    333        33       33    33
I*l



PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
GENERATION FORECAST
................................................
(Gwh)
Thermat Generatfon
...... ...........
Power Station                    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
,..................              ....     ....  . .. ....  ....  .  .. ....  ....  . .. ....  ....  . .. ....  ...... .............. .............. ..
Gutdu                             3671    3418    3599    3290    2861    3063    3193    3499    3395    2975
Nultan                             760    1255       605     872      815      915     942    1023      931      905
SPS Faisatlbad                     664      706      640     543      421      460     475      512     463      450
GTPS FaisaLabod                    632      776      283     112       16       12      12       22       12      12
Sukkur                             249      266      176     149      115      125     129      139      126     125
Hyderabad                          149      175       61      51       41       40      41       45      43       43
Kotri                              361      573      156      54        1        0       1        4       0        1
Shahdara                            129      62       87      48       11       12      12       17       12      12
Quetta                             388      398      135      90       51       52      53       61       55      55
REPCO/NESCO                         91       84       61      51       41       40      41       45      43       43
Imported Coat                        0        0       0        0       g0       0        0        0     747    5166
Guddu GT                          2504        0        0      86       22        0       0        0        0       0
Kot Addu GT                       1672    1806       616     323       66       27       0        0       0        0
Guddu CS                           1098    4240    3471    3164    3686    4516    4707    5157    5019    4399
Jaeshoro oil                         0    3156    3107    4130    3263    3537    3661    3965    3602    3492
Kot Addu CS                          0      591    3784    3136    2733    4684    6271    6655    6474    5678
Faisalabed CS                        0        0       0      523      691      735     766      837     817      716
Kotri CS                             0        0        0     469      539      735     766      837      817     716
Lakhra Coat                          0        0        0      22      520      781    1345    1647    2659    2465
Muzaffargarh                         0        0      836    2887    3356    2496    3188    5698    5086    4933
Sands Coal                           0        0        0       0        0        0       0      245    1388    1232
.....   .....  . . .....          ..... . . .....  .....  . . .....  ..... . . ..... ........... ....... ....... ..........
Subtotal Thermal                  12368   17506   17617   20000   19249   22230   25603   30408   31689   33418
Hydel oenerat ion
................
Tarbela                           9826    9471    9357   10119   11880   12845   13028   12930   13037   13149
Mangle                            5648    5393    4934    5306    5589    5685    5727    5727    5727    5722
Warsak                             733      931    1270    1270    1234    1259    1270    1270    1270    1269
Sall Hydel                         49;      505      533     533      521      530     533      533      533     533
Chastma                              0        0        0       0       25      774     778      780      775     773
T unsa                               0        0        0       0        0       0        0      471     479      479
Jinnah                               0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0      546     500
Kalabi                               0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0    5009    9139
Gazi Gharfyala                       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0    1105
..... .....    . . .....  ..... . . .....                            ..... . . ..... ....... ....... ...............................
Subtotal Hydet                    16700   16300   16094   17228   19249   21093   21336   21711   27376   32669
0e
Iports (Xenel/Hspel)                                         851    4318    6308    6308    6308    6308    6308
CNandpur/Panjpir)                                    214      478      520     520      520      520     520
.....   .......0 .....   .....   .....   .....   .....   .....   .....   ..... .
Total Generation                 29068   33806   33711   38293   43294   50151   53767   58947   65893   72915
.3=3=   3c=3    c==3=   c=33       ccc3  c3=3   ===c3  3cc3          c=3     =3cc=



WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY(WAPDA)
ORGANIZATION CHART OF GENERAL MANAGER - FINANCE (POWER)
ID (a POWER} I
SI SN.? igi  01 05.1 iwuil    ~         ~         I       s-n 
Gt t*                               .R FtV  O,I  fult1 
Iifl~.) IUS 191iI l'l U  9o              wIES iM U.S m
*5*0.tl ff 5tPS1 5
.~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                       I*s 
F-Af  I 1*         CGs=UAIS ICI ,  I&WMMli SS II                                       I        I              S           = Amon M"         O I l  qIMIIAu  AS 
Al.INS.             *t4AIs. oil,,1.. .                                                        I                ._
_su._.!        2 -1ft%                                                          I*   I
.e1 r    S_La l_  .



-56-
ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 6
PAKISTANI
TRNMISSION EXTESION AnD REINOCEETPROJECT
Assumtions for the Internal Economic Rate of Return
Costs
1.    Capital Costs:    Investment expenditures  incurred by WAPDA on  its generation,
transmission and distribution development program and by the private sector during the period
FY90-95. Details relating to the phasing of expenditures is presented in Attachment 1.
2.    Local Costs:  These are expressed in equivalent border prices using the following
conversion factors: capital goods at 0.81 of their domestic prices; and labor at 0.77 of
the domestic wage rate.
3.    Annual Operation-and Maintenance Costs (O&M): These are estimated at 3X of the capital
costs associated with the investment expenditures incurred by both VAPDA and PS.
4.    Incremental Fuel Costs associated with the incremental generation were valued on the
following border prices:
June 1989 Border Prices (CIF)
!                 Stlxl-lvFu Dl    e  USS/TOE
Fuel Oil       77.3
Diesel        169.7
Coal           50.0
Gas            77.3
Details relating to fuel consumption are presented in Attachment 2.
Benefits
5.    Two cases were considered:  Case 1:  takes the average revenue of Rs 1.07/kWh as a
proxy for the consumers' willingness to pay; and Case 2: takes into account the projected
annual increase in revenues of 1.8X in real terms required to achieve a self-financing ratio
of 402 for VAPDA which results in an estimated consumers' willingness to pay of Rs 1.3/kWh.
0: \wSpOX iui.|*n\er,5-



Case 1
PAKISTAN
PREVAILING TARtFF LEVELS                   TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
AT CONSTANT FY90 AVG. REV.                     WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
...---------...............                     INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
.... ........ _.......... .................... .......
FY90     FY91     FY92   FY93      FY94     FY95   FY96      FY97 FY98-FYI5
....   ....     ....    ....     .........                      .........
CONSTANT (1989) INVESTMENTS (Re Nil.) 1/
.....................................
PUBLIC SECTOR                      12148    11660    10809  10160      7419    11940   ---      ...       ...
PRIVATE SECTOR                      4783     7255      7252  10094    10608    11149   ---      ...       ...
- -    . . .   .......    .....  ----- ..... .....   ---  ...      ......
TOTAL                              16930    18916    18061  20254    18028    23090   ---       ---       ...
CONSTANT (1989) PRICES (Rs Mil.)
.............. ....................... _........._...
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS             16930    18916    18061  20254    18028    23090   ---       ---       ...
LOCAL COSTS                       6999     6108     5691   5782      5603     6689   ---      --.      ---
MATERIAL                        5249     4581     4269   4336      4202     5017   -        ---       --- .
SKILLED LABR                     350      305       285    289      280      334   ---      ...      ---
tISKILLED LABOR                 1400     1222      1138   1156     1121     1338   ...      ...      ...
FOREIGN COSTS                     9931    12808    12370  14472    12425    16400   ---       ..       .
IN U0RDER (1989) PRICES (Re Nil.) 2/                                                                                                                                VI
...................... ...............................__..    
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS             15979    18085    17287  19467    17266    22180   ---        --     -.-.
LOCAL COSTS                       6047     5277     4917   4996      4841     S780   ---      ...      ...
MATERIAL                        4462     3894     3528   3686      3Sr72    4iMb   ---       --     -.--
SKILLED LABOR                    339      296      276    280       272      324   ---      ---      -..
iNSKILLED LABOR                 1246     1087      1013   1029      997     1191   ---      ---      ...
FOREIGN COSTS                     9931    12808    12370  14472    12425    16400   ---    --- .-.
ECONONIC COSTS (Rs NiL.)
.........................
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS             15979    18085    17287  19467    17266    22180   ---       ...      ...
O & N COSTS                          479     1022      1541   2125     2643     3308   3308      3308     3308
FIEL COSTS                          1842     3028     4507   7431    11652    13590  15896    18202    205O8
,,,,....... .......    ....... __.......    ..... .......  .....    .......    .... ....
TOTAL COSTS                      18300    22135    23335  29023    31560    39078  19204    21510    23816
AVERAGE REVENUE/kJh (CONSTANT Re.  1.07      1.07      1.07   1.07     1.07     1.07   1.07      1.07     1.07
INCREMENTAL SALES (MILLION kWh)    3809      3905     7648  11765    16395    19180  23168    28517    33924
TOTAL KENEFITS (RS Nit.)            4092     4195     8216  12639    17613    20605  24889    30635    36444
NET BENEFITS                      -14208   -17940   -15119 -16384   -13947   -18473   5685       9125    12628
INTERNAL ECOMIC RATE OF RETU2N         BX                                                                                                                     'a
1/ NET OF TAXES AND DUTIES                                                                                                                                        U'
2/ CONIVERSION FACTORS - CAPITAL GOCOS: 0.85; SKILLED LABOR: 0.97; UNSKILLED LABOR: 0.89.
0'



PAKISTAN
TRANSNISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCENENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Case 2                                  FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97 FY98-FY15
---    .. ..    . ...    .. ..    ....    ..... ....    ..... .........
CONSTANT (1989) INVESTMENTS (6 Nil.) 1/
............. .........................__... ......
PUBLIC SECTOR                          12148    11660    10809   10160    7419   11940   ---          ---      ...
PRItVATE SCTOR                          4783     7255     72   10094   1060    11149    ---
TOTAL                                  14910   18916   16061   20254   1602    23090 --- M-                    -
CONSTANT (1969) PRICES (Re NIL.)
............ ..............................._..........
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                 16930   18916   18061   20254   18028   230           ---
LOCAL COSTS                           6999    6108    5691    5782    5603    6689   ---            --       ---
NATERIAL                            5249    4581      4269    4336    4202    5017    ---         ---      ---
SKILLED LABOR                        350      305      285      289      280      334    ---
UNStILLED LA8aR                     1400    1222      1138    1156    1121       1338    ---
FOREIGN COSTS                         9931    1280    12370   14472   12425   1640    --- 0..                ..
IN SONDER (1989) PRICES (Re Nit.) 2I
TOTAL INVESTNENT COSTS                 15979   18085    17287   19467   17266   22180   ---           ---      --
LOCAL COSTS                           6047    5277    4917    4996    4841    5780    ---           ---       -
MATERIAL                            4462    3894    3628    3686    3572    4265    - -           -- ---
SKILLED LAWR                         339      296      276      280      272      324             ---
UNSKILLED LABOR                     1246    1087    1013    1029         997    1191    ...
FOREIGN COSTS                         9931    12808   12370   14472   12425    16400           ---
ECONOMIC COSTS (R8 NiL.)
.......... ................._. .. _
TOTAL INVSTNENT COSTS                  15979    18085    17287   19467    17266   22180    ---        ...
0 & N COSTS                              479     1022    1541    2125    2643    3308    3308    3308    3308
FUEL COSTS                              1842    3028    4507    7431    11652    13590   15896   18202   20508
_._.. .__....... .......   ..... .......   ..... .......   ..... .......   .....
TOTAL COSTS                          18300   22135    23335   29023   31560   39078   19204   21510   23816
AVERAGE REVENUE/kWh (CONSTANT Re.)      1.07     1.20     1.29     1.30     1.30     1.30     1.30     1.30     1.30
INCREMENTAL SALES (MILLION kWh)         3809    3905      7648   11765    16395    19180   23168   28517   33924
TOTAL BENEFITS (Rs Nil.)                4076    4686    9866   15295   21314   24934   30118   37072   44101
NET BENEFITS                          -14224   -17449  -13469   -13728   -10247   -14144    10914   15562   20285
INTERVAL EMONIC RATE OF RETURN            14O
........... .................                                                                                                                      La
1/ NET OF TAXES AND DUTIES                                         
2/ COWERSION FACTORS - CAPITAL GOODS: 0.85; SKILLED LABOR: 0.97; UNSKILLED LABOR: 0.89.                                                               1-'
08
__ ___                           .                              *  



PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PRWECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHRItY
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETULN
NET INVESTMENT CALCULATIONS
FY90               FY91               FY92               FY93               FY94               FY95               Total
INVESTMENTS                       ...----                               ..............
(Nminal Rpees Million)  Local ForeignTotal Local ForeignTotal Local ForeignTotal Local ForeignTotal Local ForeignTotal Local ForeignTotal Locel Foreign Total
................           .....  ............  .. .  .......    ..  .  ............  ....  ............  .. .  ... ....  ..  .  ..........    .....   ........ .....
WAMDA CIP                  10287  5553 15840  940   7072 16412 99t4  6915 16879 10412  6397 16809 9406  3439 12845 13294  O229 2S23 62703  37605 10030
0                  0                  0
Less: Taxes & Duties      3160      0  3160 3310       0  3310 3939       0 3939  3927       0 3927 2788        0 2788 4671        0 4671 21795       0 21795
--   ... ----   ... i;.  -----   ...... .....  ....... .....  ....... .....     ....... .  .......  .....     ....... .....  ....... .....  ....... .....     ....... .....
Public Sector Net Inv.      7127   5553 12680 6030  7072 13102 6025   6915 12940 6485   6397 12882 6618  3439 10057 8M2    8229 16852 40908 37605  78513
Private Sector CIP           312  4736  5048  1104   7104 8208  i128  7561  86S9  1330  11342 12671  1463  12476 13938  1609  13723 15332 6945  561  636
Les: Taxes & Duties         90      0    90 146        0 146 155          0   155   226      0   226   249      0   249  274       0   274  1140      0   1140
.....  ....... ........ ... ...  ..... ....... .....  ......  ........ ... ... ... ... ..... ......  ........ .. ... . ........  ..... ....... .....  ....... .... .... ..
Private Sector Net Inv.      222  4736 4958  958   7104 8062   973   7561  8534  1103  11342 12445  1214  12476 13690  1335  13723 15059 5805  56941  62746
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ..... . i;;; ..... ..... .....  ... i  --   --   --  .  ..... ... .. .....  ..... ..... .....  ..... .....
Totat Net Investments       7349  10289 17638 6988  14176 21164  6996  14476 21474  7588  1739 2537  7132  15915 23747 9958  21952 31911 46713  9456 141259
n85-           ---a# --- --- ---  -_an  =_=, #=,  a----                D     15 :11M m=  MM= 1mnww *:=  U21  =:tc   arms_
... ._ .....    . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . .  . ..   ....    .....   ___....  .. .   ....   .....   _..__   .. .    ... . _  .....  ....., ____________ __ -- ***_*_*__ -- -- 
Total Net Inrvestments      6999  9931 16930 6108  12808 18916  5691  12370 18061  5782  14472 20254  603  12425 18028 6689  16400 23090 3673  78406 115279
(1969 Prices)            333            3  3333   3.3=a 3       33    333  333333   3332              3     3= 3  3333     3   3     3     33            3
INET INVESTMENTS
(Constant (1989) Rs Nit.)
........................
PU2LIC SECTOR               6788   5360 12148 5271   6389 11660 4900  5909 10809 4941   5219 10160 4735   2685  7419 5793   6148 11940 32427 31710 64137
PtIVATE SECTOR               211   4571  4783   837  6418  7255   791  641  7252   841   9253 10094  U8   9740 10608  897  10253 11149 4446 46696  51142
--   ...   .... .....  ..... ..... .....  ..... ..... .....  ..... ..... .....  ..... ..... .....  ..... ..... .....  .....  .....
TOTAL                       6999  9931 16930 6108  12808 18916  5691  12370 18061  5782  1"472 20254  5603  12425 18028 6689  16400 23090 36873   406 115279
rt
ft



PAMISTAW
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (WAPDA)
TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PROJECT COST ASSUMPTIONS
............................... ....................................... ......
Price Contingency Calculation
1990    1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
....    ....      ... . ... ....   .... .  .... .. ..... ..
Local Inflation                           10.0X    8.0X   7.02   6.5X   6.5X   6.5X
Local Escalation Factor                 1.0500  1.1440 1.2296 1.3125 1.3978 1.4886
Foreiwi Inflation                          7.22    6.5X   5.02   4.5X   4.52   4.5X
Foreign Escalation Factor               1.0360  1.1417 1.1988 1.2527 1.3091 1.3680
Ft      l



PAKISTAN
TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
UATER AND POUER OEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
FUEL COST COMPUTATIONS
.. ........ ........................ ....................................... .
FUEL TYPE                                FY90     FY91     FY92    FY93    FY94       FY95    FY96    FY97 FY98-FY1S
INCREMENTAL CONSUMPTION
(TOE)
HSD                                         0        0        0        0        0       0         1       1        1
FUEL OIL                                   0        0       196     993      1451       0        0        0        0
GAS                                      1107      708      685     680      958      954      1124     1124     1124
COAL                                       -6        4        7      121      184      320     394      394      394
FUEL PRICES
(USV/TOE)
HSD                                     169.7    169.7    169.7   169.7   169.7    169.7   169.7   169.7   169.7
FUEL OIL                                77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3
GAS                                      77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3    77.3
COAL                                     50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0
FUEL PRICES
(Rs/TOE)
HSD                                      3666     3666    3666    3666    3666    3666    3666    3666          3666
FUEL OIL                                 1670     1670     1670    1670      1670     1670    1670     1670     1670
GAS                                      1670     1670     1670    1670      1670     1670     1670     1670    1670
COAL                                     1080     1080     1080    1080      1080     1080    1080      1080     1080
FUEL COSTS (Rs MNi.)
HSD                                         0        0        0        0       0        0        4        4        4
FUEL OIL                                    0        0      327     1658    2423        0        0        0        0
GAS                                      1848     1182     1144     1135     1600     1593    1877      1877    1877
COAL                                       -6        4        8      131      199     346       426     426      426
...     --       ...      ....     ....     . ...    ....     . ...    ....
Total                                    1842     1186     1479    2924    4221       1938    2306    2306    2306
FUEL COSTS (CUMULATIVE) (RS Nit.)
. .... .... ... . . . . . . . . .
HSD                                         0        0        0        0        0       0        4        7       11
FUEL OIL                                    0        0      327     1985    4408    4408    4408       4408    4408
GAS                                      1848    3030    4174    5310    6909    8502    10379    12255    14132
COAL                                       -6       -2        5      136      335     680      1106    1531      1957
....  ----    ----    ....      ....    ....      ----     ----     ---0
Totat                                    1842    3028     4507    7431    11652    13590    15896   18202   20508                                a    ° .
t===~~~~~~~~ ====  ====   ===   ====                                             === =====- =
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.) 0



t   '      LAHORE RING             U s s R        /n      N CHINA
(AASHAH KAKU                                                                                r   '    .
A o     of M.p                 M I                          / S I AN                SO          N
2'     AFG /ANISTAN                                            O       PROFOSED
HADRA                                                                              g
-0      \ XYX'TiG                                              RLANE         POJCPAKISTAN
-.                         A          i       *                                  ----I220 kVNDIA
ANIR           '                                     ,                                               .M12V2
6-                                               a                                                                 . .......... .a  , 0. .k_
NEW K(O       34'                         b
LAKHPA
--9                                        0                                       POWER STATIAONS:
FAISALABAD  RINGKAHI
CHINIOT r       G TTI                                                                                               MA     NA
~NSATA6A                            C.,KLAAI
(b1 
T. M. wt- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      oo%  
66                                                                                k
Ek OT LAKHIPAT
-30' 00
0 D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
'C            ,-.,.-'-'-TRANSMISSION EXTENSION AND
MAIN POWER STATIONS AND TRANSMISSION LINES
CONSTRUCTIONPOWPROTATION
b  ~~~~~~k"    ~~~~~~~     P                  m~~XSTN  OR PLANNLECTOJIC
(0                                           5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--20k
--<I                                                              - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GIN TERATIONALBONA: E
2                                \      F       YOJ             0             lEO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 200  30ILkEEV
0~~~~~HUI020k
91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12k



