Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16242
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION (ASAO) II
(CR. 2204-KE)
January 16, 1997
Agriculture Operations
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$1.00 (at appraisal) = KSh23.5
US$1.00 (end December 1995) = KSh55.85
SDR1.00 (at appraisal) = US$1.35
SDR1.00 (end December 1995) = US$1.49
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Tons are metric tons of 1,000 kg (2,204 pounds)
1 acre (ac) = 0.405 hectare (ha)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
1 July - 30 June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
AFC          Agricultural Finance Corporation
ASAO         Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
ASMP         Agricultural Sector Management Project
CBS          Central Bureau of Statistics
CSRP         Cereals Sector Reform Programme
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DGA          Development Grant Agreement
DFC          District Fertilizer Committee
DPD          Development Planning Division
EU           European Union
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization
FAO/CP       FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FPMRP        Fertiliser Pricing and Marketing Reform Programme
GTZ          Gesellschaft fir Technische Zusammenarbeit
HIID         Harvard Institute for International Development
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Agency
IMF          International Monetary Fund
KfW          Kreditanstalt fir Weideraufbau
KMDP         Kenya Market Development Programme
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
MOLD         Ministry of Livestock Development
MOALDM       Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing
NCPB         National Cereals and Produce Board
TA           Technical Assistance
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
Vice President                     Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Director                           Mr. Harold E. Wackman
Division Chief/Manager             Ms. Sushma Ganguly
Staff Member'                      Mr. Gajanand Pathmanathan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION (ASAO II)
(CREDIT 2204-KE)
CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................................ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ..........................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE OPERATION  ..................                         ..3
D. OPERATION SUSTAINABILITY  .............................................6
E. IDA PERFORMANCE ......................................................7
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .............................................8
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .................................................8
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ....................................................... 10
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...................................................... 10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .......................................................                   12
APPENDICES .............................................                                              28
A. Aide -Memoire
B. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION (ASAO II)
(Credit 2204-KE)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Operation (ASAO IT) for Credit 2204-KE, in the amount of SDR52.2 million (US$75 million
equivalent), which was approved on January 19, 1991 and became effective on May 21, 1991. The second
tranche of the credit amounting to SDR23.3 rnillion, (US$33.8 mnillion) was cancelled by IDA on December
21, 1992, following the Government of Kenya's (GOK) reversal of policy with respect to movement of
maize within the country.
2.     Following a request by the Government in December 1995, the closing date of the credit was
extended to June 30, 1996, in order to allow implementation of the institutional strengthening components
to be brought to an orderly closure. The suspension of disbursements imposed in September 1995 as a
result of non-compliance with the financial covenant requiring timely presentation of audited accounts was
lifted on December 22, 1995, upon receipt by IDA of the outstanding audit reports. Final disbursement
was made on December 6, 1996, and SDR3.0 rmillion undisbursed was cancelled.
3.     Co-financing of US$7.97 million (equivalent) for the operation was provided by the Netherlands
Govemment. The African Development Bank (AfDB), the United States Agency for Intemational
Development (US AID), the European Union (EU), the Kreditanstalt f'ur Weideraufbau (KFW) and the
Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusanmuenarbeit (GTZ) provided parallel financing (amounts contained in
Annex 8B).
4.     Preparation of the ICR was undertaken by a FAO/CP mission' which visited Kenya in October
1995, coinciding with IDA's supervision mission. Inputs were provided by Gajanand Pathmanathan and
Donna Criddle (AFTAI). Comments were also received from Jacomina de Regt (AFTOS 1). Comments
have been received from the borrower and have been incorporated in the report. Comments were not
received from the co-financier, and the Govemment of Kenya did not prepare a separate evaluation of the
project.
5.     The ICR is based on discussions with the project management, material in the project files, the
President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the Development Grant Agreement (DGA)2,
supervision reports, discussions with staff of concemed govemment agencies as well as information
provided by private sector millers, merchants and importers. The ICR was reviewed by Sushma Ganguly,
Technical Manager, Agriculture Operations 1, Eastem and Southem Africa.
'Messrs. J. H. Weatherhogg, Mission Leader and F. M. Stubenitsky, Economist (Consultant).
2 Between the Govemment of Kenya and IDA as administrator on behalf of the Minister for Development
Cooperation of the Netherlands.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION (ASAO I)
(Credit 2204-KE))
EVALUATION SUIlMMARY
Introduction
1.    ASAO n1 incorporated the experiences from the First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation3
completed in 1988 and subsequent studies by both GOK and IDA. At GOK's request, project preparation
started during FY89, the appraisal began in June 1990, the credit was negotiated in November 1990, signed
in February 1991 and became effective in May 1991. In addition to the IDA credit of SDR52.2 million
(US$75 million), parallel and co-financing for balance of payment support was expected to total
approximately US$100 million. An estimated 89 percent ofthe IDA credit was allocated for financing
agricultural imports and 11 percent for sectoral management support.
Operation Objectives
2.    The main goals of the operation were to (a) accelerate agricultural growth through smailholders;
(b) contribute to fiscal stabilization; (c) improve public sector resource use in agriculture; (d) begin to
assist lower income groups who are vulnerable to climatic and economic shocks; and (e) improve
agricultural sector institutional capacity.
3.    Strategies to achieve accelerated agricultural growth included improved maize producer incentives
and increased market competitiveness; rationalization of maize stocks, compatible with market needs;
increased input supply, particularly of fertilizer, and promotion of its efficient use. Fiscal stabilization and
improved public sector resource use was pursued through improvement in the efficiency and composition of
public expenditures. Assistance to vulnerable groups was attempted through the development of targeted
measures to protect vulnerable groups. Finally, improvement of agricultural sector institutional capacity
was pursued by supporting improved policy planning, project preparation and implementation in the
Ministries of Agriculture (MOA) and Livestock Development (MOLD) and then continued after the merger
of the two ministries in the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing (MOALDM).
4.    ASAO II aimed to make substantial advances in three policy areas (maize, fertilizer and public
expenditure), representing a deepening of reforms begun under ASAO I, as well as initiatives in two other
' The first ASAO Credit 1717-KE of SDR52.8 million and was fully disbursed in November 1988.



iii
areas, namely, steps towards assisting vulnerable groups and building capacity for policy analysis. These
five aspects constituted the immediate objectives of ASAO H.
5.    To realize the operation's strategies with respect to maize and fertilizers, a number of policy
measures, were conceived as conditions for release of balance of payments support to the Government.
These measures included liberalization of the maize and fertilizer markets, and reduction of the National
Cereals and Produce Board's (NCPB) monopolistic role in agricultural produce marketing. For
institutional capacity building within the agricultural ministries, technical assistance and supply of
equipment focused on the following areas:
improved public sector management, by the introduction of financial management control systems,
backed-up by provision of computers, technical assistance and training,
improved performance reporting systems to allow monitoring and evaluation of project
performance, supported by equipment, technical assistance and training, and
improved management information system for fertilizers to encourage fertilizer use at smallholder
level.
Finally, assistance to lower income groups was to be formulated on the basis of impact studies on
vulnerable groups and drought assistance strategies.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.     Upon credit effectiveness GOK effectively freed the fertilizer market from public control. Maize
liberalization proceeded more slowly. Initial relaxation in a phased manner of maize movement controls
and waiving of NCPB's monopoly on maize procurement and its role as purchaser of wheat and minor
crops, such as beans, proceeded slowly in 1991 and 1992. However, GOK reimposed maize movement
controls in November 1992. As a result of this policy reversal, [DA canceled the second tranche of the
credit allocated for the finance of agricultural inputs. However, IDA's cancellation of the second tranche
should be seen in the context of an overall dialogue with the Government as part of the economic reform
agenda. Subsequently, in December 1993 GOK announced full liberalization of maize movement and
marketing. Implementation of the institutional strengthening components proceeded slowly for a variety of
reasons, including very restricted budget releases in 1992 and 1993, problems in recruiting consultants for
the policy analysis activities and suspension of the IDA credit for the whole of the 1995 calendar year due
to failure to submit audits of the project accounts. Following GOK's request, IDA agreed to extend the
credit closing date to June 30, 1996 to enable completion of the institutional strengthening components.
7.     SDR23.3 million were canceled in December 1992. SDR 25.86 million was disbursed, which is
49.5 percent of the original credit amount and 89.4 percent of the revised credit amount. Parallel financing
provided by the ather donors was also affected by GOK's decisions in late 1992 to reimpose market
controls. Despite this, total funding provided by other donors is estimated at around US$126 million.
8.    The ASAO II overall project rating at closure is rated as marginally satisfactory. If the essential
objective of an adjustment operation is to fundamentally change the approach of Government involvement
in the sector, with the focus being on gradual public sector disengagement, then the ASAO II operation can



iv
probably be termed a success. The Government's philosophy in the sector is now decidedly private sector
oriented and the commitment to the liberalization process has deepened. This is evidenced by reforms being
undertaken in others subsectors such as dairy, tea, and coffee and in fundamental realignment of the role of
agricultural cooperatives. ASAO II provided a framework for a dialogue which extended beyond the stated
objectives of the project, and thus did indirectly play a role in improving the general policy environment as
far as the sector is concemed.
9.    The immediate primary objectives of maize and fertilizer market liberalization have been achieved
even if the former occurred after cancellation of the second tranche of the credit and following further
discussions with IDA and the Intemational Monetary Fund (IMF). In fact the liberalization has progressed
further than was envisaged under ASAO II. The private sector is now emerging as the dominant player in
maize trading, and NCPB's role has been consequently reduced. GOK has reiterated on a nunber of
occasions its policy of reducing government controls and encouraging an increase in the private sector's
role. The short-term impact on smallholder farmers has been mixed with farmgate prices reflecting the size
of the harvest dictated by rainfall. However, farmers selling to private traders have unambiguously been
able to receive prompt payment which was not the case with respect to deliveries made to NCPB. Over the
long-term, as smallholders gain increasing confidence in the market to supply their domestic maize
requirements they will likely substitute higher income eaning crops for maize. This shift in production
pattems (some evidence of this has been documented in the high population density Kakamega district4)
will have important positive implications for smallholder farmer productivity and incomes.
10.   The fertilizer liberalization goal of the operation appears to have been successfully achieved. This
conclusion is supported by a recent study35 The private sector is now responsible for fertilizer importation
and distribution. A competitive market has developed and fertilizer is available in most rural markets.
Fertilizer use by smallholders is still hampered by the lack of quality standards, and extensive soil testing in
order to provide specific recommendations to individual smallholders has not been implemented. While
fertilizer use on small farms was affected by drought and uncertain policy framework in the early 1990s, it
improved in 1995 and 1996.
11.    The contribution of ASAO I to fiscal stabilization should also be evaluated in the context of the
increased emphasis the Bank has placed in its dialogue with Government on the need to maintain fiscal
discipline and allocate scarce budgetary resources to priority activities. The impact of ASAO II on its own
is uncertain, though the concept of "core" projects and the need to fully finance such projects was
introduced under ASAO II. Reduction of government budget expenditures through the price support
operations of NCPB should ultimately prove beneficial. The goal of assisting lower income groups
vulnerable to climatic and economic shocks have so far been confined to carrying out surveys and
4Monitoring Farmer' Responses to Market Reform in Kakamega by Joseph 0. Owour: Paper prepared for
a conference on "Fine Tuning Market Reforms For Improved Agricultural Perfprmance" - September 25,
1996.
The Evolution of Fertilizer Marketing in Kenya by Gem Argwings-Kodhek: Paper prepared for a
conference on "Fine Tuning Market Reforms For Improved Agricultural Perfpnrnance" - September 25,
1996



v
preparation of contingency plans. These initiatives are now being supported, particularly by the drought
management component, of the IDA financed Arid Lands Resource Management Project (Credit 2797-
KE). Considerable progress has been made towards improving agricultural sector institutional capacity
through review of the government's agricultural project portfolio; studies on staffing norms; design and
commencement of improved budgetary, and monitoring and evaluation systems; strengthening policy
analysis; and training relevant to all of the above.
12.   MOALDM's performance in implementing the institutional strengtheming components was
hampered by staffing changes, particularly at the senior management level. Regrettably, a high proportion
of the staff already trained by the project have been transferred to other departments within MOALDM or
to other ministries or have entered the private sector. Thus, although the training component was
implemented satisfactorily, the professional capacity of the Development Planning Division (DPD) has
decreased, while some of DPD's staff are using their capabilities in other parts of the Ministry. While
MOALDM was generally successful in implementing the various components, difficulties were experienced
with the Monitoring and Evaluation component with respect to tendering contracts. The Policy Analysis
component encountered substantial difficulties in recruiting the necessary technical assistance, which was
remedied by modification of the scope of work. Submission of audit reports was generally late and the
disbursements were suspended from January 1995 until December 1995 due to overdue audits of the
project accounts.
13.   IDA performance was generally satisfactory throughout the process of identification, appraisal and
m supporting GOK to carry out its policy of market liberalization of maize and fertilizers. Staff from the
resident mission provided continuing support during implementation. Project design benefited from the
lessons leamed from the ASAO I credit 1717-KE. ASAO I concentrated on financing studies, policy
papers and restructuring plans rather than on implementation. ASAO II was designed to deepen the reforms
m key areas (improved incentives for smallholder maize producers, fertilizer availability and efficiency of
public expenditures) and capacity building for policy analysis and for improved project implementation.
Uneven implementation performance in ASAO I led to a better design of monitoring arrangements, fewer
conditions and a common framework for donor support. However, ASAO II contained a number of
relatively minor components, such as capacity and institution building, budget management and studies
related to the Ministry's organizational structure, vulnerable groups and land inventory system which
required extensive management from MOALDM and supervision by IDA. IDA's cancellation of the
second tranche, though regrettable, ultimately may have helped GOK win over opponents to its
liberalization policies.
14.    GOK initially took the right decisions both for maize, fertilizers and the reduction of NCPB's role.
However, the reimposition of movement controls for maize in November 1992 effectively put a stop to the
adjustment component of ASAO H. The institution of a NCPB Performance Contract with the Ministry
clarified NCPB responsibilities, but both NCPB and the Ministry failed to carry out their respective
obligations. Also, NCPB's eventual role in the maize market was not clearly defined in the project design.
Overall country non-compliance with audit covenants had been the focus of discussions between the
Ministry of Finance and IDA on numerous occasions from 1994 through March 1995, and as indicated
above, the credit was suspended for approximately one year as a result of long overdue audits. For the
remaining secondary objectives, support was satisfactory from MOALDM, the main beneficiary, but
restricted govemment budgets provided inadequate resources for the institution building components.



vi
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
15.    As a result of ASAO II and the policy discussions which followed the cancellation of its second
balance of payments component, the Government has progressively liberalized the maize market. Also, an
agricultural strategy based on public sector ownership and/or heavy involvement in the sector has been
replaced with a private sector focused strategy with the Govemment increasingly playing only an enabling
role. This is a major positive effect of ASAO II.
16.   For future operations, already being prepared and/or appraised, IDA will continue to support the
Government's startegy to further liberalize the economy. This is important, as the momentum could
otherwise be lost and a degree of government control reimposed. Continued financial support for the
institutional strengthening is also vital for the continuation of the work already prepared by consultants,
which was assisted by the decision to extend the project until June 30, 1996.
17.   Key lessons leamed from project implementation are as follows:
(i)    The sustained impact of policy and institutional changes which are supported by
adjustment operations and capacity building programs may only become apparent in the longer
term and should be assessed in that time frame.
(ii)    Normal investment components should not be packaged with adjustment operations. They
tend to detract from the main focus of the adjustment operation and in the event of a cancellation of
a policy based tranche, are left vulnerable to the overall lack of commitment which resulted in the
cancellation. If such components are necessary then it would be better to finance such components
through a parallel but separate investment operation.
(iii)   A monopoly public sector agency's future role in a liberalized environment should be fully
explored before the liberalization process embarks on assisting that agency to adjust to the
liberalized environment.
(iv)   Performance contracts between Govemments and public sector agencies may be useful
tools to clarify mutual obligations, but unless the Govemment (a) is willing to carry out its
obligations and (b) sanctions the public sector agency for not carrying out its obligations, the
contract will not have a positive impact in modifying the operating behavior of the targeted agency.
(v)    When the Government disengages from controlling the purchase and distribution of
commodities such as fertilizer, it does not mean that it abrogates its regulatory oversight role. In
the fertilizer sector the Govemment should introduce strong quality control regulations in parallel
to liberalizing the trade.
(vi)   The design of technical assistance packages should not be complex and ambiguous. The
letter of invitation packages should clearly set out the scope of work expected by the bidding firm.
Also, Government institutional strengthening through technical assistance has to be a sustained
undertaking, which therefore needs to be scheduled for the long term, generally exceeding the
duration of a project or adjustment operation. Fortunately, for this operation, the availability of



vii
funding under the ASMP II, and the future Sector Investment Project, will continue to support
local capacity building for institutional strengthening.
(vii)  Inclusion of covenants must receive more up-front thought during project design and
negotiations to ensure that coverants relate to critical policy and institutional change issues and
implementation actions. Supervision and project implementation of ASAO II would have been
helped by better focusing of the large number of covenants included in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION (ASAO II)
(Credit 2204-KE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENTIEVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I .          ASAO II was both a sector adjustment and investment project. In addition to the IDA
credit of SDR52.2 million (US$75 million), parallel and co-financing largely for balance of payment
support from the Netherlands Government, AfDB, the EU, GTZ, KFW and USAID was not defined but
was expected to total approximately US$100 million. The IDA credit was to be allocated 89 percent
(SDR46.6 million, or US$67 million) for financing agricultural imports, including fertilizers, pesticides,
chemicals and seeds, agricultural machinery equipment and spare parts, veterinary supplies and petroleum
products. This balance of payments support was to be disbursed in two equal tranches of SDR 23.3
million. The balance of 11 percent (SDR 5.6 million, or US$ 8 million) was allocated to sectoral
management support, including improvement in the efficiency of public expenditures, development of
targeted programs to protect vulnerable lower income groups and to increase preparedness for droughts and
strengthening the capacity of the then separate Ministries of Agriculture (MOA) and Livestock
Development (MOLD)6 in policy analysis. The operation aimed at substantial advances in three policy
areas -- maize market liberalization, fertilizer market liberalization and public expenditure rationalization.
These represented a deepening of reforms begun under the first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
(Cr. 1717-KE) completed in June 1988.
2.    The main goals of the operation were to (a) accelerate agricultural growth through smallholders;
(b) contribute to fiscal stabilization; (c) improve public sector resource use in agriculture; (d) begin to
assist lower income groups who are vulnerable to climatic and economnc shocks; and (e) improve
agnrcultural sector institutional capacity. Strategies to achieve accelerated agricultural growth included
improved maize producer incentives and increased market competitiveness; rationalization of maize stocks,
compatible with market needs; increased input supply, particularly of fertilizer, and promotion of its
efficient use. Fiscal stabilization and improved public sector resource use was pursued through
improvement in the efficiency and composition of public expenditures. Assistance to vulnerable groups was
attempted through the development of targeted measures to protect vulnerable groups. Finally,
improvement of agricultural sector institutional capacity was pursued by supporting improved policy
planning, project preparation and implementation in MOA and MOLD and then continued after the merger
of the two ministries in MOALDM.
6Now combined in the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing (MOALDM).



2
3.    Effectively, ASAO Ifs immediate objectives were the liberalization of maize and fertilizer
marketing, including removal of maize movement controls, removing the National Cereals and Produce
Board's (NCPB) monopoly in maize procurement and cessation of trading in minor crops such as beans;
complete freedom for the private sector to import and distribute fertilizer; and improvement in the capacity
of the ministries associated with the sector (later merged into a single ministry), especially in allocation of
finance and budgeting, monitoring and evaluation and policy analysis.
4.    The choice of objectives was relevant to the Govenmuent's overall policies and strategy for
development of the agricultural sector which has increasingly moved away from government control to
greater involvement of the private sector in all aspects of agricultural production, processing and
distribution. In addition the objectives stressed the need for more fiscal discipline which was also
increasingly in line with the macroeconomic reforms being undertaken by the Government. The objectives
were also the natural follow-up in terms of implementation to the much broader range of refonrs and
analytical work supported under ASAO I. Project design was clear regarding the major objectives for
maize and fertilizers. The project design stressed the need for a "phased approach." Project progress was,
perhaps inevitably erratic as a result of the difficulty of the political decisions involved
B. ACHIVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.    A slight delay in meeting conditions of effectiveness was due to a less than timely start of studies
on staffing norms, privatization opportunities and impacts on vulnerable groups, and full staffing and
operationalization of the Fertilizer Inputs Unit in MOA. The credit became effective in May 1991. This
project was implemented during a fairly turbulent economic management period in Kenya which saw a
deteriorating economic policy framework in the early 1990s and a consequent overall decline in new IDA
commitments to Kenya. After the general elections held in late 1992, however, the economic policy
fr,amework steadily improved which resulted in IDA's approval of a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC
2884 -KE) for Kenya in June 1996 just before ASAO II closed. Kenya also experienced a major drought
in late 1992/early 1993 which had a marked adverse impact on agricultural production. This relatively
turbulent period was reflected in the sector's performance; the agricultural sector growth rate averaged a
negative 1.4 percent per annum from 1990-1993 before improving to 3 percent in 1994 and 5 percent in
1995.
6.    The steady progress towards attaining the project's maize liberalization objectives was abruptly
reversed when the Government reintroduced maize movement controls in November 1992. IDA
accordingly canceled the second tranche of the balance of payments component of the Credit in December
1992 and similar action was taken by the other agencies financing the project, in particular the European
Union (EU), United States Agency for Intemational Development (USAID) and African Development Bank
(Aff)B). Discussion on maize movement issues was, however, not limited to the context of ASAO II but
was also included in the overall dialogue with the Govemment as part of the economic reform agenda.
IDA's cancellation of the second tranche of ASAO I1 should be seen in that context as well. The maize
marketing issues continued to be part of the "core" set of issues discussed by the Bank and the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) with Govemment. These discussions subsequently led to the Government of Kenya
(GOK) fully liberalizing maize marketing, including imports and exports in December 1993.



3
7.    Unlike in maize marketing, the Govemment moved quickly to fully liberalize the import of
fertilizer and marketing in 1992. Fertilizer use on small farms, however, in the early 1990s was affected by
the drought and the uncertain policy framework before improving in 1995 and 1996. Fertilizer use has also
been influenced by availability of credit and slow payment by parastatal agencies (which has improved over
time). Also, with market liberalisation taking root and faced with uncertain prices, famers have been
cautious im making decisions about input use and cropping pattems. Lack of quality standards have also
had an impact. A study was financed under ASAO I to establish quality control standards and regulatory
criteria and the recommendations are being considered for adoption by Govemment. The program of
extensive soil testing with a view of formulating specific recommendations for individual smallholders has
not been fully implemented, though the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) has begun to
disseminate the recommendations.
8.    The contribution of ASAO II to fiscal stabilization should also be evaluated in the context of the
increased emphasis the Bank has placed in its dialogue with Govenmment on the need to maintain fiscal
discipline and allocate scarce budgetary resources to priority activities. The impact of ASAO I on its own
is uncertain, though the concept of "core" projects, and the need to fully finance such projects was
introduced under ASAO II. Reduction of govemment budget expenditures through the price support
operations of NCPB should ultimately prove beneficial. The goal of assisting lower income groups
vulnerable to climatic and economic shocks have so far been confined to carrying out surveys and
preparation of contingency plans. These initiatives are now being supported, particularly by the drought
management component, of the IDA financed Arid Lands Resource Management Project (Credit 2797-
KE). Considerable progress has been made towards improving agricultural sector institutional capacity
through review of the government's agricultural project portfolio; studies on staffing norms; design and
commencement of improved budgetary, and monitoring and evaluation systems; strengthening policy
analysis; and training relevant to all of the above.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THIE OPERATION
(a)    Factors Not Generaily Subject To Government Control
9.    The problem of the highly sensitive nature of the objective of maize market liberalization was
further compounded by variable climatic conditions and fluctuating harvests during the project period.
Poor rainfall years in 1990/91 and 1991/92 had resulted in maize production of respectively 2.25 million
tons and 2.34 million tons, or around 20 percent below normal levels. As a result, maize stocks were
drawn down and 1992/93 was also a poor crop7 year. Political pressure for Government to take action to
manage the maize market so as to avoid any serious shortage in the country's staple food therefore
increased. Similarly in the 1993/94 crop year crop forecasts indicated a very low production of only 1.6
million tonss which increased pressure on Governnent to allow extensive importing of maize. In the event,
production was significantly better than forecast at 2.10 million tons. One of the difficulties, both in regard
7 In the event 1992/93 was better than forecast at 2.43 million tons.
' Here also the forecasts proved to be pessimistic and the eventual harvest was estimated at 2.1 million
tons.



4
to achievement of adequate maize prices for farmers in the west and south-west of Kenya and in
preparation of reliable crop forecasts, is the apparently fluctuating, but unknown and unrecorded, imports
of maize from Uganda and Tanzania, both of which have generally lower costs of production than Kenya.
10.   In addition to IDA, other donors also actively supported the overall liberalization objectives,
including long term assistance by USAID in development and liberalization of fertilizer and maize markets,
the support of GTZ in fertilizer marketing and training; and the restructuring and reform of NCPB, which
became the focal point of the EU's involvement in the Cereals Sector Reform Program. However, both
USAID and EU withdrew their support following the cancellation of the second tranche of the IDA credit.
In retrospect, the withdrawal of this donor support, and in particular of the EU, may well have further
delayed the restructuring of NCPB, still not completed to this date.
(b)   Factors Subject To Government's Control
11    The main policy objectives of ASAO 11 were the liberalization of the maize and fertilizer markets,
as well as also removing beans and minor crops from NCPB's marketing monopoly. The Government was
committed to liberalization of commodity markets, and for crops other than maize and wheat it enacted the
necessary liberalization measures with only minor delays. After the initial freeing of maize movements
between districts of 1991 and early 1992, full controls were re-introduced in November 1992, leading to
cancellation of the second tranche of the IDA Credit allocated for the finance of agricultural input
importation. The Government took this decision to re-introduce maize movement controls notwithstanding
IDA objections and warnings about possible consequences. The cancellation of the second tranche of the
Credit did not affect IDA.financing of the non-policy based, largely technical assistance components of the
project. However, the cancellation of the second tranche, for some time at least adversely affected the
implementation of the non-adjustment components.
12.   As mentioned above the liberalization of the maize market formed part of the core set of issues
which were subject to discussion by the Government and the Bank. In late 1993, and in the context of these
discussions with the IMF and the Bank, the Government removed all controls on maize marketing. Wheat
procurement by NCPB was terminated in February 1993. In this manner the liberalization conditions
imposed under the ASAO H credit were fully satisfied, even if no longer in the actual context of that
operation.
13.   GOK actions in response to anticipated maize shortages, both in reimposing maize movement
controls in late 1992 and in encouraging large imports of maize over the period June-December 1994,
damaged the confidence of the nascent private grain traders. Regarding imports, GOK had introduced a
vanable duty system in December 1992. This duty was to be levied according to the difference between
calculated import and domestic reference prices. However, there was a provision for the duty to be waived



5
for a variety of reasons - e.g. food aid for refugees, or for use by govefmnent agencies.9 As a result,
application of the controls proved problematic. At the same time as GOK liberalized maize marketing in
December 1993, control of retail prices of maize flour was also removed. With indications in March 1994
of likely shortages of maize later in the year, GOK was understandably anxious to avoid any further crisis
in supply of the country's staple food. ° GOK's encouragement to the private sector to import maize
resulted in large quantities arriving as the successful 1994 season crop was being harvested which had an
impact on lowering farmgate prices.
14.   GOK suffered from a donor suspension of balance of payments support which was effective for
two years from late 1991 to late 1993. As a result, government budget resources were scarce and releases
to MOALDM were inadequate and slowed down the implementation of the institutional strengthening
components.
(c)    Factors Under Implementing Agency Control
15.   MOALDMs performance in implementing the institutional strengthening components was
hamrpered by staffing changes, particularly at senior management level. The Director of Agriculture was
transferred halfway through project implementation and the head of the DPD, which has a key role in the
implementation of ASAO II, was replaced three times in four years. In addition, DPD staff trained under
the project were almost systematically moved to other departments or to other ministries, while some left to
work in the private sector. As a result, even though the training component of the project was implemented
in a satisfactory manner, the professional capacity of DPD is now probably below the pre-project level;
though from the Ministry's perspective, some of DPD's staff are working in other parts of the Ministry.
16.   While MOALDM was generally successful in implementing the various components, although
considerably more slowly than anticipated at appraisal, particular difficulties were experienced with the
9 Maize production trade, stocks and consumption estimates over the period 1991/92 to 1994/95 are as
follows:
i~~~~~~~199._.BJ.. E 934 -.L9-J I-R gk
('000 tons)
Opening stocks      318           40         200        100
Production        2,500        2,650        2,100     2,970
Imports             120          430          600       580
Exports              48           -           -         -
Total Supply      2,890        3,120        2,900     3,650
Consumption       2,850        2,910        2,800     2,850
Closing stocks       40          210          100       800
The estimates indicate the critically low stocks at the beginning of the 1992/93 year and the over-supply
situation due to continued importing of maize and adequate domestic production in 1994/95.
10 Some estimates suggest as much as 70 percent of calones in the average diet in Nairobi is derived from
maize.



6
monitoring and evaluation, and policy analysis components. For the first of these, two virtually identical
contracts were assigned, one for MOA and the other for MOLD' I . The ministries had merged by the time
the work was completed. As a result of this work a project performance monitoring system was installed in
the Department of Agriculture (named PROMPT) and a separate one in the Department of Livestock
(named PPM). Further work is being done to merge the two systems so that one system can be used for all
MOALDM projects. For the policy analysis component there were substantial difficulties in recruiting a
suitable firm to provide the requisite technical assistance. The whole technical assistance package was
rather complex, and ambiguities in the Letter of Invitation package sent to a short list of firms led to
difficult contract negotiations which ultimately could not be concluded between the Government and the
selected firm. The Government, then subsequently sought and obtained IDA concurrence to modify the
scope of work and to recruit individual consultants to undertake specific work. This hiatus delayed the
start of implementation of the component until September 1994.
17.   The Ministry's provision for the audit of the project accounts was generally late, and the failure to
submit the audits finally resulted in suspension of the remaining credit in relation to institutional
strengthening in January 1995. The suspension remained in force until December 1995.
D. OPERATION SUSTAINABILITY
18.   Given ASAO Ufs objectives im maize market liberalization, i.e., abolition of maize movement
controls, greater involvement of the private sector in maize purchase and trading and a reduction of
NCPB's role, the prospects of the changes being permanent and sustainable are good. In fact the
liberalization has progressed further than was envisaged under ASAO II. The private sector is now
emerging as the dominant player in maize trading, and NCPB's role has been consequently reduced. GOK
has reiterated on a number of occasions its policy of reducing government controls and encouraging an
increase in the private sector's role. The final issue is to clarify NCPB's future role in operating a strategic
maize reserve and its relationship to the private sector, and steps are being taken to do this. All these
aspects are the subject of continuing discussions between GOK, IMF and IDA.
19.    The sustainability of liberalization of the fertilizer market is highly likely, with importers/traders,
stockists and retail outlets having taken on the responsibility of supplying farmers' requirements. The
increased dissemination of fertilizer use recommendations by KARI will also assist smallholder farmers to
make informed economic choices about fertilizer use. In addition, it is also likely that quality control will
improve with the Government implementing the recommendations of the study financed under ASAO II.
The impact of these initiatives will be more long-term.
20.    The technical assistance element of the operation was intended to assist MOALDM to strengthen
its policy analysis, to improve budgetary procedures, to rationalize its staffing and to implement a
monitoring and evaluation system of its development projects. While the implementation of these
objectives was largely successful, the loss of trained staff, the suspension of disbursements during 1995
and the limited time span of TA services, particularly in computerization, has so far restricted the benefits.
I IIn 1993 the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and Ministry of Livestock Development (MOLD) merged to
become MOALDM.



7
Concerted and well-financed follow-up action is necessary to ensure the sustainability of the relatively
modest achievements of ASAO II. The Government is undertaking a major restructuring of MOALDM
under the IDA financed Second Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP II Credit 2445-KE). The
work done under ASAO II is feeding into this restructuring initiative. MOALDM's restructuring is also
being addressed under the civil service reform focus of the SAC. MOALDM has been selected as the
front-runner for the restructuring program. The Government and IDA have recognized that institutional
development is a long term objective and have made provisions for ASAO H's initiatives to be supported
under ongoing and future IDA and other donor funded programs. The sustainability of the institutional
development components financed under ASAO II is therefore likely.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
21.   IDA's performance has been satisfactory in supporting GOK in carrying out its policy of market
liberalization of maize and fertilizers and in helping to obtain unified support for these policies among the
other donors. Design of the operation benefited from the lessons leamed from ASAO I and in particular the
advantages of reducing and defining more clearly the operation's scope. Even so ASAO II included, in
addition to its main liberalization objectives, a large number of other components such as capacity and
institution building, budget management and rationalization, and studies on the Ministr-ys organizational
structure, on vulnerable groups and on the organization of a land inventory system. These components
demanded, in retrospect, an inordinate amount of management input by MOALDM and of supervision by
IDA, which may have detracted from the principal objectives. In retrospect it could be argued that normal
investment components should not be included in an adjustment operation; such initiatives may be better
financed through a parallel but separate investment operation.
22.    Project design was clear regarding the major objectives for maize and fertilizers. The project design
stressed the need for a "phased approach." Project progress was, perhaps inevitably, erratic as a result of
the difficulty of the political decisions involved and the fluctuations in production.
23.    For fertilizers, the project design assumed that timely and efficient soil testing -- a crucial
component in the drive to higher fertilizer consumption -- would be available from KARI or from the
private sector. Unfortunately, KARI was unable to provide the necessary services as planned and, while
private sector soil testing has been initiated by a major fertilizer company, its capacity is inadequate for the
country's needs. Consequently, the positive impact of the fertilizer reforms has only emerged in the last two
years.
24.   IDA's supervision was adequate, and staff from the resident mission provided continuing support
during implementation. Supervision and project implementation would have been helped by better focusing
of the large number of covenants included in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
25.   IDA's cancellation of the second tranche of the credit, though regrettable, appears to have been
correct in the circumstances and may ultimately have helped GOK in winning over opponents to its
liberalization policies. IDA's agreement to extend the loan closing date by six months was correct and
should significantly increase the chances of sustamability of the institution strengthening components.



8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.    The performance of the Government has to be judged bearing in mind the highly sensitive political
nature of the maize market, the difficulties of moving from a public sector monopoly to a free market
situation, the pressure exerted by individuals and sections of the population and the destabilizing effect of
sharp fluctuations in production as a result of changing weather conditions. Utimately the Government did
have the strength of will to introduce limited liberalization in 1991 and early 1992. However, the
reintroduction of full controls in late 1992, just before the general elections, undoubtedly had a negative
effect in undermining the confidence of private sector maize dealers and millers that the Government was
serious in its liberalization policy.
27.   Full removal of controls on the maize market, including imports, was effectively accomplished
toward the end of 1993. However, the timing of maize imports entering the Kenya market in 1994
depressed domestic prices and damaged farmers' confidence in maize as a profitable crop. The subsequent
entry of NCPB into the market, buying at well above the market price, but with inadequate finance to
redeem its pledges for the 1994 season crop, created further difficulties.
28.    The institution of a NCPB Performance Contract with the Ministry was supported by the project
and appears to have been useful in clarifying NCPB responsibilities and the Ministry's expectations.
However, the performance contract failed in that both parties to the contract failed to live up to their
mutual obligations. NCPB did not adhere to the agreements on disengaging from the maize market and the
Government did not adequately, and in a transparent manner finance NCPB to carry out activities on its
behalf. Also, NCPB's eventual role in the maize market was never clearly articulated in project design. It
was perhaps implied that the agency would only be responsible for managing the strategic reserve; it was
never fully made clear whether the agency would ever have a commercial role. In this context, a
performance based contract has recently been signed with a firm to assist in the commercialization of
NCPB's activities; under the new rules NCPB would also manage the strategic maize reserve on the
Government's behalf for a fee.
29.    The provision of audited project accounts has presented difficulty throughout the implementation
period and led to suspension of disbursement in 1995. Overall country non-compliance with audit
covenants has been the focus of discussions between the Ministry of Finance and IDA under the 1994
Country Portfolio Performance Review, mini CPPR review of March 1995 and the Government's
subsequent ongoing Action Plan.
30.    Budget constraints of MOALDM, imposed by Treasury, resulted in problems with the continuation
of consultancy services for developing system computerization, affecting the project's budgeting exercise,
as well as the monitoring and evaluation programs.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.   If the essential objective of an adjustment operation is to fundamentally change the approach of
Government involvement in the sector, with the focus being on gradual public sector disengagement, then
the ASAO II operation can probably be termed a success. The Government's philosophy in the sector is
now decidedly private sector oriented and the comrnitment to the liberalization process has deepened. This



9
is evidenced by reforms being undertaken in others subsectors such as dairy, tea, and coffee and in
fundamental realignment of the role of agricultural cooperatives. ASAO II provided a framework for a
dialogue which extended beyond the stated objectives of the project, and thus did indirectly play a role in
improving the general policy environment as far as the sector is concemed. With regard to maize
marketing, the domestic market has been fully liberalized and private sector involvement is now substantial.
The short-term impact on smallholder farmers has been mixed with farmgate prices reflecting the size of
the harvest dictated by rainfall. However, farmers selling to private traders have unambiguously been able
to receive prompt payment which was not the case with respect to deliveries made to NCPB. Over the long-
term, as smallholders gain increasing confidence in the market to supply their domestic maize requirements
they will likely substitute higher income eaming crops for maize. This shift in production pattems (some
evidence of this happening has been documented in the high population density Kakamega district12 ) will
have important positive implications for smallholder farmer incomes.
32.    For fertilizers, the major objective was to promote its use by the smallholder farmers in a
liberalized market environment. The Government, in effect, entirely liberalized the fertilizer markets during
1991, and the private sector is now fully responsible for importation, packaging and marketing of
fertilizers. At present, the only administrative requirement is to register imports with the authorities both for
statistical purposes and to assure minimum quantities of imported lots so as to benefit from economies in
transport costs.
33.    The market for fertilizers has thus been opened up to the private sector and fertilizer is generally
available, even in smaller packed quantities (10 kg and 25 kg bags) in most of the agricultural production
centers. A recent study'3 has suggested that the objectives of fertilizer market liberalization have been
largely achieved. At the same time, MOALDM was, and remains responsible for action to (i) promote and
monitor the safe use of fertilizers; (ii) develop private and co-operative dealers' marketing skills; (iii)
improve soil testing facilities; and (vi) develop quality standards for fertilizers. The Ministry was
successful in organizing, at the district level, regular meetings between the extension service,
traders/stockists and farmers to disseminate information on fertilizers .14 Some training in fertilizer use has
taken place, both for extension staff and private traders.
34.    The outcome of the other components of the ASAO H operation is discussed below:
(i)    The Public Expenditure Management component has supported reform of financial
management, including budget allocation, expenditure control and cost center budgeting through
12 Monitoring Farmer' Responses to Market Reform in Kakamega by Joseph 0. Owour: Paper prepared for
a conference on "Fine Tuning Market Reforms For Improved Agricultural Performance" - September 25,
1996.
13 The Evolution of Fertilizer Marketing in Kenya by Gem Argwings-Kodhek; prepared for a conference
on "Fine Tuning Market Reforms For Improved Agricultural Performance" - September 25, 1996.
14 This included formation of a National Fertilizer Development Committee and District Fertilizer
Committees (DFC) both with private sector representation. The DFC appear to have been active at the
start of ASAO II but now rarely meet and may have accomplished their purpose.



10
improvements to the budgeting system (notably computerization) and an extensive program of
training. The services have been provided by technical assistance from the Harvard Institute for
Intemational Development (HHID) as well as by local consultants. A whole range of systems has
been introduced, but only partly adopted for lack of adequate numbers of trained staff. The local
consultants were retained in order to provide technical back-up, continuity and training capacity to
allow an adequate build up in numbers of staff to run the system.
(ii)   The Performance Reporting System component to provide for monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) has been largely implemented though its benefits are not yet apparent. Its eventual utility
will depend on the success of merging the two systems into one which can be used by the Ministry
as a whole. It appears that capacity exists both at ministry headquarters and in the districts to
operationalize the system and this is to be supported under ASMP II.
(iii)   The project's program of training has been generally satisfactorily completed. Continued
local training is required for staff in both budget management and Monitoring and Evaluation In-
house training courses for staff to improve their policy analysis capability have been started. It is
intended to continue these courses under ASMP II.
(iv)   Arrangements to set up a Management Information System (MIS) for fertilizers have been
completed and the system is operational. However, recommendations on establishment of a
regulatory framework by MOALDM for fertilizer quality control have not yet been finalized.
(v)    ASAO II financed useful studies on the impact of the policy changes on vulnerable groups.
It is proposed to carry out a follow-up survey to again examine the effect of policy changes on
vulnerable groups as part of the National Welfare Monitoring Survey undertaken by the Central
Bureau of Statistics (CBS). The project also financed the development of a Food Security Action
Plan and a Drought Contingency Action Plan, which remain relevant to development of appropriate
strategies in both areas. The latter plan was in fact useful in the formulation of the IDA financed
Arid Lands Resource Management Project (Credit 2797-KE) which became effective on July 12,
1996. Studies and training proposed in land policy and administration have not so far been
implemented.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
35.   Following up with the ASAO II project, GOK and IDA have continued discussions on
liberalization in the context of the dialogue on overall policy and economic issues. Regarding technical
assistance and studies aimed at the realization of the institutional development objectives, ASMP II is
continuing assistance provided under ASAO IH after June 1996.
L KEY LESSONS LEARNED
36.   Key lessons leamed from project implementation are as follows:



11
(i)    The sustained impact of policy and institutional changes which are supported by
adjustment operations and capacity building programs may only become apparent in the longer
term and should be assessed in that time frame.
(ii)    Normal investment components should not be packaged with adjustment operations. They
tend to detract from the main focus of the adjustment operation and in the event of a cancellation of
a policy based tranche, are left vulnerable to the overall lack of commitment to the
project/program. If such components are necessary then it would be better to finance such
components through a parallel but separate investment operation.
(iii)   A monopoly public sector agency's future role in a liberalized environment should be fully
explored before the liberalization process embarks on assisting that agency to adjust to the
liberalized environment.
(iv)   Performance contracts between Governments and public sector agencies may be useful
tools to clarify mutual obligations, but unless the Government (a) is willing to carry out its
obligations and (b) sanctions the public sector agency for not carrying out its obligations, the
contract will not have a positive impact in modifying the operating behavior of the targeted agency.
(v)    When the Government disengages from controlling the purchase and distribution of
commodities such as fertilizer, it does not mean that it abrogates its regulatory oversight role. In
the fertilizer sector the Government should introduce strong quality control regulations in parallel
to liberalizing the trade.
(vi)   The design of technical assistance packages should not be complex and ambiguous: The
letter of invitation packages should clearly set out the scope of work expected by the bidding firm.
Also, Government institutional strengthening through technical assistance has to be a sustained
undertaking, which therefore needs to be scheduled for the long term, generally exceeding the
duration of a project or adjustment operation. Fortunately, for this operation, the availability of
funding under the ASMP II, and the future Sector Investment Project, will continue to support
local capacity building for institutional strengthening.
(vii)  Inclusion of covenants must receive more up-front thought during project design and
negotiations to ensure that covenants relate to critical policy and institutional change issues and
implementation actions. Supervision and project implementation of ASAO II would have been
helped by better focusing of the large number of covenants included in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA).



12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLES
1.    Summary of Assessment
2.    Related Bank Loans/Credit
3.    Project Timetable
4.    Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5.    Credit Indicators for Project Operations
6.    Key Indicators for Project Operations
7.    Studies Included in the Project
8A.  Project Costs
8B.  Project Financing
9.    Economic Costs and Benefits
10.   Status of Legal Covenants
11.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12.   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
13.   Bank Resources: Missions



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives        Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
el)          Cl)         Cl)           Cl)
Macro policies                      7           N   I
Sector policies                    E             7           F              O
Financial objectives                I- FT]
Institutional development                       E]
Physical objectives                                                        FT ]
Poverty reduction                               FTl
Gender issues                      El           E            E 
Other social objectives                                       T ] E        E
Environmental objectives            E            E           E             E
Public sector management                         El 0                      El
Private sector development                         l          El          E
Other (specify)                     E            E            E           [
B. Project sustainabilitv            Likely       Unlikelv   Uncertain
(-)          C           (')
El   El   E
Hiehly
C. Bank Performance                satisfactory  Satisfactorv  Deficient
Identification                               El            EL
Preparation assistance           El           E            E
Appraisal                        E            El           El
Supervision                      E           El            E



14
Hibhly
D. Borrower performance            satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
v()        (V)
Preparation                    L       J 4W
Implementation                  O          EC1           0
Covenant compliance            F            7           EC
Operation (if applicable)      E      
Highly                                   HigJly
E. Assessment of outcome        satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(4)         (4)             4              i
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
I Lam/credit tile          Purpose              Year uf approval            Status         1J
Preceding operations
1.Cr.1717-KE.           Support for Policy and           1986                Completed 1988
Institutional Change in
the Agricultural Sector
2. Cr. 2797 - KB        Improve Arid Lands               1996                   Ongoing
Resource Management
Project
Following operations
1. Cr. 2445-KE          Support for Institutional        1992                   Ongoing
Change and Capacity
Building
2. Cr. 2884-KE          Structural Adjustment            1996                   Ongoing
Credit



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                            T Ite planned  Date actu  1
L.  -  -- - -  .-...tt j          t ertimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)         Draft 10/17/89              12/10/89
Preparation                                                                       1989
Appraisal (begin)                                         5/3/90                  9/90
Negotiations                                             10/1/90                 11/90
Letter of development policy                               11/90                  11/90
Board presentation                                      12/18/90                1/17/91
Signing                                                     1/91                2/21/91
Effectiveness                                               3/91                5/21/91
First tranche release                                       2/91                  5/91
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second tranche release                                      3/92                     -
Project completion                                      12/31/95                6/30/96
Credit closing                                       not specified              6/30/96
C Canceled December 22, 1992 due to non-fulfillment of all conditions for tranche release.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
. Bank/lDA                                 FYIJI       FY92    FY93       FY94   FY95   FY96    FY417
Appraisal estimate                        34.0       70.0      72.5      75.0             -
Formally Revised                          17.2       31.4      31.7      35.5    39.5    41.5
Actual 4'                                 17.2       31.4      31.7      32.4    33.1    33.8    34.1
Actualas%of appraisalestimate             505.6      44.8      43.7      43.2    44.1    45.1     45.5
Actual as % of formally revised           100.0      100.0    100.0    91.2    83.8    81.4    82.2
Date of final disbursement: December 6, 1996
W The second tranche of SDR 23.3 million (US$33.5 million) was canceled in December 1992.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
The President's Report listed no performance indicators for implementation, beyond indicating that the component
of the credit allocated for imports would be released in two tranches, the first upon credit effectiveness, expected in March



16
1991 and actually achieved in May 1991, and the second tranche released 12 months after the first (Table 3). Release of the
credit was subject to compliance with covenants listed in Table 10.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
As of February 1995
_     _._.~_______   __________                                         ___                   '
!j                       CwponeounL'ask                            Cempkdon        Compledon
Date          | Date
Maize           Maize producer prices to be reviewed and re-adjusted using the new  2/91          1/94
(a)            methodology
(b)             Maize movement controls to be relaxed further to permit transportation of   2/91  Decernber 1993
up to 8 tons (90 bags) of maize without a permit; a date during 1992 for
removing all controls on domestic maize movement to be agreed with
IDA; NCPB's guaranteed share of the secondary (sifted millers) demand
for maize to be reduced to 60 %, beans to be rescheduled.
(c)             The Performance Contract, acceptable to IDA to be financed for the years   11/92  Non
1992/93 to 1994/95 and signed for 1992/93 _                                      Compliance 1/
Fertilizer      Selected institutional mechanism to lower the costs of fertilizer imports  11/91  N/A 2/
(a)             and a timetable to make it operational to be agreed with IDA
(b)             The policy paper on donor "in-kind" fertilizer aid to be finalized, and an  11/91  7/93
exchange of views to take place with IDA on proposed measures.
(c)             Action plans for soil testing, fertilizer promotion, and training to be  11/91    1/92
finalized for all Districts following review by the Fertilizer Development
________Committee (FDC)
Public          A project Performance Reporting System and a Project Review Committee  11/91      (a) 4/95
Expenditures    in MOA and MOLD to be established (b) the MOA and MOLD core                       (b) 7/96
(a)             investment program in the 1992/93 Annual Budget to be fully financed and
l_____________  included in the estimates in the 1992/93-1994/95 Forward Budget
(b)             Staffing norms to be finalized, and implementation to be commenced on  11/91      during 1997
staaffing and non-salary operating expenditure norms in key activities, with     31
consequential adjustments to the intake of trainmg institutions.
(c)             Implementation of an action plan to increase collection of user charges  11191    during 1995 3/
would be commenced
(d)             Performance of the improved budget and payment system would be    11/91           9/95
evaluated, and views exchanged with IDA on the findings
Assistance to    (a) Implementation of action plans to be commenced for: drought  11/91           (a) late 1995 4/
Vulnerable      contingency, food/nutrition, (b) addressing possible adverse impacts of           (b) variously
Groups            am marketing reforms, and household momtonng.                                   undertaken
Capacity        Recruitment of Technical Assistance Personnel                     6/91            3/94
building in
Agriculture
1/       PC was signed without IDA concurrence
2/        Given current situation, not applicable
3/       Implementation under ASMP 11 project
4/       Implementation under ALRMP



17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study              appraisal/redefined         Status             Impact of study
1. Ministry of         To establish a staffing       completed       The study is being used in
Agriculture Staffing   structure and determine                       defining the 'new'
Norms                  staffing inconsistencies                      structure of the combined
Ministries of Agriculture,
Livestock Development
and Marketing supported
under ASMP II.
2. Ministry of Livestock  To establish a staffing     completed      The study is being used in
Development Staffing    structure and determine                      defining the 'new'
Norms                  staffing inconsistencies                      structure of the combined
Ministries of Agriculture,
Livestock Development
and Marketing supported
under ASMP 11.
3. Impact of reforms on   To formulate an action plan  completed     The initial survey found
the vulnerable groups    to address any adverse                      that the impact was
effect on vulnerable groups                  positive. This was
as a result of the market                    expected to be followed up
reforms.                                     by a systematic monitoring
of impact which has not
yet been done.
4. Fertilizer Quality  Not defined at appraisal.      completed      Government is considering
Control in Kenya       Was included as it became                     the recommendations of
apparent that this was                       the study.
necessary as the market
was liberalized.



18
Table 8A: Project Costs Al
Appraisal est;niate  (USSM)   Aualatest ea3mal (USSM) |
Local    Foreign     Total   Local   Foreign
Costs     Costs              Costs     Costs    Total
1. Fertilizer                               -         24.95    24.95     -         16.68   16.68
- Pesticides; chemicals and seeds           -         10.00    10.00     -          5.72    5.72
2. Agricultural machinery,                  -         20.00    20.00     -          4.28    4.28
equipment and spare parts
3. Veterinary Supplies                      -          2.00     2.00     -          0.09    0.09
4. Petroleum products                       -         10.00    10.00     -          4.09    4.09
5. Consultants' services                  0.60         1.20     1.80   0.53         1.06    1.59
6. Training                               1.10         3.30     4.40   0.16         0.49    0.65
7. Vehicles and equipment                 0.42         1.26     1.68   0.14         0.44    0.58
8. Incremental-non-salary operating  costs    0.17        -     0.17   0.08            -    0.08
Total        -        .      .. .......   ..  . _    2.29  72.l.  75.00   0.91     32.85  33.76w
a/ Appraisal Estimates derived from the DCA and Actual/Latest Estimate from the WB Loan Disbursement
System report on Cr.2204-KE of August 25, 1996. Fee % for consultant services assumed to be 66%, and for
training and vehicles and equipment 75%.
bI The balance of Special Account Fund A has been fully recovered. Special Account Fund B has a balance of
US$147,204, which is in the process of being recovered. The undisbursed credit balance is US$5.02
million.



19
Table 8B: Project Financing
~~~~~~.      . . . ..    .   '. . .._..
___________________      Appraisl estiate (LSSM)            ActuWA1les  tia  (SM
Loral      Foreign       Total       Local      Foreign      Total
Source                              costs       costs                    costs       costs
IDA                               2.29       72.71         75.00       0.66        32.25       32.91
Co- or Parallel Financiers
Netherlands Government            -          -             -           -           -           8.77 b/
AfDB                              -          -             -           -           -           33909
USAID                             -          -             -           -           -           70.10d/
EU                                -          -             -           -           -           3.66 e
KfW                                                                                            7 -  -  -7
GTZ                               -                                                -           1.77e
Sub-Total                                             I- 100.00"               -            -  126.18
TOTAL                           I-                     -  175.00                      _     -  159.09
President's Report estimate of finance likely to be provided by other donors.
-i     Netherlands Government Grant of NLG15 million transferred to IDA on 5 December 1991 and administered by IDA. A
second grant might have been made if the progress of ASAO II had been more satisfactory.
As reported by AfDB on 31 January 1996, 14.12 million Units of Account (UA), or using the 1992 average conversion rate
of I UA = USS1.375, about US$19.41 million were disbursed up to and including 1992, leaving an undisbursed balance of
13.04 million UA, which assuming a conversion rate of I UA = US$1.450 is equivalent to US$13.04 million.
d1     USAID financed two projects whose objectives partially overlapped those of ASAO n. These were the Kenya Market
Development Program (KMDP) and the Fertilizer Pricing and Marketing Reform Program (FPMRP). KMDP was a five
year program starting in 1990 and consisted of US$40 million in Title m Food Assistance, US$10 million in Non-Project
Assistance (NPA) and USS5 million in Project Assistance. In late 1995 USS20 million of the Food Assistance had been
disbursed and US$2 million of the NPA. Project Assistance expenditure is estimated at US$2 million, making a total
disbursement for KMDP of US$24 million. The FPMIRP was a five year program starting in 1989 and total USAID
financing was US$46.1 million.
EU financed the Cereals Sector Reform Program (CSRP) starting in April 1988. Over the period 1988-1990 this disbursed
ECU35.92 million (US$40.48 million). Over the period 1991-1995 CSRP disbursements were ECU2.95 million (USS3.66
million).
f/     In 1991 KfW allocated DM29.0 million (US$17.48 million). Upon cancellation of the second tranche of the IDA credit
KfW suspended DM16.5 million (US$10.6 million). Total disbursements to Novemaber 1995 are therefore DM12.18 million
(US$7.98 million) and the undisbursed balance DM 16.82 million (US$ 1 1.88 million).
'      For the GTZ supported Fertilizer Extension Project (FEP). Disbursements as reported by GTZ on 1 March 1996 were
DM1.043 million (US$0.637 million) in FY 1994, DM0.842 million (USS0.55 rnillion) in FY 1995 and are estimated at
DM0. 831 million (US$0.579 million) in FY 1996.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The President's Report made no estimate of economic costs and benefits of the operation. In view of the
sectoral nature of the operation and the much larger contributions made by the private sector, Government and
other donors, it would be extremely difficult to identify economic costs and benefits attributable to ASAO 11 and
the accuracy of any result would be highly questionable.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
KENYA
Second Agricultural Sector Adiustnent Operation (ASAO 11)
(Credit 2204KE)
DCA        Covenant type     Present       Original        Revised                  Description of covenant                             Comnments
Section                       status      fulfilment date  fufilment date
2.02 (a)                       CD             3/91            5/91       The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,   Two special accounts were opened-
open and mamtain in dollars two special deposit
accounts (Special Account A and Special Account B)
in the Central Bank of Kenya on terms an conditions
satisfactory to this Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement
CD                                       The Borrower and the Association shall from time to    The exchange of views was partially suspended
3.01 (a)                                                                time at the request of either party exchange views on    when GOK reintroduced movement controls on
the progress achieved m carrying out the programme    maize m late 1992.
and the actions specified m Schedule 3 release of the
Second Tranche ofthe credit and were as follows).
Schedule 3
I                                                                     Maize
(a)                          CD             2/92            12/93     The Borfowerhas:
carried out inprovements ofthe maize pricing system
taking into account parity prmciples, stock levels and
anticipated production and impact on the Borrower's
budget and has adjusted maize producer prices m
accordance with such imnprovements;
(b)                          CD             11/91          11/93      published regulations, satisfactory to the Association    After some initial relaxation, the maize
permitting the transportation of up to 8 tons of maize    movements controls were re-inposed in
without a permit;                               November 1992 with consequent cancellation of
the Second Tranche of the credit   
(c)                          CD             11/91          11/93      established a date durig 1992 satisfactory to the



21
DCA        Covenant type    Present        Original        Revised                  Description of covenamt                             Comments
Section                       status     fulfilment date  fulfilment date
Association for the removal of all controls on the
movement of maize within the country;
(d)                          CD             11/91          11/93      takenstepstoreduceNCPB'sshareto600/oof the
sited maize miller's intake of maize;
(e)                          CP             11/92                     entered into a Performance Contract, satisfactory to  The Perfonnance Contract betwen GOK and
the Association, with NCPB to regulate NCPB's   NCPB was signed, but without IDA concurrmce.
activities for 1992/93-1994/95. The Performance
Contract shall include, inter alia the following
elements the Borrower's policy statement on maize,
NCPB's revised role and responsibilities, reserve
stock target levels and guidelines for the management
thereof decision rules for market stabiisation, the
Bonower's budgetary allocations to compensate
NCPB ftly for losses incurred on food security and
market stabilisation operations, and monitorable
performance targets for NCPB; and removed beans
from NCPB's Scheduled List
(1)                          CD            11/91            6/92
Schedule 3                                                                Fetilisers
2
The Borrover has:
(a)                          CD             11/91           7/93      finalised the policy paper to reduce distortions created
by in-kind donor-sppLied fetiliser and has exchanged
views with the Association on the proposed measures;
(b)                          Not            11/91            -         completed the study on mechanisms to lower the cost
applicable                                  of fertiliser imports in the private sector and has
e 3exchanged view with the AssociatAon on tbe proposed
measuresb
(c)                          CD             11/91           1/92      finalised action plans, satisfactory to the Association
for soil testing, tramnig of offices anal fertiliser
promotion for all major fertiliser consummg districts
in the country._
Schedule 3
3                                                                     Public EV!!!ditures



22
DCA        Covenant type    Present        Original       Revised                  Description of covenant                            Comments
Section                       status     fulfilment date  fulfihnent date
The Borrower: has:
(a)                          CD            11/91           4/95      funished to the Association a lst ofprojects for MOA
and MOLD, satisfactory to the Association, for
inclusion into the Borrower's core investment
programnne;
(b)                          CD            11/91           7/96       funished to the Association, evidence satisfactory to    Progress was severely constrained by GOK
the Association showing that the list of projects in the   budget difficulties in 1992 and 1993.
core investmnent programme rderred to in (a) above
has been included in the Borrower's Annual Estimates
for 1992/93 and Fonrwd Budget for 1992/93-1994/95.
(c)                        SOON            11/91            -         comnpleted a review of staffing norms and adopted and   Proposals developed wider ASAO 11 are likely to
started to implement an action plan, satisfactory to the   be implemented wider the Second Agricultural
Association on (i) achieving tevised staffing levels in    Sector Management Project (ASMP I).
MOA and MOLD, (ii) raising the ration ofnon-salary
to salary operatmg expenditures m key agricultural
activities, and (iii) regulating student enrolment in
MOA and MOLD trainmg institutions;l
(d)                         SOON           11/91           9//96      evaluated performance of improved budget and   As part of the preparation of the proposed
payment system as it relates to MOA and MOLD and   Agricukural Sector Investment Program
exchang view with the Association; and
(e)                        SOON            11/91                      adopted and implemented an action plan for improving  To be implemented under ASMP 11.
the collection of user charges from farmers.
Schedule 3                                                               Vulnerable Groups
4
(a)                         SOON           11/91            -         The Borrower has finalised and started to implement   To be iruplemeited under the And Land
action plans, satisfactory to the Association, on (a)  Resources Management Project (ALRMP)..
(b)                         SOON           11/91             -        drought contigency measures, (b) food/nutrition, (c)
possible negative impacts of the present grain
(c)                        SOON            11/91            -         marketing system, and (d) household welfare
monitoring survey.
(d)                         SOON           11/91
3.03                          CP                                      The Bofrower shall strnghen the capabilities of (a)    Generally proceeded much slower than originally
MOA, MOLD, MSM, MOF, MLHPP, CBS and            anticipated, Many of the staff tramed have been
NCPB in the areas of data collection and policy  transferred to other departments or ministries.
analysis through the provision of technical assistance,  Separate, but identical, contracts were let for
shoit term training courses, advanced local and  M&E development by MOA an MOLD and the



23
DCA        Covean type       Presat        Original        Revised                  Descripton of covaimt                               Comments
Section                       stats       fiulfilmnat date  fiffilment date
ovrsas tamin, veuicbs and equipmnt; (b) the     system desiged for MOLD is now being
Project Pefomance Rorting System of 1he Project   modified to make it suitable for agcitural
Development and Monitoring Division of MOA, PMU   projects.
m MOLD and ovefal budget and financial
mnagemaet pracices m MOA and MOLD throu&i    On fatilishs, MOA has managed liltle on quality
the provision of tewmnical assistance, training, vehicles  control and soil testing suppost is below
and equipmaet; and (c) MOA to promote and monitor  requirennts. Recnitmet of suitable cdlants
safe ferbliser use, develop the private and co-operative  for policy analysis strgthag was a major
dealers, fatilisor markmting skills, improve soil testig   difficulty and all acvtes suffaied from GOK
flcilities and quality sandards offatilisms hrou&  budgot constraints in 1992 and 1993. As dtafted,
provision oftechnial assistance, local and overses  the covaant was unwieldy and proved inetive
traimni  vehicls and equipmait To that end the  and difficult to monitor.
Borrower shaU employ consmltants whose
qualifications, expaince, and terms and conditions of
empboymeit shaUl be satisfictory to the AssociationL
3.04 (a)                        C                                        The Bonwoa shaU maintam or cause the Central
Bk of Kenya to maintain records and accounts
adequae to relect im acconce with csisttly
maintaied sound acoounting practies, the
epaditures financed out of the poceeds of the credit
3.04 (b)                      SOON                                       The Bonower shall:                              Provision of audit  accouts was consistently a
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para.    problem for the ASAO IL GenaaUly, the
(a) of this Section, including those for the Special  problem seemed to be due to a delay m
Accouaits for each fiscal year audited, in accordance    submtting accounts for audit - tating more than
with apprepriate auditing principles consistently  9 months after the year and wAien it was difficult
applied, by mdependent auditors acceptable to the  or impossible to find the necessary documentation
Association                                     and also the problem of District Accounants
(respnsible to the Treasury) rainig vouches
(ii) fiunish to the Association as soon as available, but wich could rot thafore be submitted with the
m any case not later than six mnaths after the and of    consolidated accouts As a result; audited
each such year, with respect to Categories (1) and (2)   accounts became tw  years in afears and the
and nime mths after the end of each such year with    credit was suspended for the whole of 1995 unt
respect to Categories (3) and (4) of the table in para . 1  the reorts we retceived The rets  for
of Schedule 1 to the DCA, a cedtied copy ofthe  FY94/95 are now overdue.
report of such dutail as the Assocation shall have
reasonably requeted; and



24
DCA        Covenant type     Present       Original        Revised                  Description of covenant                             Comments
Section                       status      fullfilment date  fulfilment date
(ii) finmsh to the Association sud other information
conceming said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to tine
reasonably request
3.04 (c)                        C                                       For all pendit    with respect to whiuc withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with pars. (a) of this Section, records and accounts
relectig such expenditures;
(ii) rtain, unit at kast one year aRter the Association
has received the audit repoft for the fiscal year m
which the last withdrawal from the credit Account was
made, all records (conrtacts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidecing such
mpenditus;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examme such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
im the annual audits i'ared to in para. (b) of this
Section and that the report of such audit contains a
separate opiion by said audiors as to whtdher the
statements of expeditue submitted during such fiscal
year, togeher with the procedures and internal
controls imvolved in their prepartin, can be relied
ipon to support the related withdrawals
4.01                                                                   Pursuant to Secimi 6.02 (k) ofthe General       As a result of GOK re-imposition on maize
Condtions, the following additional even is specified,   movement controls in November 1994, IDA
namely, that a situstion has arisen which shall make    cancelled the Second Tranche of the credit
it improbable that the Programme, or a significant part
thereof; will be carried out.
C = covenant complied with; CD = covenant complied with aRfer delay;



25
CP = complied with partially; NC = Not comphed with;
SOON = compliance expected shortly



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
: ¢  .   90 iE:i0-E  ..8#.  !........
1. OP 13.40 Suspension of Disbursements               Failure to comply with IDA conditions or auditing of
project accounts led to suspension of disbursement for all
of the 1995 calendar year.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
stage of'                   Panzid                   Revised                    Actual
projec cycle
Preparation to                   n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       n.a.                 227.5      430.1
appraisal
Appraisal                        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.                  54.5      105.3
Negotiationsthrough              n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       n.a.                    9.6      22.5
Board approval
Supervision                      n. a.        n. a.       n. a.       n. a.               138.6'   284.6"
Completion                       na           n.a.        n.a          n.a.                12.02'    46.8w'
TOTAL                           n..na                      am.442.3                                 SB9S
L .     n .W.l.l.l...UWEU  I..W... I              .m...e                   .n I .. ..... .....
NOTE: n.a = Not available.
'  Includes 18.6 weeks (US$40,400) for Netherlands Trust Fund supervision.
b/ Estimate.



27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
rating k
proj,ectcycle    I          eor _r       fld       represoted    St&*$   objud   pre
Through appraisal d/
Appraisal through      6/90       5         na7 (18)  SC,A,E,F,M        -                   -
Board approval                                        .
Supervision 1          9/91       6                9   SC,E(2),F        2         2        F,M
(2),M
Supervision 2           10-       3                9    E(2),SC         -
11/91
Supervision 3          1/92       2                3       E(2)                             C
Supervision 4          10/92      1                5       DC           -         -         C
Supervision 3          5/92       4            na (8)   SC,E,F,M        2         2        F,M
Supervision 3          10/93      3           na (10)     E(2),F        2         2       F,M,C
Supervision 4          2/95       3            na (8)     E,F,P         S         S       C,F,M
Supervision 5          10/95      5            na (6)     E,F,P         U         S       C,F,M
Completion FAO/CP      10/95      2                1 3    AE,E                         .
L'   A = agriculturist                                 bI 1 = minor problems
AE = agricultural economist                            2 = moderate problems
E = economist                                          3 = major problems
F = financial specialist                               S = satisfactory
M = management specialist
P = procurement specialist                        9/   C = legal covenants
SC = Section Chief                                     F = financial
DC = Division Chief                                    M = management
d/   IDA assisted GOK in preparation of the project, through assistance with economic work providing as
the basis for the sector adjustment operation. This was provided by a number of visits by IDA Washington staff as
well as continuing assistance from the Resident Mission in Nairobi. As indicated in Table 12 above, this totaled
around 228 staff weeks.
e/   na = not available, figures in brackets are mission estimates.






KENYA: Second Agricultural Sector Adjusanent Operation (ASAO 11)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
1.         A mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programnme (FAO/CP) consisting
of Messrs. J. H. Weatherhogg, Agricultural Economist and Mission Leader, and F. M.
Stubenitsky, Economist Consultant, visited Kenya from 14-27 October to prepare the ICR on the
above project. The mission overlapped with the fmnal supervision mission, led by the World Bank
(WB) Task Manager, Mr. Gajan Pathmanathan.
2.         The mission had discussions with concerned staff of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock Development and Marketing (MOALDM) and the National Cereals and Produce Board
(NCPB), as well as with private sector millers, grain dealers, fertilizer suppliers and farmers. Two
short field visits were made to the Thika/Sagana area and to Nakuru. The mission is most grateful
for the assistance provided in arranging the programme of meetings and field visits.
3.         The Aide-Memoire is based on a draft prepared by the mission as a basis for
discussion at their final meeting. This finalised version incorporates the comments and suggestions
of the Government and of the WB.
MISSION'S FINDINGS
Project Design
4.         The project supported Government's policies for liberalization of maize and fertilizer
marketing and for strengthening and improving the efficiency of the agricultural ministries,
including improved manpower and staffing norms, prioritisation of projects and streamlining of
project activities, enhanced policy analysis and provision of assistance to vulnerable groups. The
choice of objectives was relevant to the Government's overall policies and strategy for development
and a natural follow-up from the rather broader range of reforms supported under ASAO I, as well
as the EU supported Cereals Sector Reform Programme (CSRP). However, with the benefit of
hindsight, the mission believes that a project of this kind should have included agreements on
putting in place adequate maize import/export control mechanisms, without which liberalization of
the domestic market could result in considerable, unwelcome price fluctuation.
5.         Also, the proposals as outlined in the President's Report appear to have underestimated
the difficulties of transferring responsibility for handling grain from the NCPB to private traders in
a "phased approach". Presentation of the particular covenants included in the project could also
have been improved. The number of covenants could have been reduced and the individual
covenants made more clear cut and easier to monitor.
1



KENYA: Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO 11)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
Implementation
6.         Credit effectiveness was three months later than planned due to a delay in meeting
conditions and the credit became effective in May 1991. Initial progress in implementation was
reasonably successful with reduction of NCPB operations in minor crops, some relaxation of maize
movement controls and dismantling of controls on fertilizer marketing.
7.         The programme for preparation of studies, increased training, reorganizing the
budgeting procedures of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and Ministry of Livestock
Development (MOLD) so as to concentrate on a smaller number of "core projects", as well as
progress in assisting vulnerable groups, all moved much more slowly than anticipated at project
appraisal.
8.         The steady progress towards attaining the project's liberalization objectives was
abruptly reversed when Government reimposed maize movement controls in November 1992. IDA
accordingly cancelled the second tranche of the Credit in December 1992. Since then only the
component for strengthening MOALDM has continued and even for this component disbursements
have been suspended since provision of audited project accounts is more than two years in arrears.
Project Costs
9.         As appraised, it was estimated that in addition to the US$75 million IDA credit, other
donors would contribute a further US$100 million to the project.  Discussions with some of the
donors indicate that the allocation of funds to the project may well have exceeded this amount.
With the exception of the Netherlands, which entered into an agreement with IDA to administer
their Development Grant, the other agencies, including USAID, EU, AfDB and KfW, provided
parallel financing. At the same time as IDA cancelled the second tranche of the credit, some of the
other donors, notably the EU, also cancelled their funding. Consequently, total disbursements by
IDA up to early October 1995 are around US$33.2 million, or about 44% of the estimated funding
at project appraisal. Of this, about half has been used for purchase of fertilizers and about 42% for
import of pesticides, chemicals, seeds, agricultural machinery, equipment, spare parts and
petroleum. About SDR 3.97 million, or 7.6%, of the original credit amount, with a present value
of about US$5.9 million, remains undisbursed. Actual disbursements by the other donors are
probably of the order of an additional US$60 million and will be further detailed in the ICR.
2



KENYA: Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO II)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
Project Performance
10.        Information on the project's achievements in studies financed and number of staff
trained is being compiled to MOALDM and will be presented in the ICR.
11.        Regarding both maize marketing and fertilizer supply liberalization, the present
situation exceeds the targets set at project commencement. Movement of maize within Kenya is
now without any restriction and NCPB's future operations are expected to be largely directed at
managing strategic reserves of maize, possibly combined with some support buying during periods
of low prices.
12.        Fertilizer importation and subsequent trading and supply of fertilizer to farmers are
entirely without restriction. However, use of fertilizers is still constrained by its high price relative
to maize, also, the programme of soil testing with a view to formulating specific recommendations,
has not been implemented.
13.        The project can, therefore, be considered broadly successful in attaining its objectives.
In the maize market liberalisation and reduction of NCPB's role, the ASAO II objectives were to:
(i)  discontinue NCPB operations in numerous loss-making minor crops; (ii) allow a phased
reduction in the proportion of maize that the larger (sifted flour) millers had to procure from NCPB
to around 60%; and (iii) dispense with maize movement controls. All three have been achieved -
NCPB has ceased trading in minor crops, millers can buy freely from farmers, dealers or NCPB
without restriction and maize movement controls have been completely abolished. However, much
still requires to be done before liberalization of the maize market can be considered satisfactory and
the full benefits are felt by producers, consumers and the country's economy. This would include
the development of a vigorous network of private grain dealers, merchants and millers, operation of
adequate storage owned by farmers, dealers, merchants and millers, as well as protecting the maize
market from low priced and untimely imports of maize. Government has recently announced
further maize policy reforms, including steps to divest/privatise NCPB, as part of an overall
operational plan to fully commercialise the maize sub-sector.
14.        Performance of the institution strengthening components has been slower than
anticipated in project design. The Public Expenditure Management component has supported
reform of MOALD financial management, including budget allocation, expenditure control and
cost centre budgeting through improvements to the budgeting system (notably computerisation) and
an extensive programme of training. The work has been supported by technical assistance from the
Harvard Institute for International Development (HIID) as well as local consultants. A whole range
of systems has been introduced but only partly adopted for lack of adequate numbers of trained
3



KENYA: Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO 11)
Appendix A: Mission s Aide-Memoire
staff. The local consultants have been retained in order to provide technical back-up, continuity
and training capacity to allow an adequate build up in numbers of staff competent to run the
system. Adequate funding to extend the contracts of the local consultants is not assured without the
project's assistance (and with disbursements suspended) and this could reduce the chances of the
project's sustainability. Recommendations of studies financed by ASAO II to examine staffing
levels and prioritisation of projects in MOALDM are expected to be useful in the further
restructuring of MOALDM, which is being implemented under the Second Agricultural Sector
Management Project (ASMP II).
15.        The Performance Reporting System  component to provide for monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) was financed by the project for the then existing Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
and Ministry of Livestock Development (MOLD) through two separate contracts. Both consultants
had virtually identical terms of reference but followed different approaches. Now that each former
ministry has become a department within MOALDM, work has been undertaken to merge the two
systems and make them fully operational. However, it now appears that MOALDM will
standardise on the system originally developed for M&E of livestock projects and additional
consultancy input is being used for this purpose. At present, the M&E system for livestock projects
has been tried in three districts. Further implementation is delayed since operating a system for
M&E for both agriculture and livestock projects will require increased computer memory, an
extension of the local consultant contract for adapting the system to cover agriculture projects, and
increased local training of staff to operate the system. Difficulties have also been experienced in
vehicles intended for M&E purposes being diverted for use by the agricultural extension service.
Additional support is likely to be required after end-December 1995 to finance further training and
evaluation of the system and for provision of additional computer equipment. As with the earlier
component, the lack of assured financing for these activities required to make the component fully
operational could seriously reduce the chances of the component's sustainabilty.
16.        The programme of training, financed by the project, has been generally satisfactorily
completed. As already mentioned, local training is required for staff in both budget management
and M&E. Also, some training programmes for fertiliser dealers and traders have yet to be
conducted.  Initial training courses for staff to improve their policy analysis capability have been
started, but as yet no proposals have been formulated for continuation of this activity after closure
of the credit.
17.        Arrangements to set up a management information system (MIS) for fertilisers have
been completed and the system is operational. However, recommendations on establishment of a
regulatory framework by MOALDM for fertiliser quality control have not yet been finalised.
4



KENYA: Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO 11)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
18.        ASAO II financed useful studies on the impact of the policy changes on vulnerable
groups. It is proposed to carry out a follow-up survey to again examine the effect of policy
changes on vulnerable groups as part of the National Welfare Monitoring Survey undertaken by the
Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS). The project also financed the development of a Food Security
Action Plan and a Drought Contingency Action Plan, which remain relevant to development of
appropriate strategies in both areas. Studies and training proposed in land policy and administration
have not so far been implemented.
19.        The performance of the Borrower, Government of Kenya (GOK) has to be judged
bearing in mind the highly sensitive political nature of the maize market, the difficulties of moving
from a public sector monopoly to a free market situation, the pressure exerted by individuals and
sections of the population and the destabilizing effect of sharp fluctuations in production as a result
of changing weather conditions. Ultimately GOK did have the political strength of will to carry
through its policy of liberalization.  However, the reintroduction of controls in late 1992,
undoubtedly had a negative effect in undermining the confidence of private sector maize dealers and
millers that GOK was serious in its liberalization policy" . Similarly, the poorly coordinated and
uncontrolled imports of maize in 1994 depressed domestic prices and damaged farmers' confidence
in maize as a profitable crop. The subsequent entry of NCPB into the market, buying at well above
the market price, but with inadequate finance to redeem its pledges for the 1994 season crop,
created further difficulties. The institution of an NCPB Performance Contract with the Ministry
was supported by the project and appears to have been useful in clarifying NCPB responsibilities
and the Ministry's expectations. Direct Government instructions to NCPB by-passed the contract
and provisions for adequate financing for NCPB were also not observed. Provision of audited
project accounts has presented difficulty throughout the project and has led to suspension of
disbursement.
It also led to cancellation of the second tranche of the IDA credit as well as loss of substantial other
donor funding.
5



KCENYA: Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO 11)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
20.         IDA performance has been satisfactory in supporting GOK in carrying through its
policy for maize market liberalisation and in helping to obtain unified support for these policies
amongst the other donors. However, the project design omitted any reference to trade in cereals
and therefore lacked actions to control imports, without which the stability of the domestic market
cannot be assured. Also, the project design laid stress on the need for a "phased approach". In the
event, project progress was, perhaps inevitably, erratic as a result of the difficulty of the political
decisions involved and the fluctuations in production. IDA's main preoccupation and efforts
therefore seem to have become helping GOK to push through privatisation of maize marketing with
inadequate attention to the poorly developed trader and storage situation in the private sector. With
the benefit of hindsight, it might have been better to have sought to achieve the project's objectives
by further additional means. These could have included funding through the project to provide
inducements over a transitional period of, say three years, for both NCPB and the millers/dealers to
take over and operate part of the NCPB's storage capacity. Finally, the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) includes a large number of covenants, these could have been better focused with
a view to their subsequent easier monitoring.
Lessons Learned
21.         At this point in preparation of the ICR the main lessons learned appear to the mission
to be as follows:
(i)                     At the time of project design, all imports and exports of
cereals were banned and it is, therefore, understandable that no mention
was made regarding regulation of trade. However, the experience of
project implementation has shown the danger of not having satisfactory
means for regulation of imports in a situation where the domestic market
is being liberalised and changing from long established state operated
procurement to as yet not fully developed private sector dealers and
millers.   Future  projects with  similar aims of domestic  market
liberalisation need to also include introduction of adequate means to
regulate imports and exports.
6



KENYA: Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO 11)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
highly likely that this will become modified due to political pressure and
events outside the control of government. Emphasis appears required on
other aspects which may assist the change in policy as well as to the
policy change itself. At the time of the design of ASAO II, it was
expected that NCPB would continue to play a major role in maize
marketing. However, from the outset it was clear that the private sector
was going to take a much larger share in maize trading. From this it
followed that the private sector would operate more storage capacity and
NCPB need less. The project could have helped this transition through
financial inducements for a limited period for both private traders/millers
and NCPB. The lesson learned for any similar future project is that in
addition to supporting government in undertaking such an adjustment
programme, during the design aspects which are likely to be particular,
critical, physical constraints should be identified and funding included to
remove them or to mitigate their effects.
Follow-Up
22.        The mission will prepare a draft ICR for submission to WB. The Planning Division of
MOALDM will also prepare an evaluation of the project from government's perspective.
Suggestions for the scope and content of this are set out briefly in Attachment 1.
Rome, 17 November 1995.
7



KENYA: Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO 11)
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
Attachment 1
Guidance on Government's Contribution to the ICR
Government's own final evaluation of the project implementation is an important part
of an ICR. It is attached, unedited, to the ICR sent to the WB Board. It can be selective in its
coverage and should address issues and lessons learned in project implementation from the
Borrower's perspective. Topics to be covered can be the same as in the ICR, namely project
design, appraisal, implementation and project results. At each stage of the project, the contribution
should comment on both IDA and the implementing agencies' performances, with the observations,
where possible, supported by evidence or reasoned argument.
For project design, the contribution could address such questions as the
appropriateness of the project's objectives, the policy changes and supporting actions and scope of
the investmnents proposed, aspects of design leading to easy (or difficult) implementation and the
effect on government institutions.
For project appraisal, comments should concentrate on any significant changes in the
objectives, size and scope of the project and whether these were appropriate.
Project implementation should be divided into an assessment of IDA performance in
supporting and supervising the project and the performance of the implementing agencies.
Project results include an assessment of the direct benefits (or disbenefits) arising
from the policy changes. The contribution could most usefully comment on the effect of the policy
changes from the Government's perspective. Such an analysis would be a most useful contribution
to the ICR.
Based on the foregoing sections the contribution should list the main lessonls learned
from the implementation experience and arising from the above analysis.
WB suggest that if the contribution is more than ten pages, it should include a
summary. The latter is recommnended for all but the shortest contributions .
The mission will be happy to provide any further elaboration or clarification required
to assist in preparation of the contribution.
8



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26150
S U D A N
To Kopoeto .
KENYA
t   , !t'L, XN,: ~~           ~           /, 
rikN \                                     To Addis Abab.                                             4.
RIfT                      ..                                                                                              /
-)    VALLEY                            EASTERN                                                 N  R                 K
z   /            , J                           |                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NnRTI i--
z
~~W   TERN KAKAMEGA ~~~~~~~~EASTERN                                                                           j
ToGi-a-on
NYA     ~            N
R                                   NAIROBI,$+ 
iA~~~V (EY 
LAMU{
0   MAJOR TOWNS
NATIONAL CAPITAL                     To A-h                                                                                   Oc
MAIN ROADSLID
~+  NATIONAL AIRPORTS
I~~    ~       ~~~~~  I                T.f /A-hO
* , INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                 50S    ZA5IREtiInet~>.
o         50    1MI 10 ,        20Nil-t-
The bound-res, colors, denominatons and any other infor-ation                                    T.TAZANIA
|~ ~ ~~~~1               h                                                           D., E,,) S,: .  Y...    AS
sho.n o  th,s  ap do  ot impy, on t e port of The World Bank
Group, any udgmen1 on the legal stat.s of any territory, or ny
e een o acceptance of sch bondarie,.
AUGUST 1994






i



IMAGING
Report No.:        16242
Type:    ICR



