Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CRe. 42 R -Yc
Repot No. P-5415-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT OF SDR 52.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
DECEMBER 14, 1990
This doem.mt hi a resticted distibution and may be used by recipens oly in the perfonce of
thefr ildal d dks Its contents may not otderwise be disclosed withut Wotrd Bak autrIadon.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATES a/
Currency Unit       -      Kenya Shilling (KSh)
and Pound (Xi)
RSh 20                     K KL 1.0
KSh  1.00                  US$ 0.0425
US$  1.00            =     KSh 23.5
US$  1.00           -      0.741 SDR (as of July 30, 1990)
a/   Since August 1985, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR 1 = Ksh 17.4. The rate vis-a-vis the US Dollar fluctuates. A
rate of USS 1 - Ksh 23.5 has been used in this Report.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEF       African Enterprise Fund
ADB       African Development Bank
APDF      African Project Development Facility
ASAL      Arid and Semi Arid Lands
ASAO      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
CBS       Central Bureau of Statistics
CLSMB     Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
EC        European Community
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FSAC      Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GOK       Government of Kenya
IMF       International Monetary Fund
ISAC      Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
KCC       Kenya Cooperative Creameries
KfW       German Aid Agency
KGGCU     Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative Union
KNFA      Kenya National Fertilizer Association
MADIA     Managing Agricultural Development In Africa
MEARDS    Monitoring & Evaluation of Agriculture & Rural Development
Strategies
MLHPP     Ministry of Lands, Housing and Physical Planning
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
MOP       Ministry of Finance
MOLD      Ministry of Livestock Development
MPND      Ministry of Planning and National Development
MSM       Ministry of Supplies and Marketing
NCPB      National Cereals and Produce Board
ODA       Overseas Development Administration (of the UK)
OECF      Japanese Aid Agency
OP        Office of the President
PC        Performance Contract
PDMD      Project Development and Monitoring Division (MOA)
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
PMS       Project Management System
PPRS      Project Performance Reporting System
SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan
SONY      South Nyanza Sugar Company
SMS       Subject Matter Specialist
SPA       Special Program of Assistance
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



KENYA                    FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND THE BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY .   1
A.    THE  ECONOMY  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Structure ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    1
Performance ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   2
B.  RECENT STABILIZATION AND ADJUSTMENT EFFORTS . . . . . . .   2
C.  DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND MEDIUM-TERM ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK .   3
D.  COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Economic and Sector Work. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Adjustment Lending: Experience and Prospects. . . . . . . 5
Investment Lending: Experience and Prospects. . . . . . . 7
Lending Program: Level and Composition. . . . . . . . . . 9
Sunmming Up ............... 10
F.  DONOR ACTIVITIES . ..........                   ...        11
PART II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  . . . . . . .  12
A. BACKGROUND   ..12
B.  THE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Origins and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Experience With The First Adjustment Operation  . . . .  14
Goals And Strategies In The Second Operation  . . . . .  15
Sector Reform Themes and Actions Under ASAO II  . . . .  16
Deepening Reforms        ... .16
New Initiatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Maize    ....17
Background  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .     17
Achievements Prior To ASAO II . . . . . . . . . .  18
Further Steps Under ASAO II . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Fertilizers             ....21
Background          ....21
Achievements Prior To ASAO II . . . . . . . . . .  22
Further Steps Under ASAO II . . . . . . . . . . .  22
This President's Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
commenced in June, 1990, comprising Messrs. F. Abmed (Task Manager), G.
Donovaa., K. Anson, 0. Saadat, and A. Sodhi. The report was reviewed S
M^-rs. J. Shivakumar (Chief, AF2AG), S. Lateef (Lead Economist, A'2),
and C. Madavo (Director, AF2).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Public Expenditures In Agriculture  . . . . . .. . . .  24
Background  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  24
Achievements Prior To ASAO II . . . . . . . . . .  24
Further Steps Under ASAO II . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Steps Toward Assisting Vulnerable Groups  . . . . . . .  25
Background    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
Achievements Prior To ASAO II . . . . . . . . . .  27
Further Steps Under ASAO II . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Capacity Building in Agriculture  . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Further Steps Under ASAO II . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Letter of Sectoral Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Ownership and Commitment  . . . . . . . . .  .  .  ... .  30
PART III.  THE PROPOSED CREDIT   ................ . .  30
A.  BACKGROUJND   ..                  . .        .     *...... . 30
B.  RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT . .. . . . . . . . . . .  .  31
C. USE OF THE PROCEEDS . .                                      31
Procurement         ..32
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
D.  MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . .  33
E. BENEFITS AND COSTS.                                          34
Environmental Impact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
F. RISKS.. .    . .   36
PART IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND CREDIT CONDITIONS . . . . . . .  37
PART V.   RECOMMENDATION ....  .  .    .   ........ .  .  .  .  .  .   .  38
ANNEXES
I     Letter of Sectoral Policy & Matrix of Policy Actions
II    Supplementary Data Sheet
III   Performance Contract Between NCPB and the Treasury
IV   Kenya - Indicators for the Agricultural Sector
V     Kenya - Macro-Indicators, Balance of Payments and External
Financing Requirements
VI    Kenya - Outstanding Bank Group Loans and Credits
VII   Supervision Plan and Implementation Schedule
VIII Capacity-Building Component
IX    Documents in the Project File



KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
CREDIT SUNNARY
Borrowert         The Republic of Kenya
Amount:           IDA Credit: SDR 52.2 million (US$75 mil. equivalent)
Beneficiariess    Smallholder agricultural producers, marketing agents
and traders of agricultural inputs and outputs;
selected agricultural Ministries.
Termst            Standard for IDA, with 40 years maturity
Prolect and Program Objectivess The goals of the operation are to: (a)
accelerate agricultural growth through smallholders, while safeguarding
the environment; (b) contribute to fiscal stabilization; (c) improve
public sector resource use in agriculture; (d) begin to assist lower
income groups who are vulnerable to climatic and economic shocks; and
(e) improve agricultural sector institutional capacity including
capacity for environmental management. Strategies to achieve these
goals will: improve maize producer incentives, and increase market
competitiveness; rationalize maize stocks, compatible with market needs;
increase input supply, particularly fertilizer, and promote its
efficient use; improve efficiency and composition of public
expenditures; develop targeted measures to protect vulnerable groups;
and strengthen the institutional capacity in the agricultural sector to
improve policy planning, project preparation and implementation. The
operation aims at substantial advances in three policy areas (maize,
fertilizer, and public expenditure), representing a deepening of reforms
begun under the first operation, while beginning initiatives in two
other areas (steps toward assisting vulnerable groups, and building
capacity for policy analysis).
Proiect Description: The operation will support: (a) improving
incentives for smallholder maize producers through prompt payments to
farmers, and sustaining adequate producer prices through reduced
marketing margins; increasing the efficiency of maize marketing through
removal of maize movement controls and achieving a higher degree of
competitiveness; and reducing the budgetary burden of NCPB's operations
through consolidation of a new role for NCPB and reducing its operating
costs; (b) increasing fertilizer availability to small farmers, of the
right type, in a timely fashion, at lower cost, and promoting transfer
of more efficient and environmentally safe fertilizer use technology;
(c) improving the efficiency of public expenditures, through more
rigorous criteria (including environmental factors) for including
projects in the public investment program, a better balance between
salary and non-salary operating expenditures, and improved budgetary
operations; (d) promoting targeted programs to protect vulnerable lower-
income groups, based on the Government's completed Food Security Paper
and new initiatives to develop preparedness for droughts; (e)
strengthening finance and accounting functions within the Ministries of
Agriculture and Livestock Development, as well as inter-Ministerial
planning, and management capacity in selected Ministries which deal with



ii
major subsector issues, and undertake strategic studies which cut across
subsectors, or have macroeconomic and environmental implications.
Benefits and Costs: The operation supports the growth, employment and
stabilization objectives of the Government's reform program. In
particular, the operation contains policy measures which are essential
if the target 4.5Z per year growth rate for agriculture is to be
attained. Agricultural growth will be promoted through: increased use
of fertilizer, improved incentives for farmers arising from a more
competitive maize marketing system, increased returns to sectoral public
investment programs, and enhanced productivity of key agricultural
services, particularly extension, research and animal health. More
efficient NCPB operations, and containing personnel costs in the two
main sectoral ministries will contribute to reducing the fiscal deficit.
The proposed reforms will contribute to increased incomes of
a large number of smallholders and thus to reduction of poverty in rural
areas. In addition, the proposed food security action plan will address
problems of vulnerable population groups. The monitoring and evaluation
system will enable Government to identify possible adverse effects and
transitional costs of reform measures, and adopt targeted remedial
measures.
By providing incentives for intensifying production in
higher potential areas, the operation will relieve pressure on the less
productive, arid and semi-ar'd lands, which are more susceptible to
environmental damage from inappropriate cropping practices and
overgrazing with livestock.
Related benefits include strengthened capacity to plan,
implement, monitor and evaluate sectoral policies, programs and
projects. Improved budgetary procedures will lead to a more timely flow
of funds to priority sectoral investments and key services, thus
increasing returns from public resources. The proposed operation will
also lead to better coordinated donor support, enabling the Government
to focus efforts on key strategic areas.
The main costs which may occur as a result of the operation
are related to the reduction in the rate of growth of public sector and
parastatal employment, and possible reductions in real income for
particular groups in marginal areas, as subsidies implicit in NCPB's
operations are withdrawn. These costs will be reduced by efforts to
reduce the intake of training institutions whose output of students
traditionally is destined for the public sector in agriculture, new
employment opportunities in the private sector resulting from
liberalizing the grain trade, and measures recommended by the Employment
Commission which the Government has established to examine ways of
stimulating employment in the economy. As part of the conditionality of
the project, the Government has commenced a study of the grain market
reforms, with the aim of identifying any adverse impacts of these
reforms upon vulnerable groups, and taking measures necessary to
alleviate such impact.



iii
Riskst   The main risks are:  (a) fragmented and unsustained government
commitment and limited capacity to implement the reform program in a
timely manner; (b) opposition by vested interests to specific reform
measures; -nd (c) lack of the anticipated private sector response. To
reduce the risk of fragmentation, a Steering Committee chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance will coordinate actions
by several ministries, and oversee implementation of the reform program.
Furthermore, the Technical Review Committee which meets regularly to
monitor reforms in the cereals sector will continue its activities. In
addition, technical assistance and training provided under the Credit
will strengthen capacity in several key ministrieslagencies to formulate
and implement reform measures. It is anticipated that as markets for
cereals and agricultural inputs continue to be liberalized, there will
build up private sector pressure groups which will resist actively
attempts by the public sector to over-regulate them. Although the
reforms can take place only gradually, eventually sufficient momentum
will have been created to make it more difficult for them to be reversed
than for the reforms to proceed. The risks of 'ownershipw have been
addressed by a participatory preparation process. The operation seeks
to build a monitoring system, and a sharing of information, which will
make the market more transparent and well understood, together with a
framework for consultation between the private and public sectors which
should allow each side to air its concerns in a way which will head off
adverse reactions by either. It is anticipated that continued
development of the financial sector under the ongoing financial sector
adjustment program will assist with ensuring a private sector response
to policy changes.
Estimated Costs: The IDA operation will finance agricultural sector
imports costing US$67 million (including fertilizer, seeds, agricultural
chemicals, agricultural equipment and machinery, and fuel), and training
and technical assistance estimated to cost about US$8 million.
Financing Plan (US$ million): Agricultural        Capacity
Imports         Building         Total
IDA                                67                 8              75
The anticipated cofinanciers are the African Development Bank (ADB), the
Federal Republic of Germany (KfW), the United Kingdom (ODA), the
Netherlands, and Japan (OECF). Their funds will be mainly quick
disbursing, and will finance additional agricultural imports.
Estimated Annual Disbursements of IDA Funds (USS million):
FY91        FY92        FY93         FY94
34          36           2.5         2.5
Economic Rate of Return: Not calculated
Map: IBRD 21659



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A SECOND
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit to the Republic of Kenya to assist in the financing of the Second
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO II). The Development Credit
for SDR52.2 million (US$75 million equivalent) would be on standard terms,
with a maturity of 40 years. The Operation would be implemented by the
Ministries of Finance, Agriculture, Livestock Development, and Supplies and
Marketing; and the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB).
2.          The operation is part of IDA's continuing strategy to support
policy reform in Kenya through a series of sector adjustment credits. Quick
disbursing IDA assistance for sectors started with agriculture under the ASAO
in 1986, and was followed by adjustment operations in the industrial sector
(1987) and financial sector (1989). Further operations are under
consideration in export development (FY91), education and health. The reform
program is further supported by an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) of the IW  for a three year period, which became effective in February,
1988.  The policy base for IDA's and the Fund's interventions has been laid
out in a revised Policy Framework Paper (1990-1992), presented to the
Committee of the Whole of the Bank's Board on April 26, 1990.
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND THE BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. THE ECONOMY
Structure
3.          Kenya's per capita income of $373 in 1989 places it at the higher
end of the range for low income countries. The economy has recorded an
average growth in per capita income of about two percent per year since
Independence in 1963. Agriculture is an important sector of the economy, in
terms of share of output (30 percent), employment (70 percent) and foreign
exchange earnings (almost 60 percent of merchandise exports in 1989). Kenya's
manufacturing sector is among the largest in Sub-Saharan Africa, and accounts
for about 12 percent of output and 8 percent of employment. The sector is
dominated by long-established multinational and other firms producing mainly
for the domestic market. There is some evidence of disinvestment by these
firms during much of the 1980s, due mainly to unfavorable enterprise
regulations.  While manufacturing has contributed significantly to economic
growth, exports from the sector have fallen since 1980. The service sector
accounts for about one-half of total output, and has served as an important
source of employment in recent years. It includes tourism, which is now
Kenya's largest single foreign exchange earner. Wages for unskilled and
skilled workers are competitive with those found in developing countries that
have attracted foreign investors. In addition, Kenya possesses the basic
resources necessary to compete in the world marketplace--agricultural and
natural resources; and abundant, inexpensive and industrious workers whc have
been found to be easily trainable.



-2-
Performance
4.          Four phases can be distinguished in Kenya's economic performance
since Independence: (a) rapid growth (averaging 6.5 percent p.a.) and low
inflation (below 4 percent p.a.) in the first decade until 1973, resulting
mainly from increased agricultural output, manufactured import-substitution
and access to the East African Community markets; (b) slower growth and rising
inflation during 1973-80, due to adverse movements in the terms of trade and
the emergence of structural constraints in agriculture and manufacturing; (c)
serious macroeconomic imbalances and low growth during 1980-85, caused mainly
by the oil shock of 1979 and the erosion of fiscal discipline; and (d) a
revival of growth since 1986, that resulted initially from improved terms of
trade but has subsequently been sustained by a favorable response from
smallholder agriculture to improvements in incentives and by maintaining
public spending through increased reliance on foreign savings. A
stabilization package has been implemented since 1987 to set the economy on a
sustainable growth path. Despite significant fluctuations in the terms of
trade, a large external debt burden, and continuing structural bottlenecks in
the economy, GDP growth has held above 5 percent p.a. during 1986-89. The
current account deficit in 1989 declined to 5.9 percent of GDP, while the
budget deficit for FY90 is estimated to have been held at 4.2 percent of GDP.
5.          Although Kenya stands out as a good performer by most criteria,
there are several reasons for concern about its future. This concern has its
roots in three factors. First, high rates of population growth imply an
intense pressure for employment generation, with nearly 400,000 new entrants
into the labor force each year. Large and steady increases in output are
required to preserve social and economic progress. Second, since 1986, when
Kenya benefitted from a sharp but temporary upswing in coffee prices, the
Government has found it difficult to restrict aggregate expenditures and the
operations of parastatals, and has relied partly on expansion of the public
sector and concessional assistance to support growth. Since 1981, the private
sector share in total modern sector employment has fallen from 53 to 49
percent, and its share in gross investment has dropped from over 13 percent of
GDP to about 11 percent. Unlike in agriculture, the Kenyan private sector has
not been very active in the structural transformation of the manufacturing
sector. Third, recent political events point to the need for greater
attention to effective governance. There is a clear perception that early
actions need to be taken to improve decision-making and resource allocation
processes. Lack of transparency, weak accountability, and concentration of
economic and political power could act as severe constraints on the
development prospects of several sectors of the economy, through adverse
effects on the use of public resources and on the willingness of the private
sector, both foreign and domestic, to make longer term commitments to
investment and production.
B. RECENT STABILIZATION AND ADJUSTMENT EFFORTS
6.          The Government implemented major stabilization and adjustment
programs twice during the 1980s.  Kenya has enjoyed good reLt ions with the
IMF, which has actively supported the Government's stabili'.a, ):n efforts,
although several programs in the early 1980s failed when t&-7ZJts were
breached. In 1982, the stabilization program was supported by a stand-by



- 3 -
arrangement with the IMF, and included a devaluation, reductions in the budget
deficit, limits on credit expansion, and adjustments of nominal interest
rates. While these measures were successful in reducing the budget and
current account deficits, and in lowering inflation, little progress was
achieved in structural adjustment despite IDA support through two Structural
Adjustment Loans (SALs) in 1980 and 1982. Trade liberalization measures
introduced under the SALs were eventually reversed, and protection through
non-tariff means intensified after 1983.
7.          The Government began implementing another major stabilization and
adjustment program in late 1986 to correct renewed macroeconomic imbalances
and deterioration i.n economic performance resulting from the loss of fiscal
discipline and adverse external developments. This program has been supported
by the IMF through its stand-by arrangement, structural adjustment facility
(SAF) and enhanced structural adjustment facility (ESAF), and by IDA with
sector adjustment credits in agriculture, industry and finance. Through the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) process, a stabilization program coordinated with
structural reforms has been agreed annually since 1988 between GOK, the IMF
and IDA. The latest PFP, covering 1990-92, was discussed by the Executive
Directors of the Bank, meeting as a Committee of the Whole, on April 26, 1990.
The second annual arrangement under the ESAF was approved by the IMF Board on
April 30.
8.          Despite progress toward stabilization and the successful
implementation of sector adjustment programs, which have contributed to the
good growth performance over the past four years, Kenya's economic recovery is
fragile. Because of the lack of growth and diversification of non-traditional
exports, the economy has relied excessively on foreign savings to finance
imports and the budget deficit, leaving Kenya vulnerable to external shocks.
The remaining macroeconomic imbalances, unless corrected, threaten to
undermine recent economic and stabilization gains. While the medium-term
effects of the Gulf crisis remain uncertain, preliminary estimates by IDA and
the IMF suggest that Kenya may face additional financing needs of at least
$300 million over 1991-92. Since the expansion of foreign exchange earnings
from the adoption of an export-oriented st-ategy will take time, and in view
of the import liberalization that has occurred over the past 18 months,
inflows of quick-disbursing external funds will continue to be required.
Further stabilization measures to deal with Kenya's more difficult economic
environment, especially in terms of fiscal policy, have been agreed within the
context of the IMF program.
C. DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND THE MEDIUM-TERM ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
9.          The Government's long-term development strategy is articulated in
Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986, Economic Management for Renewed Growth, which
forms the basis of the Development Plan for 1989-93 and the series of PFPs
including the current one ror 1990-92. The Sessional Paper emphasizes the
need to create productive employment opportunities for a labor force that is
expected to increase by 90 percent between 1985 and 2000. Accordingly, it
sets a high target GDP growth rate, which is to be generated primarily by the
private sector. Increasingly, the Government's role is expected to be the
provision of an appropriate enabling environment rather than direct
participation in economic activity. The strategy emphasizes the need to



- 4 -
increase agricultural productivity, strengthen links between rural non-farm
activities and the formal sector, and restructure manufacturing to Improve
efficiency and enhance export competitiveness. This strategy is appropriate.
10.         As spelled out in the current PFP, the Government's specific aims
for 1990-92 are to attain output growth of over 5 percent; reduce inflation by
1992 to the level forecast for Kenya's trading partners (about 5 percent)
compared with 10.1 percent in 1989; and reduce the external current account
deficit to a sustainable level of 3.6 percent of GDP by 1992 (from 5.9 percent
in 1989). To achieve these objectives, the Government intends to: (a) reduce
the budget deficit to levels that can be sustained by foreign and non-
inflationary domestic financing, and do not crowd out the private sector; (b)
limit the use of new non-concessional sources of external financing; (c)
pursue an exchange rate policy that, in addition to complementing
liberalization in the trade regime, promotes sustained export-led growth; (d)
reorient trade and industrial incentives to reduce anti-export bias, encourage
efficiency, promote the growth of non-traditional exports and encourage
domestic and foreign investment; (e) rationalize the budget by limiting public
sector employment and improving the quality and implementation of the public
sector investment program; and (f) further improve farmer incentives,
agricultural input supply and agricultural services, particularly for
smallholders.
D. COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
11.         IDA's country assistance strategy has three main objectivess (a)
encouraging the Government to provide a stable macroeconomic environment
within which public resources are utilized more efficiently; (b) supporting
changes in the incentive framework and infrastructure base that would
facilitate the development of an efficient and export-oriented private sector;
and (c) addressing longer-term human resource issues and arresting
deterioration of Kenya's physical environment.
12.         While actions are required on several fronts, there are three
priority areas in which IDA is well planed to support GOK's efforts: (a)
Imeroving public sector management, to   atain fiscal expansion, improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of public e *,enditures, particularly the public
investment program, and limit the scope and size of parastatal operations.
These issues have been at the center of the Bank's economic and sector
dialogue with the Government, with implementation steps being agreed in terms
of sector adjustment and selected investment operations, technical assistance,
and discussion and agreement on the content of the public investment program.
(b) Expanding and diversifying the export base to reduce dependence on
external assistance. Support for these efforts woul be provided through
policy-based lending, mainly in the industrial sector, and selected
infrastructure investments to relieve transport and other physical
bottlenecks. (c) Strengthening the basis for sustainable development by
addressing human resource and environmental issues. The human resource
strategy would be implemented through sector adjustment operations and
investment operations in health and education, and support for the GOK's
population program. Environmental problems would be addressed through
projects focussed on arid and semi-arid lands, forestry, and wildlife, as well
as the development with the GOK of a national environmental action plan. The



Bank's country strategy, consisting of analytical work, the lending program
and aid coordination, is designed to address the issues identified above,
while taking account of the Government's receptivity, the role of other donors
active in Kenya, and the Bank Group's comparative institutional advantages.
Economic and Sector Work
13.         The ESW program will underpin the country strategy by enhancing
the policy dialogue, meetiag the analytical needs of the lending program, and
strengthening aid coordination. The ESW program seeks to support three key
areas of the country strategy: (a) deepening structural adjustment; (b)
rationalizing public expenditures; and (c) addressing longer-term issues of
sustainable and equitable development. Key studies planned include the
Industrial Review (FY91) focussing on the regulatory and physical environment
for the efficient expansion of the industrial sector, the Public Investment
Review (FY91) to improve the quality and composition of development
expenditure, and a Capacity Building study focussing on improving public
sector management. In addition, the ESW seeks to place greater emphasis on
longer-term issues, especially poverty alleviation, human resource needs and
the environment. A report on Human Resource Development (FY91) addressing
issues of the quality of social services, access and equity is currently under
preparation. Further work is planned in FY91 and FY92 under the Social
Dimensions of Adjustment umbrella to develop targeted interventions for
poverty alleviation. With regard to the environment, assistance has been
provided to the Government to formulate a comprehensive wildlife management
and environmental investment strategy. A sector report and action plan is
expected to be developed during FY92.
Adjustment Lending: Experience and Prospects
14.         The increased reliance on sectoral reform programs since 1986
represented a shift in Bank strategy in Kenya away from global adjustment
operations, following the poor performance of the SALs of 1980 and 1982.
Implementation of the SALs fell short of expectations because the program
conditionality covered too many areas; the proposed pace of adjustment was too
ambitious and unsustainable; the loans involved few substantive up-front
actions; and consensus within the Government on key issues was often
inadequate. Instead, by emphasizing coordinated sectoral adjustment
operations that are clearly-focused, measured .nd administratively feasible,
it has been possible to sustain a comprehensive and successful reform process
in the Kenyan economy. IDA approved adjustment credits for agriculture
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation--ASAO I) in 1986, industry
(Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit--ISAC) in 1988 and the financial sector
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit--FSAC) in 1989.
15.         The Government began implementing ASAO I in 1986, and it included
measures to improve the timeliness, availability and application of key
agricultural inputs; improve agricultural credit policies; enhance price
incentives for agricultural producers; rationalize budgetary allocations and
expenditures; and restructure designated agricultural parastatals. This
program has been implemented, although with slower progress than expected, in
restructuring two parastatals. The second tranche of the Credit was released
in March 1988.



16.         The ISAC was approved in 1988.  Progress in implementing the
reform program has been satisfactory in all areas and the second tranche of
the Credit was released on schedule in October, 1989. The objective of the
ISAC program was to stimulate efficiency and investment in the industrial
sector, and to initiate reforms to promote export production. Therefore, its
policy package included a broad range of actions in the areas of import
liberalization and industrial policy, During this early phase of import
liberalization, emphasis was given to enhancing the transparency of protection
by replacing quantitative restrictions (QRs) on competing imports with
tariffs. The number of tariff categories was also cut, and initial steps were
taken to reduce average tariffs; as a result, rates on non-competing imports
have come down. The Government also moved vigorously in the areas of price
decontrol, investment incentives, financial sector measures to activate the
money and capital markets, and the reform of development finance institutions.
Through improved incentives for the operation of the manufacturing-under-bond
scheme, ISAC also included a first set of actions to reduce the anti-export
bias in the industrial and trade policy regime. However, such actions need to
be intensified, as the response of investment and non-traditional exports is
yet to be manifested. Moreover, the reform process initiated under ISAC has
to be sustained over a considerable period to build sustained
business/investor confidence.
17.         The financial sector reform program of the Government, which is
supported by FSAC and an associated Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Project, is currently under implementation. Measures implemented in the
sector include: passage of a new Banking Act which improves the legal
framework for the regulation of financial institutions; strengthened
prudential supervision by the Central Bank; improvements in monetary
programming and the use of indirect monetary policy instruments; restructuring
of several insolvent financial institutions; and maintenance of positive real
savings and lending rates. Implementation of the reform program has exceeded
expectations in several areas. The second tranche of FSAC was released in
August 1990 after all conditions for tranche release were met. Under the
financial sector reform program, interest rates are expected to be fully
liberalized by June 1991.
18.         IDA's experience with adjustment lending in Kenya suggests that
sector-based programs have been more effective than the SALs of the early
1980s becauset (a) key government agencies have been better able to monitor
and administer critical components of the adjustment programs; (b)
accountability and ownership by implementing agencies has been stronger; and
(c) sectoral programs have stressed incremental changes that are sustainable,
rather than too rapid liberalization. The sustainability of these adjustment
measures has been enhanced by careful coordination with the annual
macroeconomic stabilization program designed in the context of the PFP, and by
considerable donor support that allowed Kenya to continue to maintain
liberalization measures.
19.         Sector adjustment lending continues to be the most effective
instrument for achieving policy changes that are essential for improving
Kenya's economic performance. With the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit,
IDA will have completed a first generation of policy-based lending (three
operations) to support sector adjustment efforts. Although this strategy has
been successful, Kenya's reform agenda and its balance of payments financing



gap remain considerable. The need to be alert to stabilization concerns,
coupled with the length of time required for the realization of benefits from
the shift to a more outward-looking development strategy, suggest that
adjustment operations will have to continue as major elements of donor
assistance in the medium-term, In addition, the constituency for policy
reform needs to be broadened within Kenya. An attempt would be made through a
second-generation of policy reforms to consolidate the gains made and deepen
the adjustment process. Planned sector adjustment credits include: (a) the
agricultural sector adjustment operation (ASAO II) proposed in this document
which, though quick-disbursing, is the centerpiece of a larger program of
outlays in the sector that includes investments for forestry development,
establishment of a national extension system, wildlife conservation, dairy
development, agricultural marketing and agricultural technology; (b) an
export development program, which recognizes that reforms in policies, while
necessary, would need to be supported by investments in infrastructure and
technical assistance to remove simultaneously the various bottlenecks that
constrain a supply response; (c) a parastatal reform program which would seek
to improve the functioning of the public sector and parastatal enterprises,
while encouraging the divestiture of public sector firms as appropriate; and
(d) programs in health and education that would address the objective of
strengthening Kenya's human resource base.
20.         Recent experience has confirmed the importance of ensuring a
balanced macroeconomic policy environment within which sector adjustment
programs can be implemented effectively. Without appropriate demand
management, exchange rate, and public expenditure policies, the payoffs to the
sectoral adjustment approach would be reduced substantially. The rolling
three-year macroeconomic policy framework developed jointly with the
Government and IMF as part of the PFP process establishes an appropriate
policy umbrella under which sector operations can proceed, and will be
considered a precondition for such operations. Moreover, continued efforts to
assist the Government in improving public sector management and establishing
effective control over public spending in key sectors such as education and
agriculture will play a major role in improving the macroeconomic framework.
Investment Lending: Experience and Prospects
21.         The Bank Group has at present 4 loans and 23 IDA credits under
implementation in Kenya. Total amounts outstanding on loans and IDA credits
are $585.5 million and $1,326.0 million respectively. Eighty-two loans and
credits have been disbursed fully. Over the past five years, IDA commitments
amounted to $6s7 million (Table 1) for a total of 18 credits, including three
sector adjustment operations. Annex VI provides a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments in Kenya as of June 30, 1990. Net
Bank Group transfers to Kenya fell from $125 million in 1982 to a negative $40
million in 1986, rising gradually over the next three years to reach $56
million in 1989. There has been no IBRD lending since 1986, when the debt
service ratio began to exceed 20 percent. The drop in transfers resulted
fromt (a) the rising burden of interest payments on over $700 million of IBRD
loans; (b) the restructuring of the project portfolio; (c) the absence of
quick-disbursing loans following the poor performance of the two SALs; and (d)
the fall in new commitments from an annual average of $184 million during
1978-82 to $94 million during 1983-86. Net transfers have increased in recent



- 8 -
years due to the resumption of quick-disbursing lending and the recent IDA
reflows initiative.
Table 1: IDA Commitments to Kenya, FY86-90 a/
($ million)
FY86        FY87        FY88         FY89         FY90
Commitments       115.0        49.0        143.8        181.5        157.6
a/  Excludes IDA reflows of $53.7 million in FY89 and $44.0
million in FY90.
22.         The status of the Bank's project portfolio and implementation
performance in Kenya are satisfactory, but several areas for improvement have
been identified. Credit effectiveness is often delayed because of the time
taken to obtain the Government's legal opinion and clearance of project
documents; the management of procurement, especially of technical assistance,
needs to be standardized and accelerated; and compliance with audit
requirements has been low. Further, delays in intra-governmental payments and
in the setting of domestic tariffs (e.g. railways), and lack of effective
coordination among official agencies have resulted in project implementation
detays. A comprehensive action plan to tackle these and other portfolio
management issues in Kenya was launched by IDA during FY90. The action plans
have resulted in an increase in supervision coefficients, and consist of the
designation of Divisional portfolio managers, systematic midterm reviews of
project performance, broader role in project supervision for the Resident
Mission, organization of country implementation reviews, intensive training of
project counterparts in procurement and disbursement issues, and coordination
and participation by IDA in multi-donor reviews of procurement and project
implementation. This focus on implementation, including restructuring and
cancellations of loans where required, will be a continuing feature of the
country strategy.
23.         Lcoking to the future, investment projects would be selected and
designed to support the Bank's strategy. Given the importance of the
agriculture sector to Kenya's development prospects, the investment lending
program has a focus on agricultural intensification by enhancing services,
inputs, marketing and rural infrastructure. During FY91-95, operations are
planned in the areas of agricultural extension and marketing, forestry
development, wildlife conservation, dairying, agricultural marketing, and
rural roads and water supply. To improve Kenya's neglected infrastructure,
the lending program focuses on transportation, energy and the strengthening of
local government self-financing. Special emphasis is placed in the lending
program on human resource development, poverty alleviation, women in
development, and the environment. The human resource strategy focuses on
supporting policy reforms in education and health, continuation of the
successful population program, and implementation of the Women in Development
Action Plan for Kenya. In line with the Action Plan, the emphasis is on
integrating gender issues in projects and policy reform programs; a primary



- 9 -
focus will be on agriculture, where efforts will be made to increase the
productivity of women farmers through extension. Environmental problems would
be addressed through projects on forestry and wildlife, as well as through
development with the Government of an environmental action plan.
24.         Poverty concerns will be addressed through the dialogue on food
security and nutrition, as well as in the lending program. For example, food
security is a crucial objective of ASAO II, which would require the
preparation of action plans for improving food security and drought
preparedness. The Government has also asked the Bank to assume a lead role in
helping to formulate and implement a long-term strategy for the development of
arid and semi-arid lands. Strengthening the human resource base in these
areas will be a key element of this work. In addition, as mentioned above the
Government has requested Bank assistance within the Social Dimensions of
Adjustment framework in developing a welfare monitoring system and in
designing targeted interventions for poverty alleviation.
25.         The effectiveness of the policy reform effort will depend
critically on generating a supply response from the private sector. In this
respect, IFC can play an important catalytic role. IFC has invested in 15
enterprises in the industrial, financial and tourism sectors, with total gross
commitments of $146.1 million, of which $18.3 million represent equity
holdings. In industry, IFC has invested in the pulp and paper, textiles,
tanning, and agro-processing subsectors. Although during the early 19809 IFC
was able to average two new projects per year, the last three years have
witnessed a decline to one per year. The prospects for the next few years
will depend on the Government's ability to reduce the large public sector
claims on the economy's resources, and to improve the climate for private
investment. IFC has broadened its involvement with the private sector in
Kenya through the establishment in 1989 of the Nairobi office of the African
Enterprise Fund (AEF). The AEF allows IFC to make loan and equity investments
in smaller projects than IFC's mainline business; it is currently revieving
two such projects in Kenya. In addition, the Africa Project Development
Facility (APDF), based in Nairobi, continues to assist entrepreneurs to
prepare project proposals and financing. To date, APDF has assisted 10 Kenyan
firms at a combined project cost of $32.1 million. The IFCI/IGA affiliate,
Foreign Investment Advisory Services, is assisting the Government in preparing
an investment policy statement. A seminar has been held for senior government
officials, and an official statement is under preparation.
Lending Program: Level and Composition
26.         The lending program envisages a volume of Bank Group assistance to
Kenya of roughly $240 million per year. The strategy calls for a reduction of
quick-disbursing assistance, which will amount to roughly 50 percent of IDA
lending over FY90 and FY91, to a lower level of 35 percent by FY93. This is
predicated upon a relatively high level of economic performance which, given
recent experience, has a good probability of being attained. The resolution
of recent political problems and the maintenance of tourist receipts and aid
inflows at current levels would play a critical role in ensuring continued
stability and economic performance. These concerns suggest that the
Government will have to accelerate the implementation of policy reforms in
those areas already earmarked for action, as well as in those not covered by
current and planned adjustment operations, in order to demonstrate a continued



- 10 -
commitment to economic reform and to overcome the effects of a possible
downturn in external receipts. Areas requiring more vigorous government
efforts include: restraints on the growth of public sector employment,
improvements in the efficiency of public investments, and parastatal reform
(including the divestiture of activities better suited to private ownership
and operation). Thus, in the event of a deterioration in the economic
environment, the maintenance of current levels of IDA lending will depend
critically on the adoption of even stronger measures by the Government, along
the lines identified above.
27.         The assistance strategy would call for a raduction in the proposed
lending program under two sets of circumstances. First, in the event that
agreement with the Government on structural reforms proves elusive or is
delayed, IDA would proceed only with the investment components of the lending
program. Despite continued soundness in macroeconomic management, if the
reform dialogue in a sector shows little progress, only the affected
adjustment operation would be dropped from the lending program until such
progress is visible. To this extent, the proposed lending strategy would be
self-adjusting, and IDA lending would fall to roughly $140 million for that
year.  Thus, the criteria for judging progress would be the Government's
ability to sustain previous reform efforts and to develop and implement sector
reform programs which address the structural constraints discussed above. The
reform agenda in these sectors is being defined through the policy dialogue
and the Government's own strategic and policy statements. Second, a marked
and sustained deterioration in the macroeconomic policy environment would
trigger the cancellation of policy-based lending as well as of investment
operations that would not be viable in such circumstances. An inappropriate
macroeconomic framework, that is, the collapse of the PFP process, would thus
result in a lower level of assistance, essentially to a core level of lending.
Progress would be evaluated on the basis of the Government's ability to meet
agreed stabilization targets, especially in terms of the exchange rate,
containing the growth of public expenditures, and reducing inflationary
pressures.
Summing Up
28.         In evaluating the proposed country strategy, two sets of questions
emerge. First, whether in Kenya's complex socio-political environment there
can be a sustained commitment to improving economic management while grappling
with the country's longer-term problems. Second, whether the pace and nature
of the reforms supported by the Bank Group are appropriate and realistic in
addressing Kenya's development constraints. While it is not possible to
provide definitive answers to these questions, Kenya's recent macroeconomic
imbalances have helped focus the attention of decision-makers on the need for
a serious reform effort that could be supported by donors. The Government has
itself cogently articulated the need for stabilization and structural
adjustment, and in many instances has taken ownership of reform programs
advocated by donors. However, the process of internalizing Kenya's
development agenda is far from complete across all sectors, so that there is a
need to reinforce continuously the internal forces that advocate change. The
Bank Group is well-placed to support this process. The economic dialogue will
continue to press for a faster pace of adjustment, with the size of the
associated lending program and its quick-disbursing component being determined
by needs generated from implementing this pace. However, these efforts must



- 11 -
be tempered by the realization that in Kenya's current socio-political
environment, policy shifts that are too dramatic, even if implemented, may not
prove sustainable.
29.         At the end of 1988, IBRD and IDA held 23 percent and 16 percent,
respectively, of Kenya's stock of long-term public and publicly-guaranteed
debt (including IMF). By 1994, IBRD's share of total debt is expected to fall
to 7 percent, and IDA's to rise to 28 percent. With respect to public debt
servicing, IBRD's share is expected to range between 26 and 32 percent during
1990-94 and IDA's share between 2 and 4 percent. Within the preferred
creditor category, which includes IMF, AfDB and EIB, IBRD's share in disbursed
and outstanding debt is expected to decline to about 15 percent by 1994.
Although Bank Gr.4p exposure is relatively high, risks are low given Kenya's
record in terms of avoiding debt rescheduling and relatively good prospects
for the continuation of the Government's adjustment efforts.
F. DONOR ACTIVITIES
30.         The task of supporting policy reforms and development programs in
Kenya is a large one, and it is clear that the Bank cannot do this alone. A
key element of the country strategy is, therefore, to strengthen the
coordination of donor activities. Fortunately, Kenya is assisted by a large
number of bilateral and multilateral donors who have actively supported the
Government's adjustment efforts. Japan has recently become the largest
bilateral donor to Kenya, followed by the United States and the United
Kingdom. Major multilateral donors include the African Development Bank, the
European Community, and the European Investment Bank. As of June 30, 1989,
cofinancing commitments for IDA adjustment operations totalled $221 million,
and coordinated financing amounted to $142 million. In addition, the country
has benefitted from debt forgiveness of bilateral loans, most notably from the
United Kingdom, Japan, Germany, the United States and France. A significant
number of bilateral donors currently extend only grant assistance to Kenya.
The country also participates in the Special Program of Assistance (SPA),
which has proven to be an effective vehicle for mobilizing and coordinating
donor support.
31.         Effective donor coordination has and will remain an $mportant
element of the country strategy, especially in assisting Kenya to meet the
additional financing needs caused by the Gulf crisis while maintaining
progress in stabilization and adjustment. Efforts to seek donor backing for
the Government's adjustment programs will be a key aspect of this strategy.
An active role in mobilizing and coordinating this support and, if necessary,
in organizing meetings of donors to address major policy issue, would be
played by the SPA. The Bank will continue the practice of holding bi-annual
Consultative Group (CG) meetings in Paris, mini-CGs in Nairobi in the
intervening years, monthly informal donor meetings in the Resident Mission
and, where appropriate, organizing sector coordination groups. Implementation
of the sectoral adjustment approach has required close cooperation with the
IMF, not only to monitor the macroeconomic framework and prepare the PFP, but
also in sector adjustment programs, particularly in trade and finance. This
cooperation has been maintained in preparing the present Credit.



- 12 -
PART II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. BACKGROUND
32.         Kenya's population is predominantly rural (85X), and the economy
depends fundamentally on agriculture. Agriculture's contribution to GDP
(nearly 30Z in 1988), labor force (70? of the total), and export earnings
(average 662, 1985-88), are the highest of any sector. In addition,
agriculture is the engine of growth for the service and industrial sectors.
33.         Smallholder agriculture is now the dominant mode of production in
terms of output, employment, and land area cultivated. Of the 2.7 million
smallholdings, about 80Z have less that two hectares, and 40? are managed by
women. Most smallholders combine subsistence food crop and livestock
production (primarily maize, milk and meat) with varying amounts of cash crops
(mostly coffee, tea and horticulture) and sell surpluses of food, especially
during years of favorable weather. About 85? of the cultivated area is in
food crops. Maize is the major food commodity; it accounts for about 22? of
the total value of agricultural production, and 41? of the total cropped area.
34.         The performance of the agricultural sector during the 25 years
since Independence (1963-1988) has been better than the average for Sub-
Saharan Africa. The agricultural growth rate of 3.5Z per year during the
1980s, however, has not been sufficient to keep up with the high population
growth rate of close to 42 per year. Consequently, it has proven difficult to
raise per capita income levels and protect the natural resource base. The
proportion of rural households with insufficient income to secure their basic
food needs has not been reduced, and the number of persons in poverty has
almost certainly increased substantially. The major sources of past
agricultural growth have been land expansion in the fertile areas, switching
to high value coffee and tea production for export, and increases in crop
yields and livestock productivity. These two latter sources offer the
greatest scope for future increases in agricultural production. By contrast,
fertile soils with adequate rainfall comprise only a small proportion of the
arable land, and area expansion in them cannot continue at past rates. Under
severe population pressure, the amount of high potential land per capita has
decreased significantly, and as farm sizes have diminished, migration has
increased to the lower potential areas in Kenya's vast arid and semi-arid
lands, which are more susceptible to environmental damage.
35.         Despite these trends, Kenya's agriculture can grow faster than the
approximately 3.5? per year average achieved during the 19809. The Bank's
recent study on Agricultural Growth Prospects identified priority measures
which, if effectively implemented, could raise the growth rate above 4? per
year. Yields of crops and livestock for the majority of smallholders are
about one half of those achieved by large scale farmers or progressive
smallholders. It is from improving the performance of small farmers in this
regard that most growth will come. Kenya also has a distinct advantage in
sustaining exports of high quality coffee and tea, increasing exports in the
rapidly growing horticultural sector, and in diversifying its exports even
further, both by commodity and market. Both milk and beans, for example,
offer promising opportunities for the future.



- 13 -
36.         The growth of agriculture is being constrained by the following
major factors:
(a)   Insufficient incentives for producers, resulting from delayed
payments and unnecessarily high costs of marketing because of
insufficient competition in the marketing of key agricultural
commodities, especially maize. This has lowered effective prices
received by producers ir. surplus areas.
(b)   Low use of yield-augmenting inputs, notably fertilizer, due to
institutional factors affecting demand (delayed payments for
crops, and low returns from available technical packages), and
supply constraints (high cost of imported fertilizer, inadequate
and uncertain allocation of foreign exchange, excessive licensing
controls, and poor and high cost distribution). Consequently,
only a small proportion of Kenya's smallholdeL farmers use
fertilizer. The full and sustained benefits of the Government's
recent decision, (in the context of its dialogue with IDA on the
proposed operation), to decontrol fertilizer prices, will depend
largely on removing these constraints.
(c)   Inadequate availability of financing, including institutional
credit, to enable longer term investments, as well as provide
working capital, both for smallholders and for financing crop
payments by private traders.
(d)   Declining efficiency and returns to public expenditures in the
sector, arising from weak project selection, underfunding of
ongoing programs, marked imbalances between non-wage operating
expenditures and personnel costs, and serious funding delays for
approved projects.
B. THE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Origins and Obiectives
37.         As laid out in its Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986, Government's
objectives for agriculture are that it should grow rapidly, thereby playing
its role in supporting overall economic growth, enabling the country to remain
self-sufficient in major foods through the year 2000, generating increased
export earnings, and serving as an engine for employment creation, both on
farms and in adjacent rural areas. The strategy for achieving these
objectives includes measures to: improve producer incentives and marketing
arrangements by allowing the private sector an increased role; expand public
and private financing for high priority investments; strengthen extension
services; and accelerate the generation of new technologies through research.
Government also intends to divest and restructure marketing and service
parastatals in the sector.
38.         The Sessional Paper presented a bold strategy for growth above 5
percent per year over the long term, and provided the framework and original
content for the Government's five year agriculture sector adjustment agram.
Government approached the Bank in mid-1985 with a formal request for



- 14 -
assistance in preparing and implementing the first phase of this five year
program.  This coincided with a shift in the Bank's strategy toward supporting
adjustment programs in the main sectors, beginning with agriculture. An
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation was appraised in January/February of
1986 and approved in June of that year. Taking the emphases of the
Government's Sessional Paper as its objectives, the ASAO was growth-oriented
and included key actions to assist Government implement three inter-related
strategies: intensifying production through increased supplies of key inputs;
enhanced producer incentives and market de-regulation; and improved allocation
and efficiency of sectoral public investments and expenditures.
Experience With The First Adjustment Operation
39.         While implementation of some of the measures in the ASAO was good,
for others it was slow or weak. Good progress was made in: maintaining
adequate producer price levels, taking steps toward market de-regulation,
particularly maize and beef; beginning the financial and organizational
restructuring of two parastatals, the National Cereals and Produce Board
(NCPB) and the South Nyanza Sugar Company (SONY); and improving cost recovery
in the provision of animal health services. Disappointing progress occurred
in: the removal of supply constraints on fertilizer availability; supervision
and management of parastatal reform; and achievement of concrete improvements
in rationalizing the composition of sectoral public investments/expenditures.
The noticeable slackening in Government's conmitment and capacity to fully
implement the reforms since the final tranche in early 1988 was in part due
to: changes in the key Government decision-makers since the beginning of the
ASAO, and a lack of 'ownership' by their successors of the agreed program;
fragmentation of institutional responsibilities within the agriculture sector
(from two to five Ministries), and to some extent Government's being lulled by
improved economic performance in the early part of the program.
40.         The main shortcomings from IDA's side were: (a) focussing on
financing the preparatory steps for adjustment (studies, elaboration of policy
papers, and restructuring plans) rather than on implementation; (b) setting
too many conditions whose initial definitions were loose; (c) underestimating
the time it would take to carry out difficult reforms (and especially to
initiate actions which required decisions by Cabinet); and (d) placing too
great a reliance on a small number of key individuals in Government, whose
replacement would make a difference in the conmitment to certain actions.
41.         In spite of these shortcomings, the Project Completion Report
judged ASAO to have been: (a) well embedded in a macroeconomic policy
framework understood between Government and IDA; (b) a useful instrument for
promoting policy and institutional improvements in agriculture whici would
lead to faster growth, and improved efficiency in the allocation and use of
sectoral resources; (c) a source of momentum for implementing reforms in
important policy areas; (d) a contributor to good agricultural growth during
its implementation period, 1986-1988 (average exceeding 4X per year); and (e)
helpful in mobilizing substantial external resources for balance of payments
support. Government met satisfactorily the main agreed conditions to justify
release of the two tranches. A Project Performance Audit Report (No. 8862) by
OED was distributed to the Board of Executive Directors on August 22, 1990.



- 15 -
42.         The quality and speed of ASAO implementation suffered after an
initial satisfactory phase. Towards the latter part of the implementation
period in 1987, Government appeared to be more committed to fulfilling the
loosely defined conditions for tranche release, than to full implementation of
a reform program. 'While the direction of the policy reforms has remained on
track in most areas, and the majority of the conditions were met, the
timeliness of doing so fell short of expectations. The Project Completion
Report highlighted a number of areas where actions were still pending and
where Government should concentrate its efforts to sustain and carry out fully
these actions. The most important of these are to establish an improved
payment system for cuffee producers, and to complete the process of
restructuring the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB), divesting it
of its ginning activities, and speeding up payments to farmers. The coffee
payment system was a condition of effectiveness of the Second Coffee
Improvement Project (now declared effectiv3), which also provides financing
for a revolving fund to allow the new payment system to be introduced. There
has been significant progress on actions relating to the CLSMB, including the
passage of the Cotton Act by Parliament. The final steps are being monitored
under the IDA-financed Cotton Processing and Marketing Project, which was
extended to finance supporting studies for implementing the Cotton Act.
Progress on both coffee and cotton issues will continue to be monitored under
ASAO II.
43.         In the light of experience with the first Operation, the proposed
Second Adjustment Operation aims at deepening the reforms in key areas, and
building more capacity for policy analysis, design and implementation. This
deepening of the reforms should ensure their being sustained in the longer
term, and leave behind the capacity for further advances as they are needed.
The areas of emphasis are the right ones for making the policy environment as
conducive as possible for agricultural growth based on the smallholder sector.
Maize is the most important food and cash crop for further growth in
smallholder incomes, and fertilizer remains the most critical input. The
actions remaining on budget content and process are few in number, and
difficult to implement, but critical for increasing efficiency of public
expenditures in agriculture.
44.         The uneven implementation performance under the first operation
offered important lessons for the second one, namely: the importance of
securing and sustaining Government commitment, at both political and technical
levels; the need to focus on a few strategic areas which are clearly
monitorable; including fewer specific conditions, achieved as early as
possible; general monitoring of the Letter of Sectoral Policy; improving the
effectiveness of coordination and implementation through a Steering Committee
of Permanent Secretaries; the need to explicitly strengthen linkages between
the policy framework and complementary investments and actions; the use of
ASAO as a common framework for multi-donor support, and for encouraging
Government. to focus its implementation efforts in priority areas. These
lessons have guided preparation of the proposed second operation.
Goals And Strategies In The Second Operation
45.         The goals of the proposed operation are tot (a) accelerate
agricultural growth through smallholders, while safeguarding the environment;



- 16 -
(b) contribute to fiscal stabilization; (c) improve public sector resource use
in agriculture; (d) begin to assist lower income groups who are vulnerable to
climatic and economic shocks; and (e) improve agricu,tural sector
institutional capacity including capacity for environmentally protective
management. Strategies to achieve these goals will: improve producer
incentives, and increase market competitiveness; rationalize maize stocks,
compatible with market needs; increase input supply, particularly fertilizer,
and promote its efficient use; improve efficiency and composition of public
expenditures; develop targeted measures to protect vulnerable groups; and
strengthen the institutiona! capacity in the agricultural sector to improve
policy planning, project preparation and implementation. The proposed
operation addresses the major constraints on agriculture with the exception of
availability of finance; the latter is expected to be improved as the reforms
in the financial sector are implemented under an adjustment program explicitly
targeted to it.
46.         Preparation of the Operation built on experience and momentum of
the recently completed ASAO, on sector work (agricultural growth, food
security and rural finance), on lessons from the MADIA study, and on the
challenges set by the Bank's Long Term Perspective Study. The operation, in
addition to financing imported inputs, will include a technical assistance and
training component to sustain on-going and planned reforms.
Sector Reform Themes and Actions Under ASAO II
47.         The operation aims at substantial advances in three policy areas,
representing a deepening of reforms begun under the first operation, while
beginning initiatives in two other areas. The operation will therefore
support:
Deepening Reforms
(a)   improving incentives for smallholder maize producers
through prompt payments to farmers, and sustaining
adequate producer prices through reduced marketing
margins; increasing the efficiency of maize marketing
through removal of maize movement controls and
achieving a higher degree of competitiveness; and
reducing the budgetary burden of NCPB's operations
through consolidation of a new role for NCPB and
reducing its operating costs;
(b) increasing fertilizer availability to small farmers,
of the right type, in a timely fashion, at lower cost,
and promoting transfer of more efficient and
environmentally safe fertilizer use technology;
(c)   improving the efficiency of public expenditures,
through more rigorous criteria (including
environmental factors) for including projects in the
public investment program, a better balance between
salary and non-salary operating expenditures, and
improved budgetary operations;



- 17 -
New Initiatives
(d)   promoting targeted programs to protect vulnerable
lower-income groups, based on the Government's
completed Food Security Paper and new initiatives to
develop preparedness for droughts;
(e)   strengthening planning and management capacity in
selected Ministries which deal with major subsector
issues, and undertake strategic studies which cut
across subsectors, or have macroeconomic and
environmental implications.
Maize
Background
48.         White maize is Kenya's staple food crop, providing 452 of the
country's calories and 40Z of protein. It is the single most important farm
commodity in terms of area under crops (41Z of total) and value of production
(22Z of total). It is grown by 90Z of the country's farmers, largely under
rainfed conditions, and production can fluctuate widely (in the 1984185 crop
year, for example, production was 39? lower than the average of the previous
three years; with better rainfall in 1985186 it recovered to a level 41 above
that average, leaping 702 in one year). Over an extended period (1963-1987)
maize production is estimated to have increased, on average, by about 3.8? per
year, close to the rate of growth of population. In times of domestic
shortages, imports of white maize are difficult to secure because of a limited
international trade, while the yellow maize which dominates international
markets is considered by consumers to be an inferior foodstuff. these
difficulties, which have led to a political aversion to relying on maize
imports, together with production variability and infrastructural bottlenecks,
have been claimed to justify maintaining high domestic stocks of white maize.
Government has used these reserve stocks as the main instrument in its
attempts to assure supplies in good times and bad, and to maintain reasonable
price stability throughout the country.
49.         Around one half of the maize produced is for subsistence.  In an
"average" production year, some 40? of marketed quantities (202 of production)
are procured by the National Cereals Board (NCPB), while the remaining 60? are
traded in the informal market. Until 1987, NCPB had a statutory monopoly,
maintained in particular by very strict movement controls. As a consequence
NCPB dominated the market, exercising almost total control of the movement of
maize from surplus production areas west of the Rift Valley, to the major
deficit consuming regions of Nairobi, Mombasa, and rural areas in the east.
50.         While the above market dominance has been secured by statute for
NCPB or its predecessors for at least fifty years, the system has become
incteasingly untenable in recent years. Partly as a result of political
pressures, it became increasingly difficult to ensure that official producer
prices reflected the reality of maize production, and surpluses began to



- 18 -
develop with good weather in several successive years. In the absence of a
competitive trading environment, there was an uncontrolled expansion of NCPB's
staff, and extension of its network of depots and storage facilities. Between
1980 and 1987, for example, while the level of NCPB's maize purchases remained
approximately the same, its staff increased threefold. With its operations
becoming progressively more inefficient, the price it was paying for maize
increasing, its stocks growing far beyond the levels required for its food
security and price stabilization functions, and resultant forced export sales
at prices substantially below purchase levels, NCPB's financial situation was
severely eroded. At the same time, although private road transport and small
scale ('Poshol) maize millers were increasing, development of an efficient
private trade was hindered by the tight net of controls in place to maintain
NCPB's dominance. As a result, the economic benefits which can accrue to both
producers and consumers from a well-functioning private market have not been
realized.
51.         In total, over the 1981-1987 period, NCPB operational deficits
cost Kenya's exchequer R200 million. In addition, cumulative debts of the
Board by late 1987 totalled KR287 million. It was estimated that without a
reorganization of both finances and management, the cost to Treasury of NCPB's
operations would continue to be more than KU120 million per year (US$102
million at current exchange rates). These and other fiscal problems led the
Government, in the context of the first Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Operation, to embark upon a Cereals Sector Reform Programme (CSRP), aimed at
restructuring NCPB's organization and finances over the period 1988-92. These
decisions, and the supporting studies on which they were based, were fostered
under the first ASAO, and the program commenced with financial support from
the European Community (EC) initially tor the first three years. There has
been close collaboration between the EC and IDA in developing details of the
CSRP.
Achievements Prior To ASAO II
52.         The major actions taken prior to ASAO II resulted from Cabinet
decisions in late 1987 to redefine NCPB's role in more narrow terms of food
security and price stabilization, allow cooperatives and private traders
increasingly to market maize, phase downwards progressively the percentage of
millers' purchases from NCPB, raise the quantities of maize allowed to be
moved without permit across District boundaries from 2 bags to 10 bags, and
write off NCPB's debts in the 1988/89 budget (US$330 million equivalent). In
the course of agreeing on these changes, the Cabinet also decided to increase
NCPB's food security reserve to 6 million bags of maize and 0.5 million bags
of beans. During 1988 virtually all of NCPB's higher and middle level
management was removed, a new organizational structure with greater
accountability was adopted, new managers were recruited, almost 70Z of the
Board's buying centers were closed, and the first phase of lowering (sifted
maize) millers' mandated purchases from NCPB was accomplished.
53.         As shown by an evaluation report completed in July, 1990, NCPB's
share of the primary market (maize purchases from farmers) fell from 30? of
production in 19s5186 to 20X in 1989/90, with comparable levels of production.
Reducing this to less than 152 is an expected outcome of the ASAO II reform
package. In the sifted maize miller's market, NCPB's share has fallen from
1002 to 73Z over the same period. At the same time there has been a decrease



- 19 -
in the variations in maize prices among and within Provinces, and among
various seasons of the year. Average open market maize prices have moved
increasingly into place between the producer and consumer prices officially
set by Government.
Further Steps Under ASAO II
54.         The goal of the grain market reforms is for private merchants to
be managing all domestic trade, with prices de-regulated. The well-
functioning private trade envisaged would assure the country's food security,
and achieve a good measure of price stabilization through its own operations.
Private traders would manage both primary and secondary markets, moving grain
from farmer to mill, and from mill to consumer. This complete privatization
is, however, some distance off in Kenya, and because of infrastructural and
political constraints, can be reached only in stages. In this phased
approach, the intermediate goal is for the private sector to manage all
domestic trade except those transactions which Government deems necessary to
safeguard the country's food security and achieve a reasonable degree of price
stabilization, and to achieve prompt payments to farmers. NCPB will continue
to be Government's agent for carrying out the food security and stabilization
functions; its goal in doing so will be maximum efficiency. Its role in the
medium term will be as buyer and seller of last resort, maintaining floor
prices for producers and ceiling prices for consumers, while turning over its
food security stocks as efficiently as possible. It is envisaged that public
sector stabilization activities will diminish over time.
55.         The measures in ASAO II are designed to achieve a major expansion
of private trade in both primary and secondary markets, and NCPB's transition
to an efficient role in food security and price stabilization. The measures
for market liberalization include: discontinuing NCPB operations in numerous
(loss-making) minor crops now on its scheduled list, along with beans (the
minor crops have been de-scheduled, and beans are to be de-scheduled prior to
second tranche release); in the secondary market, a phased drawdown in the
proportion of their purchases which sifted maize millers must procure from
NCPB to a level around 60? (condition of second tranche release); and removal
of maize movement controls. The latter will be achieved in three steps: the
Government recently increased the amount which can be transported without a
permit to 4 tons (45 bags); it will raise this to 8 tons (90 bags) by the end
of 1991 (condition of second tranche release), and agree with IDA a date
during 1992 when removal of movement controls would be completed (this
agreement would be a condition of second tranche release).
56.         Performance Contract.  The framework for raising NCPB's efficiency
is established in a Performance Contract (PC) with Treasury and the Ministry
of Supplies and Marketing, which has been finalized for a first three year
period. The PC incorporated Government's policy statement on maize, NCPB's
role and responsibilities in regard to maize handling, the principles
governing budgetary support to NCPB, and the detailed accounting conventions
and formulae to be used to assess the full costs of maintaining mandatory
minimum reserve stocks of maize; the PC constitutes a binding commitment from
Treasury that these costs will be met in full from public budget allocations.
The agreement also specifies actions to which NCPB has committed itself to
increase its efficiency, including closing down redundant buying centers and
depots, reducing staff, and lowering transport and handling costs. The PC



- 20 -
will reflect the results of a rolling financial plan, and will be signed each
year; the second such signing will be for second tranche release. NCPB will
prepare a detailed operational plan to implement the PC. The PC will be
reviewed semi-annually, and the results fed back into NCPB's operational
planning process. In preparation of the PC, key decisions have been taken
about reserve stock levels and management, targets for secondary market
liberalization, efficiency criteria in turning over reserve stocks, and
targets for staff reductions and depot rationalization. The adequacy of
progress in these areas were, and will continue to be, the criteria for
judging acceptability of the PC. The framework of the PC is in Annex III.
57.         The measures planned take into account the serious practical
constraints under which the reform program must progress, among them the
strict budgetary guidelines agreed with the IMF under its ESAP, and political
opposition to the reforms. In order to make the progress required over the
next two to three years, NCPB needs to increase its efficiency rapidly, while
also shedding quickly a substantial proportion of its enormous maize stocks.
This involves short term book losses since stocks purchased at prices close to
import parity are being exported at significantly lower prices. These losses
add to the budgetary burden in the short term. Furthermore, a crucial step
for enhancing efficiency will be staff reductions which are politically
difficult in an atmosphere of increasing concern about unemployment.
58.         To address these concerns, the operation contains provisions which
will assist with the transition. Among these are improvements in the maize
pricing methodology which will link price setting explicitly to the budgetary
impact of NCPB's turnover of reserve stocks at gazetted prices; this has been
introduced into the 1990191 price review, and will be further refined for
second tranche release. Furthermore, the operation provides for acceptable
improvements in monitoring of maize flows to sifted maize millers. The
official stock level itself is being re-examined, and steps taken to make
stock management as flexible and cost-effective as possible. Improvements
here, and in the management of NCPB's operations, will minimize budgetary
outlays for NCPB, and give Government confidence to expand further the role of
private traders, especially in the secondary markets to which currently they
still have limited access. An efficient NCPB also will be less threatened by
removal of maize movement controls.
59.         The above measures will be reinforced by support from USAID and
the EC, respectively for private sector grain trade development, and for
establishing NCPB on a sound financial footing, able to realize efficiently
its revised role in the grain trade. Under its Kenya Market Development
Program, USAID has agreed to provide US$15 million in dollar grants and US$40
million worth of PL480 Food for Progress food aid, in support of policy
reforms, technical assistance, and a program of rehabilitating and maintaining
1500 km of selected rural roads important for grain marketing. Under its
Cereal Sector Reform Program, the EC committed ECU 72 million for the period
1988-91, part of which was in the form of agricultural sector imports, with
counterpart funds used to finance crop purchase by NCPB; the program has also
supported studies, and the implementation of NCPB's financial and
organizational restructuring. It is likely that the CSRP will be extended for
a further period beyond 1991, in support of the next phase of NCPB's
restructuring and modernization.



- 21 -
Fertilizert.
Background
60.         Government recognizes that future growth in agriculture would have
to rely overwhelmingly on improved crop yields. The strategy of yield
enhancement critically depends upon increased and more efficient use of
fertilizer in the country. To achieve an agricultural growth rate of over 4?
per year, fertilizer consumption must increase at an estimated rate of ll per
year, close to double the rate achieved during the period 1974-1987. Lately,
fertilizer consumption has been stagnating at an annual growth rate of less
than 1 and the current fertilizer usage in agriculture is no more than 37Z of
the estimated potential. One reason for this has been adverse price
developments for tea and coffee during the past two years. A more fundamental
reason, however, is that whereas most of the estates and large farms use
fertilizer, and many close to recommended levels, the 2.7 million
smallholders, who cultivate 66? of the cropped area, and are expected to
contribute up to 852 of incremental production until the year 2000, either do
not use fert4lizers at all (74?), or use much lower than recommended doses.
Much of the fertilizer (67X) used by smallholders goes to cash crops. Low
fertilizer usage by small farmers largely explains why their average crop
yield levels are about one half of those obtained by large farmers; and it is
here that the maximum potential for crop intensification and yield
maximization lies. 'While the average consumption of fertilizer nutrients per
hectare of arable land is higher in Kenya than is most other African
countries, it is below the average for the whole of South Asia, and far below
levels attained in China.
61.         Access to fertilizers is a major issue for cereal producing
smallholders who need only a bag or two of fertilizer each but for whom the
retail network to satisfy this need is almost non-existent. The production of
cash crops by estates or even smallholders is backed by institutional input
supply arrangements. For instance, the Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA)
imports and supplies tea-specific fertilizers to smallholder tea growers.
Similarly the relatively fewer large farms producing cereal crops are serviced
by private trade without the latter having to make significant investment in
the development of a dealer net-work. The lack of investment in, and poor
growth of the fertilizer supply network in smallholder areas is attributed to
the uncertainty and lack of profitability resulting from small turnovers and
the Government's tight control over fertilizer importation, distribution and
retail prices in the late seventies and through the eighties.
62.         The situation became more complex in the eighties due to the
progressive increase of *in kind" fertilizer aid by various donors, which
eventually reduced commercial (mostly private sector) imports to less than 50?
of annual requirements. Increased Government control of the fertilizer
sub-sector discouraged commercial imports, and highlighted the current
inadequacies of the fertilizer-related institutional structures and
coordination arrangements. For example, while MOA allocated commercial
fertilizer import quotas to interested fertiliz-r distributors, the Ministry
of Finance in a parallel exercise allocated quotas for donor fertilizers from
the port in Mombasa, or the store in Nakuru. In both cases, the criteria for
allocations lacked transparency. As a consequence, private traders operated
in an environment of uncertainty characterized by serious government delays
(in fertilizer allocation as well as in price announcements), and inadequate



- 22 -
incentives to invest in fertilizer market development. Furthermore,
infrastructural inadequacies, such as absence of soil-testing facilities in
the countryside, led to instances of fertilizer types being used which tend to
acidify the soils over time.
Achievements Prior To ASAO II
63.         Under ASAO I, Government adopted an improved pricing formula for
domestic marketing of fertilizers, increased the number of private importers
and distributors, promoted the use of smaller fertilizer bags, and after
prolonged deliberation, prepared and approved (June, 1989) a fertilizer policy
paper which provides a sound framework for further reform in the sector. More
recently, consistent with its long-term objective in the approved policy
paper, Government announced, ahead of schedule, decontrol of fertilizer prices
in the domestic market, which IDA has been advocating as a central plank of
the continuing adjustment process.
Further Steps Under ASAO II
64.         Under ASAO II, three further constraints are being addressed.
First, the fertilizer import licensing and MOA's quantity allocation
procedures, apart from being vexatious and time consuming, have created an
uncertain environment for private trade and inhibited investment in fertilizer
market development. Second, lack of current information on demand and supply
of fertilizers in Kenya has discouraged import of full requirements. The
establishment of an institutional framework for free flow of information and
regular consultation between Government and the private sector, at the
district and national level, will result in better assessment of the demand
and supply situation, identifying constraints, and establishing and
maintaining an appropriate incentive framework for expanding fertilizer use.
Third, major institutional inadequacies in the management of the fertilizer
sector are being addressed to induce the development of a private sector
distribution network. The measures include: unification of fertilizer import
and allocation functions (for donor fertilizers) in MOA, with Treasury
providing only liaison with donors; steps to commercialize aid-fertilizers and
reduce dependence on in-kind donations; substantial strengthening of the
former Inputs Unit in MOA; developing a suitable data base for monitoring the
fertilizer subsector; designating subject matter specialists (SMSs) in Soil
and Fertilizers at district levels; and developing district action plans for
fertilizer promotion, soil testing and training with the active participation
of the private sector.
65.         A continuing and comprehensive dialogue with the Government,
private fertilizer trade and fertilizer related institutions has resulted in
considerable progress towards the goal of complete liberalization of the
fertilizer subsector. This are summarized below.
(a) Pricing and Subsidies: There are no fertilizer subsidies in
Kenya, and fertilizer prices were decontrolled in January, 1990;
(b) Fertilizer Imports: (i) Commercial Imports: Government has
eliminated the import quota allocation system for commercial
imports. While this has the effect of moving fertilizer from
Schedule II to Schedule I in the Import Licensing Schedules,



- 23 -
Government will officially confirm this change of Schedules at the
time of the next annual revision (about May, 1991). Terms of
reference have been finalized for a study of ways for the private
sector to improve its capacity for efficiently importing
fertilizers at the most economical prices. Government will
complete the study, and review the findings with IDA before second
tranche release. (ii) Donor Fertilizers: In order to minimize the
distortions caused by "in-kind' fertilizer aid, Government has
commenced preparation of an issues paper which will be discussed
with IDA and principal donors in early 1991 (its finalization, and
an exchange of views with IDA on proposed measures, is a condition
of second tranche release).
(c) Consultative Process with the Private Sector: To enhance
Government awareness of the real constraints impeding fertilizer
use (particularly amongst smallholders), and to support realistic
programs of fertilizer promotion involving farmers, private
traders and government, a well structured periodical consultative
process among the private sector, cooperatives and the Government
has been established at the district and the national level. At
the national level a Fertilizer Development Committee has been
constituted under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary,
MOA; its membership includes leading private fertilizer
importers/distributors, representatives of the Kenya National
Fertilizer Association (KNFA) and KGGCU, and representatives of
the concerned ministries. At the district level, District
Fertilizer Committees have been constituted as sub-committees of
the District Agricultural Committees, with strong private and
cooperative sector and farmer participation.
(d) Institutional Strengthening: The MOA has taken, or agreed to
take a number of actions to strengthen the institutional base for
the fertilizer subsector.   First, the Inputs Unit in MOA has been
upgraded in status to a Branch, moved to be under the Director of
Agriculture, and its staff complement increased. Second, a data
base for this Unit has been agreed and data collection has
commenced. Third, subject matter specialists in soils and
fertilizers have been assigned in each district and province to
promote more efficient and environmentally safe fertilizer use.
Fourth, the KNFA representing fertilizer importers/distributors
will be involved in the consultative process at the national
level. Fifth, Government will undertake measures to improve soil
testing services for the farmers to strengthen the scientific base
for fertilizer use.
(e) District Action Plans: the MOA has developed guidelines for
preparation of district action plans, in consultation with the
private sector, for fertilizer promotion, soil testing and the
training of fertilizer retailers, extension personnel and selected
farmers to identify district specific constraints; action plans
have been prepared for five districts, and will be prepared for
all major fertilizer consuming districts as a condition of second
tranche release.



- 24 -
Public Expenditures In Agriculture
Background
66.         The public investment and expenditure program in the ministries of
agriculture and livestock is characterized by a large number of projects with
low or uncertain viability; a worsening imbalance between salary and non-
salary operating (O&M) costs; low or negligible cost recovery; severe
shortfalls and delays in budgetary releases; and a weak institutional capacity
for monitoring project implementation performance. Currently the development
budgets of the two agricultural ministries contain about 130 projects, with an
annual budget outlay of about US$ 64.0 million. Of this amount almost 85Z
represents donor financing. The relatively high degree of external financing
for development projects, particularly through grants, tends to soften the
rigor of project selection. More importantly, the excessive number and
dispersion of projects taxes heavily the ministries' limited implementation
capacity, and generates considerable recurrent cost demands eventually borne
by GOK. The existing budget and project monitoring systems in the two
ministries continues to be extremely weak, so that even when the overall
project parameters change significantly, resources continue to be expended in
accordance with original projections.
67.         The net result of the foregoing has been a thin spread of local
resources over a large, under-funded project portfolio, with particularly low
budget utilization rates for donor assisted projects. Furthermore, the
effectiveness of critical agricultural support services and staff productivity
is being seriously affected by the imbalance in salary and supporting O&M
resources in both ministries. The share of recurrent expenditures absorbed by
salaries and allowances in the two main agriculture ministries was a high 72
percent in FY90. Despite the fact that the Treasury has tried to introduce a
hiring freeze over the past two years salary ceilings have been regularly
exceeded and recruitment has continued to grow. The excessive intake in the
agricultural training institutes and the lax enforcement of public sector
employment policies have been major constraints in meeting the budget
rationalization objectives of the agricultural reform program.
Achievements Prior To ASAO II
68.         To improve the management of public sector resources the
Government began implementing, in 1986, a budget rationalization program in
agriculture, supported by ASAO I. Some of the measures taken already by MOA
and MOLD are: (a) establishment of a forward budget and expenditure planning
process indicating priorities in resource allocation within a ministry; (b) a
project registry as the basis for improved project selection and monitoring;
and (c) creation of Budget and Project Secretariats to ensure the timely
preparation of budget estimates and expenditure returns. While both
ministries have made significant progress in building up institutional
capacity to address the underlying budgetary problems, implementation of the
specific budget rationalization measures lagged and in many cases reforms have
not been completed.
Further Steps Under ASAO II
69.         Under ASAO II the major areas of further reform are to:



- 25 -
(a) improve the structure and quality of the investment programs by
reviewing the existing project portfolio and all future projects on the
basis of new economic and environmental project selection criteria. As
part of ASAO II, a comprehensive review of the existing project
portfolios has been initiated, and in the 1991192-1993194 (PY92-FY94)
Forward Budget the MOA has excluded about 10 of its projects, which it
judged to have lower priority. Similarly, the MOLD has consolidated its
project list to a more manageable level of 47 compared to 60 projects it
had in the 1989190 development budget. Furthermore, a 'core investment
program, for both ministries has been agreed with IDA for full funding
in the 1991/92 budget. As a condition of second tranche release a 'core
investment program of priority projects will be agreed with IDA and
included in the 1992/93 - 1994195 Forward Budget.
(b) enhance the operational efficiency of existing agricultural and
livestock support programs by: raising the ratio of O&M to salary
operating expenditures, identifying areas for privatization of services,
and more efficient deployment of existing staff. Based on a recently
completed review of recurrent cost issues, the Treasury has made a
commutment to inject additional non-wage resources to support the
1991192 and 1992/93 recurrent budgets of the two ministries. The
Government has also taken a decision to privatize some key livestock
services (cattle dipping and clinical veterinary services), which would
help reduce salary and other overhead expenditures. As a condition of
second tranche release an action program for revising user costs and
identifying further areas for privatization of services will be agreed.
To ensure a more efficient deployment of existing staff both ministries
have completed a staff count, and reconciled this with the complement
register. Furthermore, work has been initiated on the development of
staffing norms for key services and consequential adjustments in the
intake into training institutions. Before release of the second
tranche, Government will adopt an action plan to use the revised
staffing norms in its operations; and
(c) improve budgeting, and expenditure control systems: by developing
budget cost centers to monitor effectively the entire expenditure
(development and recurrent) for all major programs or projects;
streamlining the cash flow releases from the Treasury to the
implementing ministries and from there to the project entities; and
establishing improved expenditure control systems at the project/program
implementation and central level. The foregoing objectives will be
achieved through implementation of the ASAO II technical assistance
program to strengthen the budget management and expenditure control
systems in both ministries. A review of performance during 1991, and
exchange of views with IDA on the findings of the review, will be a
condition of second tranche release.
Steps Toward Assisting Vulnerable Groups
Background
70.         Kenya has achieved creditable growth during the 1980s, both in
agriculture and in the general economy, without which the magnitudes of



- 26 -
poverty and food insecurity would be greater than they are today.
Nevertheless, since growth has not been fast enough to keep ahead of the very
rapid increase in population, it has not improved the extremely low standard
of living experienced by a significant proportion of rural households. These
continuing low incomes, especially in rural areas, are one of the root causes
of the very significant level of the country's chronic food poverty, which is
shown bys
-     an estimate that more than 1.25 million children under five years
of age are stunted, as a result of undernourishment over an
extended period, especially during the first two years of life;
-     an estimate that more than 202 of rural households, containing
more than 3 million persons, do not have enough income to secure
for themselves a minimum nutritional diet;
-     indications that food availability per capita has declined,
reflecting diminished purchasing power on the part of lower
income households.
71.         In the absence of sustained growth in the incomes of those in the
poorest groups of households, these problems are capable only of partial and
short term solution. The main sources of such income growth will be increased
agricultural production from smallholders, and productive employment
opportunities outside agriculture, especially in rural areas, which will
gradually reduce the proportion of the labor force engaged in agriculture.
Consolidating the policy framework for such growth is the major aim of the
proposed Second Adjustment Operation. Within the context of such economic and
agricultural growth, however, there is a need for specific interventions to
assist those who are most susceptible to economic distress, arising from the
reform program itself, or from other physical or economic shocks. Some of
these specific interventions require further study to firm up details.
72.         While the aim of grain marketing liberalization measures is to
raise farmers' incomes, some groups may be adversely affected, particularly in
marginal areas, and during the transition period. After identifying any such
groups, targeted interventions, such as food subsidies, rationing, or other
means of direct income maintenance should be designed to address their poverty
more directly. The Government also needs to expand its program of public
works, especially in high potential rural areas. This would accelerate the
provision of needed infrastructure (and its maintenance) in support of growth
in these areas, and provide new income earning opportunities for the rural
poor. Such a program could be financed by a combination of food and financial
aid.
73.         Several other measures are needed to round out a plan for
improving food security. As the Food and Nutrition Study recently completed
by the Bank confirms, measures to raise incomes, while necessary. may not be
sufficient to bring about improvements in the situation of those suffering
from undernutrition. Measures to improve the efficiency and coverage of
health services are required, as well as nutrition education and targeted
feeding programs, though details of these programs remain to be worked out.
Analysis of experience with the drought which Kenya experienced in 1984 shows
that valuable time could be bought for responding to such an event, and the



- 27 -
effectiveness of the responses substantially increased, by having in place a
contingency plan for drought which included a better early warning system.
Achievements Prior To ASAO II
74.         Under the first adjustment operation, Government began preparing a
Food Security Paper, which has now been completed following discussion among
several ministries. This paper addresses the issues described here;
developing an action plan from its recommendations should be a matter of
priority.
Further Steps Under ASAO II
75.         Under ASAO II, the major steps to be taken includet (a) completing
a Food Security Action Plan, which would include proposals for institutional
change, nutrition interventions, marketing measures, and data needs; adopting
such a plan, and beginning to implement it will be a condition of second
tranche release; (b) preparing a plan for Drought Contingency and Early
Warning (including procedures for assessing drought severity, population at
risk, food import needs, transport capacity, public employment programs, NGO
coordination, and release of stored foodt with proposals for improved weather
forecasts and crop estimating techniques); adopting such a plan, and
establishing the institutions and procedures necessary for its implementation
will be a condition of second tranche release; and (c) monitoring the impact
of adjustment on vulnerable groups, and targeting assistance to them,
especially any losers from the transitional phase of grain marketing reforms;
adopting an action plan to address any adverse effects on vulnerable groups of
the marketinRg reforms, completing a baseline survey, and implementing an
ongoing household survey to monitor the effects of economic reform programs on
vulnerable groups will be conditions of second tranche release.
Capacity Building in Agriculture
76.         Inadequate institutional capacity for policy formulation and
sector management is widely recognized as a serious problem. The ongoing
Agricultural Sector Management Project has provided support for training and
technical assistance to policy making and management groups in several sector
ministries and related agencies/parastatals. Among them were the Development
Planning Divisions of MOA and MOLD, and budgetary procedures were streamlined
under a Budget Rationalization Program (BRP). While significant progress was
achieved in initial stages to develop institutional mechanisms, implementation
of the BRP has lagged in more recent years. The Project Management System has
not functioned, so that there is no real review of public investment programs.
Progress in building analytical and management capacity has been hampered by
deterioration of the database, cuts in technical assistance, and high turnover
of trained staff, who have left for the private sector.
77.         Agricultural sector management is also made difficult by
fragmentation of responsibilities, lack of coordination, and inadequate



- 28 -
agricultural data. Nine 1/ ministries now share sector management, with
none responsible for overall planning or for performance of the sector as a
whole. As a result, public interventions often involve multiple ministries
with overlapping functions, and functional lines are poorly drawn. Government
is aware of the issue, and is seeking ways to address it.
78.         To address the problem of inter-ministry coordination, the
Ministry of Finance established a steering committee under the chairmanship
of the Permanent Secretary during the implementation of ASAO I to guide and
oversee implementation. This committee has also guided preparation of the
proposed operation. It will assume responsibility for overseeing and
orchestrating ASAO II. For detailed monitoring it will depend on the
Development Planning Divisions of MOA and MOLD, and the Policy Analysis and
Monitoring Unit of the Ministry of Planning and National Development (MPND).
The IDA supported Rural Services Design Project is strengthening the capacity
of MPND, in close collaboration with participating Ministries, to monitor the
sector reform program and evaluate its impact.
Further Steps Under ASAO It
79.         The proposed operation will be used as a vehicle for strengthening
sector planning and management capacity in four areas: (a) policy analysis and
studies; (b) land policy and administration; (c) management of the public
investment portfolio in agriculture, together with budget and expenditure
control; and (d) the fertilizer sector. An extensive training program,
provision for technical assistance, and upgrading of staff and technical
facilities, will be undertaken in all four areas. The policy analysis
component will be implemented in selected ministries which deal with major
subsector issues and handle strategic studies which cut across subsectors and
have macroeconomic or environmental implications. It will also strengthen the
process for setting agricultural prices, NCPB/cereal sector planning,
environmental, natural resource conservation and land use planning. The
second component will improve land administration, valuation, registration,
titling, and land information systems. The third component will develop links
between planning divisions of MOA and MOLD and other departments within each
ministry, improve data availability, and enhance project appraisal/analysis
methods and annual and mid-term reviews of public investment programs. The
fourth component will, among other things, improve data collection on
fertilizer matters, strengthen the flow of information of information and
analysis, and lead to better estimation of demand. Terms of reference for the
technical assistance proposed have been agreed between the Government and IDA.
80.         The policy analysis component will be coordinated by a unit in the
Ministry of Planning and National Development. A training institution, using
local advisers to the extent possible, will be engaged to plan training
courses in Kenya for policy analysis staff, design arrangements for improving
data collection, and implement the technical assistance and training in the
Ministries of Finance, Agriculture, Livestock Development, and Supplies and
I/ Agriculture; Livestock Development; Cooperative Development; Supplies and
Marketing; Environment and Natural Resources (including Forestry); Reclamation
and Development of Arid and Semi Arid Areas and Wastelands; Research, Science
and Technology; Lands and Housing; and Regional Development.



- 29 -
Marketing. The component will provide funds for limited in-service degree
training both in Kenya and outside, as well as for computers and other
equipment for improving data collection and analysis. The cost of this
component is estimated to be US$3.8 million, spread over four years.
81.         The land policy and administration component will be implemented
by the Department of Lands of the Ministry of Lands, Housing, and Physical
Planning. It will comprise short term, non-degree, and in-country training
for the Department's staff in both headquarters and districts, technical
assistance to help with the training program and to develop an action plan for
improving land policy and administration, and equipment in support of the
action plan. The Credit will provide about US$0.3 million as an initial time
slice of a larger program.
82.         The public expenditure component will be implemented in the
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development. It will comprise
strengthening of the Project Development and Monitoring Division (PDMD) in the
MOA, and the Project Management Unit (PMU) iu the MOLD, as well as the
accounting functions in both ministries. The PDMD will be reorganized,
expanded in size and in reach, with the appointment of staff to the Provinces.
These field staff will upgrade the flow of information from projects under
implementation, and the capacity will be increased for analysis of this
information both in the field and at HQ. A similar process will take place
for the PMU, whose staff establishment will be expanded significantly.
Accounting functions will be improved by training clerical staff in District
offices to enable holders of Authority to Tncur Expenditures (ATEs) to achieve
timely submission of reliable monthly expenditure returns. The component will
support improvements in data coding and computer hardware and software to
enhance District reporting. At HQ, the accounting divisions in the two
ministries will replace manual accounting processes with computerized systems,
and standard procedures for carrying out various operations, such as advance
deposit accounts, will be upgraded. Training for staff in the finance,
accounting and supplies divisions will be supported. The component is
estimated to cost US$3 million, spread over four years.
83.         In the fertilizer sector, training will be supported for HQ staff
of the new Inputs Branch of the MOA (in fertilizer policies, marketing and
technology, and data processing); District extension staff (workshops on
fertilizer technology and appropriate extension packages), farmers (two day
workshops at Farmer Training Centers), dealers (short courses for senior staff
of suppliers, District level workshops for stockists covering especially
management and accounting, and national seminars), soil analysis (graduate
fellowships in soil science, post graduate courses in soil analysis
techniques, and local courses for laboratory technicians), and subsector
leaders. Short term consultancies will be financed to assist with specific
tasks for which in-house expertise is lacking. Among others, this is likely
to include developing a training program, designing data collection and
processing, specifying fertilizer standards, designing quality control
measures and regulations, studying the nutrient status of soils, and
elaborating guidelines for operating soil testing laboratories, developing
District action plans and reviewing the fertilizer program at mid-term. The
component is estimated to cost US$2.7 million, spread over four years.



- 30 -
Letter of Sectoral Policy
84.         While the conditionality of the proposed operation concentrates on
the areas outlined above (as a result of lessons learned from the first
Operation about focusing on fewer areas), the Government's Letter of Sectoral
Policy (attached) provides a more comprehensive overview of ongoing and
for hcoming sector reforms. The Letter reflects progress made in studies
under way on the dairy sector, which will lead to restructuring the dairy
industry, with a new role for Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC), increased
participation by private traders and cooperatives in milk collection,
processing and marketing, and improved pricing arrangements which will lead in
the direction of de-regulation. The Letter also covers Government's
initiatives in the areas of natural resource management, particularly related
to arid and semi-arid land, wildlife and forestry, besides dealing with the
direction of reforms in land policy and legislation. In addition, the Letter
describes commitments for an improved coffee payment system through
cooperatives (which is receiving financial support from IDA under the Second
Coffee Improvement Project), the improved cotton pricing and payment system
associated with divestiture of the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
(CLSMB), and Government's objectives in the sugar subsector.
Ownership and Commitment
85.         During preparation, a sectoral ministry was identified as the lead
Government agency for each specific reform area. This helped to create
*ownership, in the agency nominated for leadership. This leadership role will
be built upon during project execution, through intensive supe.vision and
implementation assistance by Bank staff in the Resident Mission.
86.         Broad support to the reform program has also been obtained from
donors, again working with specific donors for specific reforms (e.g. the EC
and USAID for maize, USAID for fertilizer, and DANIDA for dairying).
Preparation also involved discussions with private sector and cooperative
fertilizer importers and distributors, as well as private sector maize traders
and millers. A constituency for the major elements of the reform program has
thus developed outside Government.
PART III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. BACKGROUND
87.         When the first agricultural sector adjustment operation was
completed in 1988, IDA carried out five related studies in preparation for the
next phase. First, the Project Completion Report (August, 1989) on the first
operation outlined lessons of that experience upon which the second operation
would draw. Second, a Project Performance Audit Re?ort by OED was issued on
August 22, 1990. Third, under its sector work program, studies were completed
by IDA on Agricultural Growth Prospects (March, 1990), Rural Finance (January,
1990), and Food and Nutrition Policy (January, 1990). At the same time, the
Government was preparing its own study on Household Food Security and
Nutrition Policy (prepared in draft by June, 1988, and released September,
1990). At Government's request, preparation of the second adjustment
operation began during FY89, and various studies were undertaken subsequently



- 31 -
of particular aspects of cereal sector reforms, fertilizer development and the
public sector investment program. In November, 1989 a joint Government-IDA
workshop was held, attended by Permanent Secretaries and key officials of
twelve ministries, in which the components of the proposed operation were
discussed in depth. An IDA mission to appraise the proposed Credit began in
late June, 1990, and negotiations took place in Washington in November, 1990.
Supplementary data on processing of the Credit are in Annex II.
B. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
88.         Deepening economic adjustment is critical if Kenya is to achieve
the growth targets Government has set for the country, as described in the
Section above on Country Assistance Strategy. Because of its role in
leadership and coordination, and its ability to link macroeconomic concerns
with project investment initiatives, IDA has a comparative advantage among the
donors in supporting adjustment, and has been doing so across the board in the
second half of the 19809. IDA is well placed to reinforce the domestic forces
which advocate the sectoral reforms, and to continue to promote the
Government's ownership of the reform programs which are advocated by donors.
The Bank's and IDA's share of Kenya's total debt is such that IDA must
continue to have a comprehensive policy dialogue with the country's
authorities. The adjustment measures being undertaken are designed to raise
the productivity of private sector investments in smallholder agriculture,
grain marketing and input supply, while also increasing the rate of return
from the public sector investment program in agriculture. IDA's support for
adjustment thus provides an umbrella for both its own investment projects and
those of all the other donors.
C. USE OF THE PROCEEDS
89.         It is proposed that the IDA Credit of US$75 million will be
allocated as followss
Indicative Amount
(US$ million)
Agricultural Imports                                    67 (89Z)
Sectoral Management Support                             8 (112)
Total             75 (1002)
90.         The component for agricultural imports is estimated to contribute
2.9Z towards external financing requirements estimated at US$2,315 million
during the 1991-1992 period (Annex IV, Table 1). It comprises approximately
2.52 of projected imports for 1991 and 1992, and 7.92 of the projected public
sector deficit for the same two years. Foreign exchange will be sold at the
exchange rate prevailing at the time of allocation (the Kenya Shilling is
pegged to a basket of currencies of the country's main trading partners, and
fluctuates against individual currencies). Imports eligible for financing
from the Credit include (with indicative amounts in brackets): fertilizers
(US$25 m); agricultural chemicals and seeds (US$10 m); agricultural machinery,
equipment, and spare parts (US$20 m); veterinary supplies (US$2 m); and



- 32 -
petroleum products (US$10 m). The amount allocated for financing imports of
petroleum products reflects increased costs of fuel imports in view of the
recent crisis in the Gulf, and a list of agricultural chemicals eligible for
financing was agreed at negotiations. With respect to pesticides, only those
agreed by IDA as suitable for use under the conditions prevailing in Kenya
will be permitted to be purchased with credit provided through the Operation.
91.         The first ASAO was cofinanced by the EC, the Saudi Fund, and the
Governments of Japan, the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of Germany, and
Denmark, providing in all US$155 million equivalent on soft terms or as grants
in addition to the IDA funding. A significant proportion of these funds was
mobilized during Implementation of the operation. It is anticipated that
several other donors will participate in financing the proposed operation,
among them the African Development Bank (ADB), the Federal Republic of Germany
(KfW), the United Kingdom (ODA), the Netherlands, and Japan (OECF). Total
cofinancing is currently expected to be in the vicinity of US$100 million
equivalent. The African Development Bank will also participate in financing
the capacity building component. In general, conditions of disbursements for
funds from these donors will be similar to those outlined above for the IDA
Credit.
92.         Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of
the funds while ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process.
Imports by Government and the private sector will follow international
c spetitive bidding for amounts exceeding US$2 million equivalent. For
amounts below US$2 million: (a) Government will follow public procurement
procedures, which have been reviewed and are acceptable to IDA; they would
seek three price quotations, a procedure generally followed in Kenya; and (b)
private sector purchases would follow established commercial practices;
wherever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two
countries would be sought. Direct contracting (single source purchase) would
be allowed only for proprietary equipment or where the need for compatibility
with existing equipment calls for standardization. Expert agencies already
carry out pre-shipment inspection to certify goods in respect of quality,
quantity and price; continu& n of this service would be ensured for this
Sector Adjustment Operation. Consultants for sector management support (US$8
million) would be recruited in accordance with IDA guidelines for the
employment and use of consultants.
93.         Disbursements.  That part of the Credit allocated to suppoit
Sector Management (US$8 million) will become available at Credit
Effectiveness, and is expected to be disbursed over a four year period. The
component allocated for imports will be released in two tranches, each of
US$33.5 million. The first tranche will be released upon credit effectiveness
(expected about March, 1991), and the second upon fulfillment of agreed
conditions listed in Annexes I and I1, and in Schedule 3 of the Development
Credit Agreement. The second tranche is expected to be released about 12
months after the first tranche. Project disbursements are estimated at US$34
million in FY91, US$36 million in FY92, US$2.5 million in FY93, and US$2.5
million in FY94. The closing date is December 31, 1995.
94.         The proceeds of the proposed credit (US$ 75 million in total) will
be used for financing agricultural imports and fuel, and for sectoral
management support as detailed. These will be reimbursed at 100 percent of



- 33 -
their CIF cost. Provision has been made for retroactive financing of
expenditures on imports incurred up to four months prior to signing of the
Credit, for an aggregate amount not exceeding US$13 million.
95.         To facilitate disbursement, assurances were obtained from the
Government that two special accounts will be established in the name of the
Central Bank of Kenya in a corresponding off-shore commercial bank. At credit
effectiveness, an initial deposit of US$5 million will be made into the
account for the quick disbursing component, and US$0.5 million into the
account for the capac'ty building component. The quick disbursing account
will be replenished regularly up to the limit of the first tranche.
Replenishment will be made on the basis of fully documented reimbursement
applications, except for expenditures under US$100,000, which will be on the
basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs). The Central Bank will forward
documentation to the External Resources Department of Treasury, which will be
responsible for maintaining accounts and preparing withdrawal applications;
the SOEs will indicate the nature and origin of the goods, as well as the
payment date, and Treasury will maintain all relevant supporting documentation
(invoices, customs declarations and evidence of payment) for review by
supervision missions. Expenditures covered by the IDA credit will be in
accordance with normal IDA rules. The Central Bank will receive interest and
bear the foreign exchange risk on its own account. Payments from the account
nevertheless will be made only on the instructions of the Foreign Exchange
Allocation Committee.
96.         The Treasury's External Resources Department will keep the
Operation accounts, which will comprise: a record of drawings on the Credit
with copies of all disbursement requests and underlying documentation; a
record of transactions on the Special Account and copies of the Central Bank
statements of these accounts; and a record of transactions on the counterpart
fund accounts and documentation relating to these transactions. These records
will be updated on a daily basis; monthly statements of transactions and
balances together with necessary recommendations (e.g. disbursement claims in
process) will be prepared and forwarded to IDA. The External Resources
Department will arrange for an annual audit by auditors acceptable to IDA
within twelve months after credit effectiveness and annually thereafter. The
accounts and auditor's report will be submitted to IDA not less than six
months following the end of the financial year. The auditor's report will
include an opinion on the operation of the Special Account and a separate
specific reference to the use of SOEs. Assurances on the above arrangements
for accounts and audit were obtained at negotiations.
D. MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND IMPLEMENTATION
97.         The Ministry of Finance (MOP) will have the overall responsibility
for coordinating the adjustment program. A Steering Committee of Permanent
Secretaries chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance will
provide guidance and monitor overall progress. The committee includes
representatives from ministries and corporations participating in the
operation. The Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development will
implement reforms in public expenditure and the Ministry of Agriculture will
execute the reforms in the fertilizer sector. In its capacity as
administrative head of NCPB, the Ministry of Supplies and Marketing will be



- 34 -
involved in the execution of maize subsector adjustment measures. The OP,
MPND and MOA will implement measures related to vulnerable groups, and drought
preparedness.
98.         To assist the Steering Committee in assessing progress of ASAO II,
the Policy Analysis Division of the Ministry of Planning will have overall
responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of the key actions, as part of an
on-going project funded by UNDP and IDA ("Monitoring and Evaluation of
Agriculture and Rural Development Strategies Project", initiated in 1989 as
part of the IDA-supported Rural Services Design Project). This project will
also help institutionalize within Government a greater capacity to monitor and
evaluate follow-up phases of sectoral adjustments, and therefore help sustain
them in future years. The Steering Committee will submit semi-annual progress
reports to IDA on the implementation of the adjustment program. The purpose
is to provide feedback on effectiveness of policy and institutional changes
and identify problems in a timely manner. These reports will be the basis for
discussion with IDA supervision missions. An assurance that the reports as
described would be submitted to IDA was obtained at negotiations.
99.         There will be a need periodically to review progress and report on
implementation of individual components. The policy reforms will change the
role and financial requirements of NCPB. It is essential to monitor NCPB's
performance, particularly against the provisions of its Performance Contract.
NCPB will submit half-yearly performance reviews which will be discussed
between NCPB, the Ministry of Supplies and Marketing, and Treasury, and then
submitted to IDA. Project portfolios of MOA and MOLD need to be reviewed at
regular intervals. A half yearly report on the project portfolio review will
therefore be submitted to IDA. Fertilizer availability, use and prices will
need to be monitored. The MOA will provide IDA with half yearly reports on
the country's fertilizer situation covering inter alia imports, sales, prices
and stocks. Assurances that reports as described will be submitted to IDA
were obtained at negotiations.
100.        The Development Planning Division, the Inputs Unit in MOA, the
Development Planning Division and PMU in MOLD, and the Policy Analysis
Division in the Ministry of National Planning and Development (MPND) will
carry out the monitoring functions described above. The Finance and Accounts
Divisions in both MOA and MOLD will be responsible for budget management and
expenditure control. The DPDs in MOA and MOLD and other units will be
suitably strengthened under the training and TA component of the proposed
operation, to handle the monitoring of policy and institutional changes. Each
of these implementing agencies will prepare and submit to IDA semi-annual
reports on progress with the capacity building component. Assurances that
reports as described would be submitted to IDA were obtained at negotiations.
E. BENEFITS AND COSTS
101.        The operation supports the growth, employment and stabilization
objectives of the Government's reform program. In particular, the operation
contains policy measures which are essential if a growth rate of over 4Z per
year for agriculture is to be attained.



- 35 -
102.        Agricultural growth will be promoted through: (a) increased use of
fertilizer; (b) a more competitive marketing system particularly for maize;
(c) improved incentives for maize farmers; (d) increased returns to sectoral
public investment programs; and (e) enhanced productivity of key agricultural
services, particularly extension, research and animal health. Fertilizer
sector reforms are expected to increase availability to farmers at a cheaper
price. Increased efficiency of NCPB and an expanded role for private traders
are expected to reduce marketing margins and contribute to higher producer and
lower consumer prices.  By increasing the share of private traders and cash
transactions, maize marketing reforms will result in more prompt payments for
farmers and hence higher incentives to intensify production. Removal of
movement controls on maize will encourage domestic trade between surplus and
deficit areas, and lead to greater competitiveness and efficiency in
marketing.
103.        NCPB reforms will reduce its overall requirements for credit and
increase the efficiency of credit use. Increased accountability and cost
effectiveness in NCPB operations is expected to contribute to more efficient
use of public resources and reduced transfers from the Government budget.
Reforms in public expenditures in the two major sectoral ministries,
Agriculture and Livestock Development, will contain the growth in outlays for
personnel costs and contribute to improving the performance of key
agricultural services.
104.        The proposed reforms will contribute to increased incomes of a
large number of smallholders and thus to reduction of poverty in rural areas.
In addition, the proposed food security action plan will channel increased
resources to address problems of vulnerable po :lation groups. The monitoring
and evaluation system will enable Government to identify possible adverse
effects and transitional costs of reform measures, and adopt targeted remedial
measures.
105.        Related benefits include strengthened capacity to plan, implement,
monitor and evaluate sectoral policies, programs and projects. Improved
budgetary procedures will lead to a more timely flow of funds to priority
sectoral investments and key services, thus increasing returns from public
resources. The proposed operation will also lead to better coordinated donor
support which will enable the Government to focus efforts on key strategic
areas.
106.        The main costs which may occur as a result of the operation are
related to the reduction in growth of public sector and parastatal employment,
and possible reductions in real incomes for particular groups in marginal
areas, as subsidies implicit in NCPB's loss-making activities are withdrawn.
It is anticipated that the agreed public expenditure norms which will increase
the ratio of non-salary operating expenditures to the total in the Ministries
of Agriculture and Livestock Development, will result in a slowing of the
increase in recruitment to these two Ministries. At the same time, to achieve
the efficiencies expected of it, the NCPB will have to shed a significant
proportion of its staff. The measures in public investment will include
efforts to reduce the intake of training institutions whose output of students
traditionally is destined for the public sector in agriculture.



- 36 -
107.        It is expected that liberalizing the grain trade will open up
considerable employment opportunities in the private sector, and the numbers
of parastatal staff to be laid off are small in relation to the total labor
market. The Government has established an Employment Commission to examine
ways of stimulating employment in the economy. Its report is expected during
1991. As part of the conditionality of the project, the Government has
commenced a study of the grain market reforms, with the aim of identifying any
adverse impacts of these reforms upon vulnerable groups, and taking measures
necessary to alleviate such impact.
Environmental Imact
108.        By providing incentives for intensifying production in higher
potential areas, the operation will relieve pressure on the less productive,
arid and semi-arid lands, which are more susceptible to environmental damage
from inappropriate cropping practices and overgrazing with livestock. More
specifically, the operation includes provisions for soil testing throughout
the agricultural areas, with the aim of improving the environmentally sound
use of fertilizers, making fertilizer recommendations appropriate to each
agro-ecological zone, and ameliorating soils which may have become too acidic
from past fertilizer use. Untder the operation, projects in the public
investment program will be selected on the basis of environmental as well as
economic criteria. Furthermore, under the operation IDA will monitor progress
on the new forestry policy (which is also being supported by the Forestry
Development Program), on the Government's proposed Sessional Paper on arid and
semi-arid lands, and on the emerging policy framework for wildlife
conservation and development.
F. RISKS
109.        The main risks are: (a) fragmented and unsustained government
commitment and limited capacity to implement the reform program in a timely
manner; (b) opposition by vested interests to specific reform measures; and
(c) lack of the anticipated private sector response.
110.        As noted above, following release of the second tranche of ASAO 1,
the Government's attention to the policy reforms flagged noticeably, and in
spite of serious efforts made over a number of years, it has proven difficult
to sustain the Government's policy analysis capability by keeping qualified
persons working in the public sector. There is always the possibility that
adverse weather conditions could be used by Government to stall reforms, or
even reverse them. To reduce the risk of fragmentation, a Steering Committee
chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Treasury will coordinate actions by
several ministries, and oversee implementation of the reform program.
Furthermore, the Technical Review Committee which meets regularly to monitor
reforms in the cereals sector will continue its activities. These two
committees will sustain a process of consultation among the ministries,
established at the workshop in 1989 which debated the adjustment operation In
detail. In addition, technical assistance and training provided under the
Credit will strengthen capacity in several key ministriesiagencies to
formulate and implement reform measures   It is anticipated that as markets
for cereals and agricultural Inputs continue to be liberalized, there will
build up private sector pressure groups which will resist actively attempts by



- 37 -
the public sector to over-regulate them. Although the reforms can take place
only gradually, eventually sufficient momentum will have been created to make
it more difficult for them to be reversed than for the reforms to proceed.
The risks of *ownership' have been addressed by a participatory preparation
process (made possible at least in part by the presence of staff in the Bank's
Resident Mission), which included a high level workshop with all concerned
Permanent Secretaries, to agree on the agenda for the operation. Intensive
supervision, largely by staff of the Bank's Resident Mission, will have as a
major objective maintaining commitment to reforms.
ill.        Some specific reform measures touch upon sensitive issues and may
encounter opposition. For example, maize reserve stocks and movement controls
are linked to a deeply held belief in the concept of self-sufficiency, not
only for the country as a whole but also often within boundaries of a
district, and fear of cereals moving across the country's borders.
Elimination of movement controls may also be resisted because of losses of
substantial *rents', especially at District level. Reforms in the imports and
marketing of fertilizer have been resisted for similar reasons. Some of the
fears about maize movement have been alleviated by providing for Government to
re-introduce movement controls temporarily in the event of a major drought
emergency. It is also expected that the benefits of the liberalization will
manifest themselves as the reforms bear fruit. The rationalization of public
expenditures, particularly redressing imbalances between salary and non-salary
operating expenses, will be difficult in the absence of a clear government
policy to restrain public employment. Effective implementation also involves
a decision on intake policies at universities and training institutes.
112.        If the reforms do not result in an adequate response from the
private sector, the Government may have an incentive to reverse the reforms,
or neglect their implementation. This applies especially to development of a
viable, competitive private sector distribution system for fertilizer.
Because of the relatively small quantities involved, there is always the
danger that large business interests may drive smaller competitors out of the
market. Because fertilizer is such an important input, the Government will be
tempted to interfere if the private sector does not appear to be importing
enough, or if other bottlenecks appear in the distribution system. The
operation seeks to build a monitoring system, and a sharing of information,
which will make the market more transparent and well understood, together with
a framework of consultation between private and public sector which should
allow each side to air its concerns in a way which would head off adverse
reactions by either. It is anticipated that continued development of the
financial sector under the ongoing financial sector adjustment program will
assist with ensuring a private sector response to policy changes.
PART IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND CREDIT CONDITIONS
113.        The following agreements and assurances were obtained at
negotiations:
(a) terms of reference for the techiacal assistance for building policy
analysis capacity were agreed (para. 79);



- 38 -
(b) the positive list of imports, including petroleum products, and the
agricultural chemicals eligible for financing were agreed (para. 90).
(c) the Government will open and operate two Special Accounts, according
to procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 95);
td) accounting and auditing procedures, satisfactory to IDA, will be
followed (para. 96); and
(e) procedures for progress reporting, satisfactory to IDA, will be
followed, and reports as described submitted to IDA (paras. 98-100).
114.        As a condition for release of the second tranche of the quick-
disbursing portion of the Credit, the Government would implement the measures
described in the Policy Matrix attached to the Government's Letter of Sectoral
Policy (Annex I), and summarized in Annex II.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
115.        I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed Credit.
Attachments
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
December 14, 1990



- 39 -
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
ANNEX I
LETTER OF SECTORAL POLICY AND
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS



- 41 -                    ANNEX
Page 1 of 15
REPUBLIC OPF KNYA
OFFICE OF THE VICE-PRESIDENT AND MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Telgephic AreU:                                                      TH'E TRESURY
FINANCE-NAIROBI                                                         P.O. ox 3000
Telephone: 338111                                                        HAl tOI
When replying please uote            aE  A
R*t usoZZ 40/42S/OI 1lr
Pe. W............
and date                                           23rd    November
Mr. Barber B. Conable,
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Conable,
i. The Government of Kenya is seeking further assistance from
the World Bank in support of its agricultural sector adjustment.
The purpose of this letter is to outline the long-term objectives
and rationale of the programme and to set out the further
adjustments which the government intends to undertake In the next
phase of the programme.
I.  DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
2. Kenya's development strategy for the remainder of this
century is contained in the Government's 1986 Sessional Paper on
Economic Management for Renewed Growth. The strategy emphasizes
the importance of financial stabilization and economic
adjustment, and stresses the dominant role of the private sector
in revitalizing the economy and the need for the Government to
establish market-based incentives to promote private sector
activity. Emphasis is being place on increased productivity in
agriculture and in rural non-farm activity, a dynamic informal
sector, and the restructuring of industrial incentives to
eliminate the existing anti-export bias and to improve export
competitiveness.
Macroeconomic Policy Framework
3. Within the context of this strategy, the objectives and
policies to be pursued in the years ahead are set out in the
Sixth Development Plan (1989-1993) and in the Third Policy
Framework Paper (1990-92) and the recently agreed revisions with



- 42 -                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 15
the International Monetary Fund; the PFP was prepared by the
Government in collaboration with the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund. The key macroeconomic objectives
included reducing the rate of inflation from just over '0 percent
in 1989 to the level expected for Kenya's trading partners by
1992 strengthening the balance of payments, and progressively
reducing the current account deficit excluding official transfers
to a sustainable level.  The Gulf crisis and its consequence
pressure on the balance of payments, which gave rise to the
recent revisions, have undermined the PFP targets over the next
couple of years. The Government budget deficit will now be
reduced to (2.5 percent of GDP 4n 1990/91 and 2.0 percent in
1991/92), with the public invest-tent reflecting in its size and
composition clearly defined and viable priorities. In addition,
the Government intends to implement sector-specific measures to
ensure the attainment of a more ambitious real GDP growth above 5
percent per annum, which would allow a continued increase in per
capita income in spite of a high population growth rate.
Agricultural value added, which grew by an annual average of 4.3
percent in 1987 and 1988, is expected to maintain the high growth
achieved, owing to increased yields primarily on smallholdings.
Manufacturinq value added, which expanded by 5.9 percent annually
durinq 1987 and 1988 is anticipated to grow by an average of 6.4
percent over 1989-92, reflecting the processing of agricultural
products, a gradual recovery in manufacturing exports, and a
revival of manufacturing investment. High economic qrowth is
expected to come mainly from improvement in the efficiency of
investment, particularly in the agricultural and industrial
sectors, while the savings rate is expected to rise slowly during
the programme period mainly reflecting the improved performance
of state corporations and the reform of the financial sector, as
well as the reduction in the budget deficit. The behaviour of
exports will be strongly influenced by the prospects for coffee
and tea as well as tourism, and the evolution of non-traditional
exports. Merchandise export volume is expected to increase on
average by about 6 percent annually in the 1990-92 period, with
manufactured exports increasing by about 7 percent annually in
real terms.
Aaricultural Sector Adiustment
4.   As implied above, rapid and sustainable growth of
agriculture will be a vital component of Kenya's development
strategy well into the future. The agriculture sector accounts
for approximately one-third of gross domestic product, provides
productive employment for the bulk of the work force, provides
all but a small proportion of the nation's food needs, and
remains the largest source of export earnings. Most Kenyans live
and work in rural areas and are dependent either directly or
indirectly on agriculture for their livelihood.



- 43 -                    AI-XI
Pagc 3 of 15
S.   The World Bank provided support for agricultural adjustment
in the oaly 1980s as a component of SAL II and it continued this
support botween 1986 and 1988 under the first Agricultural Sector
Adjustmet Operation (ASAO I). World Bank assistance with the
managememt of adjustment has been provided for the past five
years through the on-going Agricultural Sector 1lanagement
Project. Many important adjustments were undertaken during the
1980s aimed at improving efficiency in the areas of input and
credit supply, crop and livestock production, the pricing and
marketing of agricultural commodities, and public support and
intervention in the agricultural sector. The dchievements have
been comprehensively documented in the project completion reports
of SAL II and ASAO I.
6.   The Government intends to consolidate the adjustments which
have taken place and to undertake a programme of further policy
reform with the aim of promoting agricultural growth by removing
policy constraints, stimulating investment and supporting
institutional development. As with the adjustment programe
under ASAO I, the focus of the new programme will be the breaking
of constraints to production faced by Kenya's small farmers.
These farmers now produce the majority of all the major
aqricultural commodities, including maize, beans, sorghum,
millet, sugar, tea, coffee, rice, horticultural products, milk
and meat.
7.   To achieve the objectives set for the agricultural sector,
the Government will undertake further reform measures in the
following areas:
II. INCENTIVES AND MARKETING
8. The Government of Kenya is committed to continued
implementation of a number of improvements and reforms in the
areas of pricing and marketing. These will contribute to meeting
the objectives of increased agricultural growth particularly
among smallholders and reductions in the public budgetary burden
of various interventions. For this to be achieved, the main
strategies will be: to promote pricing policies which provide
farmers with appropriate and timely incentives and which lead to
an improved allocation of resources within the agricultural
sector and between it and the rest of the economy; to encourage
the role of the private sector in production and marketing; and
to streamline institutional arrangements in the public sector,
particulairly the relevant marketing boards to enable them to play
a facilitating role with minimum budgetary outlays.
9. The Government is giving priority to promoting these
adjustments for the maize subsector as part of the on-going
Cereals Sector Reform Programme (CSRP) which was initiated in
1987. In addition, Government is also formulating and



- 44-                      ANNEXI
Page 4 of 15
implementing specific adjustments involving other key
commodities: dairy products (being addressed through an on-going
Dairy Master Plan Study); coffee (as part of a second phase
coffee development programme); cotton (in accordance with the new
Cotton Act passed in 1988 and the Government's 1988 report:
Policies for the Development of the Cotton Subsector); sugarcane
and sugar (based on an action plan to be developed from the on-
going Sugar Subsector Study). With the aim of sustaining an
appropriate incentive and marketing framework, Government also
plans to continue the strengthening of its capacity for
agricultural policy analysis (including price analysis). This
effort will be supported by technical assistance and training to
be provided under ASAO II.
Naize Mubsector
10. Government reforms in the maize subsector were initiated in
1987 and are currently being continued under the on-going CSRP. A
number of important reforms have already been achieved, including
writing-off the cumulative debt of the National Cereals and
Produce Board, (NCPB), cumulative debt which amounted to some Ksh
5 billion; the partial funding by Government of NCPB's losses;
raising from 2 to 10 the number of bags of maize which can be
moved across district boundaries without a permit; and allowing
sifted maize millers to purchase directly 20 percent of their
throuqhput from cooperatives and private traders. In addition,
the number of NCPB's buying centres have been reduced from 680 to
220 and the number of licensed buying agents and cooperatives has
been increased substantially. The higher and middle level
management of the NCPB has also been replaced with new and more
competent managers and a new organisational structure of the
Board has been adopted.
11. Government objectives in this subsector are three-fold: to
help provide food security by ensuring maize availability at all
times throughout the country, with reasonable price stability and
at minimum cost to the public budget. This will require NCPB to
undertake its functions at an acceptable cost to the economy; to
improve producer incentives and smallholder productivity by
promoting an efficient, competitive and sustainable maize
marketing system; and to protect producers and consumers from
unacceptably low and high prices respectively.
12. These objectives will be fulfilled by (a) consolidating
NCPB's role of buyer and seller of last resort and manager of
maize security reserve stocks in a manner which is efficient and
minimises the budgetary burden, making the full costs of maize
security reserves and maize price stabilisation explicit, and
borne by the public budget (b) increased private-sector
participation in maize marketing whilst ensuring that NCPB is
able to secure sufficient maize to allow it to achieve its food
security objectives at minimum public cost (c) giving priority to



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 15
NCPB's maize and wheat operations (d) improving price signals to
private traders and cooperatives operating in the primary and
secondary markets, with a progressive reliance on market-
determined prices, while ensuring prompt payments to producers and
acceptably stable prices to producers and consumers, and
progressively phasing out the restriction of internal maize
movements.
13. Over the next two years, the following key actions will be
implemented:
(i) Maize Policies and NCPB Operations: Government will
establish a Performance Contract (PC) between Treasury, Ilinistry
of Supplies and Marketi-.g, and NCPB. The Contract will
incorporates
(a) a policy statement on maize and NCPB's role and
responsibilities in regard to maize trading and on principles
governing budgetary support to NCPB;
(b) accounting reforms to segregate NCPB's commercial
operations from its price stabilisation and food security
operations;
(c) reserve stock levels and guidelines for management
thereof;
(d) Government budgetary allocations to compensate NCPB fully
for losses incurred on food security and price stabilisation
operations; and
(e) monitorable NCPB performance targets for achieving
reduced costs.
The Government plans to finalise an initial PC by the end of 1990,
for the period 1991/92 to 1993/94, and to update this PC on an
annual basis to cover a three-year period, taking into account
experience gained.  The Government is committed to implementing
the PC to achieve the stated objectives and targets, which would
be reviewed and updated on an annual basis.
14. (ii) Maize Marketi.s: The Government's strategy is to
liberalise the maize market to increase cooperative and private
trader participation whilst ensuring that the NCPB is able to meet
its food security and financial objectives. On the buying side,
the Government will continue to increase the number and coverage
of licensed buying agents. On the selling side, the Government
plans to reduce further NCPB's assured share of the secondary
market. The precise share guaranteed to the NCPB would need to
take into account NCPB's maize stocks, the required level of stock
turnover and the objective of minimising NCPB losses. To reduce
the budgetary burden on the NCPB, Government would remove minor
crops from NCPB's scheduled list followed by removal of beans in
1991.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 15
15. Government recognises the benefits which have accrued from
relaxing the restrictions on maize movement, particularly in terms
of ensuring increased availability of maize at reduced prices to
consumers. In this context, the problem of availability in remote
areas arising from controls of wholesale and retail margins will
also be addressed. For producers and consumers to achieve full
benefits of this measure, Government plans to remove progressively
all controls on domestic maize movement. The quantity of bags to
be moved without a permit will be increased to 4 metric tonnes by
December, 1990 and to 8 metric tonnes by second tranche release
and eventually to total removal before 1993. To facilitate
achieving the targets and to minimise any possible adverse
effects, Government will: (a) implement its action plan to improve
the mill monitoring system in order to ensure that NCPB maintains
its mandated share in the secondary market; (b) develop and
implement a maize price market information system in order to help
guide NCPB's interventions and thereby help ensure maize
availability throughout the country.
(iii) Maize Pricing: Government will modify its maize pricing
system in a manner which increasingly relies on market-based
determinants while ensuring adequate price stability for producers
and consumers. The pricing improvements will be coordinated with
the marketing reforms outlined above. More specifically, plans
are underway to adopt a price system which would encourage
increased market efficiency and competition by setting an into-
depot price. Eventually, as the maize market is further
liberalised, Government will seek to remove all price controls
from the ex-depot through to the consumer levels, while still
retaining effective interventions by NCPB for the purpose of
stabilising maize prices to producers and consumers.
16. During the transitional period, the Government will in
addition to the above pricing strategies, continue to develop the
empirical basis for setting maize producer price levels employed
in the annual review. This will include the estimation of export
and import parity prices. In developing recommended prices,
account will also be taken of the projected impact of price
changes on NCPB stock levels and on the cost of stockholding.
These methods will be reflected in the analysis for the 1990/91
season, and will be refined further in subsequent seasons.
III. FERTILISER SUBSECTOR
17. Significant advances have been made in the recent past in
terms of the liberalisation of fertiliser marketing and pricing.
In June 1989, the Government approved a policy framework for
pricing and marketing of fertiliser. In pursuance of the approved
policy, the Government decontrolled fertiliser prices completely
with effect from January 1990. This has led to improved
fertiliser use in the smallholder cereals growing areas.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 15
The accessibility to fertilisers by smallholders has also been
improved through the introduction of 10 and 25 kg bags to
supplement the standard 50 kg bags. At present, there are no
fertiliser subsidies in Kenya and its marketing and distribution
within the country is purely in the hands of the private trade
and cooperatives.
18. As no fertiliser is manufactured in Kenya, adequate imports
and availability of the right types of fertilisers, at the right
time, place and at reasonable prices is an important issue. To
promote competition, the Government will abolish the Ministry of
Agriculture's current fertiliser allocation system. Importers of
commercial fertiliser will register with the Ministry (for data
collection purposes) when they submit applications to import to
the Ministry of Commerce. Government will move fertilisers from
Schedule 2 of the import licensing schedule to Schedule 1 at the
time of the next annual revision. To capture some economies of
scale in international purchase of fertilisers, as well as in
ocean freights, small importers will be encouraged to group
together by prescribing reasonable minimum shipment sizes for
major fertiliser products. This would save the country
considerable foreign exchange, and through competition in
domestic trade, reduce fertilizer prices and improve the
economics of fertiliser use particularly by smallholders. A
study will be carried out to determine suitable institutional
mechanisms in the private sector to fully capture the economies
of scale in fertiliser importation and shipment.
19. The Government supports direct import of aid fertilisers by
private traders with Government only having to set a reasonable
price for aid fertilisers to generate counterpart funds. The
initiatives of donors towards commodity import programmes e.g.
USAID and Netherlands, are fully supported by the Government.
The problems of handling aid fertilisers will be reviewed in some
depth and donors will be consulted in this respect. An Issues
Paper will be prepared and views exchanged with IDA by mid-
February 1991.
20. It is recognised that in a liberalised market, with the
private sector handling fertiliser importation, distribution and
pricing, and government pursuing the national objectives of
agricultural growth through measures which include a considerably
expanded use of fertiliser, the establishment of an institutional
framework for free flow of information and regular consultation
between the trade and Government is important. Periodic review
of fertiliser related issues by Government with the private
sector and cooperatives at the district and nationaL levels would
assist government in establishing and maintaining an appropriate
incentive framework for fertiliser use to expand. For this
reason, Fertiliser Development Committees, will be set up at the
national level and Fertiliser Coordinating Committees established
at the district level. Both Committees will have private sector



- 48 -
ANNE 1
Page 8 of 15
and cooperative representatives and will be consultative and
advisory in nature. It is expected that such interaction between
the fertiliser trade, agricultural extension, research and other
government agencies will result in improved importation,
distribution and increased fertiliser use by farmers.
21. The institutional arrangements in government to handle the
wide spectrum of fertiliser issues will need to be streamlined
and strengthened. The donor fertiliser import function will be
unified in the Ministry of Agriculture, with the Treasury only
providing liaison with donors and retaining responsibility for
the collection of counterpart funds. The Inputs Unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture will be strengthened and relocated under
the Director of Agriculture. Subject matter specialists in soil
and fertiliser will be designated in the districts to support the
field extension, work. Government intends to prepare in the
coming few months, jointly with private sector, District Action
Plans for promotion of scientific and environmentally safe
fertilizer use duly supported by activities like soil testing and
training to fertiliser retailers and farmers. These steps would
considerably improve the environment for the expansion of
fertiliser use through private sector initiatives. Based on
these proposals, fertiliser related data base will be expanded
from the district level upwards and arrangements will be made for
flow of relevant information from the district throuqh to
headquarters.
22. Soil acidity is emerging as an issue in the limited areas of
medium to high potential agricultural lands in Kenya. A study
will be mounted in 1990/91 in order to establish the current
status of the soils, and to initiate ameliorative steps as early
as possible. Depending upon the outcome of such a study, the
government would initiate well focused research programmes to
develop site specific ameliorative measures.
IV. PUBLIC BMXpNDITURU
23. Public Investment and Dudgeting: Considerable progress has
been made in recent years to improve the efficiency of public
resource allocation and use within the agricultural and livestock
sectors.  Under the Government's Budget Rationalization Program
(BRP) a forward budget and planning process is now well-
established in both ministries which has improved allocative
efficiency. The BRP has also established guidelines for project
selection. Administrative reforms such as computerization of the
budget estimates have also been firmly established.
Institutional reforms have also been achieved including the
establishment of a project monitoring and evaluation unit in each
ministry. Listed below are the actions to be undertaken during
ASAO I1 to improve the ministries' financial management.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 15
24. Maintaining Levels of Financial Support. Despite public
xpenditure cutbacks, support to the agricultural sector has
remained constant in real terms for the past five years (at 10%
of total public expenditure). In the Ministry of Agriculture and
the Ministry of Livestock Development (which form part of the
sector) the composition of financial support in terms of the
ratio of operating and maintenance expenditures (O&M) to salary
expenditure has deteriorated. The deterioration in O&M
expenditures is one of the most significant factors reducing the
performance of the two ministries. For Fiscal Year 1991/92, the
Ministry of Agriculture will be allocated in real terms an
additional 4.4 percent of its 1990/91 net recurrent estimates and
the Ministry of Livestock Development will be allocated in real
terms an additional 6.3 percent of its 1990/91 net recurrent
estimate. Further allocations would be made in the 1992/93
estimates to compensate for the shortfall in the recurrent budget
of the two ministries.
25. Rationalization of the Investment Portfolio.   Experience
has shown that the financial resources and ministerial staff are
spread too thinly to ensure prompt and effective implementation
of projects. During the ASAO II, the portfolio of projects will
be rationalized to ensure more rapid completion and adequate
follow-on recurrent cost support. Appropriate criteria for
project selection will be developed and a core set of projects
will be identified for full funding to ensure prompt
implementation. The ministries will also establish a project
secretariat to ensure that the portfolio is rationalized.
26. Improved Budgeting of Recurrent Costs. The ministries will
develop and adopt budgeting norms to ensure that operating and
maintenance (0&X) costs are adequately funded. A budget
secretariat will be established to ensure allocative efficiency,
with particular attention to recurrent costs.
27.  Development of Staffing Norms.  Both ministries will develop
explicit staffing norms by service which will guide the
recruitment and deployment of personnel. The norms thus
developed will help determine Treasury salary ceilings and non-
salary (O&M) recurrent cost budget allocations.
28. Improved Financial Monitoring. To more effectively manage
financial resources, the ministries will budget on the basis of
cost centres. At the same time, expenditure reporting will be
improved by developing a computerized financial information
system in the two ministries which tracks district level
expenditures. Particular emphasis will be given to the prompt
recording of direct donor payments.
29.  Improved Projeot Management.  Project management will be
improved by the expansion and strengthening of the ministries'
current Project Monitoring and Evaluation Units. These units



- 50 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 15
will be given a managerial role and will serve as backstoppers
for projects. All administrative, evaluative, and financial data
concerning a project will flow into the units thus providing a
central source for project Informatior.. A computerized Project
Performance Reporting System (PPRS) for timely monitoring of
projects will be developed. Project management will be further
strengthened by the establishment of a ministerial project
secretariat which will review periodically progress of projects
using the PPRS.
30.  Privatization and User Pess.   Several initiatives have been
made in recent years to privatise various services in the two
ministries. Under ASAO II the services of the two ministries
will be reviewed further to determine their potential for
privatization and the financial impact of such changes. The
ministries will also review services which presently charge user
fees or could potentially charge fees to determine appropriate
charges.
V. WOOD BECURITY
31. The central objective of national policy is to address
poverty through agricultural and economic growth which reaches
the poorer groups. This will be achieved by creating conditions
for faster development of the agricultural sector which encourage
the participation of the smallest farmers, and by creating
productive employment opportunities outside agriculture,
especially in rural areas. To accelerate the growth of
smallholder agriculture, the Government will give high priority
to agricultural research which addresses the constraints faced by
such farmers, take steps to increase the uptake of fertilisers,
and improve incentives through accelerating the payment of
farmers and continuing with the liberalisation of markets,
especially by progressively removing controls on cereals
marketing. To accelerate growth of employment opportunities, the
Government will increase investments, especially in rural areas,
in the basic infrastructure of roads and transport services,
electric power, water supply and communications. As a further
contribution to the generation of employment opportunities,
especially for low income groups, an increasing proportion of
this basic infrastructure will be put in place through programmes
of public works using labour-intensive construction techniques.
32. A policy paper on food security prepared by the Ministries
of Agriculture and Livestock Development has been completed and
commented upon by other ministries. The paper entitled "Household
Food Security and Nutrition Policy" covers, inter alia, actions
relating to the management of food security during and after
periods of drought. It also makes recommendations for the
coordination and allocation of responsibilities within the
Government for food security. Also under preparation is a system
for monitoring the impact of grain marketing reforms currently



- 51. -
ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 15
being developed by the Ministry of Supplies and Marketing
together with NCPB. The Ministry of Planning and National
Development will be responsible for a broader monitoring
programe aimed at isolating the impact of economic reform
measures, particularly on vulnerable low income groups. Action
plans for assisting groups at risk will be developed in more
detail with responsibilities being allocated in accordance with
the institutional framework agreed on the basis of the Household
Food Security and Nutrition Paper. A drought contingency plan
will form part of the new system of food security management.
VI. DAIRY 8BD8BCTOR
33.  The Government's objectives in the dairy subsector are
primarily to increase milk production in order to meet growing
domestic demand and to promote a more efficient and competitive
dairy industry, particularly in milk collection, processing and
marketing. The main strategies to be implemented are: to promote
productivity increases especially among smallholders; and to
reform the milk pricing and marketing systems in a phased manner
which, (i) revises the role of Kenya Cooperatives Creameries,
(KCC); (ii) makes the KCC more efficient through its ownership
and management and a revised role in providing adequate price
stability; (iii) increases competition in milk processing and
marketing; and (iv) increases flexibility in the pricing system
to respond to domestic market forces within the bounds set by
parity prices, with the eventual goal of price decontrol.
34. The Government, in 1989, initiated steps to streamline the
operations of the KCC, and in early 1990, the Dairy Masterplan
Study was launched. The first phase of the study, which focuses
on improved strategies, policies and institutional reforms has
been completed. The second phase of the study, which is expected
to end in December 1990, focuses on the formulation of detailed
implementation plans of the policy reforms and a dairy investment
programme over the next 10 to 15 years.
35. Government would prepare a Dairy Development policy paper by
March which would outline the revised policies and key
supporting actions for restructuring Kenya's dairy industry.
Government would also formulate the supporting action plans by
early May 1991, including a timetable for implementing these
policies. It is expected that these would include the following
key actions over the next five years.
36. Increased Vroduction: Implementation of an action plan to
intensify milk production in smallholder farms with an emphasis
on improved dairy research, breeding programmes, extension and
animal health programmes, including the expanded role of private
veterinary and A.I services. These action plans and the timetable
would be finalised by May 1991.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 15
37.  Iun1ug.JaZ *crss Government's long term target is to
restructure the processing industry into a series of producer-
based cooperatives and private ventures which eventually would be
competing for the growing milk market. This structure would be
reached by key short and long term actions which will involve the
revision of KCC's role and structure, promotion of competition
and proper sequencing of pricing and marketing reforms.
38.  Pricin VA Ete: In reviewing the milk price, Government
would improve the criteria of milk pricing, which would be based
on improved data collection, analysis of market conditions and
take account of parity prices. These improvements would be
reflected in the price analysis and announcement for the 1991
price review, with further improvements in subsequent years.
39. &MI&&= zLZX hanajs: The Government will review the
relevant legislation involving the dairy industry to remove
restrictions on the establishment of new processing plants,
subject to the maintenance of hygienic standards. Initially, the
Government plans to remove such restrictions in 1991 for all
areas outside Nairobi and Mombasa. The role of the Kenya Dairy
Board will be revised to support the effective implementation of
the new policies with emphasis on ensuring the maintenance of
hygienic standards, and monitoring the implementation of the
revised policies of the dairy industry.
vII * A   PLIO? m         BLATIO
40. It is the policy of the Government that the land rights of
agricultural producers should be secured and protected by the
state. Furthermore that the conduct of land use should reflect
sound principles of management and environmental sustainability.
Consequently, the Government will: (i) promulgate a more
authoritative and precise statement on land policy for the
country; by March 1991 (ii) speed up the process of bringing both
the large and smallholder sector farms under the same property
system; (iii) remove all impediments to land market operations,
including allocations and speedy processing of disputes; (iv)
ensure that sufficient resources are available through training,
the procurement of equipment and expansion of physical facilities
for all fiold staff of ministries, particularly the Ministry of
Lands and Housing and Physical Planning directly engaged in the
development of land resources; and, (v) make available more
infrastructural support, credit and farm extension advice to
smallholder farmers through channels and mechanisms that do not
compromise their land rights security such as mortgages and other
charges.
41. In the long run the Government will aim to: (i) develop
comprehensive land use guidelines, including an indicative land
use plan for the country for adoption and modifications, as
necessary, in particular local contexts; (ii) develop a national



- 53-                    ANNEXI
Page 13 of 15
enviromental action plan and a broad legislative framework for
its implementation throughout the country; (iii) undertake a
study of the impact of current land legislation on agricultural
development, preliminary to a general review, rationalization and
simplification of those laws and the structure of land
administration they have created; (iv) investigate new ways and
legal mechanisms that would stimulate more productive use of land
in units of economic size; and, (v) establish and operate an
effective Land Resource Inventory and information system for use
in national development planning. The Government will develop an
action plan and time-table in the next few months, indicating how
and when these measures will be taken and the resources needed
for that purpose.
VIll.  COFFs  SURAROM
42  The Government is committed to the improvement of the coffee
subsector through improved institutional arrangements and prompt
payment to farmers. Key actions in this subsector will include:
implementation of an improved smallholder coffee payment system
through cooperatives with the aim of restoring the confidence of
farmers and encouraging the intensitication of production and
clarification of the roles of the KPCU and the Coffee Board in a
manner which promotes efficiency in the subsector.
Ix. COTTO supJxC =
43. In 1987, the Government investigated the processing and
marketing of cotton with the aim of identifying the main reasons
for the poor performance of the subsector. Government also passed
a new cotton Act in August 1988 whose aim thrust is to divest the
existing Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) of its
cotton marketing and processing functions and to assign it the
important role of regulatory agency.
44. The Government is carrying out a study aimed at formulating
detailed operational procedures for the marketing of cotton lint
and seed based on an auction system, and to develop an
appropriate and operationally sound payment system to farmers
which ensures prompt receipt. The Government aims at implementing
appropriate recommendations of the study.
45. The study will examine the organisational and staffing
structure of the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB)
with a view to enhancing its capability to undertake efficiently
its new role under the Cotton Act. It will also examine the
current cotton ginning arrangements and capacity utilisation and
develop an appropriate ginnery rationalisation and rehabilitation
programme, taking account of the potential for growing cotton in
different agro-ecological zones of the country.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 14 of 15
X.  SGAR lionBESECO
46. The sugar subsector has made a major contribution to
agricultural growth since independence and has continued to be a
significant area for public investment. With the country's
natural advantages in producing rainfed cane, the steady flow of
investment funds has meant that approximate self sufficiency has
been possible despite the rapid growth of domestic demand.
Nevertheless, the industry has experienced problems relating to
the organization of cane production, harvesting and transport and
the efficiency of cane processing. Being aware of this, the
Government commissioned a study of the sugar subsector in 1989.
The study has yet to be finalized, but the Government will
endeavour to ensure that it is completed by the end of 1990 and
will draw up an action plan based on recommendations acceptable
to Government within three months of completion. This process
may require further analysis to resolve outstanding policy
issues.
47. The Government's principal policy objective for the
subsector is the retention of domestic self-sufficiency. Efforts
will be made to increase cane productivity through improved
research and extension. The factories will be subject to
performance targets to improve efficiency. Marketing and
distribution will also be reviewed with the aim of increasing
efficiency. In the event of shortfalls resulting from poor
growing conditions or other natural causes, imports will be made
by the Government or its agent using competitive tendering.
48. In future, the Government will attempt to encourage the
private sector to invest in new sugar processing capacity.
Towards this end, sugar prices will be reviewed regularly to
ensure that both cane production and processing remain
sufficiently profitable to attract the required level of new
investment.
XI. ARID AND SENI-ARID LANDS  MAL)
49. The main Government objective in the development of ASAL is
the exploitation of its potential in ways consistent with the
reclamation and protection of fragile ecologies and with
sustained improvements in the quality of life of the inhabitants.
The Ministry for Reclamation and Development of Arid Lands and
Wastelands, (MRDASLW), Sessional Paper to be submitted to
Parliament. The Paper will set out detailed policies and
institutional arrangements which will indicate: (i) specific
objectives and actions required for their achievement; (ii) broad
priorities for investment, research and policy reforms; (iii)
environmental and other guidelines for the selection and
structuring of projects; and (iv) appropriate institutional
arrangements and responsibilities. A key element of policies and
institutional arrangements will be the ASAL Environmental Action
Plan due to be completed by June, 1992.



- 55 -
ANNEX I
Page 15 of 15
XII e*QDp^XB
50. Due to the importance attached to wildlife conservation,
Government has created a new parastatal, Kenya Wildlife Service,
(KWS), to oversee the sector. It replaces the Wildlife
Conservation and Management Department which had hitherto proved
ineffective. The new parastatal has been staffed with a strong
management team that has now brought poaching under control. With
assistance from the donor community, including the World Bank,
the KWS is now developing a comprehensive policy framework and
five-year investment programme for wildlife conservation and
development, which will form the basis for preparing new
legislation and a Sessional Paper, as well as specifying the
nature and extent of donor support.
XIII. FORESTRY
51. Environmental conservation through management of natural
resources, particularly forests, is an important Government
objective. The Kenya Forestry Development Project, though not
formally linked with ASAO II, is designed to include several
related structural adjustment elements with particular actions
comprising of: (i) formulation and adoption of a new and improved
forestry policy; (ii) increased participation of smallholder
farmers and the private commercial sector in forestry activities;
(iii) reduced disincentives for producing forest products in the
private sector; (iv) improved efficiency and composition of
public sector expenditures; and (v) institutionalizing
subsectoral planning as part of the decision making process.
Yours sincerely,
Prof. George|Sai
Vice Preside t &     ster for Finance



- 57 -
Appendix to Annex I
Page 1 of 6
S,~~~~~                            a
0~~~~~~1 
i 
1~~~1
1 I
IL~      Il
St g *   V. 
hi l
!   .



Appendix to Annex I
Page 2 of 8
KENYA
ASAO II POLICY MATRIX
MAIZE
OBJECTIVES            STRATEGIES                                            ACTIONS AND TIMING
Under ASAO I         Under ASAD   :------Achiovod - -- ---  --Proposed---
Before RNesotiation    Board Presentation     Second Tranche
Improve NCPB           Improve NCP8           Completod major        Draft Performance      Govornmont/NCPB        Goovrnment/NCPB
performanco, prooto  efficiency by:           study on maize         Contract (PC) 3/       finalized PC for       finalize PC for
competition and        (1) clearly defining  marketing reforms;      submitted to IDA.      1991/92 to 1993/94      1992/93 to 1994/96
sinisizo budgetry      its rolo and           restructuring of                              acceptable to IDA,      acceptable to IDA
costs of NCPM maizo   functions;              NCP  begun: write-                            and signed for          and sign for
marketing              (Ti) segregating Its  off of NCP8 debts.                             1991/92.                1992/93.
operations.            comerclial
operations from Ito   Reserve stocks
price stabilization   funded in 1989/10                              Minor crops removed   Beans removed from
and food security      budget, but                                   from NCPB scheduled   NCPB schedulod list.
functions and          Inodequately.                                 list.
providing full
budget subsidy for    Direct role of NCPB
losses ariing from   in primary market                               Number and coverage                                 un
thes  non-commrcial   reduced by increased                           of private local                                     
functiono;             number and covorage                           buying agento
(iii) expooing It to  of private local                               Increased,
competition from tho  buying agent.                                 acceptable to IDA.
private sector In
secondary markets      NCPB's assured share
and transterring to   In secondary market                                                   Further reduction In
the privato sector    reduced from 100$ to                                                  NCPB's assured share
primary marketing      80% in regard to                                                      in secondary market,
activities;            supplies to sifted                                                   to 6O.
(iv) improving its    millers.
decision-making
capacity with regard
to reserve stock
level management
Involving imports,                                                                                                   Q
exports and domesatic                                                                                                CD 
sales.
o x
1/ The PC incorporates: (i) government's policy otatement on NCPB's role and responsibilities in regord to maize trading and on the         cn 0
principles governing budgetary support to NCPB; (ii) accounting reforms to reflect tho true financial coat o  eoach of NCPB's
operations, with officiency norma; (iii) reservc stock target tovelo, guidelines for thoir Danaegmant and turnover, and decision rules
for price stabilization; (iv) Government budgetary allocationo to compensate MCPB fully for leases incurred on food security and prico 
stabilization operations; and (v) monitorable NCPB performanco targets.



- 59 -
Appendix to Annex I
Page 3 of 6
46 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                 -
MO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
,0                                                                                 0*-.zusj
j         ;    t-"~~4~                           -@134.1
Ci    *jo.            1t                     1'      i               '      -
I    I                                                                       -1



Appendix to Annex I
Pae 4 of 6
KENYA
ASAO It tOLICY MATRIX
PUBLIC INVESTMENTS/EXPENDITURES
OBJECTIES            STATEGIES                                            ACTIONS AND TIMING
Under ASAO I        Under ASAO II:---- ---- Achiev"d---------    ---PrODOsod--
Boro Neslotiatlon    Board Presentation       Second Tranche
Inerease .llocative   Apply ob;ective        Annusl PolIey         Economi e nd
efficieney of pubile  economic and           Statement. prepered   environmental
Investment resoureas  environmental          on Investment         criteria acceptable
to enhance           eclterli to project   priorittes.              to IDA adopted.
agricultural growth.  solection.
Review existing                              Portfolio review       'Core investment      Annual Estimates of
portfolio using                              progressed,            program' agreed, and  19M/93 and Forward
above criteria, to                           satisfactory to IDA.  adequatoly funded In  Budget of 1992/98-
solect 'core                                                        Forward Budget for    1994/95 reflect
lnvestment progr                                                   1991/92-198/94.        'core Investment
of high priority                                                                          program.
projects.
Implemnt project      Project RegIstry                             Projoct Performnce
management *systm to  designed.                                     Reporting System
monitor performance                                                   RS) establishe
and provide input                                                   for all projects,
Into Forward Budget                                                along with Project
preparaton.                                                        Review Coaittee to
carry out annual
review.
Improve operational   Improve balance        Establishment and     MOA and MOLD staff    RevIew of staffIng    Finalzoe staff Ing
efficiency of public  between stff costs   Complement               counts and            norma by grades, and  norms and begin
recurrent             and non-salary         Registries prepared   reconciliation with   estimation of non-    lmpleomntation of an   0 3
expenditurox so       expenditure, to        to enumerate stff    complement control    salary operating         action p!an to         Q
enhance agricultural   raise productivity    and describe           ond payroll records   expenditures In key   achieve rovisd 
growth.               of operational         deployment patterns.  completed,             service  commenced.   staffing norm s 
staff.                                                                                    (including lntako  of   o x
training               Nt
institutes), and       os o
agre adequate
budgetary provision.
Incre_s cost                                                       Review of user         Compl  tu ;
recovery from ur                                                   chargs, en  of          eIn Imlentton
charge, aN                                                          privet. sector        ot ct10n plan.
Identify                                                           opportunities
opportunities tor                                                   commenced.
privet. sector
participation in
selected services.



Appendix to Annex I
Pag 5 of O
KENYA
ASAO I POLICy MATRIX
PUBLC INVEST S/EPErTmES
CSJCTVE               STRATEGIES                                            ACTION  AMD TIMMN
Under ASAO I         Under ASAG  1t:------Ach;i      ved--          SeconoTen-
Before Neaotlation    Board Preseatto-n    Second TranChe
Zmprov, Budgeting      Strnogthen             Budget and Project    Admintstrativo           Dovelopment of an      Evalute pertorm nce
and Disbueromnt        lnstltutional          Secretariat            arrangeent. and         Improved cash flow     In 1991 of Improved
System to ensure       arrn e         r       estab blished to       systms for Improved  management system         budget and paymnt
rea IIoti  budget      prparing and           oversee preparation   monitoring of            ad personnel           syatos and exchonge
eatimotes and tiewly  monitoring budget       of Draft Estimates    oxpenditure              lnfonmation system     viets with IDA on
flow of funds to       expenditures.          and Forward Budget.   specifitd.               coemenced.             findings.
project.
Ensure timely          Allocations under                                                     - sm as above -
releae  of budgeted  direct payent
tunds.                 system nncrea  d,
and procedurs for
accessing donor
funds revised.
0' 0
I
o



Appendix to Annex I
Page 6 of 0
KENYA
ASAO II POLICY MATRIX
STEPS TOWARD ASSISTDNG VULNERABLE GROUPS
OBJECTIVES            STRATEGIES                                           ACTIONS AND TIMINC
Under ASAO I         Under AAO I:---A chlovod-oned-
Before Negotlation     Board Presentation      Second Trnnche
Devlop and toet       Action plans for       Hono.                  OK Food Securtty       Food and nutrition    Adopt action plan
targeted Meosuee to  lnomo support,                                Study cosploted.       action plon            end begpn
mis  t low lncoom     Improving nutrition                                                  prepared.              tmplomeetation.
group  vulnerable to  and drought
econoitc or physical  preparedness
shocks.
Full-time officer to  Finalize plon and
prepare a drought      begin
continpency plan      implemwAstion.
appointed;
preparation of plan
baspoeeility i        tfor    Stdy of impact of    Adept action plan
assessing progress    graln mrkeig           sad beint
In poverty reducWtio   reform, and           Impl_mtati on.
sad m.aitocingporepeation of,
effects of _esosomic action pvie to
reesprora          adldres  Problmem
wipd o_to WU"b.       coemeed.               Compte  bow_lIme
-0~~~~~orw I_p  --1              - 0  t
keftl  Of mosltrilla  b.ibidsmitorlmg
Ufelsod  oad
"Woles  saW field
Bevels assigned.
f*1



- 63 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPEPATION
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
I.    TIHBTABLE OF REY EVENTS
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project   21 months (September
1988 to June 1990)
(b)   Project prepared by                   GOK with assistance from
IDA
{c)   Identification mission                September, 1988
jd)   Appraisal commenced                   June, 1990
(a)   negotiations                          November 15, 1990
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness        March, 1991
II.   SPECIAL   INBN?ATION ACTIONS
103
IIl. SPECIAL CONDITIONS
Conditions of Effectiveness
N03
Conditions of Second Tranche Release
WMee
(a)   malie protucer prices adjusted based on revised methodology;
(b) maize movement permit floor raised to 8 tons (90 bags); a
date during 1992 for removal of all controls on domestic
meize movement agreed with IDA;
(c) GovernmentjNCPB finalize PC for 1992193 to 1994/95
acceptable to IDA, and sign for 1992193;
(d)   further reduction in NCPB's assured share in the secondary
market, to 601;
(s)   rone beans froa NCPB scheduled list;



- 64 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
Fertilizers
(a)  MOA finalizes the policy paper on "in-kind* fertilizer aid,
and exchanges views with IDA on proposed measures;
(b)   complete the study on private sector mechanisms
to lower the costs of fertilizer imports, and
review findings with IDA;
(c)   adopt action plans for soil testing, training,
and fertilizer promotion, for all major
fertilizer consuming Districts, agreed with the
Fertilizer Development Committee;
Public Expenditures
(a)   annual estimates of 1992193 and Forward Budget
of 1992193-1994195 reflect the core investment
program";
(b)   finalize staffing norms, and begin
implementation of an action plan to achieve
revised staffing norms (including intake of
training institutes), and agree adequate
budgetary provision for non-salary operating
expenditures in key services;
(c)   complete studies on user charges and private sector
participation in selected services, and begin implementation
of an action plan;
(d)   evaluate performance in 1991 of the improved budget and
payment system, and exchange views with IDA on findings;
Steps Toward Assisting Vulnerable Groups
(a)   adopt and begin implementation of action plans for food and
nutrition, drought contingency, and addressing any problems
arising from grain marketing reforms;
(b)   complete baseline survey, and implement household monitoring
survey.



- 65 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
PERFORMANCE CONTRACT BETWEEN
NCPB AND THE TREASURY
Outline
1.          Government Statement of Maize Policy.  Includess policy on
maize pricing, maize movement controls (their phased abolition), de-
scheduling of other crops (in which NCPB would no longer trade), and
liberalization of the secondary market; a re-statement of the roles of
NCPB; Government guidelines on NCPB's staff reductions, depot closings,
handling of surplus stores, handling reserve stocks, and introducing
managment incentives; and an outline of other market development
activities to be undertaken by Government.
2.          Government Subventions.  Elaborates the new accounting
framework for allocating expenditures of various operations of NCPB, the
formula for Government budgetary provisions for NCPB's food security and
price stabilization operations, and, in the annual contract, the actual
budgetary provisions arising from applying the formula to the
forthcoming year of the rolling financial plan.
3.          NCPB's Performance Targets.  The various steps which NCPB
contracts to undertake to achieve significant cuts in the costs of its
operations are outlined and agreed. These include: measures of
effectiveness in attaining targets for price stabilization,
liberalization of the secondary market, and handling of reserve stocks;
measures of efficiency as expressed in depot costs, staff costs,
transport costs, and management overheads per unit of throughput; and
measures of the impact of NCPB's improved performance on reductions in
the subventions required from the public budget.
4.          Monitoring and Evaluation.  The procedures for NCPB's
submission of semi-annual performance reports, and their discussion
among NCPB, the Ministry of Supplies and Marketing and the Ministry of
Finance have been agreed, along with the process by which results of
these discussions will be fed back into NCPB's corporate planning
process, and how the effects of external factors (such as changes in
Government policy, inflation, exchange rates, and market prices) vill be
reflected in agreements reached.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
XENYA
SECOND AGRtCULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
INDICATORS FOR THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. STRUCTURAL INDICATORS
INDICATOR                                1980     1985    1989
Agriculture as Z of GDP                         30.3     29.6    28.5
Production Index
5DP                                         91.7    108.3   131.6
Agriculture                                 90.1    103.9   127.1
Agricultural Exports as X Total                 44.2      63.4    65.5
Coffee as I Total                           22.2     29.4    20.4
Tea as I Total                              11.9     24.4    27.2
Agricultural Terms of Trade                    108.4      93.5    97.7
Fixed Capital Formation in Agriculture          61.9     50.8    47.7
(Xi million, Gross, 1982 prices)
As 2 of Total                                7.0      8.5      6.1
Fertilizer Availability ('000 tons)            169.8    373.4   274.8
Fertilizer Used ('000 tons)                    129.1    271.6   219.0
Credit to Agriculture                           14.4     18.5    18.0
(as _ of domestic credit)
Price Index for Consumer Goods Purchased
In Rural Sector                                 69.9    154.8   184.0



- 68 -
AqNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
B. GROWTH RATES al
(t per year)
INDICATOR                          1980-89   1980-85  1986-89
Value Added - GDP                               4.4        3.9       5.1
- Agriculture                      3.0        2.5       4.1
Capital Formation - Total                      -0.1       -7.5       5.2
- Agriculture               -0.7       -7.0      -3.7
Fertilizer Availability                         6.5        9.8      -4.6
Fertilizer Use                                  8.4       14.7       0.7
Production of Main Commodities:
Maize                                       2.9       -1.3       4.9
Milk                                        2.8        1.9       4.7
Coffee                                      2.5       4.2       3.3
Tea                                         9.1      10.2      10.9
'Wheat                                      0.7       -4.3      -0.2
Sugar                                       2.2      -1.9       6.8
Real Prices of Main Commodities (farm):
Maize                                       1.3        3.6      -0.8
Milk                                        1.2        3.8       1.7
Coffee                                     -2.7      -3.2      -8.6
Tea                                        -3.6      10.3    -13.9
Wheat                                       0.9        2.5       4.5
Sugar                                       4.1       6.1       1.9
a/ Calculated by fitting a trend line using least squares



- 69 -
ANNEX V
Table 1
EXTERNAL FINANCINA   REqUJRES AND SOURCES
(In *illione of US dollare)
P R 0 J E C T E D
1980     1990     1991     1992
Exztrnal Financing Requiresents                     119      1261     1160     1135
Current Account
(excluding off cial transfer.)                   716      681      s5a       587
Amortizetion 1/                                     241      415      4B8      447
World Bank/IDA                                    (79)     (96)    (101)    (102)
EIF Repurchase                                      182      100       40       61
Chnge  in Reearve.                                  110       66      120       70
Disburemntes                                        1106     1174     1189     1102
Grants                                              280      176      1B2      160
Loans  rem -
Official Creditors                                 84       719      603      724
World Dank/IDA                                  (244)    (213)    (228)    (146)
Private Creditor. 1/                               107       46      156      187
IMF-ESAF                                            108      lOS      106        0
Otber Capital (not)                                 825      126       21       81
Gap 2/                                                 0       87       41       83
Source: 13D, Debtor Reporting System end staff estimates.
Notes The Government of Kenya Is currently ditcusaing with the IMF appropriate
masures neede to close the gap In 1900.
This Baw Scenario is subject to rvisions basd on occurences in the Gulf.
1/ Includes private non-guaranteed debt.
2/  Expected di abursment. from cofinanctng and aditi onal umtI lateral
assistanco.



- 70 -
ANNEX V
Table 2
KEY INDICATORS
Projections
Actual  Prelim. ---- -------------------
1988    1089    1990    1991    1992
GDP Growth Rate                          6.0      4.6      4.8      6.0     5.1
GNP Growth Rate                          6.6      4.8      6.6      6.2     6.1
GNP/Capita Growth Rate                   1.6      0.6      1.7      1.5     1.3
Consumption/Capita Growth Rate           2.1    -6.8    -1.4        1.7     2.7
Total DOD (in US$)                    5780.7  5700.6  5908.8  6540.9  6948.3
DOD/IOS                                218.8   201.7   190.2   190.1   201.2
DOD/CDP                                 68.3    69.1    65.8    65.8    63.4
Debt Service-LT (in US$)               686.1   594.0   779.8   775.8   887.6
Debt S.rvice/IGS                        28.7    21.0    25.2    28.7    24.8
Debt Service/GDP                         7.6      7.2      8.6      7.8     7.7
Total Interest/IGS                       8.8      7.8      8.6     9.1      9.1
Interest/GDP                             2.8      2.7      3.0      3.0     2.9
Gross Inveotm.nt/GDY                    25.8    26.4    24.2    28.1    22.4
Domestic Savings/GODY                   20.7    19.7    19.8    19.7    20.0
National Savings/ODY                    17.6    16.5    16.7    17.8    17.4
Marginal Savings Rate                   0.00    0.02    0.22    0.27       0.21
Gov't Revenuos/GDP                      23.4    28.4    23.9    23.7    23.6
Gov't Expenditures/GOP 1/               28.t    80.4    80.4    29.9    29.8
Fiscal Deficit/GDP 2/                   -6.5    -7.1    -6.5    -6.1    -5.7
Export Growth Rats                      -8.1      1.6      7.6     6.0      8.0
Exports/GDP                             12.7    12.4    12.7    12.8    12.9
Import Growth Rate                      10.8      2.2    -8.8      1.1      6.0
Imports/GDP                             21.5    21.0    19.8    18.6    18.7
Current Account (in mill.USS)         -659.2  -716.2  -680.8  -682.9  -657.0
Current Account/GDP                     -7.9    -8.7    -7.5    -5.9    -4.9
TormS of Trade Index (1982=100)         88.4    78.4    74.0    78.8    79.3
MEMO:
DS Ratio (Incl.IMF A ST) 8/             32.9    29.6    83.7    30.0    80.0
Note: Fiscal data are for the fiscal year ending on June 80.
Fiscal year GDP Is calculated as a simple average of calendar year data.
Trade date are In real prie..
1/ Numerator Includes net lnding.
2/ Numerator Include adjustment to cash.
8/ Denominator Is exports of goods and services.



- 71 -
STATUS OF OANK Ci OPERATIONS tN KENYA                      ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
A. STATMEN  OF BANX LOANS AMS IDA CEDm
(no of September 30, 1900)
-  -41S8l Il toon---
Amunt (Lees Cancel lotions)
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                          Undbo-
Credit No.   Year    Borroer  Purpoe                                         sank      IDA   bursd
Forty-four (44) Loons and forty-three (43) credits fully dibursed           20.82  702.11
Of which SECALs, SAL. ad Progran Loene/Credltst a/
Cr.A021-0    1086    Kenya       Agriculture Sector                          0.00   40.00
Cr.1717-0   1to6    Kenya        Agriculture Sector                          0.00   20.00
Cr.AO38-0    106      Kenya      Induatrial Sector Operation                 0.00   10.00
Cr.1927-0    1088    Kenya       Industrial Soctor Operatlon                        102.00
Cr.1927-1   180    Kenya        Industrial Sector Operation                         SJ.70
Cr.2049-1    1908     Kenya      Financtal Secor Operation                           44.00    -
0.00   269.70    0.00
Cr.2049-0 e   1089    Kenya      Financiol Sector Operation                         120.00   12.39
Cr.1107      1981    Kenya       Fifth Education                                     40.00    6.98
Cr.1237      1962    Kenya       Cotton Proc. a Marketing                            20.53    0.74
Cr.123#      1902    Kenya       Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning                                   28.00    2.90
Cr.13S7      196      Konya      National Extenaion                                  15.00    0.41
Cr.1390      19"      Kenya      Secondary Towns                                     22.00   12.26
Ln.2359      1064    Kenya       Kiambere Hydroelectric                     60.00              2.06
Ln.2409      194    KeyaY        Second Highway Sector                       5.00              3.31
Cr.FO1?      1964    Kenya       Second Highway Sector                               40.00   33.16
Cr.1548      166      Kenya      Water Engineorlng                                    6.00    0.33
Cr.186?      196  .  Kenya       Sixth Educetion                                     37.50   32.59
Cr.1675      196    Kenya        Petroleum Explor. Tech. Assist.                      8.00    2.86
Cr.1718      1906     Kyo        Agric. Sector Management                            11.50    4.26
Cr.1738      1987    Kenya       KIE 2nd Small Scale lndutry                          8.00    6.03
Cr.17568     1907    Kny         Animal NIth Service                                 15.00   13.47
Cr.1820      107    Kenya        Second Rallwoy                                      26.00   13.20
Cr.1840      1966    Kya         Agriculture Reearch                                 19.60   19.6
Cr.1904      196    Konya        Population III                                      12.20   10.#5
Cr.1973      1989    Kya         Getheral Devolopasat                                40.70   29.26
Cr.1974     169      Kenya      Rural Services                                      20.80   17.44
Cr.20S8      1960    Kenya       TA                                                   5.00    4.76
Cr.2060      160    Kenya        Third Nairobi Water Suppi. ProJ                     64.60   61.31
Cr.2062      100    Kenya        Coff*e It                                           40.60   46.42
Cr.2111      1660    Ken         Population IV                                       35.00   36.59
Cr.2147      160      Konya      TA-OFI Res/Exp. Prm                                  6.00    6.54
Total                                     911.82  1843.56   366.76
of which repld                          369.38    20.41
Total held by Bank & IDA                   42.44  1323.17
_ -
Amont sold         11.74
of which reaid  11.74
Total undlsbursd                                            366.76
1/ Approved after FY80
o  SAL, SECAL or Progrea Loan/Credit
(kesledl .wtl 11.12.90)



- 72 -
ANNEX VI
- -                                         ~~~~~~Pa..,.  2
S. STATEMENT  F WC INESTWM    IN KNA
(a. .t sepeme 80, 109)
Amount In USS Million
Fiscal
Year        Obligor                      Tpe of Susiness            Loan  Equity    Totoa
197,190S,  Kony HoIe Proportlee          Houel                       6.2     0.7      5.0
and 1978
1970,1974   Pan African Paper M1 III     Pulp and Paper             40.7     6.8    47.0
1977,1979
19o1, is..,
and 1900
1972        Tourism Promotion Servics   Hotle                        2.4     -1/      2.4
1970        Rift Valley Texti le Ltd.    Text) lee                  6.8      2.6      9.1
19t7        Kenya Commrcial Bank Ltd.   Capitol arket                2.0      -       2.0
190,1984   Developmet Finance            Development Fina1c         6.1      1.8      6.4
Comny of Kenya Ltd.
1961        Kenya Com_rcial Finance      money A Capital IMakt       5.0      -       5.0
1962        Bamburl Portland             Cemet and Constrt.         4.4       -       4.4
cemnt Co., Ltd.              Materil
1902        Dimond -Trust of             Moe A Capital IMrket        -       0.6      0.9
K'npa Limited
1962.1907   Induatrial Promotion         Mone a Capitol Mbrket        -      2.0      2.0
Service (Kenys) Ltd.
1968        Tatra Palk Converters        Pulp & Paper Product        2.2     0.4      2.6
Limited
1964        Leather Industries of        TenIql                      2.1     0.6      2.7
Kenya Limited
1066         sdu Paper Intrnationl       Polp a Pape Product        87.1     2.0    89.1
Limited
1066        Equatorial beech             Tourim                      5.6      -       5.6
* Properties
1996        011I Crop Devlopment Ltd.                                0.7     1.4    11.1
Total Gras  Commitment                                127.6    16.$   146.1
Low: repeymente, cancellations,
exChu    adjustente,
termInation. aN  sales                           94.0      0.0   103.0
Total Comel tbmest mw bold by IFC                      88.5      0.8    48.1
Totl UndieWrsd                                          0.0      1.2      1.2
1/ 844,987
kee2edl .wi
11.9.00



- 73 -
ANNE VII
Page 1 of 4
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERIATION
Supervision Plan and Implementation Schedule
IDA Supervision Input
1.          It is envisaged that about 20 SW per year vill be required
for supervision. Of these, routine activities (review of progress
reports, procurement actions, correspondence, donor discussions, and so
on), will take about four SW per year for the first two years while the
quick disbursing part of the Credit is being disbursed, and three SW per
year for the latter three years, until the training and technical
assistance component is completed. For non-routine supervision,
staffing needs are indicated in the table below. The project is
expected to become effective about March 1, 1991, and the closing date
is December 31, 1995.
Borrower's Contribution To Supervision
2.          The Steering Committee chaired by the Ministry of Finance
will submit semi-annual reports to IDA on progress of the Adjustment
Program, on August 1 and February 1 each year until February 1, 1993.
These reports will cover the areas laid out in the Government's Letter
of Sectoral Policy, namely Incentives and Marketing, Fertilizers, Public
Expenditures in Agriculture, Food Security, the Dairy Subsector, Land
Policy and Legislation, the Coffee, Cotton and Sugar Subsectors, Arid
and Semi-Arid Lands, Wildlife, and Forestry. The detailed format for
this report will be finalized during the first supervision mission.
3.          The implementing ministries will submit semi-annual progress
reports on the progress of training and technical assistance, by August
1 and February 1 each year until February 1, 1996. These reports will
cover capacity building activities in the Ministries of Agriculture,
Livestock Development, Supplies and Marketing, Planning, and Finance,
following a format agreed during the first supervision mission.
Organization of Review Missions
4.          While the adjustment component is under implementation, IDA
review missions will be staffed to review implementation of both the
adjustment and capacity building components. Review missions will be
led by the ASAO II Task Manager (Economist), and will include staff
and/or consultants in areas of price policy and marketing, general
economic policy, fertilizers, public expenditure management, monitoring
and evaluation, and training, with other specialties where needed.
5.          Because of the linkages between the Adjustment Operation and
stabilization policy, a macro-economlst from IDA's Country Operations
Division will be invited to participate in the review missions leading
up to release of second tranche. Close coordination will also be
maintained with the IMF, and with the Bank's disbursement unit in
Nairobi, to ensure fast disbursements.



KENYA                                   ANNEX VII
SECOND AURXCULlURAL SUM  ADaUTMENT OPATON                    Page  2 of 4
Splementatlon Schedule
A. Adjustment CoM2nt
Composeat/Tash                                              Couplet-  Agewcy
Ion Date        -
(a)    Maize produeer prlce  to be reviewed and re-adjusted using the new methodology.                     2/91    IOf
(b)    Maiz movement controls to be relaxed further to permit transortation of up to 8 twn  (90
begs) of maiz without a pemit; a date during Im  for removing  I I controls on domeetic
maize movement to be agreed with IDA; NCPB s guaranteed shere of the econdary (i fted                     MOF/MSM
mIIlIrs) demand for maisz to be reduced to OX; beans to be d-scheduled.                            11,91  Cabinet
(e)    The Prrformanc Contract, aeemptable to IDA, to be finalized for the year  1992/93 to                       MOF/USM
1994/95 and slnred for 190/93.                                                                     11/91  NCPB
FeftilIers
(n)    The solocted Institutiosl mech anim to lower the coase of fortilizer Imports and a
time  table to mak  It operational to be gareed with IDA.                                          11/91  MOA
(6)    The policy paper on donor  In-kindO fertilizer aid to be finalized, and an *xchange of
views to take place with IDA on proposed easure.                                                   11/91    O
(c)    Action plans for sell teting, fertilizer promotion, and training to be finalized
for all Distetets following review by the Fertilizer Development Comittes (FOC).                   11/91  MOA/ FOC
Public Exienditore
(a)    A Project Perforanc  Rportilng System and a Project Review Comittee In MCA end
MOLD to be established; the MOA and MOLD core invesetmnt proram In the 1992/93
Annual Budget to be fully fitnnced and included In the estimates In the
1992/93-1994/9S Forward Budaet.                                                                    11/91  MOA/A04
(b)    Staffing norms to be finals zed, and lmplementation to be coemm_ced of staffing and
non-salary operstin  expendIture norm  In key activIttes, with consequential
adjustents to the intak, of training institutions.                                                 11/91  W
(c)    Implentation of an action plan to incr"ea  collection of er charges would be c_mmeeced.            11/91  MOA/MILD
(d)    Prtormance In 1991 of the Improved budget and paymet system woud be evoluated,
and vies exchanged with IDA on the fIndings.                                                       11/91  MOAW LDM
Assistance to Vulnerable Groups                                                                                   OP
Implemettion of action plans to be cooanced for: drought contingency, food/nutrition,                     CBS
ddressing possible advers  impacts of graln marketing reforme, and household monitoring.           11/91  MCOA                4



AIEX vII
Page 8 of 4
KENYA
SECOND ARICULTURAL SM  ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
S. Trainron A TA Cospon nt
Ccmpoo rt/Ta.k                                    Completion Date   Aonoy Rosponl-
Capseity Buildins In oAaicultur_
Procurement of transport and office equlpsont                              6/91               WOA/MOWL/tSM/
R.crultmtnt of technical Asistanee Personnel                               6/91               MPND/MOf
Fln.llzation of 4-y.t.  trutaing program and detbaled annual progrm        6,91  1/962
5/93, 5/94
l Iplementation of eah annual training progrm                             6/92, 6/,
_____________________________________________________6/94, 6/u                    ______
O-



ANNEX VII
KEWA                            ~~~~~~Pe   4 of 4
KENYA                                                   '
SECOND AORICULTLRAL SUMYf ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
IDA Supervision Inet Into Key Activities
Dtesli/                                   Activity                                  Skills Needed              Staff Week.
FY91
2/91       Focus on disbursement, ostablishment of Special Aecounts, progreso on  Task Manager                     2.0
actlons for meeting second trancho conditions, finalizing formats for  Economist                       1.0
semi-annual reporttng on adjutment and capacity building compononts,   Financiol Analyst               1.0
and recruitment of technical assistance.                                 Fertilizor Spec.              1.0
5/91       Review of progress on all econd tranche activities, wlth special         Task Manager                   2.0
focus on establishing the monitorlng activities, and food oscurity       Economist                     3.0
actions.                                                                 Flnancial Analyst             3.0
Fertilizer Spec.              8.0
FY92
11/91      Second Tranche Review Mission; -jview of progreos towards meeting all  Task Manoger                     2.0
second trenche conditione.                                               Economist                     3.0
Financlol Analyst             2.0
Fort. Spec.                   2.0
Macro-Economist              1.0
4/92       Revlow of progreso  on finalizing dieburseoments for adjustment          Task Manager                   2.0
component; review of progres  on capacity building component,            Economist                     1.0
especially establishment of the training program.                        Financial Analyst             1.0
Troining Spec.                2.0        _
FY98
10/92      Beginning preparation of PCR on adjustment component; review of          Task Manager                   2.0
capacity building component.                                             Economist                     2.0
Financial Analyst             2.0
M A E Spec.                   2.0
Training Spec.                2.0
8/98       Review capacity building component                                       Toak Manager                   2.0
Economist                     2.0
Training Spec.                2.0
FY94       Two missions to reviow capacity building component                       Task Manager                   8.0
Other specs.                  7.0                  0
FY9S       Two missions to review capacity building componont, and begin            Task Monagor                   8.0                  o H
preparing PCR on the latter.                                             Other specs.                  7.0 . . .h
/ While dates for forml miesions have been specified, most of the supervision of the operation will be by staff working in
Nairobi, who will work on specific elements of the operation whenever neoded.



- 77 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 10
XENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
CAPACITY-BUILDING COMPONENT
I. IMPROVED AGRICULTURAL POLICY ANALYSIS
Background
1.    Since the mid-1980s, improvements in agricultural policy analysis
in the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development have not been
sustained because the data base has deteriorated, trained and
experienced professionals have moved out to the private sector, and
technical assistance has been greatly reduced.
The Program
2.    The main objective of the program is to strengthen the
Government's capacity to carry out agricultural policy analysis through
an integrated program of technical assistance and training. Major areas
of improvement will include analysis of agricultural prices and market
structures, macro-economic and sectoral linkages, projects and
investments. The program comprises four elements:
(a)   Improved Data:  More comprehensive collection will be undertaken
of data on agricultural outputs and inputs (especially
fertilizer), household consumption expenditures, and market
prices, with priority policy analysis of these variables. This
element will be coordinated with actions under a recently approved
market information system project financed by USAID, and funded
under a recently launched project on monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural strategies and policies being supported by IDA and
UNDP;
(b)   Training:  Training will be offered in two packages: non-degree
and in-country training in policy analysis (approximately eight
training modules would be offered 1-2 times per year); and limited
degree training at the Masters level (two in Kenya and two in a
foreign institution);
(c)   Technical Assistance:  Provision will be made for a team of
advisers which includes a team leader and a training coordinator.
The team leader will coordinate training and technical assistance,
oversee administrative aspects of the program, and provide
analytical support to the Development Planning Division (DPD) in
the Ministry of Agriculture. The training coordinator will
develop course content (including relevant case study material) on
priority modules in close liaison with the trainers and will be
responsible for implementing the non-degree training program. The
remaining advisers will be distributed in the Ministry of
Agriculture, Ministry of Livestock Development, Ministry of



- 78 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 10
Supplies and Marketing and Monopolies and Prices Commission of the
Ministry of Finance; the advisers will assist in improving
quantitative policy analysis, emphasising on-the-job training of
local counterpart planning officers, help to develop an improved
agricultural data bank, and monitor the effectiveness of the
short-term training.
(d)   Support facilitiess  These will include microcomputers and
computer software, operating funds for field visits by planning
officers, and essential office equipment.
Implementation
3.    The overall program will be coordinated by the Ministry of
Agriculture/DPD. Government will recruit an international institution
(which will be encouraged to use local inputs to the extent possible)
with relevant experience in SubSaharan Africa. The program will be
managed from a Technical Asistance and Training Unit to be established
in MOA/DPD.   It is expected that the local participation will establish
a capacity within Kenya to provide non-degree training in agricultural
policy analysis on a sustainable basis. Among others, local inputs are
expected from the University of Nairobi (Department of Agricultural
Economics and Institute of Development Studies) and Egerton University.
Precise arrangements for the local participation will be worked out as
proposals are finalized.
4.    The program would be supervised by an interministerial committee,
chaired by the Head of the DPD/MOA. The other members would be the
Heads of the Planning Divisions of the participating Ministries. The
team leader will report to the steering committee, and, in liaison with
the respective Head of Planning Unit and adviser, will review and update
the Planning Units' and advisers' work programs to reflect priority
needs of improved policy analysis. The training coordinator will report
to the team leader, while the other advisers will report to the
respective Heads of their planning units and, periodically, to the Team
Leader, especially regarding the effectiveness of the non-degree
training courses.
5.    The program will span a period of four years starting July 1991,
and is estimated to cost about US$3.8 million equivalent. IDA and the
African Development Bank will cofinance the program on a joint basis
(approximately US$2.0 million and US$1.8 million, respectively).
Cost Estimates
6.    The cost estimates are as follows (USS million equivalent):
Equipment:                         0.4
Trainings                          1.6
Consultants:                       1.6
Non-Salary Operating Fundst        0.2
TOTAL:                  US$ 3.8 M



- 79 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 10
Tne agricultural data component will be funded by the Monitoring and
Evaluation Project, using IDA funds to be channelled to the Central
Bureau of Statistics and MOA.
7.    The following actions will be taken in order to start the program
by July 1991:
-     Short listing of international institutions, and invitation for
them to submit proposals (February 15, 1991);
-     Selection of the institution (April 15, 1991);
-     Mobilization (July 1, 1991);
II. LAND POLICY AND ADMINISTRATION
Bac round
8.   The Department of Lands of the Ministry of Lands and Housing has a
c tral role in addressing land policy and administration issues, and in
c rrying out land-related proposals under ASAO II (Letter of Sector
olicy, paras 40-42). A recent evaluation of the Department of Lands
dicates that it has serious constraints involving its staff, land
administration procedures and supporting facilities.  If these
constraints are not overcome, this will affect adversely the
implementation of improved land policies aimed at promoting increased
agricultural production through a more efficient, renumerative use of
good quality land.  It is therefore imperative that the Department of
Lands be strengthened as an institution in order better to perform its
i   functions in land administration, valuation, registration, and titling,
and to develop land information systems and inventories.
The Program
9.    The program will provide:
(a)   short-term non-degree and in-country training for the Department's
staff in both Headquarters and Districts;
(b)   short-term technical assistance (10 months) to assist the
department formulate and implement its training program and action
plan for improved land policy and administration; and
(c)   essential equipment and operating funds to support implementation
of the action plan.
Implementation
10.   The above activities will be carried out by senior staff from the
Department of Lands over a 3-year period, begining nA later than July,
1991. The Deputy Commissioner of Lands till be responsible for the
implementation of the overall program, in close coordination with the



- 80 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 10
Permanent Secretary and Commissioner of Lands. The day-to-day
responsibility will be under a Senior Assistant Commissioner of Lands
who will coordinate closely with the District offices and report
directly to the Deputy Commissioner of Lands.
Cost Estimates
11.   A total of US$300,000 has been made available under ASAO II to
support the above program. This represents the first phase of an
expanded program to be supported in the future from other sources yet to
be found. The first phase program will focus on improving land policies
and land administration procedures in the high potential agricultural
areas.
12.   These funds will cover the costs oft short-term consultancies, a
program to computerize essential land information (to be complemented by
an expanded land information system which will be financed separately);
short-term training courses in-country (including courses in use of
computers for data collation and management at both Headquarters and
District levels), microcomputers, vehicles, transport operating costs
(fuel and repairs), land registration and valuation stationery and
equipment, typewriters and photocopiers, plan printing machines and
drawing materials.
III. PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
A. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Background
13.  The Ministries of Agriculture (MOA) and Livestock Development
(MOLD) place a major emphasis on development activities. Currently,
over 502 of the total budgetary expenditures of the two ministries is
for direct investment projects and programs. The GOK is keen to ensure
that the effectiveness of both ongoing and new projects and programs is
enhanced. To do this it is critical to operate an efficient project
monitoring system that instills accountability and allows the periodic
reallocation of resources, when and where necessary. The existing
project monitoring systems in the two ministries has proved to be
grossly inadequate. Very little information exists on project
performance, and it is almost impossible to make an objective assessment
of project impact on the ministries' development activities.
14.   MOA.  The current functional responsibilities of various divisions
in the MOA, with regard to different phases of the project cycle, are
defined within the framework of the Project Management system (PMS).
The PMS was established in both the MOA & MOLD in 1984. According to
the existing allocation of responsibilities in MOA, the Project
Development and Monitoring Division (PDMD) is mainly, but not
exclusively, responsible for project monitoring. The other division
which shares this responsibility with PDMD is the Development Planning
Division (DPD) which is administratively responsible to the Permanent



- 81 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 10
Secretary. The shared responsibility of both divisions in project
management in fact overlaps over the entire project cycle beginning with
project identification/preparation and concluding with final impact
evaluation. To date the overlapping functions between the two
ministerial units has substantially weakened the functioning of the
reporting system.
15.   Aside from the overlapping functional responsibilities for M&E the
major factors underlying the poor performance of the project management
system in the MOA and HOLD are that:
(a)   the current system for obtaining project implementation
information through technical divisions or project coordinators is
geared to describing annual activities without any indication of
quantitative outputs; therefore as a priority there is a need to
modify the existing reporting formats in order to make them more
management-oriented;
(b)   the existing reporting mechanism continues to be geared to single
project monitoring with no system for national level aggregation
or analysis; the Project Performance Reporting System should be
developed into a centralized system, to be supported with
technical assistance; and
(c)   the PDMD's and PMU's mandate to monitor a large number of projects
is not supported by commensurate increase in manpower or other
resources; it is important that under ASAO II the system changes
in M&E be accompanied by a program to strengthen the institutional
capacity for this task.
16.   MOLD.  The monitoring and evaluation of about 21 projects in the
livestock subsector is currently the responsibility of an exclusive
Project Management Unit (PMU). The shared responsibility of PMU and DPD
in various phases of the project cycle has more or less the same
negative implications as discussed in the case of MOA above.
Furthermore, a review of the database in the MOLD's Project Registry
revealed that only outdated and quite unreliable data of a historical
nature is available. In fact the regular reports generated by project
officers and DLPOs for livestock projects are less in number and
prepared with less regularity than in the case of MOA projects.
However, the factors that have prevented the system from becoming fully
operational are the same as indicated for MOA above.
The Program
17.   MOA.  As the lead Division responsible for project M&E, the PDMD
needs to be adequately staffed with technically qualified personnel with
supporting equipment and facilities. Presently, the Division has 13
professional staff at headquarters including 8 assigned to "Project
Development" work. This activity is henceforth to be refocussed on
initial project identification. The strengthened PDMD will have 9
professional staff at headquarters, and 21 at provincial level (one M&E
officer plus two professionals in each province), in addition to 6



- 82 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 6 of 10
Technical Assistants (TA.) per province responsible mainly for field
work. The proposed T.A. program will help PDMD establish an effective
presence in the field. At present most of the PDMD technical officers
have not been exposed to adequate training in their respective tasks.
In view of the high turnover of MOA trained staff, however, the
technical assistance and training component caters for functional short
term training both within Kenya and overseas.
18. MOLD. The MOLD has already recomended to the Director of
Personnel Management (DPM) in the Office of the President that the PMU
be elevated to divisional status. While the unit has currently an
authorized establishment of only 5 professional staff including the
Assistnt Director of Livestock Production as head, it is proposed that
the authorized establishment be expanded by a further 25 professional
staff mainly to support decentralization of M&E activities at the field
level. As much as possible, staff training seminars and vorkshops in
M&E will be conducted jointly for MOA and MOLD in order to ensure cost-
effective use of the available limited resources. It is however
recognized that MOLD may indentify some training needs separate from
those considered to be common between the two ministries. Therefore,
some 700 days of short courses (about 28 days for each professional
staff) have been provided for use by the PHU in HOLD in each of the
project years.
19.   System Design.  The conceptual framework of the existing
onitoring system in MOA and MOLD as contained in the PMS does recognize
most of the essential features of project monitoring. However,
currently several types of project implementation reports are generated
to serve the needs of several users, including donors. In fact, most
donors require periodic monitoring as part of project design and they
have introduced special monitoring reports. The real problem is that
the existing reports are unsuitable for a centralized management
information system, which can signal to management the key
implementation problems for quick remedial action. The existing PMS
reporting framework needs to be translated into standard operational
guidelines and performance indicators applicable to all projects. As a
first priority, therefore, the PDMD in Agriculture, and PHU in Livestock
will, in collaboration with the respective technical divisions,
undertake a thorough review of all the existing reporting formats.
B. BUDGET MANAGEMENT
Background
20.   In 1986 the Government of Kenya (GOK) initiated bold measures to
improve financial management of sectoral ministries as part of its
Budget Rationalization Program (BRP). Nonetheless, there are still
areas which need to be effectively audressed. There are for instance
weaknesses in systems of funds flow, accounting and procurement, causing
delays which exacerbate the problems and constraints in the management
of projects and programs. It is in this context that this technical
assistance package has been developed.



- 83 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 7 of 10
The Program.
21.   Changes in the existing accounting and funds flow systems are
important in the following three areass
(a)   improving the timeliness and reliability of the monthly
expenditure statements related to Authority to Incur Expenditures
(AIEs) by: overcoming the current problems in ensuring complete
reporting on direct donor payments; ensuring timely submission of
reliable monthly expenditure returns by each AIE holder, and
placing the primary responsibility of preparing the returns on the
AIE holders themselves, rather than on District Accountants vho
are outside the administrative control of MOA and MOLD; improving
the data coding and software currently in use in the processing of
the monthly expenditure returns; and training accounts personnel
in the use of PCs so that they can take over the responsibility
for the processing of the returns from the finance division staff;
(b)   developing a standard system for the operation of advance deposit
accounts (special accounts) where donors can place their funds for
use under the AIE/reimbursement system of funds flow; and
(c)   strengthening the performance of the accounting divisions in MOA
and MOLD through introduction of microcomputers and training, so
that they can carry out all their functions, including those still
carried out manually, or even undertaken by the finance divisions
because the latter have had the computer technology and skills.
22.   To help accomplish improvements in the aforementioned areas the
ASAO II Credit will support technical assistance for systems
development, staff training, and computerization of accounting systems.
Most tasks will be accomplished under the direction of an expatriate
budget advisor financed by another ongoing IDA project. It is expected
that all accounting routines at H.Q. will be computerized.
Cost Estimates
23.   The program for strengthening public expenditure management and
monitoring is estimated to cost US$3 million equivalent over a four year
period, including physical contingencies and allowances for price
escalation. The costs include an estimated US$0.95 million for the PDMD
in the MOA, US$0.83 million for the PHLU in MOLD, and US$1.2 million for
budget management. The base costs include US$0.67 million for vehicles
and motorcycles, US$0.42 million for office equipment, US$1.03 million
for training, and US$0.51 million for technical assistance.
IV. FERTILIZER DEVELOPMENT
Background
24.   The recent (1989) Bank study on Kenya's agricultural growth
prospects concluded that over 85 percent of future increase in the



- 84 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 8 of 10
country's value added in agriculture would come from smallholders, who
cultivate 66Z of the cropped area but currently achieve yield levels
about half of those realized by the largeholders. The low productivity
of Kenya's smallholders is to a large extent explained by sub-optimal
application of the necessary farm inputs, especially fertilizers. The
smallholders' share in country's annual fertilizer consumption does not
exceed 402 (on 662 of cultivated land) and much of it goes to cash crops
like tea and coffee, leaving only a small percentage for use on cereal
crops. Furthermore, more than 702 of the smallholders still use no
fertilizer or negligible quantities. As a result, the national average
fertilizer use is only about one third of the estimated potential. On
the other hand, fertilizer use needs to increase at an estimated 112 per
year to sustain the Goverrment's objective of achieving an annual
agricultural growth rate of 4.5Z.
25.   The goal of ASAO II (Fertilizer Component) is to promote an
increased and more efficient use of fertilizers, particularly by
smallholders, in a liberalized and competitive marketing environment
through a program of institutional strengthening and policy reform.
Past experience shows that such a program would have poor chances of
success, unless it is accompanied by a strategy to build up effectively
the institutional capacity associated with program implementation. This
is the goal of the technical assistance and training program.
The Program
26. MOA: The Inputs Unit, currently managed by two full-time
officers, will be expanded to an Inputs Branch, whose tasks will
includet (a) integrating commercial and donor fertilizer imports; (b)
developing a data base on the fertilizer subsector covering, inter alia,
-the international and domestic fertilizer market situation, price
trends, ocean freight rates, fertilizer demand estimation by seasons and
locations, information on crop areas and recommended fertilizer doses;
(c) promoting quality control; (d) assisting Government in designing
policies to promote fertilizer use through private fertilizer trade; and
(e) keeping abreast of all developments in the fertilizer sector. The
TA and Training Component is designed to help the Inputs Branch develop
appropriate systems to oversee the fertilizer subsector, train key staff
in their respective job responsibilities, provide necessary equipment
such as microcomputers to assist in storage, retrieval and analysis of
data, as well as a few vehicles to improve staff mobility, and establish
and run an efficient management information system (HIS). Provision has
also been made for short study tours of senior government officials as
well as members of the National and District Fertilizer Committees
(which are being set up under ASAO II to improve the consultative
process between the private sector and the Government), to assist them
to keep current with the trends and fertilizer sector management
practices in and outside the country.
27. District Extension Staff: The provincial and district extension
staff, particularly the newly appointed District Soils and Fertilizer
officers, will be trained in practical ways of handling soil and



- 85 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 9 of 10
fertilizer related subjects in the field through workshops, seminars,
training courses, and study tours.
28.   Fertilizer Dealers:  Fertilizer dealers (wholesale and retail) in
the private and cooperative sectors will be assisted with short (2 day)
training programs to improve their knowledge about the role of various
types of fertilizer in their specific crop and soil situations, and
fertilizer promotion and marketing techniques including environmentally
safe fertilizer handling, storage and application methods. Some
fertilizer promotion material will also be provided to the private
traders. Similar training, specially tailored to meet their needs, will
also be provided to agencies handling fertilizer importation and
distribution.
29.   Farmers' Training:  Training focussed on soil-fertilizer-crop
relationship and economies of fertilizer use will be provided to
selected farm leaders to overcome the reluctance to make optimum use of
fertilizers.
30.   Other Technical Assistance and Training:  Since the Farm Inputs
Branch has yet to develop adequate technical capacity, short-term
consultants' services will be provided to supports (a) the design and
organization of the training courses outlined in above; (b) the design
and implementation of systems for monitoring fertilizer use; (c) a
review of the currently prescribed fertilizer standards to ensure
relevance for the Kenyan farmer; (d) the definition of fertilizer
quality control regulations and their operating framework; (e) a rapid
survey to determine the soil acidity status in different agro-ecological
zones of the country and development of an action program, pending
further research (over 301 of the Keynian soils are already affected by
soil acidity); (f) development of district action plans; (g) the
development of guidelines for operating soil testing laboratories; and
(h) a mid-term review of the policy and institutional reforms.
Cost Estimates
31.   The total costs of the TA and Training measures outlined above are
estimated at US$2.7 million, including provision for physical
contingencies and price escalation, respectively at 102 and 4.92 per
annum beginning 1991. All these costs are non-recurrent and will be
funded 1002 from the IDA Credit for ASAO II. The incremental annual
recurrent costs for the program are estimated at US$0.56 million,
equivalent to about 172 of total costs for the three year period. The
recurrent costs will be funded by GOK.
SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
32.   The total costs of the Capacity Building Component are estimated
to be US$9.86 million, including physical contingencies, and allowances
for price escalation. The component will be cofinanced by IDA (US$8
million) and the African Development Bank (US$1.86 million). The
breakdown of the estimated costs is presented in the following table.



- 86 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 10 of 10
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
CAPACITY-BUILDING COMPONENT
Table 1. COST ESTIMATES BY CATEGORY
(US$ million, including all contingencies)
Component        Vehicles    Office    Training    Tech.       TOTALS
Equip't               Asstce.
Policy             0.00       0.40        1.60       1.60      3.80"
Analysis                       __l
Land               0.06       0.02        0.02       0.20       0.30
Administration
Public             0.77       0.49        1.19       0.59       3.04
Expenditure
Fertilizer         0.06       0.03        2.27       0.36       2.72
TOTALS             0.89       0.94        5.08       2.95      9.86"
aj Includes US$0.16 million in non-salary operating costs



- 87 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Cereals Sector
1.   Ministry of Finance, Mlnistry of Supplies and Marketing, and
National Cereals and Produce Board. Performance Contract for the
period 1990/91 to 1992193. December, 1990.
2.    National Cereals and Produce Board.  'Liberalisation Under the
Cereals Sector Reform Programmes An Evaluation.' July, 1990.
3.    National Cereals and Produce Board.  'Meeting the Challenge of the
Nineteen Nineties. NCPB Corporate Strategy 1990/91 to 1992/93.'
Discussion Draft, August, 1990.
4.    National Cereals and Produce Board.  'Establishment of Performance
Targets.* A report by Githongo and Associates (Africa) Ltd. and
Oxford Research Ltd. November, 1990.
Fertilizer
5.    A Consultancy Report for the World Bank on Fertilizer Development
in Kenya. April, 1990.
6.   Ministry of Agriculture.  Fertilizer Action Plans for Bungoma,
Kisii, Machakos, Murang'a, and Nandi Districts. November, 1990.
Public Expenditure
7.    Recurrent Cost Issues in the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Livestock Development. A Draft Report by S.B.
Peterson and Kithinji Kiragu. May 25, 1990.
Poverty Alleviation
8.    Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Livestock Development.
Household Food Security and Nutrition Policy. Draft Report, 1988,
released October, 1990.
Capacity Building
9.    Institutional Capacity Building for the Development Planning
Divisions in the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock
Development. May, 1990.



- 88 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 2
10.   Ministry of Lands, Housing and Physical Planning.  'Land Policy
and Legislation Issues in Kenya's Agricultural Adjustment
Operation II*. A report by H.W.O. Okoth-Ogendo. August, 1990.
11.   Fertilizer Component: A Program of Technical Assistance and
Training to Promote Institutional and Infrastructural Development.
A Consultant's Report. September, 1990.
12.   Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development.
Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance Under the
Public Expenditure Component. A Report by Javed Masud and K.
Kiragu. October 2, 1990.
Other
13.   Ministry of Livestock Development.  'Kenya Dairy Master Plan to
the Year 2000: Enhanced Policies and KCC Efficiency.' A Draft
Interim Report by Carl Bro International. July, 1990.
14.   A Suggested Framework for the Monitoring and Evaluation of the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program. A Draft Discussion Paper
by K. Altemeier. July 2, 1990.
15. Other working papers to be added.



MAP SECTION



S U D A N                                       
o/'/   t-=ti'''    .3 ''5                                 ~K E N Y A
SUA
'"_(  l*  s E  T  H    I O    P  I A
tn                   I-J j?                                s._ ,,_ t Ba&  N/
1   E gosl b A p I o    ' .
U ~ GI    T N\D A %   '   )v'       -   E A   T E R N
UGANDA                                                                      W.*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INI 
v k      L   L    E   Y                                            ,jSO Al
TADADD AtD A CTS                                                                                                 O  A NN OJ   R  t H
rG-.S( TLR      1   {   \   *v~~X_ \ / A. 
,   I       ;; >               zw              5    S MrX                    <                           -t 7
_ <5/                   =                   D   z T   t~~~~~                          ~ R N \%s  
AADAIAAPTAO SC       ,DT D AAf                           A .           |    .1    1  '  f A'  )   kCE
A.oV          A        D  L   I C A
--D-       4-M  -. BP I;                 bi /TAA
M%lr0 PllODA0N                                                                   OtATTIAT bOAdDOATi-A
tA*iT4S~~~~~~ INT                                                                                                          -1 er'O\>w



