CREDIT NUMBER 2204 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                     o/ , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2204 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       iua          >,c/     , 1991, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
November 23, 1990, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's agricultural sector (hereinafter called
the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in
the financing of urgently needed imports and services required
during such execution; and
(B)   on  the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program tc provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
AZTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Cond,tions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to


﻿- 2 -
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "CBS" means Central Bureau of Statistics;
(b)   "KTDA" means   the Kenya  Tea Development Authority
established pursuant to Chapter 343 of the Borrower's Laws;
(c)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(d)   "MOLD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock
Development;
(e)   "MSM" means the Borrower's Ministry of Supplies and
Marketing;
(f)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(g) "MLHPP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Lands, Housing
and Physical Planning;
(h)   "NCPB" means the National Cereals and Produce Board
established pursuant to Chapter 338 of the Borrower's Laws;
(i)   "PHU" means the Project Management Unit of MOLD; and
(j)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARLICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-two


﻿-3-
million    two   hundred   thousand    Special   Drawing    Rights
(SDR 52,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Program and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts (Special
Account A and Special Account B) in the Central Bank of Kenya on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other


﻿eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and ser-vice charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing March 15, 2001, and ending September 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable ( Septem-
ber 15, 2010, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
tf.me to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall strengthen the capabilities
of: (a) MOA, MOLD, MSM, MOF, MLHPP, CBS and NCPB in the areas of
data collection and policy analysis through the provision of
technical assistance, short-term training courses, advanced local
and overseas training, vehicles and equipment; (b) the Project
Performance Reporting System of the Project Development and
Monitoring Division in MOA, PMU in MOLD and overall budget and
financial management practices in MOA and MOLD through the provision
of technical assistance, training, vehicles and equipment; and
(c) MOA to promote and monitor safe fertilizer use, develop the
private and cooperative dealers' fertilizer marketing skills,
improve soil testing facilities and quality standards of fertilizers
through the provision of technical assistance, local and overseas
training, vehicles and equipment. To that end, the Borrower shall
employ consultants -whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with the principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause the
Central Bank of Kenya to maintain, records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptat'e to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year with respect to
Categories (1) and (2) and nine months after the
end of each such year with respect to Categories
(3) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts


﻿- 7 -
and other documents) evidencing such expendi-
tures;
(iii) enable   the Association's representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such   records and accounts    are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINANCE                   22921
Nairobi                   MINFIN-KE
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By 9
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Bya&V
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts  of Credit   to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) (a) Fertilizer            17,380,000)
(b) Pesticides,           6,960,000)
Chemicals                      )
and Seeds                      )
(c) Agricultural          13,900,000)
Machinery,                     )
Equipment and                  )
Spare parts                    )      100% of foreign
)       expenditures
(d) Veterinary            1,400,000)
Supplies                       )
(2) Petroleum Products         6,960,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Consultants'               1,260,000       100%
Services


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) (a) Training               3,050,000        100%
(b) Vehicles and           1,170,000        100% of foreign
equipment                              expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
60% of local
expenditures
(c) Incremental              120,000        60% of local
non-salary                             expenditures
operating
costs
Total                52,200,000
2.    For the purpose of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods supplied for the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "incremental non-salary operating costs" means
the incremental costs incurred by the Borrower, related to the
operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and staff
travel related to the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of payments for expenditures
made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 9,200,000


﻿- 12 -
may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) of the table in
paragraph 1 above, on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after September 1, 1990.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower or others in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit under Categories (1) and (2) of the table in paragraph 1
above after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments
from the said Categories shall have reached the equivalent of
SDR 23,300,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; (b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken; and (c) that the macro-economic policy
framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the
Program.
5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and,
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000
or more each, shall be awarded through international competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines) subject to the following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely


﻿- 14 -
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for procurement of goods by the Borrower or public
sector entities estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$2,000,000 each may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
3.    Contracts for the procurement of goods by the private sector
entities estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $2,000,000
each may be awarded, to the extent practicable, on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
two suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, or on the basis of the normal procurement procedures
of the purchaser of such goods.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof,
such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the documentation and the informa-
tion to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the provisions
of this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of


﻿- 15 -
the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
7.    Vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$60,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    Maize
The Borrower has:
(a)   carried out improvements of the maize pricing system
taking into account parity principles, stock levels and anticipated
production and impact on the Borrower's budget and has adjusted
maize producer prices in accordance with such improvements;
(b)   published regulations, satisfactory to the Association
permitting the transportation of up to 8 tons of maize without a
permit;
(c)   established a date during 1992 satisfactory to the
Association for the removal of all controls on the movement of maize
within the country;
(d)   taken steps to reduce NCPB's share to 60% of the sifted
maize miller's intake of maize;
(e)   entered into a Performance Contract, satisfactory to
the Association, with NCPB to regulate-NCPB's activities for
1992/93-1994/95. The Performance Contract shall include, inter alia,
the following elements the Borrower's policy statement on maize,
NCPB's revised role and responsibilities, reserve stock target
levels and guidelines for the management thereof, decision rules for
market stabilization, the Borrower's budgetary allocations to
compensate NCPB fully for losses incurred on food security and
market stabilization operations, and monitorable performance targets
for NCPB; and
(f)   removed beans from NCPB's Scheduled List.
2.    Fertilizers
The Borrower has:
(a)   finalized the policy paper to reduce distortions created
by in-kind donor-supplied fertilizer and has exchanged views with
the Association on the proposed measures;


﻿- 17 -
(b)   completed the study on mechanisms to lower the cost of
fertilizer imports in the private sector and has exchanged views
with the Association on the proposed measures; and
(c)   finalized action plans, satisfactory to the Association
for soil testing, training of officers and fertilizer promotion for
all major fertilizer consuming district in the country.
3.    Public Expenditures
The Borrower has:
(a)   furnished to the Association a list of projects for MOA
and MOLD, satisfactory to the Association, for inclusion into the
Borrower's core investment program;
(b)   furnished to the Association, evidence satisfactory to
the Association showing that the list of projects in the core
investment program referred to in (a) above has been included in
the Borrower's Annual Estimates for 1992/93 and Foward Budget for
1992/93-1994/95;
(c)   completed a review of staffing norms and adopted and
started to implement an action plan, satisfactory to the Association
on (i) achieving revised staffing levels in MOA and MOLD, (ii)
raising the ratio of non-salary to salary operating expenditures in
key agricultural activities, and (iii) regulating student enrollment
in MOA and MOLD training institutions;
(d)   evaluated perf6ormance of improved budget and payment
system as it relates to MOA and MOLD and exchanged views with the
Association; and
(e)   adopted and implemented an action plan for improving
the collection of user charges from farmers.
4.    Vulnerable Groups
The Borrower has finalized and started to implement action
plans, satisfactory to the Association, on (a) drought contingency
measures, (b) food/nutrition, (c) possible negative impacts of the
present grain marketing system, and (d) household welfare monitoring
survey.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) for Special Account A and Categories (3) and (4) for Special
Account B, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required during
the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means    an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 for Special Account A and $500,000 for
Special Account B to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the respective Special "ccounts pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the respective Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Accounts such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Accounts at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 19 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the respective Special Accounts such amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the respective
Special Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made


﻿- 20 -
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
respective Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
concerned (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into
the respective Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to para-
graph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


