Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7915-ID 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Indonesia Climate Change Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 23, 2010 
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 23 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
INDONESIA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million United States 
Dollars (US$200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Page  3
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the
 Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
Page  4
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:  A situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:  The Bank 
and the Borrower are satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in 
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINMINISTRY  
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
 Jakarta 
  44319 
DEPKEU-IA 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
Page  5
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA  
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
B: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken under the Program
Policy Area 1: Mitigation 
 
Land Use Change and Forestry Sector Mitigation 
 
1. 
The Borrower has improved policy coordination and management of peat land by 
issuing and beginning implementation of a master plan on peat land rehabilitation 
in Central Kalimantan.  (MOFR Ministerial Regulation No.55/2008). 
 
2. 
The Borrower has improved its regulatory framework for REDD implementation 
by: (i)  launching a national readiness program for REDD (September 2009) and 
establishing a legal framework (MOFR Ministerial Regulations No.68/2008 on 
demonstration activities; No. 30/2009 on REDD procedures and No. 36/2009 on 
commercial forest carbon projects); and (ii) completing a participation agreement 
with the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility (November, 2009) and initiating a 
REDD program with UN REDD support (November,  2009).   
 
3. 
The Borrower has established a national timber legality standard and a system for 
verification and monitoring to assist in reducing illegal logging and forest loss 
and degradation (MOFR Ministerial Regulation No. 38/2009).  
 
Energy Sector Mitigation 
 
4. 
The Borrower has improved the policy framework to promote renewable energy 
development and  investment by: (i) issuing Presidential Decree No. 4/2010 
which assigns to
 
PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara (PLN) the acceleration of power 
plant development using renewable energy, coal, and gas and mandates PLN to 
develop and purchase power from renewable energy resources; (ii) issuing 
MEMR Ministerial Regulation No. 32/2009 on purchase standard price of 
electricity power by PLN from geothermal electricity power station; (iii) issuing 
MEMR Ministerial Regulation No. 31/2009 on the purchase price of electricity 
from renewable energy; and (iv) issuing MOF Ministerial Regulation No. 
24/2010 on tax incentives for renewable energy development. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has improved the policy framework to promote energy efficiency 
development and investment by: (i) issuing Government Regulation No. 70 /2009 
on energy conservation; and by (ii) MEMR having developed and implemented a 
national system of energy audits for major firms in key sectors. 
 
Page  7
Policy Area 2:  Adaptation and Disaster Preparedness 
 
Water Resources Sector 
 
6. 
The Borrower has established strategic water management plans in key river 
basins: (i) by issuing Presidential Regulation No. 12/2008 on water resource 
councils; (ii) establishing and holding meetings of the National Water Resource 
Council (NWRC); and (iii) through MPW, by preparing integrated water 
resource management plans (POLA) with climate change assessment in national 
strategic river basins on the island of Java. 
 
Agriculture Sector 
 
7. 
The Borrower, through MOA, has scaled up actions to improve climate resilience 
in agriculture by: (i) developing an irrigation asset management information 
system; (ii) implementing the System for Rice Intensification (SRI) practice in 
target provinces; and (iii) implementing a climate field school program in target 
provinces. 
 
Disaster Risk Management 
8. 
The Borrower has scaled-up actions to establish national disaster risk reduction 
and management system by: (i) enacting Law No 24/2007 on disaster 
management and issuing Presidential Regulation No. 8/2008, which established 
a
National Disaster Management Agency (BNPB);  (ii) finalizing the National 
Action Plan for Disaster Risk Reduction (NAP-DRR 2010-2012) and formally 
launching such plan in February 2010; and (iii) incorporating mainstreaming of 
disaster risk reduction in the context of climate change adaptation into the 
Borrower’s medium term development plan, RPJMN.  
 
Marine and Fisheries Sector 
 
9. 
The Borrower, through MMAF, has established systems and strategies to 
improve climate preparedness and resilience in the coastal and marine sector by: 
(i) launching in May 2009 the National Plan of Action of Coral Triangle 
Initiative on coral reef, fisheries and food; and (ii) approving a roadmap of CTI 
actions for 2010-11 (November 2009). 
 
Policy Area 3: Cross Sectoral and Institutional Issues 
 
Mainstreaming Climate Change in the National Development Program 
 
10. 
The Borrower, through BAPPENAS, NCCC and MOE has strengthened the 
knowledge base and legal basis for climate change action and linked these to 
national budgeting and planning processes by: (i) finalizing the Second National 
Page  8
Communication to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change (and launching it on November 2009); (ii) submitting mitigation actions 
and commitments under the Copenhagen Accord (January 2010); (iii) preparing 
and issuing 
policy documents on the “Development Planning Response to 
Climate Change” (2008) and  (iv) finalizing the Indonesia Climate Change 
Sectoral Roadmap (ICCSR) (March  2010). 
 
Policy Coordination and Financing Scheme for Climate Change 
 
11. 
The Borrower has strengthened policy coordination and developed financing 
mechanisms for addressing climate change by: (i) issuing the National Action 
Plan Addressing Climate Change (December 2007); (ii) establishing a National 
Council 
on 
Climate 
Change 
by 
Presidential 
Decree 
No. 
46/2008; 
and                
(iii) launching the Indonesia Climate Change Trust Fund (September 2009) 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General
.
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts
.
The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche from which the 
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in U.S. Dollars) 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
200,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
200,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions  
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank 
and the Borrower are satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the 
Borrower; and (b) with the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic 
policy framework.
 
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts
.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
Page  9
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
G. Closing 
Date
.
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
 
Page  10
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
October 1, 2019 
2.17 
April 1, 2020 
2.22 
October 1, 2020 
2.28 
April 1, 2021 
2.34 
October 1, 2021 
2.40 
April 1, 2022 
2.46 
October 1, 2022 
2.52 
April 1, 2023 
2.58 
October 1, 2023 
2.64 
April 1, 2024 
2.71 
October 1, 2024 
2.78 
April 1, 2025 
2.85 
October 1, 2025 
2.92 
April 1, 2026 
2.99 
October 1, 2026 
3.07 
April 1, 2027 
3.14 
October 1, 2027 
3.22 
April 1, 2028 
3.30 
October 1, 2028 
3.38 
April 1, 2029 
3.47 
October 1, 2029 
3.56 
April 1, 2030 
3.65 
October 1, 2030 
3.74 
April 1, 2031 
3.83 
October 1, 2031 
3.93 
April 1, 2032 
4.02 
October 1, 2032 
4.12 
Page  11
April 1, 2033 
4.23 
October 1, 2033 
4.33 
April 1, 2034 
4.44 
October 1, 2034 
4.71 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (
“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
Page  12
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
Page  13
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“BAPPENAS” means
 Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, 
the 
Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency, and any successor thereto. 
 
2. 
“CTI” means the multi-national initiative of nations in the coral triangle, 
including the Borrower. 
 
3. 
 “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Page  14
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
4. 
 “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. 
“Government Regulation” means a 
Peraturan Pemerintah, 
a
regulation signed by 
the President and issued by the government of the Borrower. 
 
6. 
“Ministerial Decree” means a 
Keputusan Menteri
,
a
decree issued by a ministry 
of the government of the Borrower. 
 
7. 
“Ministerial Regulation” means a 
Peraturan Menteri,
 a regulation issued by a 
ministry of the government of the Borrower.  
 
8. 
“Ministry of Agriculture” and “MOA” means the Ministry of Agriculture of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
Page  15
9. 
“Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources” and “MEMR” means the Ministry 
of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“Ministry of the Environment” and “MOE” means the Ministry of the 
Environment of the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“Ministry of Finance” and “MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“Ministry of Forestry” and “MOFR” means the Ministry of Forestry of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries” and “MMAF” means the Ministry of 
Marine Affairs and Fisheries of the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
14. 
“Ministry of Public Works” and “MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of 
the Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
 
15. 
“National Disaster Management Agency (BNPB)” means the Borrower’s 
national disaster management agency, 
Badan Nasional Penanggulangan 
Bencana
,
or
BNPB, or any successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“NCCC” means the Borrower’s National Council on Climate Change, 
Dewan 
Nasional Perubahan Iklim
,
and any successor thereto. 
 
17. “POLA” 
means 
pengelolaan wilayah sungai terpadu
,
an integrated water 
resource management plan. 
 
18.  
“Presidential 
Decree” 
means 
a 
Keputusan Presiden
,
a
decree issued by the 
President of the Borrower.
 
19. 
“Presidential Regulation” and “Perpres” mean a 
Peraturan Presiden
,
a
regulation 
issued by the President of the Borrower. 
 
20. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
support the Borrower’s program on climate change set forth or referred to in the 
letter, dated April 2010 (Letter No. MK.8/2010 and Letter No. MPPN04/2010, 
from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of 
the Program during its execution. 
 
21. 
“REDD” means Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation.
 
22. “RPJMN” 
means 
the 
Rencana Pembangunan Jangka Menengah Nasional
,
the 
Borrower’s Medium Term Development Plan 2010 – 2014. 
Page  16
23. 
“Rp.” means Rupiah, the currency of the Borrower. 
 
24. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
Page  17
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two (2) years after the Closing Date.  The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8(c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and 
its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.
Page  18
