Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:AB5521 
Operation Name
 
Climate Change Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General agriculture/fisheries/forestry (34%); 
General public administration (33%); General 
energy sector (33%) 
Project ID 
P120313 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared
 
February 28, 2010 (revised March 28) 
Estimated Date of Appraisal Authorization 
April 15, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board Approval 
May 25, 2010 
1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The Climate Change Development Policy Loan is a strategic opportunity for supporting the 
Government’s ambitious climate change agenda, including key energy and forestry actions that 
will help to achieve the country’s 26% emissions reduction goal by 2020 (and up to 41% with 
international support). The policy actions included in the DPL program will also benefit 
Indonesia by improving governance, efficiency, competitiveness, and energy security. 
 
Based on GOI documents, discussions with key counterparts and a review of existing climate 
change plans, there is a strong rationale for focusing on three main development issues: climate 
change mitigation, adaptation and institutional/cross-sectoral issues. On mitigation, GOI analyses 
indicate that the key sources of emissions and key targets for reduction are: a) forest loss and 
peat land conversion and burning, and b) the energy sector, where progress can be made on 
reducing the incentive to overuse fossil fuels and increasing the incentives to develop renewable 
energy alternatives as well as promote energy efficiency. For adaptation, Government policy 
calls for a focus on water resources, agriculture, marine/fisheries, and linkage with disaster 
management. Finally, important progress can be made on important cross-sectoral and 
institutional issues, i.e. improving the scientific and legal framework to address climate issues, 
mainstreaming climate change in national development planning, further developing the carbon 
market, and building capacity to access climate finance. 
 
By contributing to the GOI’s established program loan process, the World Bank can add value by 
linking reform efforts to additional financing mechanisms, technical assistance and capacity 
building. (These include CTF, FIP and investment lending instruments, as well as GEF, carbon 
markets and other sources of financing.) The Bank can bring its development policy lending 
experience to the operation to assist the GOI and development partners in streamlining a 
prioritized program for the future. Finally, the Bank can work with GOI and other partners to 
link this climate change agenda to the macro economic reform process run by the primary 
economic development planning and budgeting agencies. Through ongoing policy dialogue 
Page  2
processes, using this operation and other instruments, the Bank can help to raise natural resource 
management issues to the highest policy making levels. The Bank can also test this approach for 
delivering large scale finance aimed at supporting a national climate change action plan and learn 
lessons that can inform the international debate about climate financing. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed Climate Change DPL series will support the GOI’s efforts to develop a lower 
carbon, more climate-resilient growth path. It will also help Indonesia to prepare for the post-
2012 global climate change regime by establishing a conducive policy, regulatory and 
institutional setting that allows Indonesia to access global climate finance opportunities and 
carbon markets. The policy actions included in the DPL operation will also benefit Indonesia by 
improving governance, forest management, efficiency, competitiveness, and energy security. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The GOI has indicated that the first Climate Change DPL in the series should be consistent with 
the Climate Change Program Loan matrix that has been developed under the joint Japan and 
French lending program that began in 2008. It should also use the same monitoring framework. 
Thus, the DPL will draw on a sub-set of high-impact prior actions from the existing matrix in the 
areas identified above: climate change mitigation, adaptation and cross-sectoral/institutional 
issues. Discussions on specific triggers for the second and third operations in the series are 
underway with the GOI and other development partners. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The DPL supports the Government’s climate change agenda to reduce the carbon intensity of 
development and increase resilience to the effects of a changing climate. In addition to these 
environmental benefits, the prior actions and triggers are likely to result in other positive 
environmental outcomes such as reduced pollution from an increased use of cleaner energy, 
lower deforestation, better management of forest habitats, and reduced vulnerability to disasters. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 IBRD 300 Total 300 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Timothy H. Brown 
Title: Senior Environmental Specialist 
Tel: 5781+3039 / 62-21-5299-3039 
Fax: 62-21-5299-3011 
Email: tbrown2@worldbank.org 
Location: Jakarta, Indonesia (IBRD)
 
