                                                  Document of
                                                 The World Bank


                                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                           Report No.: 54238-ID



            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                          PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                                               FOR A PROPOSED



                 CLIMATE CHANGE DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN (CC DPL)
                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 200.0 MILLION


                                                      TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA


                                                APRIL 26, 2010




Indonesia Country Management Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
The Indonesia Climate Change Development Policy Loan has been prepared by a World Bank team supervised
by Sonia Hammam (Sector Manager, EASIS) and led by Timothy Brown (EASIS). The members of the team
are: Josef Leitmann (EASER), Giuseppe Topa (EASER), Johannes Heister (EASER), Cynthia Dharmajaya
(EASER), Julia Hanniawaty (EASER), Migara Jayawardena (EASIN), Xiaodong Wang (EASIN), Dejan Ostojic
(EASIN), Mubariq Ahmad (EASIS), Virza Sasmitawidjaja (EASIS), Juha Seppala (EASIS), Emile Jurgens
(EASIS), Guntur Prabowo (EASIS), Mustapha Benmaamar (EASIS), Paulus van Hofwegen (EASIS), Shobha
Shetty (AFTAR), Marleyne Danuwidjojo (EASIS), Yulita Soepardjo (EASIS), Shubham Chaudhuri (EASPR),
Timothy Bulman (EASPR), William Wallace (EACIF), Enrique Blanco Armas (EASPR), Elaine A. Tinsley
(LCSPE), Nina Herawati (EASPR), Melinda Good (LEGES), Michael Prachar (LEGES), Rajat Narula
(EAPFM), Yogana Prasta (EACIF), Bolormaa Amgaabazar (EACIQ), Marina A. Soemarjono (EACIQ).

The team worked closely with), Mr. Kiichi Tomiya and Ms. Yuka Murakami (Government of Japan/JICA),
Patrick Abbes and Dimitri Kanounnikoff (Agence Française de Développement), the Asian Development Bank
and the IMF to coordinate policy advice.

Kulsum Ahmed (ENV), Benoit Bosquet (ENVCF), Charles Feinstein (EASNS) and Michel Kerf (LCSSD) are
the peer reviewers for the operation.

The team worked under the overall guidance of John A. Roome (Sector Director, EASSD) and Joachim von
Amsberg (Country Director, EACIF).
                              REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR

                                                       January 1 ­ December 31



                                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                      (Exchange Rate Effective as February 28, 2010)
                                          Currency Unit           Rupiah (IDR)
                                                  US$1.00       Rp.9.310




                                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA          Analytical and Advisory Activities                     DNA          Designated National Authority for CDM

                                                                                 Dewan Nasional Perhubahan Iklim (National Council on
ADB          Asian Development Bank                                 DNPI
                                                                                 Climate Change)

AFD          Agence Française de Développement                      DPL          Development Policy Loan

                                                                                 Dewan Perwakilan Rakyat (People's Consultative
AG           Attorney General                                       DPR
                                                                                 Assembly)
             Aliansi Masyarakat Adat Nusantara (Indigenous
AMAN                                                                EE           Energy Efficiency
             Peoples Alliance of the Archipelago)


AusAID       Australian Agency for International Development        ENSO         El Niño Southern Oscillation


             Badan Pengawas Pasar Modal dan Lembaga
BAPEPAM LK   Keuangan (Financial Institutions and Capital Markets   ESCO         Energy Services Companies
             Supervisory Agency)
             Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional
BAPPENAS                                                            FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization
             (National Development Planning Agency)
BaU          Business as Usual                                      FCPF         Forest Carbon Partnership Facility
BI           Bank Indonesia                                         FDI          Foreign Direct Investment

BKF          Badan Kebijakan Fiskal (Fiscal Policy Office)          FLEG         Forest Law Enforcement and Governance

             Badan Koordinasi Penanaman Modal (Indonesia
BKPM                                                                FPO          Fiscal Policy Office
             Investment Coordinating Board)
BMKG         Meteorology Climatology and Geophysics Agency          FSSF         Financial System Stability Forum
BNPM         National Disaster Management Agency                    GDP          Gross Domestic Product
             Badan Pemeriksa Keuangan (Supreme Audit
BPK                                                                 GEF          Global Environment Facility
             Agency)
                                                                                 Government Financial Management and Revenue
BPS          Badan Pusat Statistik (Central Bureau of Statistics)   GFMRAP
                                                                                 Administration Project

             Badan Usaha Milik Daerah (Regional Government
BUMD                                                                GFS          Government Finance Statistics
             Owned Enterprise)
             Climate Change Program Loan of Japan and France
CCPL                                                                GHG          Greenhouse Gas
             with GOI, 2008-10
CCT          Conditional Cash Transfer                              GNP          Gross National Product
CDD          Community Driven Development                           GOI          Government of Indonesia
CDM          Clean Development Mechanism                         IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

CER          Certified Emission Reduction                        IDA      International Development Association

CIF          Climate Investment Funds                            IEA      International Energy Agency
CO2          Carbon Dioxide                                      IFC      International Finance Corporation
CO2e         Carbon Dioxide equivalent                           IFCA     Indonesian Forest Carbon Alliance
COP          Conference of the Parties                           IG       Inspector General
CPF          Carbon Partnership Facility                         ILGRP    Initiatives for Local Government Reforms Project
CPI          Consumer Price Index                                IPCC     Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
CPIA         Country Policy and Institutional Assessment         ISX      Indonesia Stock Exchange
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy                        KDP      Kecamatan Development Program
CY           Calendar Year                                       JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency
                                                                          Komite Kebijakan Percepatan Penyediaan Infrastruktur
DAK          Dana Alokasi Khusus (Special Allocation Funds)      KKPPI    (National Committee on Policy for Accelerating
                                                                          Infrastructure Provision)
             Daftar Pelaksanaan Isian Anggaran (Budget
DIPA
             Implementation Statement)

             Komisi Pemberantasan Korupsi (Corruption                     Perusahaan Listrik Negara (Indonesian state electricity
KPK                                                              PLN
             Eradication Commission)                                      company)


             Kantor Pelayanan Perbendaharaan Negara (State                Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat (National
KPPN                                                             PNPM
             Treasury Services Offices)                                   Program for Community Empowerment)

ktCO2e       Thousand Tons of Carbon Dioxide equivalent          POLA     (Integrated Water Resource Management Plan)

                                                                          Pusat Pelaporan dan Analisa Transaksi Keuangan
LIBOR        London Interbank Offered Rate                       PPATK
                                                                          (Financial Transaction Analysis and Reporting Center)

             Lembaga Kebijakan Pengadaan Barang/Jasa
LKPP                                                             PPP      Public-Private Partnership
             Pemerintah (National Public Procurement Office)

LUCF         Land Use Change Forestry                            PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

LULUCF       Land Use, Land Use Change and Forestry              RAN-PI   National Action Plan on Climate Change

                                                                          Rencana Aksi Nasional Pemberantasan Korupsi (National
MDB          Multilateral Development Bank                       RANPK
                                                                          Plan for the Eradication of Corruption)

MDG          Millennium Development Goals                        RDA      Regional Development Account

MEMR         Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources            RDI      Rekening Dana Investasi (Investment Fund Account)
Menko Ekon   Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs (CMEA)   RE       Renewable Energy
                                                                          Reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation,
                                                                          conserving forest carbon stocks, sustainable
MMAF         Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries            REDD
                                                                          management of forests and enhancement of forest
                                                                          carbon stocks

MOA          Ministry of Agriculture                             REER     Real Effective Exchange Rate

                                                                          Rencana Kerja dan Anggaran Kementerian/Lembaga
MoF          Ministry of Finance                                 RKA-KL
                                                                          (Ministry/Institutional Budget and Work Plan)

MoFr         Ministry of Forestry                                RKP      Rencana Kerja Pemerintah (Government Work Plan)

                                                                          Rencana Pembangunan Jangka Menegah (Medium-Term
MoH          Ministry of Health                                  RPJM
                                                                          Development Plan)
MoT          Ministry of Trade                                   RPJMN    National Medium-Term Development Plan
mtCO2e       Million Tons of Carbon Dioxide equivalent           RUPTL    Master Plan for Electricity Supply
MTEF         Medium-Term Expenditure Framework                   SAI      Supreme Audit Institution
NBFI       Non-Bank Financial Institutions                         Satker     Satuan Kerja (Working Unit)
NEER       Nominal Effective Exchange Rate                         SFM        Sustainable Forest Management
                                                                              Second National Communication of the GOI to the
NGO        Non-governmental Organizations                          SNC
                                                                              UNFCCC on Climate Change
NPV        Net Present Value                                       SOE        State-Owned Enterprise
ODA        Overseas Development Administration                     SWAp       Sector-Wide Approach
           Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
OECD                                                               tCO2e      Tons of Carbon Dioxide equivalent
           Development
OGM        Operational Guidelines Manual                           TNA        Technology Need Assessment
           Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (Financial Services
OJK                                                                TSA        Treasury Single Account
           Authority)
OP         Operational Policy                                      UCT        Unconditional Cash Transfer
           Pemerintah Daerah (Local Government at District or
PEMDA                                                              UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
           Province level)
                                                                              United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
PER        Public Expenditure Review                               UNFCCC
                                                                              Change
PFM        Public Financial Management                             WBG        World Bank Group
           Program Kompensasi Pengurangan Subsidi Bahan
PKPS-BBM   Bakar Minyak (Fuel Subsidy Reduction                    YoY        Year on Year
           Compensation Programs)




                                     Vice President:            James W. Adams, EAPVP
                                  Country Director:             Joachim von Amsberg, EACIF
                                    Sector Director:            John A. Roome, EASSD
                                   Sector Manager:              Sonia Hammam, EASIS
                                 Task Team Leader:              Timothy Brown, EASIS
                     INDONESIA: CLIMATE CHANGE DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                                                     Table of Contents




LOAN PROGRAM SUMMARY ............................................................................................................................... I 
I.      INTRODUCTION .............................................................................................................................................. 1 
II.     COUNTRY CONTEXT ..................................................................................................................................... 8 
      A.    INDONESIA IN 2010 .......................................................................................................................................... 8 
      B.    THE STATE OF THE INDONESIAN ECONOMY ENTERING 2010 ........................................................................... 9 
      C.    INDONESIA'S ECONOMIC OUTLOOK ............................................................................................................... 11 
      D.    DEVELOPMENT AGENDA ................................................................................................................................ 13 
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S CLIMATE CHANGE PROGRAM ........................................................................ 16 
      A.    INDONESIA AND CLIMATE CHANGE ............................................................................................................... 16 
      B.    GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PROFILE AND MITIGATION PRIORITIES........................................................... 22 
      C.    GOVERNMENT CLIMATE CHANGE AGENDA GOING FORWARD ...................................................................... 32 
IV. BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY ...................................................................... 37 
      A.    A. LINKS TO THE 2009-2012 COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY ................................................................. 37 
      B.    COLLABORATION WITH OTHER DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS AND THE IMF ..................................................... 37 
      C.    CC DPL LINKAGES WITH OTHER BANK INSTRUMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS................................................. 39 
      D.    LESSONS LEARNED ........................................................................................................................................ 41 
      E.    ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS....................................................................................................................... 43 
V. THE PROPOSED CLIMATE CHANGE DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN .............................................. 44 
      A.    OVERVIEW OF CC DPL .................................................................................................................................. 44 
      B.    POLICY AREAS ............................................................................................................................................... 45 
      C.    FUTURE DIRECTIONS AND EXPECTED RESULTS ............................................................................................. 50 
      D.    PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES AND CONSULTATIONS ...................................................................... 55 
VI. OPERATIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES .................................................................................. 60 
      A.    ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS AND SOCIAL AND POVERTY IMPACTS ................................................................. 60 
      B.    IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION ..................................................................................... 62 
      C.    FIDUCIARY ASPECTS, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING ................................................................................... 63 
      D.    RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION ........................................................................................................................ 64 
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY .......................................................................................... 67 
ANNEX 2: GOVERNMENT POLICY/OVERALL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ......................................... 73 
ANNEX 3A:THE WB CC DPL MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS .................................................................... 79 
ANNEX 3B: THE CC DPL RESULTS FRAMEWORK (MONITORING AND EVALUATION) MATRIX . 85 
ANNEX 3C: THE CCPL (GOI-JICA-AFD) PHASE 2 POLICY MATRIX ........................................................ 88 
ANNEX 4: REVIEW OF PAST INDONESIA CLIMATE CHANGE PROGRAM LOANS ............................ 96 
ANNEX 5: INDONESIA ­ IMF ASSESSMENT LETTER ................................................................................... 99 
ANNEX 6: OVERVIEW OF POVERTY AND SOCIAL ISSUES IN INDONESIA ......................................... 101 
ANNEX 6: TABLE 1 POVERTY AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT REVIEW ................................................... 110 
ANNEX 7: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ............................................................................................... 112 
ANNEX 7: TABLE 1. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW OF CC DPL PROPOSED POLICY PROGRAM ... 116 
ANNEX 8: OVERVIEW OF WORLD BANK ENGAGEMENTS AND INSTRUMENTS IN INDONESIA 118 
ANNEX 9: INDONESIA AT A GLANCE ............................................................................................................ 122 
ANNEX 10: MAP OF INDONESIA # IBRD 33420R2 ........................................................................................ 125 
     REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA ­ CLIMATE CHANGE DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN (CC DPL)
                                           Loan Program Summary


Borrower       Republic of Indonesia
Implementing   The Ministry of Finance, the National Development Planning Board (BAPPENAS) the President's
Agency         National Council on Climate Change and the Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs.
Amount and     IBRD Variable Spread Loan, US$200 million.
Terms
Operation      A single tranche operation , the first in a proposed series of four programmatic loans of similar
Type           amount.
Main Policy
               Climate Change Adaptation, Mitigation, and Institutional Development
Areas
Description/   The proposed Climate Change DPL series will support GOI's efforts to develop a lower carbon, more
Contribution   climate-resilient growth path by focusing on three main thematic areas: (i) addressing the need to
to CPS         mitigate Indonesia's greenhouse gas emissions; (ii) enhancing adaptation and resiliency efforts in key
               sectors; and (iii) strengthening the institutions and cross-cutting policy framework needed for a
               successful climate change response. Mitigation focuses on the key sources of emissions and key
               targets for reduction, namely, (1) forest loss and peat land conversion and burning (land use
               change/forestry), and (2) the energy sector, where progress can be made on reducing the incentive to
               over-use fossil fuels and increasing the incentives to develop renewable energy alternatives and
               promote energy efficiency. Adaptation focuses on improving the framework for climate resilience in
               agriculture, water management, coastal and marine resource management, as well as disaster
               preparedness. Institutional development and cross-sectoral issues relate to the need for better technical
               understanding, policy coordination, and integration of climate change priorities into the national
               development planning and budgeting system.

               By contributing to the GOI's established program loan process, the World Bank is adding value by
               linking policy reform efforts to broader mosaic of engagement instruments, financing mechanisms,
               technical assistance and capacity building that the Bank and partners are bringing to bear on
               Indonesia's development challenges. The Bank can bring its development policy lending experience
               to the operation to assist the GOI and development partners in streamlining a prioritized program for
               the future. Finally, the Bank can work with GOI and other partners to link this climate change agenda
               to the macro economic reform process run by the primary economic development planning and
               budgeting agencies.

               Contribution to CPS. Environment is one of the core areas of engagement of the Indonesia 2009-
               2012 CPS, which recognizes that the GOI is poised to become a leader and model for developing
               countries in mitigating and adapting to climate change,. The CPS anticipates facilitating access to new
               international climate investment instruments; supporting the GOI's REDD initiative and other
               mitigation actions; and working to reduce Indonesia's vulnerability to natural disasters. It also
               anticipates policy lending to support progress on key policy reform areas such as those encompassed
               in this proposed operation.

Benefits       The key benefits expected from the program are:
               Mitigation/ Forestry
               ·    Policy harmonization and enabling conditions established for GOI integrated action to reduce
                    degradation and fires on peat land (in high-priority target areas)
               ·    Improved forest and peat land sustainability, land management practices and competitiveness ­
                    with institutions and policies positioned to access post-2012 forest carbon finance.
                     Better governance in the forestry sector through greater transparency, benefit sharing and more
                     equitable access to the environmental and economic services provided by forests.



                                                         i
                Mitigation/ Energy
                ·    Increased economic benefits from energy efficiency and increased energy security from
                     investments in renewable domestic energy sources
                ·    Economic and social benefits of reduced fossil fuel emissions in energy sector
                ·    Positive steps toward achieving President's emissions mitigation and energy mix goals in accord
                     with GOI energy strategy
                Adaptation
                ·    Integration of climate change adaptation and response into preparedness and resiliency plans with
                     disaster prevention and recovery programs and institutions
                ·    Improved basis for response to potential and uncertain changes and impacts in future
                Cross-Cutting / Institutional:
                ·    Improved policy harmonization across institutions critical to the GOI's climate change response.
                ·    Improved policy enabling framework for climate change action and access to climate investment
                     vehicles and post-2012 carbon finance opportunities
                ·    Coordination and parallel financing around a common policy framework and dialogue.
Partnerships/
                The first year of the Bank's CC DPL operation will provide parallel financing for the Climate Change
Parallel
                "Program Loan" in 2010, the third year of a Japanese-French loan series initiated in 2008. The
Financing
                remaining years would be co-financed with Japan, France and possibly other development partners.
Risks and             Coordination of GOI's climate change national action plans. While coordination across
Risk            sectors remains a challenge, Indonesia has improved the clarity of its national climate change action
Mitigation      plan. These improvements owe much to the Government's response to the President's pledges to
                reduce emissions. The DPL operation directly harmonizes partner support while focusing analysis,
                policy advice and monitoring to the steering committee where all institutions are represented, with the
                expectation that this high level body will provide a forum for cooperation beyond the DPL.
                      Commitment to policy reform actions over the medium term. Government commitment to
                reform is considered to pose low risk, given Indonesia's high profile international commitments, and
                the integration of Climate Change into the Medium Term Development Plan (RPJM).
                      Operation size and visibility. With other partners' parallel financing, climate change
                program/policy loans represent substantial lending levels. The Bank has focused its efforts on
                choosing streams of policy actions designed to lead to substantial progress on this critical agenda.
                      Fiduciary and governance risks. Corruption and governance weaknesses remain impediments
                to development. The economic DPL series with a key strand focusing on public financial management
                provides an umbrella for Bank engagements designed to reduce fiduciary risks.
                      Reputational risk. The CC DPL touches a number of "hot button" issues such as deforestation,
                land management, and energy pricing that draw the attention and criticism of stakeholders. These
                issues have been discussed with NGOs and other stakeholders through Bank and GOI consultations at
                various fora. Additional outreach will be undertaken by the GOI and its partners in programmatic
                lending to explain the nature, contents and benefits of the operation.
                      Forest management is a long term challenge; there is risk that progress will be slow. The
                risk that business-as-usual will continue is partly mitigated by the potential for access to a system of
                payments for preserving forest carbon stocks. However REDD itself has risks that cannot be mitigated
                at the project level as international agreement on a GHG control framework may not arise.
                      Energy pricing remains a difficult political challenge and the risk is that progress will be
                intermittent. The GOI recognizes the importance of progress on this agenda, as the resources from
                previous subsidy reductions have been important to financing key social programs. More recently the
                G20 commitment is an important marker, but energy price reform remains a critical political issue.
                      Poverty and social impacts. There is the possibility that low income groups will not benefit
                from climate finance distribution mechanisms such as REDD. This can be mitigated through a
                combination of good design and transparency. Similarly, the impact of an increase in energy prices on
                the poor can be reduced by introducing a compensatory cash transfer program; Indonesia used this
                approach during recent energy price adjustments. Disclosing and consulting on policies and plans is
                another measure to allow for public scrutiny and feedback.
                Macroeconomic and systemic risks. Indonesia's macroeconomic framework is robust, more certain
                than during the financial crisis. Economic performance has been remarkably solid, with only brief


                                                          ii
               slowing of growth. Fears of balance of payments pressures have proved to be largely unfounded.
               Banking sector health, overall, remains strong. Incremental upgrades by ratings agencies recognize
               the ongoing soundness of public finances. However, the scale and speed of foreign capital inflows,
               coupled with the openness of the capital account, present an ongoing risk of sharp changes in financial
               asset prices. During the 2008-9 period, the real impact of extreme price changes was mild, however,
               and the floating exchange rate and high foreign exchange reserves provide a buffer against volatility.

Operation ID   P120313




                                                        iii
                                         I.      INTRODUCTION
1.       The proposed Climate Change Development Policy Loan (CC DPL) to Indonesia for US$
200 million will support the Government's policy agenda on climate change, an issue of growing
global concern. The CC DPL is envisioned as a series of four annual single tranche loans of similar size
anchored to the FY09-FY12 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). CC DPL provides support in three core
areas: (i) addressing the need to mitigate Indonesia's greenhouse gas emissions; (ii) enhancing adaptation
and resiliency efforts in key sectors; and (iii) strengthening the institutions and cross-cutting policy
framework needed for a successful climate change response.

2.      The GOI has requested that the Bank join its ongoing Climate Change Program Loan
(CCPL) framework in parallel with other development partners. The framework has been in place
since 2008, when GOI initiated the CCPL program loan series with financing from Japan (JICA) and
Agence Française de Développement (AFD). 1 The CCPL policy framework is based on Indonesia's
"National Action Plan Addressing Climate Change" and other key planning and policy documents. The
timing is opportune for the Bank to join as the operation is in transition from a first to a second three-year
phase. The Bank's CC DPL will provide parallel financing during this final year of the first CCPL series
(2009). Future operations in the CC DPL series will support the second three year phase of the GOI's
program. In the transition from the first to second phase of CC-PL, the Bank will add value by
sharpening the focus of the operation on a core set of key issues, elevating key policy issues to high level
decision makers, and integrating assistance across a range of Bank lending and non lending instruments,
including climate finance (see Chapter 4).

3.       Under the CCPL, the GOI leads a Steering Committee that provides a venue for
coordinating policy advice and harmonizing technical assistance efforts among development
partners. The development partners provide a monitoring team, technical assistance and regular
supervision missions. The focal areas and future directions to be supported by this CC DPL result from
Bank and GOI analytical work and consultation processes, which contributed to the GOI's climate policy
agenda. The specific policy actions in the matrix of prior actions and future policy actions result from an
intensive process of dialogue among GOI agencies, the Bank and development partners. The Bank is
already helping to influence the policy focus and the way progress is monitored, helping to translate the
GOI's action plans into concrete implementation actions. The Bank is working with GOI and partners to
link this climate change agenda to the development and policy reform process at the highest policy
making levels. The Bank and the development partners meet regularly, coordinate and communicate on
climate change issues through the monitoring and supervision process. The Bank and development
partners have good experience in similar collaborations under other DPL instruments in Indonesia. For
this proposed operation, the total contribution of all partners, including the Bank, is US$ 800 million.

4.       Like other DPL operations in Indonesia, the CC DPL supports the Government of
Indonesia's (GOI) continuing economic, policy and governance reform efforts.               Indonesia's
economic and planning ministries recognize climate change as an economic development challenge, more
than an environmental problem. The CC DPL provides recognition of Indonesia's bold and progressive
actions on climate change and provides an incentive for continued progress. This operation builds on a
significant history of DPL support in the areas of economic and infrastructure policy reform. The
economic DPL series supports the Government's continuing efforts to improve the investment climate,
strengthen public financial management, and enhance poverty alleviation and service delivery. The


1
 Together, these development partners disbursed $500 million in 2008 (based on CY2007 prior actions) and $700
million in 2009 (based on CY2008 policy actions). The total amount to be disbursed in 2010 will be $600 million
(based on CY2009 policy actions), assessed as completed in March 2010.

                                                        1
Board approved DPLs 1 through 6 from 2004 to 2009. DPL-7 is under development. The Infrastructure
Development Policy Loan series aims to increase the amount and effectiveness of infrastructure spending
to contribute to economic growth and poverty reduction. Infrastructure DPLs 1 to 3 were approved from
2007 to 2009. IDPL-4 is under development. In March 2009, the Board approved a US$ 2 billion
contribution (DPL with Deferred Drawdown Option) to the Indonesia Public Expenditure Support
Facility to provide contingent budget support to maintain the stability of the financial system and sustain
critical public expenditures in the face of the global financial crisis.

5.       Climate change is an economic development challenge facing Indonesia. Indonesia is highly
vulnerable to climate change impacts ­ sea level rise, changing weather patterns, and increased
uncertainty. Potential impacts include: increased threats to food security and agricultural productivity;
impacts on productive coastal zones and community livelihoods; consequences for water storage;
intensification of water- and vector-borne diseases; and deterioration of coral ecosystems. These changes
will put past development gains and poverty alleviation efforts at risk. An approach that increases
adaptive ability, builds community resilience and increases preparedness for managing disasters makes
economic sense for Indonesia, a kind of insurance. Indonesia may also be able to tap into new forms of
global financing to assist in this adaptation response.

6.      At the same time, Indonesia's green house gas (GHG) emissions are globally significant.
The GOI's recent Second National Communication on Climate Change (December 2009) reports average
emissions of about 1.66 million gigagrams (equal to 1000 metric tons) of carbon dioxide equivalent
emissions for the period from 2000-2004. Land use change and forestry (LUCF) and peat fires account
for the vast majority of Indonesia's emissions ­ over two-thirds of the total in an average year. Energy
use is the distant second largest source of emissions, but one of the fastest growing. Power sector
emissions are growing most rapidly due mainly to conversion from oil-fired to coal-fired power
generation plants. Transportation is also a major fossil fuel consumer, due to the rapidly growing number
of vehicles, poor fuel quality, and a lack of investment in mass transport systems.

7.       Indonesia's fossil fuel related emissions per capita are relatively low. As expected, energy
use per capita is growing at about the same rate as GDP per capita. However, GHG emissions per
capita ("emissions intensity") are growing faster than GDP per capita. This means that the current energy
growth path relies on increasing contributions from emission intensive sources such as coal-fired power
and rising use of motorized transport. IEA (2007) projects that on a Business-as-Usual (BAU) path,
Indonesia's fossil fuel related GHG emissions could triple by 2025. At that point, energy emissions
would exceed forest and land emissions, unless there are efforts to shift from the BAU path.

8.      Indonesia has the opportunity to increase economic efficiency and competitiveness by
addressing the policy and governance framework that leads to excessive forest loss and fossil fuel
consumption. Also, Indonesia has significant alternative and renewable energy resources, including
geothermal, hydro, and biomass, as well as substantial, economically viable opportunities to save energy
through improved efficiency. However, the investment climate remains an issue, impeding private sector
development of alternative energy resources.

9.       The Government's medium term action plans recognize that sound development planning is
a key to sound climate change adaptation. Adaptation needs and planning will focus on water
resources management; water supply, sanitation and health; agriculture, irrigation, and farmer education;
spatial planning; coastal management; and disaster risk management and preparedness. Climate impacts
will likely fall disproportionately on the poorest people, in areas susceptible to drought, flooding or
landslides and in resource-dependent livelihoods, particularly in agriculture and fisheries. The poor lack
the assets and flexibility to deal with the impacts of climate change on productivity, and the devastation


                                                    2
wrought by natural disasters and extreme weather. Both domestically and internationally, Indonesia
stresses that efforts to address climate change should not be done at the expense of the poor.

10.      However, Indonesia faces institutional, policy, technical, financial and legal challenges in
responding to climate change. Both the forestry and energy sectors have long-standing and well-studied
policy distortions and governance issues. Rapid deforestation, illegal logging, forest fires, and peat-land
degradation deplete Indonesia's natural assets, undermine revenue generation potential, and undermine
community livelihoods. Indonesia's energy sector remains highly subsidized and regulated. This
contributes to inefficient public spending, impedes investment to modernize the sector, and makes the
country vulnerable to world energy price shocks. This also impedes the development of alternative
energy sources, such as geothermal, and leads to adverse environmental and health impacts. Indonesia
realizes that these distortions are an expensive burden on the budget and the economy. Weak governance
impedes investment, raises costs, and hinders international competitiveness and market access (for
forestry and other products). This CC DPL operation aims at the underlying economic policy and
institutional issues that can help Indonesia make progress on these climate change challenges.

11.      Indonesia's commitment to climate change action has been increasingly evident since 2007,
when the country hosted the UNFCCC 13th Conference of the Parties in Bali and published its National
Action Plan on Climate Change. In 2008, the Government formed the National Council on Climate
Change and published its Development Planning Response to Climate Change, a key practical step in
mainstreaming climate action into the planning and budgeting process. In 2009, the Government
solidified its technical understanding of climate change issues and impacts (Second National
Communication) and took steps to facilitate climate financing with establishment of an Indonesian
Climate Change Trust Fund. Despite the financial crisis and national elections in 2009, Indonesia
consolidated its technical and policy actions toward a robust response to climate change, both
domestically and globally.

12.      The GOI recently announced path-breaking mitigation commitments. At the G20 gathering
in September 2009, President Yudhoyono announced that Indonesia would reduce GHG emissions by 26
percent by 2020, and make a further reduction of up to 41 percent with international support. This bold
action opened the door for more developing countries to make commitments in advance of Copenhagen
COP 15. The GOI also joined the G20 pledge to phase out subsidies for fossil fuels. Indonesia is
developing a strategic, multi-year policy and investment program for low-carbon growth, as outlined in its
Climate Change Sectoral Road Map (December 2009) and its submission to the UNFCCC in fulfillment
of the Copenhagen Accord (January 2009).

13.      The CC DPL series recognizes these commitments and builds on the climate policy and
financing dialogue between the Government and its development partners. The proposed Climate
Change DPL series will support GOI's efforts to develop a lower carbon, more climate-resilient growth
path. It will also help Indonesia to prepare for the post-2012 global climate change regime by
establishing a favorable policy, regulatory, and institutional setting that allows Indonesia to access global
climate finance opportunities and carbon markets. The CC DPL is a strategic opportunity for the
Government to use program/policy lending to support the President's ambitious climate change agenda.
The policy actions included in the DPL operation will also contribute to Indonesia's development agenda
by improving governance, forest management, efficiency, and competitiveness.

14.      The GOI has mapped out a strong program of climate change action for coming years.
Progress on climate change is particularly noteworthy given the global crisis and national elections of
2009, which commanded the attention of both the public and policy-makers. GOI submitted its
international commitment to the UNFCCC in fulfillment of the Copenhagen Accord at the end of January
2010. The GOI plans to codify the President's 26 percent emissions reduction commitment as domestic

                                                     3
law, through a Presidential decree. The emissions reduction plan, the Medium Term Development Plan
2010-2014 and the National Development Priorities Year 2010 provide a firm basis for indicative future
triggers for a series of CC DPL operations in coming years. These development planning and budgeting
documents build on the framework established by the National Action Plan for Climate Change 2007, the
Development Response to Climate Change 2008, and a range of technical studies.

15.      The GOI is also putting its plans into action. Indonesia is taking action on peat and forest
emissions through the development of pilot projects on peat lands and development of a national program
for Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation with a score of demonstration activities in
development. Indonesia is incrementally addressing the governance issues that lie behind forest and land
use emissions, including the passage of a long-awaited timber legality standard and verification system.
In the energy sector, GOI has made efforts to improve the investment climate for renewable energy
development through improved pricing and off-take requirements (though these policies can still be
improved). Indonesia is also requiring more action on energy efficiency and conservation by large firms,
as well as national and local governments. On the adaptation front, Indonesia is improving water resource
management and agricultural extension to strengthen resilience and reduce the risks of climate impacts,
which include drought, flooding and pests. Indonesia has established a national disaster management law
and agency that is mainstreaming climate change into the disaster preparedness agenda. The institutional,
technical, and legal basis for coordination and implementation of climate change actions has been
established, and will continue to be improved. A summary of prior actions for this operation appears at
the end of this section, with a full discussion in Chapter V.

16.      Future CC DPL operations in the series can support a deepening engagement on key
climate change policy and implementation actions. The GOI is improving the legal and inter-
governmental coordination framework for addressing peat land conservation and water management to
reduce emissions. Indonesia plans to develop an inter-governmental fiscal transfer mechanism to improve
incentives for local government forest management activities, an important governance gap. The GOI is
also improving the regulatory framework for REDD projects to recognize the need to provide
performance based incentives to communities and investors. On renewable energy, the GOI is in the
process of developing an integrated framework to promote geothermal power production investments.
There is also increasing consensus on the need to craft a cost reflective tariff setting mechanism for
electricity. In the water resources area, the GOI will be expanding and completing its strategic
assessment of future water needs and developing strategic water management plans in key river basins.
In agriculture, the Government will scale up rice intensification programs and farmer awareness and
capacity building through farmer field schools. The GOI also intends to implement a coastal adaptation
program for coastal ecosystem and fishery resilience on the vulnerable north coast of Java and to establish
a marine ecosystem monitoring program that will inform the marine adaptation strategy in the future. The
GOI will consolidate the policy and legal basis for emissions reductions through a Presidential Decree.
Indicative policy actions for the next Phase of CC DPL support are included in Chapter V.

17.     Indonesia is also taking advantage of a range of international climate finance options and
establishing domestic climate financing mechanisms. The Indonesia Climate Change Trust Fund was
launched in September as a mechanism for funding technical assistance, capacity building and
demonstration activities for adaptation. The GOI is seeking climate financing assistance through the
Clean Technology Fund and through the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility. The Government has been
selected as a pilot country under the Forest Investment Program. Additional international financing
mechanisms (e.g., the Adaptation Fund managed by the GEF) are developing, such that transfers from
developed countries could help to reduce the cost of Indonesia's movement toward a lower carbon, more
climate-resilient development path.



                                                    4
18.     Indonesia's development partners are also providing technical assistance, analytical
support and capacity building through a range of mechanisms. Many development partners are
providing assistance through on-going project vehicles; others are designing new programs of support.
Several have pledged support for the GOI's Climate Change Trust Fund. Many of these development
assistance programs will provide capacity and support to the GOI to achieve its climate change agenda.
The CC DPL will be an integral part of the overall mosaic of instruments and engagements in key sectors.
The governance mechanism of CCPL process is also serving as a vehicle for coordinating development
assistance in line with the GOI's priorities.

19.     Building on a solid foundation of climate change achievements, strong economic
performance and consolidated political structure, Indonesia is now proposing to move toward a
lower carbon development path, as well as a more resilient and adaptive path that can help to
reduce vulnerability and protect the poor in the future. The CC DPL series aims to assist the GOI in
pursuing this path by focusing on key policy and governance challenges related to mitigation, adaptation
and institutional development. The economic DPL series strives to assist Indonesia to improve the
systemic processes and institutions for formulating and implementing policy and spending for
development. The Infrastructure DPL series strives to assist Indonesia with core infrastructure financing
and service delivery challenges, including the private investment climate and underlying governance
issues.

20.     The CC DPL series will support actions that have core development benefits, as well as
climate benefits. Climate change is an important entry point for broader actions that support good
development. The CC DPL series will assist Indonesia with challenges in the use of peatland, forests and
energy that are essential for development of a more efficient and climate friendly path. It will also
support institutional preparedness and adaptive responsiveness needed to protect the vulnerable and the
economy from uncertain future changes. The following table illustrates the prior actions that Indonesia
has already achieved. Prospective future actions appear in Chapter V.




                                                   5
                       Indonesia Climate Change Development Policy Loan
                          Summary Table of Prior Actions Recognized
      Objectives                                      Prior Actions Recognized
POLICY AREA 1: MITIGATION

Land Use Change and Forestry Sector Mitigation
    Improve policy              Peatland Conservation
   coordination and         1   Issued and began implementation of a master plan on peat land
management of peat land         rehabilitation in Central Kalimantan (MOFR Ministerial Regulation
                                No. 55 / 2008).
   Improve regulatory           Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD)
 framework for REDD         2   Launched National Readiness Program for REDD (September 2009)
  implementation and            and established legal framework through MOFR Ministerial
 develop demonstration          Regulations No 68/2008 on Demonstration Activities, No. 30/2009 on
       activities               REDD Procedures, and No. 36/2009 on Commercial Forest Carbon
                                Projects. Completed Participation Agreement with Forest Carbon
                                Partnership Facility (FCPF) in November 2009 initiated a REDD
                                program with UN REDD Support (FAO-UNDP-UNEP) in October
                                2009.
Improve basis for timber        Forest Management and Governance
   legality, strengthen     3
institutions, and improve       Issued MOFR Ministerial Regulation No. 38/2009 on Timber Legality
 incentives for regional        Verification System (System Verifikasi Legalitas Kayu, SVLK) to
 governments to address         establish a national timber legality standard and a system for
      forest loss and           verification and monitoring to assist in reducing illegal logging and
       degradation              forest loss and degradation.

Energy Sector Mitigation
     Improve policy             Renewable Energy Development
 framework to promote       4   Issued Presidential Decree No. 4 / 2010 which assigns to PLN the
    renewable energy            acceleration of power plant development using renewable energy, coal,
    development and             and gas and mandates PLN to develop and purchase power from
       investment               renewable energy resources (January 2010). Issued MEMR
                                Ministerial Regulation No. 32/2009 on Purchase Standard Price of
                                Electricity Power by PT PLN from Geothermal Electricity Power
                                Station (December 2009). Issued MEMR Ministerial Regulation
                                No31/2009 on the purchase price of electricity from renewable energy
                                (November 2009). Issued MOF Ministerial Regulation No. 24/2010
                                on tax incentives for renewable energy development was issued in
                                January 2010.
     Improve policy             Energy Efficiency
 framework to promote       5
    energy efficiency           Issued Government Regulation No. 70/2009 on Energy Conservation
    development and             (December 2009). MEMR developed and implemented national
       investment               system of energy audits for major firms in key sectors.




                                                  6
                          Indonesia Climate Change Development Policy Loan
                             Summary Table of Prior Actions Recognized
      Objectives                                       Prior Actions Recognized

POLICY AREA 2: ADAPTATION AND DISASTER PREPAREDNESS
 Establish strategic          Water Resources Sector
 water management         6   Issued Presidential Regulation No. 12/2008 on Water Resource Councils.
 plans in key river           Established the National Water Resource Council (NWRC) which has met
       basins                 several times. Prepared integrated water resource management plans
                              (POLA) with climate change assessment in national strategic river basins on
                              Java (i.e., Brantas, Pemali-Comal, Jratunseluna, and Serayu-Bogowonto).
 Scale up actions to          Agriculture Sector
  improve climate         7
    resilience in             Develop an irrigation asset management information system. Implemented
     agriculture              System for Rice Intensification (SRI) practice in target provinces.
                              Implemented Climate Field School Program in target provinces.
  Scale up actions to         Disaster Risk Management
   establish national     8   Enacted Law No 24/2007 on Disaster Management and issued Presidential
disaster risk reduction       Regulation No. 8/2008, which established a National Disaster Management
   and management             Agency (BNPB). In 2009, GOI finalized the National Action Plan for
        system                Disaster Risk Reduction (NAP-DRR 2010-2012) and formally launched the
                              plan in February 2010. GOI incorporated mainstreaming of Disaster Risk
                              Reduction in the context of climate change adaptation into the medium term
                              development plan (RPJMN, 2009)
Establish systems and         Marine and Fisheries Sector
strategies to improve     9
climate preparedness          In May 2009, GOI launched the National Plan of Action (NPOA) of Coral
 and resilience in the        Triangle Initiative on coral reef, fisheries and food. GOI approved a
  coastal and marine          roadmap of CTI actions for 2010-11 in November 2009.
        sector
POLICY AREA 3: CROSS SECTORAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
       Strengthen       Mainstreaming Climate Change in National Development Program
 knowledge base and 10 GOI finalized the Second National Communication to UNFCCC.
legal basis for climate Submitted mitigation actions and commitments under Copenhagen Accord
   change action and    (January 2010). GOI prepared and issued the "Development Planning
 link these to national Response to Climate Change" (2008) and updated it in March 2010. GOI
     budgeting and      finalized the "Indonesia Climate Change Sectoral Roadmap" (ICCSR) in
  planning processes    March 2010.
 Strengthen policy            Policy Coordination and Financing Scheme for Climate Change
  coordination and        11 The GOI issued the National Action Plan Addressing Climate Change
 develop financing
  mechanisms for             (December 2007); established a National Council on Climate Change by
 addressing climate          Presidential Decree No. 46/2008 (July 2008); and launched the Indonesia
      change                 Climate Change Trust Fund (October 2009).




                                                   7
                                   II.     COUNTRY CONTEXT

A.      Indonesia in 2010

21.      Indonesia has made remarkable progress over the last decade in terms of macroeconomic
and political stability. Macroeconomic performance since the late 1990's has seen consistent output
growth and rapid decline in external imbalances. Increasing tax revenues have contributed to the decline
in the fiscal deficit. Increased growth has been grounded on increasing private sector investments,
sustained domestic consumption and generally sustainable external surpluses. Under a controlled inflation
and rising incomes, Indonesian citizens have enjoyed improving living standards and poverty levels have
fallen, although many remain close to the poverty line. In addition, as the result of a sustained decade of
relatively successful political and institutional reforms, Indonesia in 2010 is a highly competitive,
decentralized electoral democracy. Governments at national, provincial, district and city level are elected
in free and fair contests, with an incumbent loss rate of about 40 percent (one of the highest of any
competitive democracy). A system of checks and balances between legislative, judicial, and executive
branches is increasingly in place, with no one branch of government able to dominate, and few
institutional outcomes `guaranteed'. Where power was once radically concentrated around the
presidency, it is now shared with the legislature, and where power was once concentrated in Jakarta, it is
now shared among 500 or so city, district and provincial governments.

22.      Indonesia was less affected by the global economic downturn of 2008-09 than most
economies, and by late 2009 the economy had recovered to grow faster than pre-crisis averages.
Growth slowed sharply but remained positive in the fourth quarter of 2008, at the depths of the global
downturn, then incrementally recovered through 2009; the economy expanded by 4.5 percent over 2009
as a whole, behind only China and India among the G20 economies. The social impact was also limited
with few reports of layoffs, and poverty and unemployment rates continuing to fall, while households'
spending power was supported by inflation slowing to decade-lows. Through the crisis public finances
remained in good health, with a nominal deficit in 2008 widening to a smaller-than-projected 1.6 percent
of GDP in 2009. Public debt levels continuing to decline, ending 2009 just below 30 percent of GDP.
International ratings agencies recognized the robustness of Indonesia's economy and strength of its public
financial management, upgrading their ratings of Indonesia's sovereign debt in 2009 and early 2010.

23.      The outlook is Indonesia's economic momentum to continue to build, with growth rising
above 6 percent in 2011 and with scope for growth to average 7 percent by mid-decade, despite the
weaker global economic outlook. These growth rates, and the projection of recent mild inflation rates to
only rise slightly over the coming years, suggest ongoing progress in poverty reduction. In the period
2010-14, the budget is expected to increase by more than 30 percent in real terms compared to 2005-2009
period (about US$500 billion in 2008 prices) creating significant opportunities to improve public
services. In order to seize these opportunities, Indonesia will need more effective and accountable
institutions that can translate available resources into better development outcomes. This will be
particularly important as Indonesia embarks on a period of second generation reforms to provide, for
example, more sophisticated services in infrastructure, better education, and a sustainable health system.
But this projection of rising growth rates and improving social outcomes are contingent on the
government aggressively progressing in this agenda, with recent political developments creating the risk
that reform may be slower and shallower than may have been expected in late 2009.




                                                    8
B.          The State of the Indonesian Economy Entering 2010

24.     By mid 2009 Indonesia's economy had recovered from a relatively mild downturn
associated with the global economic crisis. By the end of 2009, broadly-based quarterly growth rates
were higher than average growth over the previous decade. The economy grew by 4.5 percent in 2009,
making it one of the fastest growing economies in the G20. Growth in the second half of the year was
supported by robust domestic demand and improving economic conditions abroad. Indonesia's major
trading partners had largely recovered from the crisis, while domestically side solid consumer confidence,
moderate inflation and favorable financial market conditions have supported growth.

25.      Growth has been broad based. Private consumption was supported early in the year by
Parliamentary and Presidential election candidates' spending (up to IDR 25 trillion is estimated to have
been disbursed by campaign teams in Q1), while later in the year the additional spending components of
the government's stimulus package were disbursed. This offset weaker investment, especially on
equipment. Meanwhile net exports supported growth in the year to Q4 2009, as imports initially fell more
sharply then recovered slower than exports, due to the composition of Indonesia's trade partners and the
profile of Indonesia's imports and exports. On the production side, agriculture, mining and the tertiary
sector (communications, transport) contributed significantly to growth. Manufacturing accelerated at the
end of the year, although it remained low for 2009 as a whole.

                                                                    Figure 2After a brief deficit during the peak of the
     Figure 1GDP growth slowed only moderately in 2009             financial crisis, the balance of payments returned to
       (annual percentage change and percentage point                                  surplus in 2009
                       contributions)                                     (billions of USD and percent of GDP)
     12                                                  12                USD billion                  USD billion
                                                                   25.0                                               25.0
      8                                                  8
                                                                   20.0                                               20.0
      4                                                  4
                                                                   15.0                                               15.0
      0                                                  0
                                                                   10.0                                               10.0
     -4                                                  -4
                                                                    5.0                                               5.0
     -8                                                  -8
             2006        2007    2008        2009                   0.0                                               0.0
          Imports                  Exports
                                                                    -5.0                                              -5.0
          Stocks + Discrepency     Investment
                                                                               2007           2008         2009
          Public consumption       Private consumption
          GDP                                                                         Trade Balance   BoP balance
 Source: BPS                                                      Sources: BI and BPS

26.     Trade volumes continued to accelerate in the last two quarters of 2009, although both
exports and imports fell for the year as a whole. While imports declined by 15 percent, exports fell
10 percent, resulting in an increase in Indonesia's trade surplus (supported by a slight increase in the
terms of trade). The acceleration of exports in the latter part of the year was supported by the recovery in
external demand and commodity prices as the global economy emerges from recession. The current
account surplus increased towards year end, as the widening in the trade balance more than offset an
increase in the income deficit, which was driven by renewed profitability among oil and gas companies.

27.    Indonesia's financial markets have been more volatile than most, weakening sharply during
the peak of the global financial crisis and then out-performing in the year from March 2009. By


                                                              9
April 2010 the IDR had appreciated to 9000 per USD, a 30 month highs, after weakening sharply to a low
near 13,000 during the peak of the financial turbulence. The real effective appreciation has been even
stronger. Government debt markets followed a similar pattern, weakening drastically in late 2008 and
early 2009 before recovering to historically strong levels by early 2010. The spread on Indonesian
sovereign USD debt fell below global emerging market averages for the first time in almost 5 years in
mid 2009 while yields on 5-year IDR bonds were at record lows by early 2010, although still several
percentage points above the yields on other ASEAN nations' domestic debt. Large flows of liquid foreign
capital into Indonesian financial assets have driven much of this strengthening. From June 2009 to early
2010, net foreign capital inflows into Indonesia have amounted to US$ 6.6 billion.

28.      Foreign reserves have more than recovered from the crisis as Bank Indonesia allowed the
balance of payments surplus to widen and worked to slow and smooth the rupiah's appreciation.
The balance of payments surplus, reflecting the widening current account surplus and significant portfolio
inflows, saw Indonesia's foreign reserves rise to US$ 71.8 billion at the end of March 2010, over US$
10 billion higher than the pre-crisis peak of July 2008 and over US$ 20 billion more than their nadir in
early 2009. Foreign direct investment inflows remained substantially weaker than before the crisis, partly
as investors in both the oil & gas and non-oil & gas sectors withdrew funds from domestic operations. To
limit the impact of the rapid growth in reserves on domestic money, BI has increased issuance of short-
term money market instruments (SBIs).

29.      BI eased monetary conditions over the year to late 2009, but little of this easing was passed
into banks' lending and credit growth remained anemic. Bank Indonesia cut its policy interest rate
300 bps from December 2008 to August 2009, but commercial banks lowered their lending rates by a
fraction of this amount, with average lending rates remaining above 14 percent in early 2010. They cut
deposit rates more aggressively. This does not seem to reflect weakness in the banking sector. Earnings
of major banks and various aggregate indicators such as capital adequacy and return on assets suggest the
health of the sector overall remains robust and has been little affected by the crisis or the rapid credit
growth to mid-2008. In December 2009, commercial banks' non-performing loan ratios fell to
3.3 percent, well below the 2007 and 2006 averages of 5.6 percent and 8.0 percent, respectively. The
robustness of the banking sector is driven by the top 15 commercial banks, which account for 80 percent
of total assets, with indicators for the remaining banking sector less robust.

30.     Inflation slowed to decade lows in 2009, with a low at 2.4 per cent. The seasonal increase in
food prices around the turn of 2010 was larger than usual, affecting poor households especially, and this
was the drove 80 percent of the rise in the inflation rate to 3.4 per cent in the year to March 2010.
Meanwhile the recovery in global energy prices in 2009 has not passed into consumer price due to
Indonesia's system of regulated energy prices, temporarily suppressing the inflation rate.

31.      The Government's budget deficit in 2009 was lower than expected, at 1.6 percent of GDP.
Revenues in 2009 were 2.5 percent weaker than in 2008, reflecting the cuts in tax rates under the
government's stimulus package (eg. the corporate income tax rate was cut from 30 percent to 28 percent),
slower nominal GDP growth, and the lower value of imports and exports with the decline in trade flows
and commodity prices. Revenues recovered in the final months of the year, due to a significant pick up in
collections from gas non-tax revenues as well as increased efforts by the tax office to improve compliance
of both firms and individuals. Line ministries' spending continued to improve in 2009, and reached 95
percent of budget overall. Less was spent on fuel subsidies and interest payments than had been budgeted,
a result of low oil prices and a stronger rupiah respectively. Although spending on core programs
improved, overall disbursements are still skewed towards the end of fiscal year. Reforms in the budget
cycle (eg. improved procurement processes, and new scope for budget carry-over) contributed to the
higher budget realization than in previous years. The bulk of the government's 1.4 per cent of GDP


                                                   10
stimulus package was delivered as tax cuts, largely disbursing instantly, while 96 per cent of the stimulus
spending (mostly for small-scale infrastructure) was disbursed by the end of the year.

32.      The Government has proposed a revised 2010 budget deficit of 2.1 per cent of GDP, from
an initial projection of 1.6 per cent. The 2010 budget includes a small fiscal stimulus package, smaller
than 2009's at IDR 36.3 trillion or 0.6 percent of GDP and also mostly made up of tax cuts (including a
lowering of the corporate tax rate to 25 percent). The upwards revision to the deficit largely reflects a
higher projected oil price (US$ 77 per barrel from US$ 65 per barrel in the earlier budget), impact energy
subsidy costs and the central government's revenue sharing obligations with sub-national governments.
The larger deficit also funds some of the incoming administration's new programmatic spending
priorities. The larger deficit can be easily financed from the government's 2009 surplus. Nonetheless, the
government has enjoyed improved access to commercial debt markets in 2010, filling about one-third of
its 2010 bond issuance target by the end of March, at yields sharply lower and longer maturities than a
year earlier.

C. Indonesia's Economic Outlook

33.     The outlook for Indonesia's economy remains solid, with the major uncertainty being
Indonesia's potential to raise rates growth to or above 7 per cent by mid-decade. Indonesia's
economy is expected to grow by 5.6 percent or a little more in 2010, increasing to around 6¼ percent in
2011. Growth will be supported by increased domestic demand offsetting stabilized or declining net
exports. Private consumption is expected to accelerate, growing by around 5.3 percent in 2010 with the
continued impact of the fiscal stimulus, moderate price growth and stable employment. Investment is also
expected to accelerate in 2010, stimulated by increasing commodity prices and some return of foreign
direct investment. Government consumption is expected to continue growing ahead of the overall
economy with increased spending on core government programs.

34.      The ongoing, gradual recovery in the world economy and commodity prices is expected to
support firm growth in Indonesia's exports. Trade growth is expected to remain broad-based. Imports
are expected to recover faster than exports, as the domestic economy grows more quickly than
Indonesia's export destinations, and production to meet the ongoing recovery in non-commodity exports
requires more imported inputs, leading to a narrowing of the trade surplus. The balance of payments
surplus is also expected to narrow through 2010 and 2011, as the current account approaches balance and
weaker projected portfolio investment inflows more than offset recovery in foreign direct investment and
banking inflows. The annual inflation rate for 2010 is likely to be around 5.3 percent as prices accelerate
in the latter half of the year, on stronger domestic demand, waning pass-through of the stronger exchange
rate into retail prices, and robust global commodity prices. Possible increases of administered prices
(electricity) present an upward risk to inflation. The longer-term outlook is highly dependent on the
conduct of policy by Bank Indonesia, although it is committed to limiting inflation to around 5 per cent.

35.     With the risks to the near-term outlook receding, the uncertainty surrounds whether
Indonesia can achieve the pace of reform required to lift average growth to 7 percent. The external
sector generates some uncertainty in the 2010 outlook, as developed economies withdraw fiscal and
monetary stimulus and address public and consumer debt. In addition, political developments since late
2009, in particular the parliamentary inquiry on the bailout of Bank Century, have raised some questions
about the timing and depth of future reforms and improvements in conditions for investors and firms, with
potential downside risks to investment conditions and growth, although these developments did not
appear to have had a significant impact on financial market investors' perceptions by early 2010. Over a
longer horizon, these developments raise the question of whether the government can achieve the reform



                                                    11
agenda outline in its newly released medium-term development plan (RPJMN) towards achieving
stronger and more inclusive growth.
Table 1: Indonesia's medium-term economic outlook: A strong growth scenario
                                          2008      2009      2010     2011         2012      2013      2014
Key macro variables (% )
 GDP growth                                  6.1      4.5        5.6      6.2          6.5      7.0       7.2
 GDP deflator growth                       18.2       8.5      10.2      12.0          9.2      9.0       9.0
State Budget (% GDP)
 State Revenues                            19.8      15.5      15.7      15.8         15.9     15.9      15.9
 State Expenditures                        19.9      17.0       17.3     18.0         18.4     18.1      17.8
 Budget balance                             -0.1     -1.6       -1.6     -2.2         -2.5     -2.2      -1.9
 Gross financing need                        1.6      2.9        3.4      3.7          3.9      3.6       3.4
 Public debt                               29.2      31.1      26.3      24.3         23.5     22.5      21.5
Key assumptions
 CPI Inflation (%)                           9.8      4.8        5.3      6.1          5.9      5.9        5.9
 Exchange Rate (Rp/US$)                    9757    10356       9400     9400         9400      9400      9400
 Interest rate of SBI 3 month (%)            8.7      7.1        6.5      6.5          6.5      6.5        6.5
 Crude-Oil Price (US$/Barrel)              94.0      61.6      78.3      81.3        83.6      83.6      83.6
Source: World Bank projections


D.        Political Outlook

36.     As the result of a sustained decade of relatively successful political and institutional
reforms, Indonesia in 2010 is a highly competitive, decentralized electoral democracy. Governments
at national, provincial, district and city level are elected in free and fair contests, with an incumbent loss
rate of about 40 percent. A system of checks and balances between legislative, judicial, and executive
branches is in place, with no one branch of government able to dominate, and few institutional outcomes
`guaranteed'. A vigorous free media thrives. Where power was once radically concentrated, the executive
branch now has to share normal law-making powers with the legislature. Where power was once
concentrated in Jakarta, it is now shared among 500 odd city, district and provincial governments.

37.     The 2009 legislative vote allowed President Yudhoyono's Democrat Party to triple its share
of seats relative to the 2004 vote. The results also indicated the continuing decline of the Soeharto-era
"legacy parties" and poor results by Islamic parties. The continuing (and growing) appeal of mainstream,
more-or-less secular-nationalist parties, with fully 75 percent of the vote going to such parties, is one of
the overall messages of this election. This shift in the legislative vote presaged the results in the
Presidential election held three months later.

38.     In the presidential election of 2009, incumbent President Yudhoyono won by a clear margin
over other candidates. The margin was sufficient that a second round of voting was not required. The
result was largely in line with prior polling, and the prior results at legislative level. The President
campaigned mainly on the prospect of a continuation of past policies and governing approaches, and the
voters responded positively. The President named his second United Indonesia Cabinet on 21 October
and pledged to boost economic growth, continue fighting corruption and uphold the rule of law.

39.      While similar to the 2004 cabinet roster in that more than half of its representatives are
political appointees, on balance Indonesia's new cabinet seems likely to be more effective and
reformist than its predecessor. With finance and trade remaining unchanged and strong technocratic
figures taking over state development planning (BAPPENAS), investment coordinating and health, there
exists ample scope for reform. Key policy initiatives in the areas of bureaucratic reform and social


                                                     12
protection backed by the vice-president also bode well, while the establishment of a new presidential
delivery unit increases the likelihood of effective implementation of ministerial programs.

40.      Political turbulence since the 2009 presidential election has distracted the new government.
Mid-2009 saw a struggle between the independent Anti-Corruption Commission (KPK) and the national
police. Two of the KPK's four deputy chairs were rendered inactive in a dispute with the national police
and the attorney general's office in a case that dragged on for months. The president refrained from
involving himself in the dispute, but after a national outcry, he established an investigation team Team of
Eight. In the wake of the team's findings, the president called on the police and the AGO to address the
failings within their institutions, which resulted in re-instatement of the KPK deputies.

42. Shortly after the inauguration of the cabinet in 2009, parliament set up a special investigation
(Pansus) to look into alleged corruption and misuse of funds in the government's October 2008 bail-
out of Bank Century. In its final conclusions in March 2010, the Pansus faulted the government for the
bail-out and called on law enforcement agencies to investigate indications of corruption. However, the
Parliament's statement made no explicit mention of wrongdoing by specific individuals. The final stance
of the Pansus showed that the government coalition was deeply divided, with two of President
Yudhoyono's largest allies in parliament, Golkar and the Justice Welfare Party (PKS), aligning with the
opposition. The Bank Century affair consumed most of parliament's attention from November 2009
through March 2010, and caused considerable distraction for several senior ministers.

43. The Bank Century investigation and accompanying political turbulence indicate that tension
may persist between the president and parliament. Given that the conclusions failed to name specific
individuals for any wrongdoing, it appears unlikely that there will be changes in the cabinet in the near
future. However, investigations by the KPK and police into the Bank Century bail-out continue and the
outcome remains uncertain. The situation appears to be calming down but, although unlikely, it remains
possible that key officials could be implicated or weakened. This recent political turbulence has not
triggered significant demonstrations or a major shift in public perceptions against the government.

44. There is a risk that the political turbulence of recent months may make the government more
cautious on some issues as they can no longer rely on full support from parliament, forcing a more
cautious approach. This turbulence may slow reforms in the near term. In the longer term, however, the
pragmatic, approach that has been responsible for the best aspects of Indonesian development in the past
decade ­ is likely to prevail. The Indonesia we see today is likely to be the Indonesia of coming years ­
the country's underlying social diversity and pluralism will mitigate against radicalism and extremism;
while the continued low level of public expectations will not add significant pressure.

D.         Development Agenda2

45. Despite impressive economic performance and remarkable transformation and consolidation of
the political system, Indonesia needs to build on its current robust foundation and accelerate
growth while ensuring that it is inclusive and sustainable. Indonesia still has untapped potential in
commodity-driven sectors, which affords Indonesia the opportunity to attract investment in these areas.
But a commodity-based growth strategy will not be sufficient to accelerate and sustain economic growth
in the country. With its still young population and rapidly growing labor force, Indonesia needs to create
jobs on a large scale by further diversifying its export basket and facilitating market-led development of
new globally competitive clusters. To achieve this, Indonesia will need to address the key deterrents of
private sector development and investment, namely, the poor quality of infrastructure and the uncertainty
of regulatory and legal aspects of the investment climate.

2
    Based on `Indonesia: 2009 Development Policy Review', The World Bank.

                                                            13
46. Higher levels of growth have not translated, to the extent hoped for, into greater poverty
reduction. Despite recent signs of progress, Indonesia lags behind its more prosperous neighbors in
producing higher value-added non-agricultural jobs. Though the open unemployment rate has fallen since
its peak of 11.2 percent in 2005 to 9.1 percent in 2007, unemployment remains high, especially among
youth. Forty percent of Indonesia's labor force is still engaged in low-productivity activities in agriculture
and related areas, while only 30 percent of the labor force appears has made the transition to high-value
added activities. One of the major constraints for high-value employment generation is employment
protection legislation, amongst the strictest in East Asia. Inclusive growth in Indonesia will also require
an increase in agricultural productivity and stimulation of rural non-farm employment. Even though
Indonesia's economy is transforming rapidly with its steady and rapid urbanization, agriculture remains
the core for rural household incomes, employs the largest share (45 percent) of labor and contributes the
second largest share (17 percent) of GDP. Indonesia's agricultural product regulatory framework is quite
developed but attention is needed on capacity building and maintaining the integrity of national systems
with decentralization.

47.      Inadequate environmental management is a key challenge to sustainable development.
Unsustainable degradation of Indonesia's considerable natural resources and increased vulnerability to
natural disasters have led in recent years to legislative responses in an improved environmental
management law and a disaster management law. More efforts are needed to improve forest governance
and management to realize better outcomes in terms of jobs, revenues and equity for communities.
Despite increasing urbanization, many Indonesians still live in rural areas and depend on forested areas,
communal land, and coastal and environmental resources that are being depleted. Sustainable
environmental management in rural areas will require addressing weaknesses in the judicial sector and in
the rule of law, including land use rights and land titling, as well as capacity challenges. Indonesians in
urban areas face environmental challenges such as water and air pollution, flooding, congestion and noise.
In urban areas, responding to the challenges will imply a major effort of institutional strengthening of
local government's ability to mobilize resources and manage expenditures, including budgeting,
development planning and management of land and other municipal assets. Chapter III focuses more
specifically on the climate and emissions aspects of Indonesia's development path.

48.      At the core of most of the challenges that constitute Indonesia's development agenda today,
there are a number of key systemic processes and institutions for formulating and implementing
policy. These are the public financial Figure 3: The Development Agenda in Indonesia
management system public institutions
rely on to implement government                           From 2008 to 2014 and beyond: the development agenda
priorities and effectively spend public                      2014 AND BEYOND: FILLING THE GLASS, INDONESIA RISING

funds, the capacity and accountability                                            Making growth inclusive    Ensuring growth is           Building resiliency

of the civil service, the decentralization                                         Revitalizing the rural
                                                                                      economy
                                                                                                                 sustainable
                                                                                                              Managing Indonesia's
                                                                                                                                           Managing disaster
                                                                                                                                               risks and preparing
                                                        Accelerating growth
framework determining the flow of
                                                                                   Facilitating the              forestry and coastal          for climate change
                                                         Alleviating                  transfer of labor to       resources sustainably     Enhancing security
                                                            infrastructure            high value-added           while providing               by providing social

funds      and     the     division     of                  bottlenecks
                                                         Reducing
                                                                                      activities
                                                                                   Restructuring the
                                                                                                                 adequate livelihoods
                                                                                                              Meeting Indonesia's
                                                                                                                 energy needs without
                                                                                                                                               protection
                                                                                                                                           Reducing

responsibilities between levels of
                                                            regulatory                health system                                            vulnerability to
                                                            uncertainty about      Providing quality             sacrificing its               financial sector
                                                            the investment            education for all          environment                   shocks

government, the control of corruption                       climate
                                                                                   Increasing access to
                                                                                      clean water and
                                                                                                              Making Indonesia's
                                                                                                                 rapidly growing urban
                                                                                                                 agglomerations livable
and the legal system that ensures the
                                                                                      sanitation
                                                                                                                 growth poles


rule of law. Over the next five years,                Enhancing government effectiveness in a democratic and decentralized Indonesia:
                                                                  adapting and strengthening institutions and processes
the Government plans to continue                         Strengthening
                                                                                 Improving
                                                                                                Pursuing civil
                                                                                                                                       Maintaining

implementing the reform agenda                           public financial
                                                          management
                                                                              coordination in
                                                                             policy formulation
                                                                            and implementation
                                                                                                   service
                                                                                                   reform
                                                                                                                 Making the most of
                                                                                                                  decentralization
                                                                                                                                      momentum on
                                                                                                                                      anti-corruption
                                                                                                                                           efforts
                                                                                                                                                        Strengthening
                                                                                                                                                        the rule of law


focusing on a subset of these areas
while increasing and improving the                           2008: INDONESIA FLOATING, A GLASS HALF-FULL

efficiency of public spending in priority Source: Indonesia Development Policy Review.
sectors.

                                                                      14
49.      To realize its potential as a competitive, inclusive, sustainable and resilient middle-income
country, Indonesia has to adapt the institutions and mechanisms that govern the functioning of the
state and shape state-society interactions. The country's authorities understand that the central
challenges Indonesia faces today in realizing its development agenda are of an institutional nature. They
entail furthering Indonesia's as yet incomplete governance transition by improving the effectiveness of
public institutions and processes through longer-term institutional and process transformations. Even in
areas where additional financing is clearly needed, institutional challenges need to first be sorted out for
that financing to be forthcoming and for it to be effectively deployed.

50.      In its earliest days, the new Government created and implemented a 100-day priority action
plan, which then became the base for a National Priority Action Plan for 2010. There are 11 key
priority areas for action, including climate change. The programs most closely related to climate change
issues are:
                Increasing supply of electricity to meet the needs of industry and commercial sector,
                households, transportation, etc, including development of alternative sources of energy.
                Resolving complexities in land use and spatial plans to reduce land use conflicts and
                violations, as well as conflicting laws and regulations, so that lands can be used
                productively.
                Managing climate change and environment by finalizing Action Plans for the next 5
                years, including medium to long term energy plans. GOI also intends to ensure that
                forest management will be conducted properly and intensify efforts to reduce illegal
                logging and forest fires.
                Increasing preparedness to deal with natural disasters by establishing two standby forces
                ready for deployment to disaster locations anywhere in Indonesia.
                Increasing synergy betw.een the central and regional governments for development
                efforts, by harmonizing regulations between central and regional governments.

51.      The GOI has completed the National Mid Term Development Plan (RPJM) 2010-2014),
which lays out specific national, regional, and sectoral plans and serves as a basis for annual budgeting.
A key theme is developing people's welfare, democracy and justice. The RPJM 2010-2014 focuses on 11
sectoral priorities and three special national priorities. These are fully described in Annex 2. The
priorities most related to climate change and this CC DPL are those on energy sector issues,
environmental issues and climate change, and disaster preparedness.
                Energy: reaching national energy security to ensure continuation of national growth
                through institutional restructuring and optimizing the use of alternative energy.
                Environment and Disaster Management: conservation and managing of nature to
                support sustainable economic growth and welfare which is accompanied with disaster
                risk management to anticipate climate change.




                                                    15
         III. THE GOVERNMENT'S CLIMATE CHANGE PROGRAM

52.      Indonesia is both vulnerable to and contributes to climate change. The GOI's priorities for
mitigation are first, in forestry, land use change and peat lands; and second, in fossil fuel use in the power
generation, manufacturing and transport sectors. In both cases, high and fast growing emissions can be
attributed to upstream policy conditions and governance issues that need to be addressed as part of a shift
toward a lower emissions development path. The GOI's adaptation priorities include water management,
agricultural production and preparedness to improve disaster response and resilience.                Here too,
improving policies and governance frameworks will be an important step toward more resilient water
management approaches and agricultural practices. The institutional setting for addressing climate
change at the national level is a challenge of coordination across multiple sectors. This Climate Change
DPL is designed around the key mitigation and adaptation policy areas and specific target actions that the
GOI has prioritized in its response to climate change.
A.      Indonesia and Climate Change

Vulnerability and Emissions Overview

53.      The development challenge posed by climate change is putting past development gains at
risk. Specific areas of Indonesia are highly vulnerable to multiple climate change hazards. In fact,
warming is not the greatest risk: more intense rainfall and sea-level rise will adversely affect food
security, health, water resources, farming and coastal livelihoods, and forest and marine biodiversity.
Studies show that the productive areas of Java, Bali, Sumatra, and Papua are especially vulnerable
Failure to adapt will hurt the economy and the poor. The Asian Development Bank (ADB, 2009) projects
that, by the end of this century, climate change will cost Indonesia between 2.5 percent and 7 percent of
GDP. The greatest impacts will fall on the poorest people, specifically those who live in areas susceptible
to drought, flooding or landslides and who are dependent on climate-sensitive livelihoods, particularly in
agriculture and fisheries. Women and female-headed households are disproportionately represented
among Indonesia's poor and are more susceptible to negative shocks from natural disasters, economic
downturns, or climate induced impacts. The poor lack assets and flexibility to deal with impacts of
climate change on productivity, and devastation wrought by natural disasters and extreme weather.

54.      Indonesia recognizes the adaptation challenge, though more study and concrete
implementation will be needed. The GOI has charted the following roadmap for the adaptation efforts:
establish maps of local vulnerability and adaptation information system by 2015; ensure climate-proof
policy and regulations by 2020; pursue an adaptation-shaped development program; and pursue
adaptation-proof development. With community participation over the coming years, investment in
adaptation will be prioritized in: (a) the water sector to ensure the people can response properly in the
case of water shortage, drought and flood; (b) the marine and fisheries sector to prepare people to deal
with coastal land inundation, extreme weather situation, and change in fishery productivity and zonation
as results of the sea temperature change; (c) the agriculture sector to deal with the changing climate and
the ensuing planting seasons/harvest and its consequences on the productivity of food and plantation
crops; and (d) the health sector in anticipation of increasing vectors of infectious diseases like malaria and
dengue as well as the increasing risks of respiratory and gastrointestinal diseases. In the longer term,
Indonesia also has opportunities to scale up preparation for ecosystem-based adaptation to build resilience
to climate change impacts and preparing communities to cope with it. Rebuilding of mangrove ecosystem
in the coastal areas, rehabilitation of degraded peat land forests are among examples of ecosystem-based
adaptation that will increase ecosystem resilience and help protect community livelihoods.


                                                     16
55.      Rapid deforestation, illegal logging, forest fires, and peat-land degradation cause emissions,
deplete Indonesia's natural assets, undermine revenue generation potential, and undermine
community livelihoods. Indonesia emits significant amounts of greenhouse gases (GHGs), mostly from
forest loss and land-use change. Deforestation and fires/haze reduce Indonesia's development potential
and undermine its international reputation. Most deforestation and fire losses occur in just 10 provinces
(78 percent of dry forest loss and 96 percent of swamp forest loss). Riau, Central Kalimantan and South
Sumatra alone account for over half of all forest degradation and loss. While efforts to measure emissions
more precisely continue, there is a broad consensus within the GOI that forestry and land-use are key
targets for mitigation.

56.      Forestry and land-use governance issues are complex and challenging, but reasonably well
understood. Key issues contributing to deforestation are: (i) weak legal and political accountability; (ii)
policies favoring large-scale commercial activity over small- and medium-sized businesses; (iii) distorted
incentives for timber pricing and transport; (iv) an inadequate legal framework for protecting the poor and
indigenous land-users; (v) undervaluation of forest assets and low revenue capture; and (vi) corruption
(Figure 4). These underlying issues lead to more proximate causes that give rise to visible impacts on the
landscape, as well as GHG emissions and societal losses. Any scheme to change practices or reduce
deforestation needs to be understood in this wider context of upstream institutional, governance, and
incentive issues that cause downstream outcomes on forest and peat land. Progress on forest governance
is essential for performance on a national REDD program.

Figure 4: Forest & Land Use Sector: Upstream Policies and Distortions Impede Progress and Impose Costs
on Society
                               Proximate Causes/                                                Costs to Society:
 Underlying Policy &               Symptoms
  Institutional Issues                                                                      · Disruption of water quality
                             · Inappropriate land use                                         & quantity
                                                                       Watershed
· Weak legal & political       and allocation decisions                                     · Decrease in productivity,
                                                                      Degradation
  accountability (&                                                                           agric output, nutrition
                             · Weak legal status of
  constituency)
                               forest and peat lands
· Policies favoring large    · Weak, inconsistent & law                    Drying of        · Fires, haze, health impacts
  scale commercial             enforcement                                   Land,          · Drought, water shortages
  activity over SME or                                                      Forests
  CBFM                       · Excess industrial
                               processing capacity          Forest
· Distorted Incentives for                                                                  · Soil quality, productivity,
                             · Weak, inconsistent           Cover &           Erosion,        nutrition, poverty
  timber pricing,
                               provincial/local              Peat            Degradatio     · Siltation, flooding, urban
  transport                                                                      n
                               government forest and         Loss                             impacts
· Weak legal framework         land management
  for protecting poor,         approaches
  indigenous land users      · Marginalization of                         Resource          · Increased social conflicts
                               traditional land stewards                   Scarcity         · Loss of rural livelihoods
· Undervaluation of
                                                                                            · Rural Poverty and
  forest assets, low         · Opening of new lands,                                          Landlessness
  revenue capture              encroachment                                                 · Lower resilience,
                                                                                              vulnerability
· Corruption, elite          · Wealth concentration,
                                                                         GHG
  capture                      feeding political cycle
                                                                       Emissions            · Lost opportunities for
                                                                                              carbon market payments

                                                           Modified and expanded from WRI State of the Forest Report 2002
                                                           WB Strategic Options for Forest Assistance In Indonesia, 2006



57.     Indonesia's energy use is growing rapidly; GHG emissions are growing even more rapidly.
Per capita fossil fuel GHG emissions are still low compared with other middle-income countries.
Focusing on fossil fuel emissions sources only, oil use contributes the largest share, currently, but coal
contributes the most to high emissions growth. Emissions growth over the past decade has been mainly
driven by the increasing use of coal in power generation. The manufacturing sector is also a large fossil
fuel user and an important source of emissions, partly due to inefficient energy use and weak
environmental controls. Inefficient energy use also undermines competitiveness. Transportation is also a
major emitter, due to the rapidly growing number of vehicles, poor fuel quality, and a lack of investment
in mass transport systems. These sources of emissions could be reduced through a combination of policy
changes and increased investment, for example, in renewable energy or energy efficiency improvements.


                                                                                   17
58.      Energy and pricing and policy are an element of Indonesia's reform agenda, including most
recently through its commitment to phase out energy subsidies over the medium term (G-20
Pittsburg, September 2009). At present, marginal changes in world prices are budget neutral, but long-
term fixed fuel and electricity prices and the subsidies they create represent a threat to fiscal
sustainability. The subsidies also have opportunity costs in terms of development spending, regressive
distribution of benefits, and disincentives for efficiency. The Government plan to move to market prices
is evolving, but the last few years shed some light on the step wise approach being employed. Generally,
the Government argues that it is necessary to move from untargeted subsidies to stronger, more focused
social assistance programs. The cash transfers introduced in 2005 and used again in 2008, are an
example, but other poverty and social programs can be included. The GOI is also trying to influence
regional governments, which had opposed increasing fuel prices. In the 2009 budget, regions were forced
to share the cost of the subsidy with the central government, thus reducing the impact on the central
budget and shifting incentives. When budget pressures have mounted rapidly, the Government has raised
prices (sometimes dramatically) to maintain stability. However, the preferred approach is more
evolutionary with different measures adopted at different times (see text box). The current priority is
electricity prices which are slated to begin gradually increasing starting in 2010. Plans are being
developed to eliminate or phase out subsidies for gasoline based on location or age of car. Generally,
while program loans are useful in some areas, for example geothermal energy development, broader
pressure around controversial issues by development partners has typically proven to be
counterproductive. The CC DPL is not the only instrument, nor the best instrument, to address broad
based energy reforms. Figure 5 below summarizes policy distortions in the energy sector from the point
of view co-benefits and broader environmental costs.

Figure 5: Energy and Transport Sectors: Upstream Policies & Distortions Impede Low Carbon Potential and
Impose Costs on Society

                                                                   Energy & Transport
                                                                       Outcomes                     Costs to Society:
  Underlying Policy &             Proximate Causes/
   Institutional Issues               Symptoms                Distorted Energy Production &         · Secondary
                                                              Consumption Decisions;                  Pollution Costs
 · Legislation to protect       · Public Service
                                                              Weak Incentive to Conserve,
   poor, promote equity &         Obligation, fixed fuel &    Innovate or Invest in Efficiency      · Urban congestion,
   access                         electricity price                                                   poor planning
 · Weak rule of law; weak       · Reduced resources for                                               choices
                                                              Power Sector: Low returns, but
   investment climate             economic stimulus and       high investment need/gap;
                                                                                                    · Energy
                                  poverty alleviation         Public `crash program' but no
 · Legal, institutional                                                                               Inefficiency /
                                                              incentive to expand access
   political history of large   · Low recent investment in                                            Waste
   energy SOEs                    infrastructure/energy
                                                              Transport: Cheap fuel = more          · Global
 · Multiple regulators/         · Long term gas export        cars, more trips, more roads;           Competitiveness
   policy makers; Weak            contracts; high                                                     Losses
                                                              Low incentive for public transit,
   inst. coordination             opportunity cost of use     fuel switching, vehicle improvemnt
                                  of higher quality coal                                            · Infrastructure &
 · Weak legal & political                                                                             investment
   accountability,              · Distorted incentives: for                                           distortions
                                                              Manufacturing: Weak Incentive to
   corruption, elite politics     fuel use, conservation &    conserve, innovate or invest in         (resources not
                                  investment in alternative   efficiency for competitiveness          directed toward
 External/Global
                                  energy resources                                                    best returns)
 · Rising energy costs;
                                · Wealth concentration,       Renewable, Alternative Energy:
   demand for coal and                                                                              · Future re-
                                  feeding political cycle     Weak investment incentive;
   gas; less credit, less                                                                             adjustment needs
   investment                                                 Small scale can't resell to grid        impose costs

                                                     Summarized and Adapted from WB IDPL (2007) and from WB CEA (2009)




                                                                     18
                               GOI MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY SUBSIDIES

The cost of fuel subsidies are a function of the difference between the regulated and economic price of the fuel, and
the quantity of fuel subject to subsidy. The GOI has been progressively adjusting both, reducing the price
differential and the amount of fuel sold that is subsidized.

Fuel subsidies have been managed through periodic, large price adjustments. During periods of widening
differences between regulated and economic price, the GoI has raised the regulated price to near economic price
o In May 2008, as international oil prices rose towards USD 150 per barrel and refinery margins widened,
     regulated fuel prices were increased an average of 30 percent
o In October 2005, with rising global oil prices and a weakening exchange rate, regulated transportation fuel
     prices were raised a total of 120 percent over two adjustments
o These moves were controversial, with street protests, strong opposition from many political parties, and sharp
     declines in approval ratings (A period of fuel price indexing fuel was ended in 2003 for the same reason.)

...by deregulating prices of non-consumer fuels , progressively reducing the range of subsidized fuels
o Aviation fuels moved to market prices in 2002
o Industrial fuel prices were deregulated in early 2005 and are no longer subsidized
o Prices of larger cylinders of LPG are being progressively raised to reflect their increased economic cost

...and by phasing out use of the most heavily subsidized fuels. Household kerosene has been the most heavily
subsidized fuel; until 2007, it consumed the majority of the fuel subsidy. Following 2005 fuel subsidy cuts, GOI
introduced a kerosene-to-LPG conversion program:
o Poorer households are provided with free gas stoves and associated hardware and initial small (3 kg) LPG
     cylinders. At the same time, kerosene was withdrawn from the market.
o Small LPG cylinders are priced lower per kilogram than larger (12 kg) household LPG cylinders, and both are
     somewhat below market price. The overall subsidy is small compared to the scale of the kerosene subsidy.
o This program has progressively been rolled out across urban areas, encountering some initial resistance and then
     apparently being accepted.
o Kerosene consumption has fallen dramatically, and is now mainly in rural areas where LPG is more costly.

Fuel price adjustments have been accompanied by unconditional cash transfer programs and expanded
government services
Accompanying the large (120 percent) fuel price adjustment in 2005, GOI rolled out an unconditional cash transfer
program (BLT), with quarterly transfers of funds to the poorest 30 percent of households
o This program was repeated from June 2008 to February 2009, following the May 2008 fuel price increase
o The cash transfers were designed to offset the impact of the fuel price increases, and in 2008 the rise in global
    food costs on poor households' real incomes
With the fiscal space created by the fuel price adjustments, the government established and expanded programs for
community-driven development, school scholarship and health insurance for poorer households.
o These programs benefit many households especially affected by the increase in fuel prices, but too wealthy to be
    eligible for the BLT

Electricity tariffs have been raised for many firms and households with larger capacity connections or that
consume relatively more
 The electricity tariff scheme provides greater discounts on the economic cost of supply to households with
    progressively smaller capacity connections (generally poorer households). The tariffs on the highest capacity
    connections have been raised by 10 to 20 percent, largely in late 2007.
 A quantity-based tariff has also been extended, with Households that consume more than average (given their
    connection capacity) paying around 20 percent more per unit of electricity consumed




                                                         19
Climate Change Adaptation: Impacts and Needs

59.     Indonesia is highly vulnerable to climate change. The eastern and western portions of densely-
populated Java, the coastal regions of much of Sumatra, parts of western and northern Sulawesi, and
southeastern Papua islands all rank highly on the multiple climate hazard map (see Figure 6, below).
Indonesia is susceptible to all major climate change risks (drought, floods, landslides, sea-level rise)
except cyclones. (Background and references for these statements can be found in the WB CEA, 2009
and other sources, such as the GOI's Second National Communication).

60.      Indonesia will experience modest temperature increase. However, the warming-related
changes in wet and dry season rainfall, as well as extreme events, are the larger issue for Indonesa.
Indonesia will also experience more intense rainfall patterns. Climate change is predicted to result in 2
percent to 3 percent more rainfall per year in Indonesia (Ratag 2001 in Susandi 2007). The increased
rainfall is expected to continue and, due to climate change, result in a shorter rainy season (fewer number
of rainy days in a year), with significant increase in the risk of flooding

Figure 6: Multiple Climate Hazard Map of Southeast Asia (Yusuf and Francisco, 2009)




61.      Food security will be threatened by climate change. Climate change will alter precipitation,
evaporation, run-off water and soil moisture; hence will have effects on agricultural production,
especially rice, and thus food security. The droughts caused by the 1997 El Niño3 event affected 426,000
hectares of rice. The loss of production (measured as the percentage deviation from a five year moving
average) in eight El Niño years between 1965 and 1997 averaged 4 percent. For particular regions, the
losses may be higher: East Java/Bali, an area with a very short monsoon, is predicted to be 18 percent for
the January-April harvest (Naylor et al., 2007). Important income-generating non-food crops such as
coffee, cocoa and rubber were also affected (FAO, 1996). There is a wide range of uncertainty in these
figures, as carbon dioxide concentrations will also change.

62.     Rainfall variability will negatively affect water resources. Decreases and increases in rainfall
will adversely affect hydroelectricity generation and drinking water supply, both of which depend on
steady supply from water reservoirs. On the other hand, heavy rainfall with associated turbidity will
3
 There is no proven evidence yet that intense and more frequent El Niño and La Nina events are caused by or are
causing climate change. But these events can be a good proxy for looking at the damage that could occur due to
climate change.

                                                       20
damage water processing facilities, contaminate the water supply and increase the costs of water
treatment (GoI, 2007). Changing precipitation will also affect the probability of land and forest fires. In
El Niño years, the total area of land and forest affected by fire and the level of GHG emissions increased
significantly. These fires destroy habitats, pollute watersheds, reduce biological diversity, and increase
air pollution, with consequent health effects.

63.      Sea level rise will threaten productive coastal zones and affect livelihoods. Climate change
will raise average sea level due to increased volume of the sea water and the melting of polar ice caps.
This means low lying coastal areas will be affected, not just by rising seas, but by higher tides and storm
events. Also, in low lying rural districts rice and maize production could decline by 50 to 90 percent.
The estimated reduction of yield would result in financial losses to rice, soybean and maize farmers. Sea
level rise would also be likely to affect fish and prawn production in the coastal zone and ponds. Climate
changes that affect water supply, agriculture, livelihood options and disease processes can also have
unequal gender impacts, an area that needs more study.

64.    In total 41.6 million Indonesians live within ten meters above the average sea level. They are
the most vulnerable to sea level changes (Figure 7. CIESIN, 2007). Coastal cities such Jakarta,
Semarang, and Surabaya are areas of great concern because of the high population densities.

65.       The warming of ocean water will affect marine biodiversity. Indonesia's oceans could
increase in temperature in the range of 0.2 to 2.5 degrees Celsius. The 50,000 km2 of coral reefs in
Indonesia, about 18 percent of the
world's total, are already in dire Figure 7: Population density within and outside of a 10m Low Elevation
straits. The El Niño event in 1997 ­ Coastal Zone (CIESIN, 2007)
1998 was estimated to have caused
coral bleaching to 16 percent of the
world's coral reef. In a 2000 survey,
only 6 percent of Indonesia's coral
reefs were in excellent condition, 24
percent in good condition, and the
remaining 70 percent were in fair to
poor condition (John Hopkins
University and Terangi, 2003).

66.       Climate       change     will
intensify water- and vector- borne
diseases. In the late 1990s, El Niño
and La Nina were associated with
outbreaks of malaria, dengue and
plague. Malaria has spread to high
elevations where it was detected for the first time at 2103 m in the highlands of Papua province in 1997
(Epstein, et al., 1998). Dengue fever has been spreading faster and killing more victims than in past
years, especially during La Nina years (GoI, 2007). The links between climate change and these diseases
and health problems is poorly researched. The IPCC's Fourth Assessment Report (2007) stated that there
is too little data to reliably confirm perceptions of an increase in extreme weather events, which may be
due to increased reporting. However, concern about this issue in Indonesia continues to rise.

67.     Economic impacts of climate change will be high in Indonesia. Without considering non-
market impact and catastrophic risks, mean GDP loss is projected to reach 2.5 percent by 2100. This is
over four times the global mean GDP loss of 0.6 percent because Indonesia has a long coastline, high
population density in coastal areas, high dependence on agriculture and natural resources, relatively low

                                                    21
adaptive capacity, and a tropical climate (ADB, 2009). With no further mitigation or adaptation
measures, mean GDP losses from market and non market impacts could reach 6.0 percent by 2100. If the
chance of catastrophic events is also considered, they could go as high as 7.0 percent of GDP.

68.     The benefits of adaptation far outweigh the costs. For Indonesia, the cost of adaptation for
agriculture and coastal zones (mainly the construction of seawalls and the development of drought- and
heat-resistant crops) would be about $5 billion per year by 2020 on average. The annual benefit of
avoided damage from climate change for Indonesia is likely to exceed the annual cost by 2050. By 2100,
the benefit could reach 1.6 percent of GDP, compared to the cost at 0.12 percent of GDP (ADB, 2009).

69.      The CC DPL operation, based on the GOI's plans and priorities, is focused on the right
issues and forms an important basis for future engagement and policy achievements. Based on this
analysis and presentation of vulnerability issues, the World Bank believes that Indonesia's action plans
are focused on the right areas: water management, rice production, coastal management, and disaster
preparedness. Support in these areas will help Indonesia to develop its adaptation response prudently,
measuring effectiveness periodically, while putting in place institutions and procedures to both increase
resilience and the ability to respond to the more dramatic changes.

B.        Greenhouse Gas Emissions Profile and Mitigation Priorities

70.      Indonesia's GHG emissions are globally significant. The GOI's recent Second National
Communication on Climate Change to the UNFCCC provides the official figures on Indonesia's overall
GHG emissions (Table 2). In 2000, total GHG emissions for the three main greenhouse gases (CO2, CH4
and N2O) were 1.4 million Gg CO2e, increasing in aggregate over time. The most significant contributor
to the overall emissions is from the impacts of LULUCF (Land Use Change and Forestry, or LUCF, and
peat fires)4. The GOI is pursuing other means of support for addressing these key emission sources5.




4
  Emissions estimates for LUCF and peat fires show considerable variability depending on the source study, and also display
considerable inter-annual variation. The Indonesia Second National Communication to the UNFCCC attributes the differing
estimates to alternate estimation methods and extrapolation techniques, and is actively working to improve the quality of such
figures for the next National Greenhouse Gas Inventory. The same document indicates that the inter-annual volatility in LUCF
and peat fire emissions is largely due to El-Nino impacts. For example, 2002 was an El-Nino year, when the emissions from
LUCF and peat fires were significant higher than in other years. Despite these differences in estimates, there is considerable
consensus that LUCF and peat fires make a uniquely substantial contribution to Indonesia's overall GHG emissions.
5
  The GOI is currently pursuing a Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD) initiative with support from
several development partners, including the World Bank and ADB, as well as a UN-REDD (supported by UNDP, UNEP and
FAO). Indonesia is also a participant in the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility and has expressed interest in joining the Forest
Investment Program, both multi-donor supported climate financing instruments.

                                                              22
Table 2: Summary of GHG emissions from 2000-2005 from all sectors (in Gg) 6 (Source: Indonesia Second
National Communication to the UNFCCC, 2009.)
                                    2000            2001           2002           2003        2004          2005
    Energy                           333,540        348,331        354,246        364,925     384,668        395,990
    Industry                          34,197         45,545           33,076       35,073      36,242          37,036
    Agriculture                       75,419         77,501           77,030       79,829      77,863          80,179
    Waste                            151,578        153,299        154,334        154,874     155,390        155,609
    LUCF                             649,254        560,546      1,287,495        345,489     617,280    not available
    Peat Fire1                       172,000        194,000        678,000        246,000     440,000        451,000
                                                                                                            1,119,814
    Total with LUCF                1,415,998      1,379,222      2,584,181       1,226,191   1,711,443         +LUCF
                                                                                                             668,814
    Total Without LUCF               594,738        624,676        618,686        634,701     654,162         +LUCF
    Note: 1. Emission from peat fire was taken from van der Werf et al (2008).


Climate Change Mitigation: Land Use Change and Deforestation

71.      In recent decades, Indonesia has been known for high rates of deforestation, illegal logging,
forest fires, and peat land conversion. All of these contribute to high rates of greenhouse gas
emissions. The global climate change debate has focused renewed attention on Indonesia's forests and
the potential for large payments for preservation of forest carbon through Reduced Emissions from
Deforestation and Degradation (REDD). However, GHG emissions are another manifestation of the
underlying issues of forest management and governance that have been well-studied. To achieve
substantial forest carbon payments, based on measurable performance, action is needed to address the
drivers of deforestation, many from outside the sector, as well as the governance and enforcement
improvements needed to achieve more equitable, profitable, and sustainable forest management.

72.      Considerable consensus has emerged on the importance of forestry and land use emissions
in Indonesia's overall profile (National Action Plan on Climate Change, 2007; National Development
Planning Response to Climate Change, 2008, MOFr/IFCA, 2007). The GOI is placing a high priority on
this issue and working toward preparation and implementation of a national REDD Initiative (REDDI).
The Ministry of Forestry is also developing a Forest Resource Information System and a National Carbon
Accounting System.

73.     The rate of forest loss is declining, though losses continue at about 1 million hectares per
year. Lower deforestation will reduce Indonesia's overall GHG emissions. However, deforestation (rate
or area) is not a perfect guide to emissions because different forest and soil types have different carbon
content, especially peat soils. During the period of the monetary crisis and decentralization (1997-2000)
in Indonesia, most analysts believed that deforestation was increasing (World Bank, et al., 2006). The
figures below confirm that judgment, but also show that in more recent years, the rate of deforestation
may be only a third of the average rates in the late 1990s. There is no ready explanation of this drop in the
deforestation rate. The decline could be due to more effective law enforcement policies, the increasing


6
    National Greenhouse Gases Inventory was estimated using Tier 1 and Tier 2 of the 2006 IPCC Reporting Guidelines

                                                                 23
cost and difficulty of accessing unexploited forest areas, the fact that many commercially viable areas
have already been harvested, or some other combination of factors.


Figure 8: Indonesia's Deforestation Rate is        Figure 9: Deforestation occurs mainly in
Declining (MOFr, 2008)                             production and conversion forests (MOFr, 2008)




74.      Most forest losses in recent years occurred on production and conversion forest land (Figure
9). These areas have been allocated for economic exploitation through selective harvesting or through
liquidation and conversion to agricultural or plantation uses. In contrast, protection and conservation
forests are relatively less damaged, better protected. The figure also shows that both "dry land forests"
(i.e., most forest areas in Indonesia) and "swamp forests" (forests on wetlands, often peat, or lahan
gambut) are facing heavy deforestation pressure. Peat swamp forests contribute several times more GHG
emissions than dry land forest areas. Thus, even though a smaller area is affected, overall emissions from
this area could well be higher. Conservation and Protection Forests have not suffered the large and rapid
deforestation on other classes of forest land ­ though any deforestation is too much in areas set aside to
preserve Indonesia's heritage and biodiversity.

75.     A substantial share of deforestation (and emissions) is coming from planned land
conversion to plantations and the continued operation of those plantations, on both mineral and peat soil.
Emissions from deforestation in the forest estate can be reduced by focusing on forest management
practices and the drivers of deforestation. To address this, different policies may become more important.
For example, the role of land use licensing and the role of local governments in allocating and creating
incentives for land conversion.

76.      Considerable deforestation is also occurring outside state forest areas. Forested land outside
the state forest may be in large blocks, or in smaller areas controlled by small holders (mixed agroforestry
areas), private operators or local governments. Plantation crop expansion is the main driver of
deforestation on non state forest areas, with permits granted by local governments (Casson, 2000; World
Bank, 2006). The GOI exercises less central control in these areas, which include private lands. Actions to
reduce deforestation in these areas would have to be based on the legal authorities and incentives
appropriate to lands under local and private control.

77.     Deforestation is most prevalent in a few places, mainly on Sumatra and Kalimantan. Ten
provinces account for 78 percent dry forest loss and 96 percent of swamp forest loss in the 2000-2005
period. Of these, Riau, Central Kalimantan, and South Sumatra account for well over half of overall
losses during the period, including most of the swamp forest areas degraded. As forests become scarcer in
the west, Papua will become increasingly a focus for forest harvesting, and hence a center for
deforestation in the future. This highlights the important role that specific provincial and local

                                                    24
governments have in contributing to efforts to reduce deforestation. Strengthening local government
capacities and changing the incentive they face regarding land conversion and forest revenue will be a key
part of the overall strategy for a successful REDD approach. A cost-effective, efficient and well-targeted
REDD initiative should focus most attention on the largest sources of deforestation (and emissions) at the
provincial level. This concentrated geographic distribution of forest loss means that efforts and resources
to reduce it can be targeted cost effectively to a few places, where the drivers and trends are well known.
These are the same provinces that have, in recent times, produced the most timber harvesting, timber
processing and illegal logging, based on past estimates and other studies (World Bank, et al., 2006). A
few changes in a few places have the potential to create financial benefits for Indonesia (and globally
significant emissions reduction benefits). The converse is also true: continued inaction in these few
provinces puts at risk the opportunity for benefits on a large scale.

78.      Many estimates of emissions show that peat drainage and fires have been important
contributors to Indonesia's overall emissions (GOI 2nd National Communication). Fires do not
happen every year with same severity, so estimates of this source may vary by methodology and which
years are taken into account. Assumptions about the depth of peat and the rate of burning also have a
substantial effect on the emissions estimates. The period before 2000 not only included more
deforestation, but also more forest fires and hot spots. These emissions also create costs in terms of air
pollution and health risks to the local population and in neighboring countries (BAPPENAS-ADB, 1999).
Reducing the use of fire in peat conversion would have multiple benefits, and could perhaps be achieved
at negative cost (that is, overall, society would gain through this change, even after the implementation
cost is considered). Use of fire for land clearing for planting is not legal in Indonesia and can be reduced
and contained through a number of well-understood practices (BAPPENAS - ADB, 1999). Priority
should be placed on policies, incentives, regulations, or law enforcement approaches that can effect a shift
toward less destructive and emissions-producing practices. Substantial analytical effort by the GOI with
development partner assistance is being applied to further refine estimates of emissions from peat land
conversion.     In particular, the Bank is working with Netherlands, BAPPENAS and MPW on the
WACLIMAD effort to develop a national lowlands strategy that will address some of the issues of peat
development and conservation. New financing sources, such as FIP and bilateral partners, could also be
strategically deployed to fill gaps and make further progress on peat land.

79.     The challenges of weak forest and land governance and the resulting climate impacts are
evident in the rapid expansion of oil palm plantations. The growth of the palm oil sector is viewed
favorably by the GOI for its significant contributions to employment, livelihoods, rural development,
food security, and foreign exchange earnings. However, the GOI also recognizes that the large financial
incentives for planting oil palm are leading to a rushed expansion that is occurring without adequate
environmental controls. The environmental and climate impacts of plantations depend largely on the
vegetation cover that is displaced as well as whether plantations are situated on dryland or on peat
swamps. A significant portion of existing oil palm plantations is located on previously forested areas and
on peatlands, making the palm oil sector an important contributor to overall emissions from land use
change. While sufficient degraded and non-forested dryland appears to be available to accommodate
expansion, poor spatial planning and law enforcement at the local level in some cases leads to
inappropriate, or illegal, conversion of forests and peat lands. In some cases local governments endorse
this even though it may be inconsistent with central government policies. The targeting of peat lands for
conversion is of particular concern, as the associated emissions and ecological risks are high, while the
economic returns from cultivating oil palm there are low when compared to mineral soils. Strong global
market demand for palm oil as low-cost cooking oil, and increasingly as a biofuel, is expected to continue
to drive land conversion. GOI actions to improve governance and consistency of implementation on peat
land will be critical to mitigation of climate impacts. Greater harmonizing of policies from different
ministries and government levels will also be necessary to improve the process of land allocation.


                                                    25
80.     Forest management, law enforcement and governance remain as key challenges. Forests are
a national asset that provides economic benefits in terms of jobs, production, and trade, as well as
livelihoods for millions of the poorest Indonesians. Forest loss hurts rural livelihoods and ecosystem
services, such as water regulation and soil fertility that provide benefits far beyond forest boundaries.
Weak forest governance damages the investment climate, rural economic potential and Indonesia's
competitiveness. Forest crime robs the state and diverts public revenues that could be better spent on
development goals. Forest resource management affects equity, development and decentralization and is
an essential issue of governance. To produce measurable and verifiable GHG emissions from forestry
and land use, it will be necessary to address the fundamental issues of management and governance that
have existed for some time. International agreements and the potential for payments for reduced
emissions from deforestation and degradation, may help to create new political will and financial
incentives for implementing changes.

81.      Forest management and incentive mechanisms can be used to improve outcomes, including
revenue, forest cover, exports, and employment. The forest sector employs inefficient fiscal
mechanisms, with poor incentive structures and low revenue recovery. Illegal logging, under-reporting of
harvest and underpayment of tax/non non-tax obligations have all been identified as important
fundamental issues of forest management and governance. As a result of past policies, practices, and
performance in the sector, industrial output, employment, and competitiveness are declining. Over-
exploitation, inefficiency and weak governance contribute to under-performing firms, plantations, tax
losses, and indebtedness. In recent years, GOI has been allocating large sums to reforestation and
rehabilitation of lands that have been deforested and degraded as a result of poor forest exploitation
practices. In other words, public funds are being used to correct private misbehavior that damaged state
assets. Fiscal incentives, properly designed, can improve forest management, decrease deforestation (and
associated emissions) and promote sustainable management.

82.       Despite this bleak history of outcomes, there is reason for cautious optimism. In Indonesia's
forestry sector today, there is a convergence of market mechanisms and potentials, plus an alignment of
development partners and instruments, focused on REDD, FLEG, and reducing emissions from LUCF to
a level not previously seen. The President's commitment to reduce GHG emissions substantially cannot
be achieved without major action on land use change and forestry. The potential for a REDD mechanism
and payment or compensation system appears real, such that GOI and private sector actors are seriously ­
but still cautiously ­ preparing for it. Forest carbon markets offer the potential to cover the opportunity
cost of land for many types of crops and land uses (thought not the most lucrative). Development partners
are already providing substantial TA and analytical support to enable this transition (likely over $150
million in the near future from OECD countries, with FIP an added resource that remains to be
programmed through MDB joint mission). GOI has created the basic regulatory framework for a REDD
program. These regulations need to be improved with cross-sectoral discussions and this is now getting
serious attention from the economic management agencies. At the same time, Voluntary Partnership
Agreements being developed to aid in compliance with EU timber import rules and the Lacey Act in the
USA both mean that large western timber markets are moving toward legality standards and verification
systems. These are putting pressure on timber producers through markets and trade mechanisms, rather
than through regulations or exhortation.

83.      The CC DPL process can build on this implementation and financing potential aimed at
improving forestry sector outcomes. In the medium term, there would be benefits to actions that
improve forest management and governance to increase forest asset values, reduce state revenue capture,
and develop local livelihoods, as well as Indonesia's competitiveness and international stature. Action is
needed to improve monitoring systems, law enforcement, local governance, land-use decisions, and fire
control. The GOI (Ministry of Forestry) is currently preparing plans to implement a REDD initiative and
pilot projects to reduce emissions from the LUCF sector and qualify for carbon market payments.

                                                    26
Climate Change Mitigation: Energy Sector Issues

84.     Energy use is the second largest source of GHG emissions behind LULUCF, and one of the
fastest growing. Given its pace of growth, the IEA and other projections indicate that energy-related
GHG emissions will become the dominant emission source by 2030. Although Indonesia's fossil fuel
related CO2 emissions per capita remain low in comparison to other countries (Figure 10), its per capita
energy use is increasing at about the same rate as GDP growth while emissions per capita (intensity) are
increasing faster than GDP growth (Figure 11). This reflects the increasing contribution from the
emission intensive sources such as coal for power generation and the rising use of motorized transport
using petroleum-based fuels.

85.      Indonesia's aggregate energy intensity (on GDP basis) peaked around 2002, according to the
APEC Energy Demand and Supply Outlook of 2006 (APERC) and the International Energy Agency
(IEA) Indonesia Energy Policy Review of 2008. According to the IEA, Indonesia's industrial and
transport sectors continue to display high energy intensities, but residential energy intensity remains low
and the country is also experiencing growth in the less energy intensive service sector. These studies also
project the energy intensity in Indonesia to continue to decrease in the future, but these forecasts rely
significantly on gains in energy efficiency.



Figure 10: Fossil fuel related CO2 emissions per      Figure 11: ...but emissions per capita are growing
capita remain low...                                  faster than GDP per capita




                                                      Source: IEA, 2007; cited in "Low Carbon Development
                                                      Options for Indonesia," Nov 2008, supported by World Bank.
Source: International Energy Agency (2009)




86.     Industrial use and electricity sector are both large sources of emissions, but emissions from
power generation, and to a lesser extent, from transport, are growing most rapidly. The relative
contributions of GHG in total emissions in 2004 by sectors utilizing fossil fuels are presented in Table 3.
The trend in emissions growth exhibited from 1994-2004 is projected to continue particularly due to the
continued motorization in the country and the considerable coal-based power expansion presently
underway.




                                                    27
Table 3: Fossil Fuel Emissions by Fuel Source and Sector

                               Indonesia: Fossil Fuel Emissions (MtCO2e in 2004)
                                       By Fossil Fuel Source                 Share of     Emissions
         By Consumption
                                                                 Total      Fossil Fuel    growth
             Group           Coal        Oil       Gas
                                                               Emissions    Emissions      '94-'04
            Industry         31.9       35.4       50.7          118.0         35%          48%
           Electricity       54.9       25.2        9.9           90.0         27%          170%
           Transport          -          78.0        -            78.0         23%           74%
           Residential        -          41.0       9.0           50.0         15%           71%
              Total          86.8       179.6      69.6          336.0        100%           80%
             Source: IEA 2004, cited in "Low Carbon Development Options for Indonesia,"
                             November 2008, supported by World Bank.

87.       The National Energy Management Plan maps out a development path that attempts to
balance this growth in fossil fuels with the increased utilization of renewable energy (Presidential
Decree No. 5 of 2006). This plan aims to enhance the country's energy security by expanding the
utilization of alternate indigenous energy sources and reduce the reliance on oil that is increasingly
imported. Based on the Presidential Decree, the GOI intends to increase the use of coal from 15 percent
of overall energy use to 33 percent of energy use over 20 years, while also increasing the share of RE to
17 percent. The RE targets include 5 percent geothermal; 5 percent bio-fuels; a combined 5 percent for
biomass, hydro, nuclear, solar, and wind; and 2 percent from other (unspecified) sources.

88.      Despite these national aspirations for a more diversified energy mix, recent power
generation expansion has been dominated by coal-based technology without significant
development of RE. Accordingly, the GOI's Technology Needs Assessment on Climate Change
Mitigation (TNA, 2009) assumes a business-as-usual (BAU) outcome where future power generation is
fully based on coal resources with negligible attempts for EE improvements and conservation measures.
Under the BAU scenario Indonesia's emissions will nearly triple by 2025, mostly led by the emissions
growth in electricity and transport sectors. Such a possibility in emissions growth is an important
consideration for today's investments toward future emission reductions. Therefore, Indonesia's current
development plans call for reducing emissions in the power and industry sectors through investments in
RE and EE. The TNA analysis indicates that the BAU trajectory can be redirected through measures such
as the application of energy efficiency, greater utilization of renewable energy, and the introduction of
advanced thermal technologies. Should Indonesia manage to follow an alternative path to the BAU
emissions trajectory, it is likely to realize the energy mix targets established in Presidential Decree 5/2006
and the President's pledge to reduce emissions by 26 percent by 2020.

89.      Indonesia is one of the world's largest potential sources of geothermal power, but the
subsector is not showing concrete advances due to policies that are not conducive towards the roll-out of
geothermal by private sector investors. Several GOI agencies and SOEs, plus development partners are
focused on geothermal power development, because of the substantial co-benefits to Indonesia relative to
fossil fuel. The Bank is supporting through investment lending, GEF policy support, and through the
recently approved CTF Investment Plan.7

90.    Renewable energy is an economic alternative for Indonesia. The Bank's recently released
Energy Flagship report Winds of Change: East Asia's Sustainable Energy Future provides an overview
of some of the challenges facing Indonesia and its neighbors. The report concludes that Indonesia has

7
 The CTF IP provides more detail on energy sector issues and geothermal development
(http://www.climateinvestmentfunds.org/cif/workingdocuments/1019).

                                                      28
substantial opportunities to move toward a more sustainable path in renewable energy (geothermal,
hydropower, biomass) and in energy efficiency. Although pricing remains a sensitive issue because of
the effort to protect the poor from higher energy prices, the GOI also recognizes that market distortions
discourage energy conservation and clean energy technologies, and energy subsidies burden the country's
budget. Steps have been taken to adjust the energy subsidy and better target the poor. GOI has also
issued pricing policy and several tax incentives to encourage investments in geothermal power generation.

91.     The energy flagship report suggests that to reach a more environmentally sustainable
energy path, Indonesia will have to rely more on its large reserves of natural gas and ramp up use
of renewable energy resources particularly from geothermal, hydro, and biomass. Indonesia's
current power mix is dominated by natural gas and oil, with plans to significantly expand the role of coal
(low financial cost and secure domestic supply). Indonesia has the world's largest geothermal resources,
and the government has a blueprint to develop at least 6,000 MW of geothermal power capacity by 2020,
from approximately 1,000 MW now. GOI is involved in a long-term reform program in the sector. These
reforms include the development of a pricing and incentive policy for geothermal, and the transparent and
competitive tendering of new geothermal concessions in line with the Geothermal Law (Law 27/2003).
The government has a two-pronged strategy to develop geothermal energy: (1) improve the investment
climate to attract available investments in private concessions, and (2) in the short term, scale up public
financing of geothermal fields presently under the control of state-owned enterprises.

92.     The Winds of Change report showcases that the move toward geothermal power generation
is an economical choice for Indonesia. The diagram below shows how the geothermal power scores
                                                    vis-à-vis coal-fired power in terms of economic
                                                    efficiency. At different levels of incremental
                                                    cost, the supply curve below (based on data
                                                    from 51 existing geothermal fields in
                                                    Indonesia) shows the quantity of geothermal
                                                    energy that is economically comparable to
                                                    coal-based power generation, which is
                                                    financially the least cost option for Indonesia.
                                                    Counting all the costs incurred in power
                                                    generation, including the environmental costs
                                                    from coal-fired power, geothermal is
                                                    economically competitive at many sites,
                                                    potentially up to 11 Giga Watts.

93.      The benefits depicted originate from:
 Fuel costs saving from PLN generation costs             Estimated value of benefits and beneficiaries from geothermal power

    that amounts to US 8.5 cents/kwh
 Tax revenue as geothermal generates higher
    profit rate per kwh electricity produced equals
    US cent 1.6 (as geothermal generates US 1.8
    cents tax revenue plus US 0.3 cents royalty,
    compared to US 0.5 cents tax in coal-based                                   Tax + royalty 

    power).
 Fuel export values from the fuel saving in the
    amount of US 5.7 cents/kwh
 The environmental benefits from carbon credits
    in comparison to coal as baseline that worth US
    1.9 cents/kwh                                           Source: JICA, 2009




                                                    29
94.     A shift from coal-based to renewable energy, emphasizing geothermal power generation,
will improve local air pollution with significant health benefits. Geothermal generates little
particulate matter, while coal fired power emits particulate matter up to 0.957 kg CO2/kwh. This
comparison indicates that Indonesia will have significant opportunity to reduce the health costs from air
pollution, which in 2007 was estimated at USD 3.9 billion per year (CEA 2009). Geothermal power is
also one of the best options as an indigenous energy source to reduce reliance on energy imports and
diversify energy mix in Indonesia. Geothermal is a base-load generation technology, not subject to the
intermittence and variability of some other renewable electricity sources. Geothermal enhances power
supply reliability. As an indigenous energy source, it also will enhance the country's energy security by
reducing reliance on energy imports and serve as a natural hedge against the volatility of fossil fuel prices.
From a broader perspective, an on-going macro-economic modeling study under the Bank's low carbon
engagement with MOF (using inter-regional dynamic CGE model for Indonesia) indicates that lowering
carbon intensity in the power generation sector brings can bring positive benefits to the economy.
Compared to the baseline conditions, a shift that lowers the carbon intensity of the energy sector can have
a positive effect on GDP, government and private consumption. These results are preliminary and the
scenario analyses need to be deepened and compared with other modeling results.

95.    In recent years, the GOI has been taking steps to address energy and transport sector
development challenges and GHG emissions. These intentions are reflected in the following actions:
               Indonesia ratified the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
        (UNFCCC) in 1994 through the Act on Ratification of Climate Change Framework Convention
        No. 6/1994. As part of the Indonesia's growing response to climate change, the country signed
        the Kyoto Protocol in 1997 and ratified it in 2004 through Law No. 17/2004.
                Energy Law No. 30 enacted in 2007 updates the legal framework for energy
        development. A series of enabling regulations and decrees support development of RE, biofuels,
        and coal bed methane. Energy subsidies to industry have been eliminated, while there are some
        attempts to reduce them to commercial and residential sectors. The new Electricity Law (UU 30 /
        2009) provides an updated legal framework for the power sector.
                GOI sets ambitious targets in the energy sector: (i) providing 17 percent of total energy
        use from renewable sources by 2025; (ii) delivering 10,000 megawatt (MW) of new generation
        capacity in the proposed Second Fast-Track Program predominantly from RE with a special focus
        on geothermal power, which will contribute towards meeting the objective of 30 percent
        reduction of power sector emissions from BAU in 2025; (iii) improving EE to achieve demand
        side emissions reductions of 30 percent from BAU in 2025.
               The transport sector strategy includes (i) development of more efficient urban transport
        systems to facilitate a modal shift from private to public transportation, and (ii) development and
        deployment of cleaner fuels.

96.      These actions illustrate the GOI's commitment to moving away from the BAU approach
towards a more climate friendly outcome. The GOI is developing a strategic, multi-year policy and
investment program, as outlined in the NAP (2007, see text box on page 46) and the Development
Planning Response to Climate Change (2008). GOI is currently developing a low-carbon development
strategy to highlight the way forward in implementing its comprehensive climate change related
development agenda. These efforts are being supported by a number of development partners and
multilateral institutions that include Australia, Germany, Netherlands, the United Kingdom, ADB and the
World Bank. To coordinate all of these climate change activities and establish the country's policy
positions, the President of Indonesia has established the National Council on Climate Change (Dewan


                                                     30
Nasional Perubahan Iklim, DNPI) with representation from 15 ministries. Thus, Indonesia's commitment
to climate friendly development is being demonstrated at the highest levels.

97.     In the energy sector, there would be benefits to continuing action to adjust prices to
opportunity costs and make low-cost climate financing available for renewable energy. Pricing
policy reforms would not only contribute to power-sector investment goals, but also generate substantial
co-benefits by reducing unhealthy emissions and improving the stability and security of Indonesia's
energy supply. More realistic energy pricing would also result in greater efficiency in the industrial,
power, manufacturing, and transport sectors. In the medium term, the energy and emissions impact of
pricing reforms can be augmented by removing other barriers and providing technical assistance in key
sectors. For example, building capacity in energy service companies would create jobs and provide
services to manufacturers. Trade tariff policies could promote the importation of cleaner technologies and
stimulate Indonesia's own clean technology exports, such as compact fluorescent lamps.

98.      The Government would like to rationalize the retail electricity tariffs, which have not
changed since 2004. The current rates do not recover costs and they need to be rebalanced in terms
distributional equity. Rationalizing of the electricity tariff will likely also be paired with attempts to
reduce costs in PLN's operations. Costs are relatively high due to diesel use in outer islands and CCGT
in Java operating on fuel oils due to lack of gas supply. To protect the poor currently, PLN applies a low
"social tariff" to consumers with small electricity connections. In the case of a larger price increase, the
GOI could consider a cash transfer program, modeled on the approaches successfully implemented in
2005 and 2008 when fuel prices were increased. Analytical work and advice on this issue is ongoing at
the Bank, in a role and manner supportive to the government on this politically sensitive issue.

99.     Energy sector issues also go beyond climate and pricing concerns. Indonesia is facing
increasing power shortages due to insufficient capacity expansion in the face of 7-9 percent yearly
increase in demand. Over 70 million Indonesians, mostly the poor, still do not have access to electricity.
Although more aggressive energy savings measures are short run options that will reduce capacity
expansion needs, the overall level of financing needed for capacity expansion remains a significant
hurdle. PLN estimates that about $40 billion in generation, transmission and distribution investment is
needed to keep pace with power demand growth and to maintain system reliability.

100.     Indonesia's energy sector is going through considerable structural reforms, and many of
these are supported by the Bank and development partners (see Chapter V for brief examples). In the oil
and gas sector, reforms are underway based on the 2003 Oil and Gas Law. The market has been opened
to competition and it is gradually becoming more competitive. A new regulatory agency has been
established to oversee pricing and concessions for new fields/blocs. As a result, there are new entrants in
the market. Among the SOEs, companies such as Pertamina and PGN are restructuring and reforming to
become more competitive. Power sector reform slowed in 2002, when the Electricity Law was struck
down by the courts. The GOI was able to issue a new law in 2009. This new law gradually phases out
PLN's monopoly over several years, allows for new market entrants, and gives a role to local
governments in facilitating price setting and investment support to service providers in more remote
areas, where PLN is unable to serve. PLN has continued efforts to restructure its operations and the Bank
is supporting through the deployment of an Enterprise Resource Planning System (ERP).

101.     In the transportation sector, the GOI is developing overall action plans and some cities are
promoting transport sector improvements. Steps to improve emissions outcomes could include
improving and enforcing standards for fuel quality to reduce health costs and productivity losses from
urban air pollution. Financing affordable transit bus systems to reduce urban congestion, contribute to
labor mobility and improve the quality of life in Indonesia's rapidly growing urban centers. Though these
are not now at the top of the GHG mitigation agenda, they serve as reminders of potential actions that can

                                                    31
be considered in future steps of the DPL series.8 The CC DPL cannot take on all energy sector challenges,
but can make some incremental progress on renewable energy, energy efficiency, and pricing in concert
with other instruments and engagements.

C.      Government Climate Change Agenda Going Forward

102.    The GOI recognizes these climate change mitigation and adaptation challenges and has
made major advances. Indonesia achieved global visibility as host of the 2007 UN Climate Change
Conference in Bali. National action plans have been integrated into the development planning and budget
process. A National Council on Climate Change (with representation from 15 ministries) was established
by the president to coordinate Indonesia's climate change policies. The GOI is establishing a climate
change trust fund and developing climate policy papers and a low-carbon development strategy.
BAPPENAS has prepared a climate change road map and the Ministry of Environment launched the 2nd
National Communication on Climate Change to the UNFCCC in November 2009.

103.     Indonesia has put forward three consistent development and climate change messages: (i)
climate change cannot be addressed at the expense of the poor; (ii) climate investments must be consistent
with development goals; and (iii) climate assistance must be on top of past development assistance
commitments. Development partners can help Indonesia to hasten key reforms, scale up investment and
use new climate financing instruments to build institutional capacity and leverage investment by
attracting investors.

104.     Indonesia is taking advantage of international climate finance and establishing domestic
climate financing mechanisms. The Indonesia Climate Change Trust Fund was launched in September
as a mechanism for funding technical assistance, capacity building and demonstration activities for
adaptation. The GOI is seeking climate financing assistance through the Clean Technology Fund (within
the Climate Investment Funds) and through the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility. Additional
international financing mechanisms (e.g. the Adaptation Fund managed by the GEF and the Pilot Climate
Resilience Program within the Climate Investment Funds) are developing, such that transfers from
developed countries could help to reduce the cost of Indonesia's movement toward a lower carbon, more
climate resilient development path. Indonesia has also established a Climate Change Policy Lending
framework, as further described in Chapter V.

105.    Indonesia has established follow up policy and actions in reference to the Copenhagen
Accord. Following the Presidential commitment announced during the September G-20 Summit to
reduce Indonesia's emission by 26% below the BAU scenario in 2020. A more concrete commitment
was announced in Copenhagen's high level segment meeting. The announcement includes sectoral
contributions to the emission reduction target and the budgetary pledge to deliver that commitment.
Following the Copenhagen Accord, the GOI has registered this emission reduction target as its voluntary
contribution to global emission reduction to the UNFCCC on January 31st 2010. A series of inter-agency
meetings have been held intensively after the Copenhagen meeting to prepare a Presidential Regulation
which will serve as legal basis for the implementation of the policy and registration to UNFCCC. The
regulation is prepared under the directives of Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs with
BAPPENAS taking the coordination lead.

106.    The GOI has a range of concrete policy and program options for addressing climate change.
Building on the studies and planning documents prepared to date, the GOI (under BAPPENAS'

8
 Urban/transport issues are discussed in the CTF Investment Plan and no specific investments were identified by the
GOI for support. http://www.climateinvestmentfunds.org/cif/workingdocuments/1019

                                                        32
coordination) is now consolidating all its plans into the "Follow Up to Copenhagen COP 15", which
outlines the consequences for Indonesia of the commitments made and the overall sectoral plans for
achieving the President's commitment of 26% reduction of emissions by 2020 from BAU. This
document, in draft, is evolving into Indonesia's response to the Copenhagen Accord to be submitted at the
end of January 2010. The following table 4 summarizes the GOI's emission reduction plans. This is
draft and is under revision.

Table 4: GOI Action Plan for GHG Emission Reductions (2010-2020)

                                                                     Emission Reduction            % of Total
           Key Target         Net Emissions          % of BAU         Planned ­ 26% by              Emission
             Sector           BAU 2020 (GT)            Total              2020 (GT)                Reductions
        Peatland                   1.09                37%                  0.28                      37%
        Waste                      0.25                 8%                  0.048                      6%
        Forestry                   0.49                17%                  0.392                     51%
        Agriculture                0.06                 2%                  0.008                      1%
        Industry                   0.06                 2%                  0.001                      0%
        Transportation                                  0%                  0.008                      1%
        Energy                      1.00               34%                   0.03                      4%

        Total                       2.95               100%                   0.767                    100%
        Source: Draft internal GOI materials, not for quotation or distribution. These figures will change and are
        only included here as evidence of the GOI's active plans and intention to comply with Copenhagen Accord.

107.     The 26 percent target of voluntary emission reduction announced by the President is very
ambitious but achievable. Peat land, forests and waste are primary sources of Indonesia's emission and
therefore rightly become the effective reduction target. The graphical presentation of the target and cost
estimate (which is also discussed as budgetary allocation) below reveals that there are opportunities for
GOI to significantly increase the overall budget and create a more proportional allocation in reference to
sectoral share of responsibility and cost-effectiveness.

108.    In addition to preparing the Presidential Regulation for the implementation of the action
plan, GOI is developing the NAMAs (Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions) for the 26% emission
reduction target for the registration to the UNFCCC. The Indonesia's NAMAs will be submitted along
with its MRV (measurement, reporting, and verification) mechanism. The GOI has also made the
commitment to mainstream the Indonesian Sectoral Roadmap on Climate Change and the NAMAs into
the Medium-term Development Plan (RPJM) and the Annual Development Plans (RKP). On the
financing side, GOI has established Indonesian Climate Change Trust Fund (ICCTF) using UNDP as
temporary trustee to speed up the collection/disbursement from the major development partners. A
steering committee will direct the distribution of the fund to the eligible projects.

109.    The Medium Term Development Plan includes a section on climate change and disaster
preparedness, plus specific actions in many sectors. A concrete example of this mainstreaming is the
First 100 Day Action Program of the new national government which began in November 2009. This
program includes a specific emphasis on managing climate change and the environment, including energy
action plans and an emphasis on forest management to eradicate illegal logging and forest fires. In
addition, there are climate-relevant actions related to: improved governance; expansion of alternative
energy; and preparedness for natural disaster. More information is provided in Annex 2.



                                                            33
110.     To facilitate the preparation for scaled up climate change response, the GOI has subscribed
to several climate financing mechanisms. The GOI is preparing a program for FCPF (Forest Carbon
Partnership Fund) to support of the readiness programs and activities. After approving Indonesia's
investment plan in March 2010, the Clean Technology Fund (CTF) is providing $400 million in low cost
financing to leverage investments in the energy sector to help reduce Indonesia's carbon footprint. Of
this, $300 million is allocated for the geothermal sector, including $125 million each for IBRD and ADB
(linked to investment loans) and $50 million towards private support by IFC. The remaining $100 million
is allocated to IFC and ADB for private sector support to renewable energy and energy efficiency, in
subsectors such as biogas and mini hydro, for example. In the forest sector, GOI has been accepted as a
pilot country in Forest Investment Program (FIP) of the CIFs.

111.     In addition to policy actions and market signals, institutional roles and authorities for
energy and forestry issues need to be clarified in order to implement key reforms and attract
investment. Coordination and prioritization of policies, investments and financing instruments will need
high-level attention if competing sectoral and institutional interests are to be kept in check. This
coordinated `whole-of-Government' approach is emerging in the coordination processes and mechanisms
that have been set in place since COP 13 in Bali. The GOI has built experience with these mechanisms
and continues to refine its procedures. One notable example of success is the coordination framework
established to govern the CC Program Loan process, which requires coordination of dozens of policy
actions across a wide range of sectoral ministries.

112.    The GOI climate change plans and directions for action are well developed and increasingly
clear. National development programs are based in a systematic structure and time frame of development
planning processes implemented by the government. The Long Term Development Plan (RPJP) provides
a long term vision. The Mid Term Development Plan (RPJM) provides a five year plan of action. The
Annual Government Working Plan (RKP) along with annual government fiscal/budget policy provides
the work plan for a given calendar year.

113.     The GOI's preparations to address climate change have resulted in various strategic policy
documents, as well as technical analyses. The National Action Plan addressing Climate Change
(RANPI) compiled by the State Ministry of Environment and launched at Bali COP 13 in 2007 is a long
term vision. To integrate climate change into the national development planning process, and within the
framework of sustainable development, BAPPENAS prepared a multi-sectoral plan for the shorter term,
resulting in the "National Development Planning Response to Climate Change." This document put
activities in the context of funding mechanisms and institutional arrangements and provided a basis for
development partnership on climate change. This and other technical and sectoral documents were used
as a basis for preparing the RPJM 2010-2014, released in early 2010.

114.     Planning and action documents have been refined over the last three years through an
iterative process. A key document that is about to emerge is the National Action Plan for Reduction of
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2010-2020, which outlines the GOI's plans and approaches for achieving the
President's Copenhagen Commitment of 26% reductions beyond BAU in 2020. The President will codify
the action plan for achieving the Copenhagen Commitments in a decree within 2010. The discussion of
the targets and allocations of both carbon and financing continues at high level within the Government.
This is a ten-year approach, so the discussion of specific actions in 2010 is not yet complete. The section
on analytical underpinnings (IV.E) identifies other technical documents, including Bank studies and
support that have contributed to the GOI's thinking and prioritization of these issues.

115.   The plan states that GHG reduction is an integral part of the national sustainable
development strategy, which will be adjusted and updated over time. The key activity areas include
both reducing emissions and increasing the absorption of GHGs. The activities in the plan aim to

                                                    34
promote (not obstruct) economic growth, support the protection of poor and vulnerable communities and
promote environmental perseveration. The plan aims to integrate actions among sectors, considering both
the capacity of the environment, existing spatial plans and land use allocations. Through this plan,
Indonesia hopes to contribute to the global effort to reduce emissions and to optimize the potential for
international financing in the interest of Indonesia. The following figure illustrates the relationship
among Indonesia's long term and medium term development plans and climate change plans. See Annex
2 for a discussion of the climate-related components of the National Development Plans.


Figure 12: Relationship and Timing Among Indonesia's Development Plans and Climate Change Action
Plans
                                                                      Technical and Planning Inputs

                      National Action Plan for Reduction of
                                                                National Development Planning Response
                                                                   to Climate Change (Bappenas, 2008)
                      Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2010-2020
                         In Progress, 2010 (to achieve 26%      Technology Needs Assessment for Climate
                          reductions beyond BAU by 2020)           Change (BPPT and KLH, 2009),
                                                                Second National Communication to the
    Medium Term         Medium Term                                UNFCCC (2009)
    Development         Development
    Plan (RPJM 1)       Plan (RPJM 2)                           Indonesia Climate Change Sectoral
                                                                   Roadmap (BAPPENAS, 2009),
      2004-2009           2010-2014
                                                                Carbon abatement marginal cost curve for
                                                                   Indonesia (DNPI, 2009).

                          National Action Plan on Climate Change, 2007-2030
                     (RANPI, 2007) Min Environment (mitigation and adaptation issues to 2030)

       Long Term National Development Plan (RPJP 2005-2025)
       Bappenas, 2005 (addresses development priorities to 2025)

   2004-2009           2010-2014           2015-2019            2020-2024

                                    25 Year Time Horizon



III. D. GOI Institutions for Climate Change Action

116.    Recognizing the importance of climate change mitigation and adaptation, the President of
Indonesia has taken a leading role on this issue, as evidenced by his remarks at the G-20 meeting in
Pittsburgh. Climate change issues cut across a number of responsibility areas within the GOI structure.
Thus, the President created the National Council on Climate Change (DNPI) in mid-2008. However, the
economic and development planning ministries continue to play a key role in establishing, budgeting and
executing climate change actions. The following agencies are essential counterparts in the preparation of
the CC DPL and the future monitoring of achievements.

117.    The Ministry of Finance (MoF) has been actively engaged in climate change issues since COP13
in Bali. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has taken the lead in conducting a study on low carbon
development options for Indonesia and preparing a Green Paper on economic and fiscal policy options for



                                                   35
climate change mitigation in Indonesia. The Ministry represents Indonesia on the MDB Climate
Investment Funds and coordinates inputs from the related line ministries.

118.    The National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) is the main agency coordinating
development assistance. BAPPENAS is responsible for the RPJMN (Medium Term Development
Strategy 2009-2014) and has produced several climate change analyses as inputs for that planning
process. BAPPENAS has also taken a lead role in preparing the "National Development Planning
Response to Climate Change" (2008) and the Indonesia Climate Change Sectoral Roadmap (2009).
BAPPENAS has also developed a policy and management structure for coordinating future development
partner financing through the Indonesia Climate Change Trust Fund. BAPPENAS also chairs the steering
committee for the CCPL process.

119.    The National Council on Climate Change (DNPI), established by the President in mid-2008, is
responsible for coordination of government actions on climate change, policy development and regulation
of the national carbon market. The DNPI is a cabinet-level grouping of 15 different ministries chaired by
the President. It is supported by a secretariat and managed by the former Environment Minister. This
new institution is finding its role in knowledge generation and policy coordination.

120.     The Ministry of the Environment was the designated focal point for climate change issues prior
to establishment of the DNPI (it is in the realm of Coordinating Ministry for Social Welfare). Ministry
of Environment has important capacity on climate-related issues and procedures and manages the legal
framework for environmental compliance, an essential element of a low carbon response.

121.     To achieve its climate change goals, including fulfillment of the policy matrix, the GOI has
additional sources of technical assistance, capacity building and support for pilot initiatives.
Substantial bilateral development partner support for capacity building and technical assistance is already
in place and continues to develop. Key development partners include DfID, Australia, Germany and The
Netherlands. USAID and Norway are planning large programs for climate change support. Additional
bilateral support could also be channeled through the Indonesia Climate Change Trust Fund once it is
operational (with UNDP as trustee).




                                                    36
                        IV. Bank support to the government's strategy
      A. A. Links to the 2009-2012 Country Partnership Strategy

122.     Environmental sustainability (with disaster mitigation) is a core engagement area of the
CPS. The CPS notes that Indonesia has emerged as a leader on climate change issues and that the country
can benefit from scaled-up funding opportunities to help undertake mitigation and adaptation programs.
The CPS also concludes that the WBG's policy support should focus on mainstreaming the discussion of
climate change across a range of actors to raise awareness about carbon emissions, Indonesia's
environmental vulnerability and the importance of relevant policies. It also makes the link between the
adaptation and disaster risk reduction agendas.

123.     The CPS also recognizes that development policy lending has helped the Government's
efforts to support key reforms in the public sector, including an improved business climate.
According to the CPS, the next generation of DPLs should build on strong relationships with the reform-
minded ministries and continue to support Indonesia's central government in strengthening effectiveness
of its systems. The Country Environmental Analysis (October 2009), as a follow-on document to the
CPS, brings climate change support and development policy lending together by calling for the inclusion
of environmental reform measures related to climate change in the DPL series.

B.         Collaboration with Other Development Partners and the IMF

124.    Climate change became a national priority effort beginning in 2007, when Indonesia hosted
both the Bali COP 13 and the Finance Ministers' meeting on climate change. In the lead up to the Bali
event, GOI agencies worked actively to develop strategic documents and participate in international
negotiation sessions. At this time, the MOF and the Bank began collaborating on analysis of low carbon
development options. The Bank assisted with technical reports and consultation meetings and supported
a growing dialogue process involving key planning and economic agencies. This work, in collaboration
with others, contributed to understanding of the climate challenge, participation in international events,
and recognition of the value of fiscal instruments in addressing climate change.9

125.     In 2008, the GOI actively worked to integrate climate change into development planning
and economic policies and development assistance in this area increased. After Bali COP 13,
significant financial resources became available to help developing countries with mitigation and
adaptation needs, both bilaterally and multi-laterally (e.g., Japan's Cool Earth Initiative, World Bank
Clean Energy Investment Framework, GEF Adaptation Fund). Indonesia recognized the need to have
sound policies, programs and institutions in place to access these resources. Development partners began
actively engaging also to support Indonesia's analysis and planning efforts.

126.     In early 2008, the GOI, the Bank and Japan began to discuss development policy lending as
a way to bring development funding and climate financing together. Policy lending was seen as a
useful means to integrate climate policy actions into the development planning cycle, to contribute to
medium term plans and priorities, and to influence strategic choices about forestry and energy sector
investments. Japan was interested to demonstrate its "Cool Earth Partnership" to assist developing
countries with climate change actions. The Indonesia CC-PL became first case under this program. After
initial negotiations, the Agence Française de Développement (AFD) also joined the CC PL, which served


9
    More information on MOF ­ Bank collaboration: http://www.fiscalpolicyforclimatechange.depkeu.go.id/


                                                       37
as a strong entry point for AFD's new program in Indonesia. The CC PL policy matrix was based on
Indonesia's National Action Plan for Climate Change and its Development Planning Response to Climate
Change, both launched at Bali COP 13. At that time, the Bank facilitated discussions, provided
background documentation and analytical inputs on priorities, and continued its TA and AAA
engagements, but did not join the operation.

127.    Under the CC PL, BAPPENAS led a Steering Committee and the development partners provided
a monitoring team and conducted regular supervision missions. Both AFD and Japan provided technical
assistance and analytical services to assist in achieving the policy actions, in energy, forestry and
industrial sectors. The Bank and the development partners continued to meet regularly, coordinate and
communicate on climate change issues through the monitoring and supervision process. The
development partners have good experience in similar collaborations under other DPL instruments in
Indonesia.

128.    In December 2009, the Government and development partners invited the Bank to join in
planning a second phase of CCPL operations. In the transition from the first to second phase of CC
PL, the Bank is adding value by sharpening the focus of the operation on a core set of key issues,
elevating key policy issues to high level decision makers, and integrating assistance across a range of
Bank lending and non lending instruments, including climate finance.

129.    The focal areas and future directions to be supported by this CC DPL result from Bank and
GOI analytical work and consultation processes led by GOI. Indonesia's climate change agenda and
action plan stems from analysis and public consultations that contributed to Indonesia's National Action
Plan for Climate Change, the National Development Planning Response to Climate Change, the Second
National Communication to the UNFCCC and the Indonesia's Climate Change Sectoral Roadmap. The
Bank's CEA: Investing in a More Sustainable Indonesia focuses on climate change as a development
challenge, highlights key sectoral issues, and quantifies environmental costs and co-benefits. The CEA
preliminary findings and final conclusions were shared through public consultations in July and
November of 2009, attended by representatives of central ministries, local governments business
organizations, NGOs, indigenous communities, and development agencies. Also, through the Low
Carbon Development Options Study and engagement, the Bank's climate analyses and results have been
discussed and disseminated at workshops and focus group discussions, and incorporated into advice to the
GOI and into the CPS and CEA. This process and consultations with other donors helped to ensure
compatibility with other programs.

130.     The specific policy actions in the matrix result from an intensive process of dialogue among
GOI agencies, the Bank and development partners. The Technical Committee and Steering
Committee process helped to ensure that CC DPL policy actions reflect demonstrated commitments from
responsible agencies. Technical discussions were initiated in February to discuss 2009 achievements and
establish the forward-looking framework. A joint fact finding mission and series of half-day sectoral
policy dialogues were conducted in early March. The Steering Committee meeting on March 24 (chaired
by Coordinating Ministry for People's Welfare, BAPPENAS, Ministry of Finance, and Coordinating
Ministry for Economic Affairs) accepted the results of technical discussions, confirmed achievement of
prior actions and agreed on the "second phase" CC PL program. Through the SC process, the GOI and
partners have been able to refine a focused set of policy targets that are linked to GOI strategic plans, but
also grounded in the reality of annual budget constraints. The results can be seen in the more streamlined
matrix of prior actions and future policy actions (see Chapter 5). The more streamlined matrix for coming
years is already yielding benefits as a way of focusing policy makers' attention and reducing the burden
of monitoring



                                                     38
131.    The Steering Committee provides a venue for coordinating policy advice and harmonizing
technical assistance efforts among development partners. At the SC stage, there was agreement on the
need to clarify and strengthen several policy actions, particularly on renewable energy, forest governance,
and local government incentive mechanisms. Through Technical Committee meetings in early April, and
intensive discussions with responsible line ministries, the Bank and development partners further
examined these issues. Dialogue with policy makers in key agencies helped to confirm support for
implementation of stronger, more focused measures in these areas. The final policy actions included in
this operation reflect these intensive efforts, as well as Bank internal consultations to ensure consistency
in approach and actions across the several DPL efforts, in particular on energy pricing and subsidy issues.

132.     The Bank has been actively collaborating with other development partners in relevant
areas of the CC DPL. In order to elaborate low carbon growth options, assistance has been provided to
BAPPENAS, the Ministry of Finance and DNPI in partnership with AusAID, The Netherlands,
ESMAP/DFID and PROFOR. In the energy sector, the World Bank has worked with the ADB and the
IFC on the CTF investment plan, now approved. In forestry and land use, the Bank has supported the
Ministry of Forestry to develop and implement its REDD platform in conjunction with a range of actors
including AusAID, CIFOR, DfID, the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility, GTZ, and The Netherlands. On
adaptation and disaster management, the WBG has supported the UNDP to assist BAPPENAS with
adaptation planning and, with GFDRR resources, has worked with the BNPB to finalize a National
Action Plan for Disaster Risk Reduction. On the cross-sectoral and institutional front, assistance with
capacity building has been provided to the DNPI and the Ministry of Finance in the area of climate
change in cooperation with other development partners.

133.        The IMF has also been closely involved with development policy lending. IMF and the
Bank consult regularly on macro and sectoral issues, and in missions. In addition, the Bank, the Fund and
development partners have worked closely on the Public Financial Management (PFM) agenda. The Fund
has provided advisors to the Ministry of Finance to advise them on TSA issues and tax administration
reforms, and the indicative triggers of the main DPL series have been developed in close coordination
with the work of these advisors and the agreements reached between the Fund and the government. The
main DPL series has thus provided a platform to push the reform agenda in these crucial areas where both
institutions are working.
C.      CC DPL Linkages with Other Bank Instruments and Engagements

134.    CC DPL is consistent with, and supportive of, the Bank's strategy on climate change and
development. Over the last decade the Bank has worked to integrate climate change concerns into its
development policy. These efforts crystallized in the Bank's Strategic Framework for Climate Change
and Development (2008), which makes effective climate action part of core development efforts. The
2010 World Development Report emphasizes the interrelationship between successful climate action and
development progress in client countries. CC DPL is also consistent with the series of innovative carbon
and climate financing instruments developed over the last decade. The Bank manages climate-related
financing instruments in concert with sustained dialogue with clients on climate change, analytical work
and capacity building efforts.

135.     CC DPL is aligned with other financing instruments and engagements and can add value in
key areas. CC DPL is a strategic component among a range of instruments that the Bank employs to
assist Indonesia with climate-related activities in the forestry and energy sectors. Annex 8 provides more
information on World Bank engagements and instruments in Indonesia. The Bank uses investment
lending, Climate Investment Funds, Carbon Finance, analytical services, and grant resources from GEF
and other sources to address key development and climate challenges. Several specific operations are
highlighted below.

                                                    39
136.    CC DPL can also enhance new financing instruments that aim to strengthen engagement in
REDD, forest conservation, and forest carbon markets. The Forest Carbon Partnership Facility
(FCPF) helps prepare a carbon market for avoided deforestation. Indonesia joined the FCPF through a
participation agreement signed in November 2009. Building on FCPF, the Forest Investment Program
provides financing for real investment in forest protection infrastructure, activities that contribute to
countries' REDD and forest carbon sequestration efforts. Indonesia recently became one of 5 pilot
countries for development of an investment strategy to make use of this instrument. In the year before
Bali COP 13, the World Bank coordinated development partner support for the Indonesia Forest Climate
Alliance (IFCA) which helped to develop the Government's REDD platform in 2007 and produced a
seminal Consolidation Report on REDD in Indonesia. At the project level, the $17.5 million Aceh Forest
and Environment Project (funded from the Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias) is supporting several
different REDD demonstration projects as models for financing sustainable forest management.

137.     The World Bank is supporting the Government's climate agenda with a range of
instruments in the energy sector. In the energy sector, the Bank is developing a $500 million
geothermal investment project which is supported by a GEF grant to improve the investment climate for
this renewable resource as well as a programmatic carbon finance activity. In addition, $400 million of
concessional financing from the Clean Technology Fund has been requested for an investment plan that
would further support World Bank and ADB investments in geothermal as well as IFC and ADB
guarantees for commercial bank financing of other renewables and energy efficiency in the private sector.
The Bank is also providing carbon finance for CDM projects that include solid waste management,
industrial energy efficiency and fuel substitution, and geothermal energy.

138.     Through regular donor coordination meetings, the Bank ensures alignment and avoids
overlap with other donors' activities. Coordination with UN-REDD takes place through the Bank's
FCPF engagement. The Bank's forest sector engagements are consistent with other initiatives and
investments and emerge from the general forest policy dialogue among the GOI, Bank and Donors over
the last five years. This shared understanding of the policy challenges and opportunities is documented in
Sustaining Economic Growth, Rural Livelihoods, and Environmental Benefits: Strategic Options for
Forest Assistance in Indonesia, a joint publication of the Bank with six other development partner
organizations. CC DPL focuses on three main policy directions that are considered essential upstream
policy areas that need attention in the forest sector to make progress on emissions reductions.

139.    Investments are also being made in capacity-building and knowledge generation on climate
change. BAPPENAS, in partnership with AusAID and the World Bank, has developed tools to model the
environmental and climate consequences of different development pathways. The Bank his working with
Ministry of Finance and DNPI to develop the building blocks of a low carbon options study which has
included work on overall emissions as well as the forestry, energy, industrial, and transport sectors. A
continuing partnership also exists with the Ministry of Finance to build its capacity on the use of fiscal
policy to affect climate change mitigation and adaptation.




                                                   40
D.      Lessons Learned

140.      The preparation of the proposed CC DPL drew from experience gained from other DPL
operations in Indonesia, the environment sector DPLs in general and the current Climate Change
Policy Loan funded by Japan and France
(AFD). In Indonesia, the World Bank has so                       Lessons from Indonesia DPL 1-4
far disbursed six macro-economic DPLs for
Indonesia, with a seventh one under             Progress on institutional reforms need not be linear and
preparation. In addition, there is a DPL series unidirectional and there should be sufficient flexibility for
                                                modifications and increased complexity as the reform
targeting infrastructure, which has reached its
                                                program evolves. Institutional reforms that involve changing
third year, with a fourth one being planned.    the way the government works, especially in the face of
An Implementation Completion and Results        entrenched interests and organizational cultures, are
Report of the DPLs 1-4 highlights some          complicated undertakings for which there are no simple
lessons learned, and proved very useful in      recipes. Trial and error is part of the process and sometimes
providing insights into the planning of the CC  backtracking and finding an alternate route may be necessary.
DPL. The team also drew lessons the Bank        In a lively democracy, in particular, with multiple centers of
study on Environmental Aspects of DPLs (M.      power and competing interests, the momentum for specific
Mani) and the background papers being           reforms may ebb and flow. What is needed in this context is
prepared in the context of the new Bank         patience and preparedness so that when the right opportunity
                                                presents itself, reforms that had otherwise been apparently
Environment Strategy, entitled the Role of
                                                slowed, may be advanced rapidly.
Environmental       DPLs      in     Supporting
Environmental Sustainability (A. Acharya).      DPLs are only one instrument among many that are
                                                     available in a multi-faceted engagement.        The choice of
141.      The proposed CC DPL is an                instrument should be contingent on the issue, the political
innovative way to provide budget support           context and the institutional circumstances. This is particularly
that encourages the government to                  applicable in the Indonesian case because of the size and scope
prioritize its policy actions and reforms on       of the World Bank program. In this context the DPL is not the
climate change. Though the DPL instrument          only instrument for supporting reform. In fact, at times, and on
has been in use for some time, its application     certain politically-sensitive and contentious policy issues, such
                                                   as subsidy reductions, it may be the wrong instrument.
for promoting climate change policy is new.
Some environmental DPLs in other countries focus more broadly on sustainable development and may
have climate change mainstreaming, or support to national climate change strategies, as one pillar of the
DPL operation. Given the breadth of climate and development issues, the Indonesia CC DPL targets key
policy reforms in mitigation, adaptation and institutional strengthening. The Indonesia CC DPL is the first
CC DPL to emerge post COP-15 and the first to be designed as a programmatic climate change lending
operation from the start. The Indonesia CC DPL would help support the GOI's climate commitments and
deepen the relationship with the GOI for further progress following on the acknowledged prior actions.
Several general lessons learned from previous programmatic DPLs in Indonesia and elsewhere have been
taken into consideration.

142.       Lesson 1: Strong government ownership and committed counterparts are vital. It is
important to have key government counterparts committed to the reforms and engaging with the task team
on monitoring progress. For a DPL operation, it is important to have broad support for the selected
actions from different line ministries and the ministry of finance, and solicit early on in the process the
priorities from these ministries. In the previous DPLs, GOI designated a key counterpart government
official for the overall program and also for each related set of triggers. Consequently, this proposed CC
DPL relies on the government's own matrix of policy actions identified through the CCPL and a close
working relationship has been maintained with the team based mainly in the Bank's country office.


                                                       41
143.      Lesson 2: Limit the policy actions to a manageable level that the counterpart can commit
to and monitor progress without excessive external assistance. Based on experience with the CCPL it
can be concluded that a more limited set of indicators can be more productive in terms of enabling more
focus on key policy outcomes and more cost effective monitoring of progress. Both the lenders and the
GOI agree that the monitoring and evaluation process for the CCPL could be streamlined and focused on
the big picture and key areas of success. For this CC DPL operation, the Bank has selected a subset of
actions from the current CCPL matrix. The indicative triggers for future action have been selected from
GOI planning and budgeting documents, mentioned previously.

144.      Lesson 3: The DPL provides a useful tool for securing funding for important activities
even in times of fluctuating financial and political interests. The DPL was seen as an important tool
for reform champions to advance and implement the government's reform agenda. Even though the initial
policy actions that the DPL series aims to promote stem from action plans and commitments spelled out
by the government, some policy actions can get sidelined with changes in personnel or interests. The DPL
can help maintain a plotted course for the selected actions.

145.      Lesson 4: A programmatic multi-year reform program helps provide more meaningful
direction, compared with a single tranche operation. In a programmatic operation, the loan supports
on-going reforms that span over several years and can help the government become more focused on
overall direction of change and achieving coherency in actions for future years.

146.      Lesson 5: Sectoral ministries are not all equally willing to participate in the DPL Process.
Although some line ministries appreciate the process and scrutiny and the ability to raise their issues to a
higher level, others do not perceive great benefits, because they do not get extra resources from
participation. This means there is more need for socialization of the process and the instrument both in
general meetings and individual ones. In the case of CC DPL, the solid coordination of BAPPENAS
through the technical and steering committees was able to explain the benefits to stakeholder agencies and
include all the key ministries for mitigation and adaptation purposes. This reinforces the need for a higher
level political focus and an appropriate convening agency/partner to manage the process.

147.     Lesson 6: The formal DPL document and process provide a basis for bringing key
stakeholders together. However, the background dialogue, the secondary layer of discussion is of
equal value. In the macro DPL series, as well as the Japan AFD CCPL process, participants found that
the meetings were a useful venue for raising and discussing high priority issues, such as fuel subsidies
and land conversion for agriculture. These discussions often led to the development of technical
assistance or analysis activities that helped the GOI sort through the issues and prioritize a way forward.
In this way, even if a particular issue does not appear in the DPL matrix, these issues still form an
important part of the subtext and side analysis associated with the DPL process, so that progress can be
made that is not fully reflected in the formal documentation.

148.    Lesson 7: The climate policy landscape is changing internationally and domestically; the
CC DPL process has to remain flexible to this dynamic environment. The CCPL emerged out of the
Bali COP 13 discussions in Indonesia. Since then, the GOI has produced a range of studies and plans,
formed a National Council on Climate Change, and taken prominent positions in the global climate
dialogue both in the UNFCCC process and the G-20 process. The GOI has established an institutional
process within BAPPENAS for managing the CCPL process. Due to the evolving nature of the climate
change landscape and the choices facing Indonesia, the steering committee and technical committee
process has proven valuable as a venue for discussing the challenges of prioritization.




                                                    42
     E. Analytical Underpinnings

149.     Government documents, supplemented by Bank and other analytical work, provide the
main underpinnings for the climate change DPL. Significant work has been done by the GOI and its
partners (Japan and France) to develop and support the CCPL policy matrix. Key documents in this
regard include: the National Action Plan for Climate Change (KLH, 2007), the National Development
Planning Response to Climate Change (BAPPENAS, 2008), the Technology Needs Assessment for
Climate Change (BPPT and KLH, 2009), Indonesia's Second National Communication to the UNFCCC
(2009), the Indonesia Climate Change Sectoral Roadmap (BAPPENAS, 2009), the First 100 Day Action
Program (November 2009), and the Follow Up to Copenhagen COP 15 (March 2010).

150.      The Low Carbon Growth study is a broad engagement that supplied much of the
background material outlined in Chapter III. The Indonesia Low Carbon Development Options phase
1 Report (Ministry of Finance, DNPI and World Bank, 2008), as well as emerging sectoral reports on
energy, transport and forestry10 have helped to provide information and engage the Ministry of Finance in
this critical policy area. The low carbon study has provided capacity, specific analysis, and stimulus for
the GOI to consider emissions reducing policy and investment alternatives. This engagement, coupled
with the global climate change dialogue, has led to the GOI seeking climate finance assistance from a
range of Bank instruments, including FCPF, CPF, FIP, and CTF.

151.    Other key World Bank documents that have been used to develop the DPL include: the
Indonesia Country Environmental Analysis (2009), the 2010 World Development Report, the Energy
Flagship Study for East Asia Pacific, and Making the New Indonesia Work for the Poor (2006). A
number of useful external documents have also been consulted such as The Economics of Climate Change
in Southeast Asia (ADB, 2009), the Ministry of Finance Green Paper: Economic and fiscal policy
strategies for climate change mitigation in Indonesia (Ministry of Finance, 2009) and the carbon
abatement marginal cost curve for Indonesia (DNPI, 2009). As mentioned above, the World Bank also
assisted in coordinating the Indonesia Forest Carbon Alliance, which resulted in an important
Consolidation Report in 2007.




10
  The WB internal Low Carbon portal link is here:       http://sdvmd1.worldbank.org/climateportal/, where the
Indonesia documents can be downloaded.

                                                   43
     V. THE PROPOSED CLIMATE CHANGE DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                            LOAN

A.      Overview of CC DPL

152.    The objective of the CC DPL is to support the Government's efforts to develop a lower
carbon, more climate-resilient growth path. It will also help Indonesia to prepare for the post-2012
global climate change regime by establishing a favorable policy and institutional setting that access global
climate finance opportunities and carbon markets. The CC DPL is a strategic opportunity for the
Government to use program/policy lending to support the President's ambitious climate change agenda.
The policy actions included in the DPL operation will also benefit Indonesia by providing added
incentives to improve governance, forest management, efficiency, competitiveness, and energy security,
all of which provide direct economic development benefits to Indonesia.

153.     The CC DPL will focus on three main thematic areas: climate change mitigation,
adaptation, and institutional and cross-sectoral issues. On mitigation, key targets for reductions are
(1) forest loss and peat land conversion and burning, and (2) the energy sector, reducing the over use
fossil fuels, developing renewable energy alternatives (e.g., geothermal and biomass) and promoting
energy efficiency. On adaptation, the GOI's key priorities are in agriculture, water management, coastal
and marine resource management, as well as disaster preparedness and resiliency. Institutional and cross-
sectoral issues include better analysis, policy coordination, and the integration of climate change priorities
into the national development planning and budgeting system.

154.     This operation will be consistent with and provide parallel financing for the "Climate
Change Policy Loan" (CC-PL) Series, jointly financed by Japan and AFD. The Bank's CC DPL
operation will build on the policy framework developed under the CC-PL process (Annex 4 describes the
CC-PL and actions achieved in 2009). The CC-PL series includes a governance structure, policy matrix
and a monitoring and evaluation framework. Policy actions are monitored two to three times per year by
a joint government-development partner Steering Committee chaired by BAPPENAS. On March 24th the
Steering Committee approved 2009 actions as fully achieved.11 The indicative policy actions for 2010 ­
2012 described in this chapter form the core of the "second phase" of Climate Change Program Loan
support. It is anticipated that coming DPL series would continue to be co-financed by Japan, France and
possibly other development partners around a common policy matrix.

155.    By contributing to the GOI's established climate change processes, the World Bank adds
value by linking reform efforts to the full range of engagements and investment instruments, as
described in Chapter IV. The Bank contributed to streamlining and prioritizing the indicative policy
actions in the phase 2 program. The Bank is also working to better link the climate change agenda into
the broader reform process at the central economic ministries. Annex 3A contains the Bank's streamlined
CC DPL matrix and Annex 3B the monitoring and evaluation plan, as it has emerged from discussions
with the GOI. In these discussions the CC DPL applies international Good Practice Principles on
Conditionality (see following text box).
11
  CCPL policy actions are laid out by calendar year (consistent with GOI fiscal year). Actions and achievements
are usually evaluated early in the following calendar year, followed by disbursement in the second half of the year.
The two financing partners of the CCPL together disbursed $500 million in 2008 (based on 2007 prior actions) and
$700 million in 2009 (based on 2008 policy actions). In 2010, Japan and AFD are each expected to disburse $300
million, based on the successful completion of the evaluation process conducted by the Steering Committee.

                                                        44
                           Application of Good Practice Principles on Conditionality
Principle 1: Reinforce Ownership. CC DPL supports policy and institutional reforms in line with the
Government's priorities. Policy actions for this operation are based on a series of GOI planning and policy
documents, or implementing regulations of national laws. Key documents include the National Action Plan for
Climate Change (KLH, 2007), the National Development Planning Response to Climate Change (BAPPENAS,
2008), Indonesia's Second National Communication to the UNFCCC (2009), the Indonesia Climate Change
Sectoral Roadmap (BAPPENAS, 2009), and the Perpres 1 of 2010 on National Priority Programs (February
2010), which specifies Presidential priorities for the year. All of these products contributed to Indonesia's
submission to the UNFCCC in line with the Copenhagen Accord in January 2010.
Principle 2: Agree up front with Government and partners on a coordinated accountability framework. The
policy matrix represents an agreed framework by Government and the budget support partners. The GOI chairs a
Steering Committee that has served as the coordinating body for the Climate Change Program Loan (JICA and
AFD) since 2008. All development partners base their disbursement decisions in consultation with one another
and on the Government's fulfillment of the same matrix of policy actions. The thematic areas and actions were
developed jointly with the Government and have been adjusted as such as the program has evolved.
Principle 3: Customize accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country circumstances.
The policy matrix entails a subset of key reform measures that are part of the Government's broader development
program. It does not capture all climate actions or policy reforms that the GOI is implementing. Climate change
policy cuts across every major sector of the economy, in particular forestry and energy, where reforms and
management improvements continue to be made, irrespective of the climate change agenda. This operation
recognizes that there are policy areas related to growth and poverty alleviation where, for various reasons,
inclusion in a high profile Bank program may be counterproductive. Although the Bank and development partners
are engaged in dialogue across a number of sensitive policy issues, many actions are left outside the scope of the
DPL to take into account country circumstances and the political economy.
Principle 4: Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement. While country
ownership and the criticality of policy issues to stated objectives are the foremost criteria in selecting DPL policy
actions, the Bank and development partners may also base selection on the likelihood of accelerating
implementation where vested interest or bureaucratic hurdles could slow the pace of reform. The CC DPL is a
new area for the Bank, building on past performance under the CCPL, but also seeking to develop a longer term
agenda on key thematic areas in forestry, energy and adaptation. For this reason, selection criteria may include
identifying strategies and plans that are critical first steps to a longer reform process.
Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based financial
support. The CC DPL provides parallel financing to the ongoing CCPL process, whereby development partners
agree to notional commitment amounts and policy actions during the prior year's DPL. Financial commitments are
further refined in consultation with Government in the context of overall program lending needs. CCPL has
followed a formal process of agreement on actions, assessment criteria and an evaluation process, conducted by a
monitoring team and reported regularly at Steering Committee meetings. The monitoring team's work is
supplemented by project investments and advisors of the development partners. The Bank will participate in
Steering Committee meetings and the formal evaluation process, as well as follow up with GOI counterparts.




B.      Policy Areas

156.    The following section describes the CC DPL current year operation based on a set of prior actions
in 2009. The current policy actions lay the groundwork for future actions that will extend and deepen
reforms, as described in section C. on future directions.




                                                         45
B1. POLICY AREA 1: MITIGATION

Land Use Change and Forestry Sector Mitigation

157.     The CC DPL focuses on actions critical to addressing governance issues and upstream
drivers of deforestation and loss. The GOI is developing strategies and identifying financing sources for
addressing LUCF emissions sources, in collaboration with a range of development partners. Proposed
CC DPL policy actions in the LUCF thematic are aimed at three major issues: Peat land; REDD piloting
efforts; and forest governance improvements. The key benefits expected from the CC DPL program are:
Policy harmonization and enabling conditions for integrated action to reduce peat degradation and fires
(in priority target areas) and improved forest and land management practices. In addition, the improved
policy setting together with implementation actions that reduce emissions will better allow the GOI to
access forest carbon financing mechanisms in the post-2012 climate regime. The CC DPL recognizes
Indonesia's achievements in this policy area with the following prior actions.

158.     Prior Action 1: Peatland Conservation. Issued and began implementation of a master plan on
peat land rehabilitation in Central Kalimantan. This policy action aims at addressing the major source
of GHG emissions from LUCF.12 According to the GOI plan for complying with its Copenhagen Accord
commitments, GHG emissions from peat lands should be reduced from a BAU scenario of 1.44 Gt to 0.28
Gt by 2020 (more than one-third of Indonesia's total planned emissions reductions). An important
starting point is the province of Central Kalimantan which contains Indonesia's largest area of degraded
and fire-prone peat lands. The GOI has demonstrated its concern by developing and issuing a master plan
for peat land rehabilitation in the province. Ministerial Regulation (N0.55/2008) was issued in September
2008 and implementation was begun in 2009. In the future, the GOI expects to form an improved
institutional framework to conserve and restore peatland and provide a basis for practical actions. GOI is
already undertaking demonstration activities on peatland in Kalimantan with development partner
assistance and will soon expand to Riau province.

159.     Prior Action 2: REDD. Launched National Readiness Program for REDD, established
regulatory framework, and joined both FCPF and UN-REDD. The resources mobilized through a
national REDD program can be a powerful incentive for Indonesia to curb deforestation and forest
degradation. To accelerate this transition, Indonesia has launched a national readiness program for REDD
by: completing preparatory analyses; issuing a consolidated report on its program; and identifying
demonstration activities. In 2008-9, the GOI has issued three MOFR Ministerial Regulations on REDD
demonstration activities, on REDD procedures and on Commercial Forest Carbon Projects. In 2009, the
GOI has confirmed participation in two important international initiatives: the Forest Carbon Partnership
Facility managed by World Bank and the UN-REDD Program implemented by UNDP, FAO and UNEP.

160.     Prior Action 3: Forest Management and Governance. Issued regulations to establish a
national timber legality standard and a system for verification and monitoring to assist in reducing
illegal logging and forest loss. Forest governance, improved forest law enforcement and more
sustainable forest management are essential for REDD to function successfully and for tackling
deforestation. The President's 100-Day Program for the Ministry of Forestry focused on actions linked to
law enforcement and governance such as resolving conflicts over forest land clearance and better use of
spatial planning. A positive step towards improved forest governance was the establishment of a national
timber legality standard and a system for verification, which will help in the effort to combat illegal

12
   The GOI developed a master plan in this location because of the ecological disaster created there due to the New
Order government's concept to develop a "million hectare rice project." This involved installing canals and draining
large areas for agricultural development (which did not succeed) and transmigration projects, later abandoned. The
ecological impact and risk of fire continue. Lessons learned in Kalimantan can be applied to other peat provinces.

                                                        46
logging, which contributes to forest loss and emissions. Capacity strengthening, implementation and
monitoring will still be needed to ensure improved outcomes, but this is an important step in addressing
the root causes of illegal logging. Building on this step, Indonesia will be better prepared to participate in
the international trade in forest products and international forest carbon markets.

Energy Sector Mitigation

161.    In the energy sector, the CC DPL focuses on policy actions essential to addressing emissions
reduction priorities, which include renewable energy, energy efficiency, and cost reflective energy
pricing. Due to large potential capacity, geothermal is one of the best options to diversify Indonesia's
energy mix. However, the regulatory framework creates barriers and uncertainties for project developers.
To accelerate geothermal power development, three key policies are needed: (1) mandatory power
purchase (off-take) by PLN; (2) mandatory market policy of a fixed tariff (feed-in tariff) or a fixed
quantity (renewable energy portfolio standards); and (3) a compensation mechanism to allow the
incremental cost of geothermal power purchase to pass-through to consumers or compensate PLN through
government payment. The GOI is already working on achieving these actions. The key benefits expected
from policy actions in the energy sector are: increased economic benefits from energy efficiency;
increased energy security from investments in renewable domestic energy sources; and economic and
social benefits of reduced emissions. The CC DPL recognizes Indonesia's achievements in this thematic
area with the following prior actions.

162.    Prior Action 4: Renewable Energy Development. Issued national and ministerial regulations
to mandate the development and purchase of power from renewable energy resources, to establish a
ceiling price for geothermal power purchase, to establish the purchase price of electricity from
renewable energy sources, and to provide tax incentives for renewable energy development. Together,
these rules address (partially) two of the key policy barriers in geothermal development mentioned above
(mandatory off-take and a higher price for power). The government has also issued tax incentives for
renewable energy development, including geothermal, as well as solar, wind and biomass. These actions
will contribute to the achievement of the GOI's second fast track power development program to develop
10,000 MW by 2014, of which 60% will be renewable energy, with geothermal accounting for about
4,800 MW and hydropower accounting for most of the other renewable energy capacity. Regarding the
price, Regulation 32 specifies that PLN's off-take price for geothermal from tendering processes and
existing concessions will be subject to a ceiling price of 9.7 cent/kWh. This marks the first time a GOI
rule provides guidance to the geothermal tendering process with a highest ceiling price. This action sets a
precedent for future steps that should extend pricing reforms and incentives to include a feed-in tariff or a
fixed quantity (renewable energy portfolio standards). The feed-in tariff approach would aim at least at
the existing concession areas (3500 MW), where developers already hold permits for geothermal mining
operating areas. For new geothermal mining areas, future steps should improve and streamline the
tendering process. In the medium term, energy policy will need to address who pays for the incremental
costs between renewable/geothermal options and PLN's average power purchase or production costs.
This compensation issue is covered in the 2010 CC DPL program.

163.    Prior Action 5: Energy Efficiency. Issued Government Regulation on Energy Conservation
and implemented national system of energy audits for major firms in key sectors. This comprehensive
regulation specified energy conservation responsibilities of national and local government, entrepreneurs
and communities. The rule obliges large energy users to conduct energy management through
appointment of an energy manager, developing energy conservation programs, energy auditing,
implementing recommendations, and reporting. It also called for implementation of energy efficient
technologies through performance standards on energy equipment. It encourages national and local
governments to provide incentives to large energy users and manufacturers for energy conservation, and
lays out penalties for non-compliance. This marked a significant step toward a comprehensive energy

                                                     47
conservation policy. In past years, the CCPL process has also recognized GOI actions to develop and
implement a national system of energy audits for major firms in key sectors, thus raising awareness and
stimulating some voluntary action. Future actions could also include a master plan for energy
conservation that sets energy efficiency targets for key industrial sectors, energy efficiency standards for
electric appliances, and fuel economy standards; and provides performance-based fiscal incentives (e.g.,
consumer rebate and tax credit) for energy efficiency.

B2. POLICY AREA 2: ADAPTATION AND DISASTER PREPAREDNESS

164.     The CC DPL focuses on actions in the key areas of Indonesia's vulnerability and adaptation
needs, including water resources, agricultural resilience, coastal threats and livelihoods, and
disaster preparedness. Indonesia recognizes adaptation as a key priority area to protect the poor, who
will likely experience the greatest impacts, yet have the least resources and capacity to respond.
Programs being developed and implemented include planning and institutional development at the
regional level in the water resources sector and disaster risk reduction area, extension and capacity
development at the community level in the agriculture, and strategic planning and community
development in the coastal and marine sector. Key benefits from strengthened action on adaptation are:
improved capacity and resilience at institutional level and community level in key sectors, as well as
integration of adaptation needs into disaster preparedness plans and institutions. The CC DPL recognizes
Indonesia's achievements in this thematic area, with the following prior actions.

165.     Prior Action 6. Water Resources Sector. Issued Presidential Regulation to establish and staff
the Water Resource Council and prepared integrated water resource management plans (POLA) with
climate change assessment in national strategic river basins. The National Water Resource Council
establishes a national coordinating body for planning and management. In addition to this action,
guidelines for preparing integrated water resource management plans (POLA) were also established
through Ministerial Decree (31 August, 2009). In addition, thirteen provincial water resources councils
have been established (Central Java, NTB, South Sulawesi) and 20 more are under preparation. These
plans are an initial step toward future improvements and implementation actions that assist in adapting to
climate change risks and impacts through local level (watershed-based) management institutions.

166.     Prior Action 7. Agriculture Sector. Developed an irrigation asset management information
system. Implemented a rice production intensification program and climate field schools in target
provinces. The establishment of an irrigation asset management information system contribute to
enhanced capacity for managing irrigation water, so critical to Indonesia's agriculture. The GOI is also
implementing the pilot projects at the district level from 2009 and inventory development, with assistance
from the ADB/PISP and WB/WISMP projects. The Government's System for Rice Intensification (SRI)
efforts in 21 provinces (Ministry of Agriculture) and 9 provinces (Ministry of Public Works) contribute to
enhancing agricultural productivity, a national goal and a clear climate adaptation measure. The
Government's Climate Field School Program 13 aims to improve farmers' capacity to apply climate
forecasts and other agro-meteorological information to production activities. This program has been
implemented by two divisions of the Ministry of Agriculture in 177 locations, surpassing expected
performance in 2009. In the future, the effectiveness of these programs can be evaluated, and then scaled
up to reach more locations with an improved and consolidated program of capacity development.


13
   Climate Field Schools are based on Indonesia's experience with "Farmer Field Schools" developed in Integrated
Pest Management (IPM) extension in the 1980s. These were considered quite innovative and effective. The climate
field schools evolved from experiments in 2005-06 and involve collaboration among Ministry of Agriculture, Asian
Disaster Preparedness Center (ADPC, Bangkok), Agency for Meteorology and Geophysics (BMG), National
Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHS), and University of Agriculture, Bogor (IPB).

                                                      48
167.     Prior Action 8. Disaster Risk Management. Enacted law on Disaster Management and
established a National Disaster Management Agency (BNPB). Finalized and launched the National
Action Plan for Disaster Risk Reduction. Integrated Disaster Risk Reduction and climate change
adaptation into the medium term development plan (RPJMN, 2009). This action was added to the
CCPL framework in 2009, in recognition of the importance of this activity in the climate change context
and the GOI's progress. With the legal framework and action plan now formalized, the BNPB is prepared
to move forward with a stronger program. It is also useful to note that this is not just a paper agency, with
legal basis but no operational capability. In 2009, the capacity of this agency was strengthened through
the recruitment of 116 new staff members (selection held on November 19; active on February 1, 2010).
At the provincial level, 18 regional disaster management agencies (BPBDs) have been established and
about 44 more at district/city level (with others in various stages of development). This provides a basis
for future actions to strengthen these agencies and foster the links among them. Future actions could also
focus on the "highly vulnerable regencies/cities" identified by BNPB.

168.     Prior Action 9. Marine and Fisheries Sector. GOI launched the National Plan of Action
(NPOA) of Coral Triangle Initiative, approved a roadmap of CTI actions for 2010-11 These actions
demonstrate Indonesia's commitment to developing and strengthening the framework for promoting coral
reef, fisheries and food security. The NPOA was approved by the 6 member countries of CTI in May
2009. The National Secretariat for the Coral Triangle Initiative was established. Indonesia is striving to
improve coastal management, rehabilitate coral reefs and improve livelihoods more broadly in 15 districts
within 8 provinces, with assistance of the Bank and ADB under the COREMAP program.

B3. POLICY AREA 3: CROSS SECTORAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES

169.     Climate change is a development issue and an economic issue. An integrated national
response to climate change requires cross-sectoral planning and coordination and appropriate institutional
structures for formulating and carrying out policies and programs. The political economy of climate
change regulation and management has been in flux, but is becoming more settled. BAPPENAS,
Ministry of Finance, the National Council on Climate Change and the Ministry of Environment each
plays an important role in coordination, policy making, planning and budget formulation, while sectoral
ministries retain responsibilities over key areas of the economy responsible for the bulk of Indonesia's
emissions. Coordination of these issues and institutional relationships is a challenge. Key actions needed
to develop a more integrated climate change response include: developing a firmer scientific
understanding and institutional framework for coordination and action; mainstreaming climate change
issues into the national development planning and budgeting process; and developing institutions, plans
and information systems to allow Indonesia to benefit from global climate finance mechanisms. The CC
DPL recognizes Indonesia's achievements in this thematic area, with the following prior actions.

170.      Prior Action 10: Mainstreaming in National Development Program. GOI finalized the Second
National Communication to UNFCCC, submitted mitigation actions under the Copenhagen Accord,
and issued key development planning documents related to climate change, as well as the RPJM. The
first of these foundational documents identifies the main sources of emissions and establishes the baseline
for inter-governmental coordination on key targets of action on both mitigation and adaptation. The
second establishes an international benchmark for Indonesia's ambitious GHG mitigation agenda. The
Development Planning Response to Climate Change updated in March 2010 provides a thorough listing
of available climate change projects ready to be incorporated into the development process. The Climate
Change Sectoral Roadmap outlines the GOI's strategic approach to climate change at a sectoral level.
Together, these constitute a substantial body of knowledge, ideas and planning that line ministries and
development partners can use as a guide to setting up sectoral programs or investments. These
framework documents also play a strategic role in identifying key policy directions for the future of the
CC DPL process. The success of these mainstreaming efforts can be seen in the RPJM for 2010-2014,

                                                     49
which includes sectoral and cross cutting actions and measures to respond to climate change linked to the
national budget. The next foundational document on the horizon is the President's decree that will codify
the 26% emissions reduction commitment in domestic law.

171.    Prior Action 11: Policy Coordination and Financing for Climate Change. The GOI issued the
National Action Plan Addressing Climate Change, established a National Council on Climate Chang,
and launched the Indonesia Climate Change Trust Fund (October 2009). The National Action Plan
provided the original vision and mission of Indonesia's climate change programs on the road to the Bali
COP 13. The establishment of the National Council on Climate Change was a milestone event that
expressed the President's commitment to have a high-level body for consultation and strategic direction at
the cabinet level. The GOI has also set up institutional mechanisms for climate change coordination and
financing, covering both loans and grants. In 2008, the GOI established an inter-ministerial steering
committee led by BAPPENAS to coordinate dialogue and monitor performance of the pioneering CCPL
with GOJ and AFD. The ICCTF provides a vehicle for managing development partner grant
contributions in a systematic way through one institutional coordination mechanism.

172. This solid base of institutional development will pave the way for additional plans and
mechanisms to allow Indonesia to benefit fully from global climate finance mechanisms. This
improving institutional framework positions Indonesia to make more strategic use of economic
instruments for climate policy. The GOI is assessing fiscal policies that can support climate change
responses and preparing implementing regulations on economic instruments for environmental
management under the new Environmental Protection law. As noted previously, Indonesia has recently
been approved to access low cost climate finance from the FCPF, UN-REDD, CTF, and FIP.

C.      Future Directions and Expected Results

173.     The CC DPL supports a process of reform with clear policy actions and substantial
engagement, dialogue and technical assistance. The future directions for the next series of CC DPL
operations result from an intensive process of dialogue, culminating in a Steering Committee meeting
chaired by the GOI on March 24. Indicative policy actions for the next two operations were identified
and a strategic framework developed. The policy matrix appears at the end of this section and in Annex
3A. It lays out the prior actions and indicative triggers for 2010-2012. The objectives and expected
results for each policy area are also described. Annex 3B includes the monitoring and results framework.
Annex 3C offers the broader CCPL matrix for comparison. While policy actions for 2010 are fairly well-
defined, the actions for 2011 and beyond are much more indicative. Discussions over sequencing and
budgeting for these actions will continue through the development planning cycle.

174.     This "second phase" CCPL program continues from the platform established through the
first phase, but provides some additional refinement and strategic focus. This can be seen in the
more streamlined set of policy areas and indicative actions, as well as the elevation of attention on some
key areas, such as forest governance, energy pricing and institutional coordination and financing. This
phase of the program also opens the door to greater responsibility and action by provincial and local
governments, through mitigation plans and fiscal balancing mechanisms. The following sections describe
the rationale for the CC DPL future program of policy actions and link these actions to expected results.

175.    From the 2010 indicative policy actions, four should be highlighted as key components of
the GOI's program, essential to its success. The most critical item is the President's 26 percent
emissions reduction target and the intention to establish that commitment in the national legal framework
through a decree. Establishing this goal in the domestic legal framework will provide a basis for
budgeting and performance measurement on climate change action at sectoral level. Within life of this

                                                   50
operation, we will be able to track budget allocations aligned with these national goals and evaluate their
cost effectiveness. Longer term, Indonesia will be reporting MRV emission reductions to UNFCCC. The
next two critical policy actions aim to address fundamental drivers of deforestation and governance gaps
in land use change and forestry. The GOI is planning to improve management and coordination of peat
land in 2010 leading to a President decree in 2011. It is expected that improved coordination will reduce
conflict and licensing of land conversion in specific provinces in the short term and reduced deforestation
in the longer term. The GOI also plans to develop a fiscal incentive mechanism for local governments to
reduce LUCF emissions. Establishment of an incentive mechanism will result in measurable financial
flows linked to specific management actions in the medium term, and reduced deforestation in the longer
term. The fourth action is to complete the policy framework to improve investment climate for
geothermal investment. Here, the GOI will develop a compensation framework for geothermal electricity
purchase by the off taker. This complements actions on off-take requirement and price differential for
geothermal from last year. We expect that this will open the door to more investment in the subsector,
which can be measured investment flows, evidence of construction and steps toward the GOI's
geothermal power production target.

C.1 POLICY AREA 1: MITIGATION

Land Use Change and Forestry Sector Mitigation

176.    Recognizing the importance of peatland conservation for reducing emissions, in 2010 the
GOI intends to strengthen coordination among ministries to control peatland emissions, during a
consultative process of preparing a presidential regulation, now under development. The GOI is also
undertaking a multi-sector, multi-stakeholder policy dialogue toward the development of a legal
framework for the National Strategy for Lowlands. This lowlands strategy focuses on balancing
development and conservation and will inform the regulation development process. The GOI expects to
issue the presidential regulation in 2011 and begin implementation in 2012. Actions to improve peat
management will include conservation, water management, and fire prevention to minimize emissions.
We expect this will improve the institutional and legal framework for conserving and restoring peatland,
thus reducing conflicting policies and reducing fires and degradation. In the medium term, this will help
to achieve emission reduction goal and to access appropriate sources of international climate finance.

177.     Further building on the REDD foundation established in 2008-9, in 2010 the GOI plans to
complete a MOFR Ministerial Decree on the mechanism and procedures for REDD implementation
by defining roles and responsibilities of government agencies, local communities, and the private sector in
managing carbon assets. The GOI also plans to implement at least three demonstration activities in
specific locations, together with development partners or other project proponents. In 2011, Indonesia
will establish a national registry of REDD to track implementation of REDD activities and payments. In
2012, the GOI plans to do an assessment and develop a framework to improve forest fiscal management,
including incentives for regional stakeholders (several policy actions below relate to incentives for
regional governments; this one is aimed at private land users in concessions or REDD sites). As a result
of actions to clarify REDD rules, we expect to see greater development and investment in demonstration
activities, with equitable sharing of benefits. These actions will also position Indonesia better to access
forest carbon finance sources that may develop after 2012 as a result of the UNFCCC negotiations. In the
medium term, REDD actions will contribute to reducing emissions.

178.    To improve forest management and governance in 2010, the MOFR will implement the
regulation on timber legality, monitor performance, and improve capacity. The National Standards
Agency plays a key role in the legality process by providing a neutral third party quality assurance role.
The capacity of this agency for oversight, certification and monitoring the timber legality implementation
will be assessed. Capacity strengthening needs are likely to be met through collaboration between the

                                                    51
GOI and development partners engaged on this issue, notably DFID, EU and USAID (where domestic
regulations require greater due diligence on timber legality standards). In 2011, MOFR, plans to
strengthen implementation of the regulatory framework of timber legality by implementing the
recommendations arising from its monitoring and evaluation process (assisted by development partners,
as needed). The MOF also plans to design an inter-governmental transfer mechanism to improve the
incentives for local governments to strengthen forest management and reduce emissions. This is a
complex undertaking and will not be completed within one year. Thus, the Ministry of Finance expects to
formalize the inter-governmental transfer mechanism in 2011 (through a legal instrument to be defined)
and evaluate the performance in 2012. Through these actions, Indonesia will improve forest governance
through clearer institutional means to address timber legality and positive incentives for local
governments. Actions that engage local governments in a fiscal benefit sharing framework with clear and
consistent incentives will also begin to address the inconsistencies related to land use and land
conversion, including oil palm development in sensitive areas. In the medium term, this will help to
reduce the deforestation rate and improve the potential for success in Indonesia's REDD program.

Energy Sector Mitigation

179.     In 2010, the Government plans to build on the renewable energy reforms begun in 2009 by
issuing a legal instrument that clarifies the compensation scheme for incremental cost of
geothermal electricity to the buyer. The Ministry of Finance has accepted responsibility to specify the
appropriate compensation form of compensation to provide an assurance to the off-taker, PLN. The GOI
further plans to improve the policy framework for geothermal development by creating a means to
facilitate business arrangements between developers and PLN. The legal and institutional mechanism
through which this will be accomplished is under discussion among MOF, MEMR and PLN. In 2011, the
GOI proposes a further policy improvement by developing a geothermal exploration fund, to mitigate
upstream risks in eastern Indonesia, where geothermal development is a GOI priority. In 2011, the GOI
proposes to review the impact of Ministerial Regulation No.31/2009, which sets the price renewable
energy sources. With the review in place, a new or revised regulation is to be developed to improve the
effectiveness of renewable energy investments. The draft regulation is proposed to be developed in 2011
for issuance in 2012. These actions should result in a more consistent regulatory framework with better
risk and benefit sharing, thus promoting investment. This is expected to contribute to development of
new geothermal projects and other renewable energy investments. In the medium term, this will improve
energy security and reduce GHG emissions from electricity generation.

180.    On energy efficiency, the Government proposes build on the Regulation on Energy
Conservation (No 70/2009) by developing a master plan for energy conservation in 2010 and
implementing it in 2011. The plan will cover energy efficiency standards, an improved energy audit
program (including a monitoring and evaluation process), the development of fiscal incentives, and
requirements for industry energy conservation. Several additional regulations will be needed in later
years with technical assistance associated with the CC DPL provided as needed. These improved rules
and incentives will encourage industries and manufacturers to undertake energy efficiency investments.
In the medium term, GHG emissions will be reduced through enhanced energy efficiency in energy
intensive sectors.

181.     Given its clear importance, energy pricing continues to be an issue in the policy dialogue
with the Government. A policy action to address this issue is included in IDPL 4, currently under
preparation, because of the link to investment in energy infrastructure. However, we note that energy
pricing reform is also a critical element in climate change mitigation, as higher prices provide incentives
for efficient energy use and greater investment in alternative energy sources. Recognizing that this is not
an exclusive indicator, we chose to highlight the GOI's intention to finalize a road map for improving the
subsidy policy for electricity in 2010. In fact, this is a complement to the action in the IDPL. In 2011

                                                    52
and later, the GOI proposes to continue to implement actions based on the road map, including the
development of regulations that continue to clarify energy subsidy policy. As the GOI reduces subsidies
through tariff policies that reflect the economic and environmental costs of electricity, there will be short
and long term climate change benefits, with emissions reduced through improved efficiency and increased
investment in alternative energy sources.

C.2 POLICY AREA 2: ADAPTATION AND DISASTER PREPAREDNESS

182.     In the water resources sector, in 2010 Indonesia will continue the strategic assessment of the
water future of Java begun in 2009 and carrying through to 2011. This will involve preparing an
action plan for priority interventions incorporating climate change, urbanization, economic development
and food security. This strategic assessment (assisted by the Bank and other development partners) will
become an integral part of the River Basin Strategic Water Management Plans and Master Plans. Beyond
this priority work on Java watersheds, the Ministry of Public Works also intends to establish twelve
provincial water resource councils, twelve Coordination Teams for Water Resources Management in
River Basins (TKPSDA), and eight Integrated Water Resources Management Plans (POLA) across the
nation. In 2011, the GOI intends to complete the master plans for the main Java River Basins (including
climate change adaptation measures) and codify these in ministerial decrees. These actions will improve
water resource management through establishment of responsible institutions to implement integrated
plans, beginning with nationally strategic river basins. In the medium term, this will contribute to
Indonesia's ability to anticipate and respond to water-related climate change impacts (drought and flood
risks) and contribute to resilience at the region/river basin level.

183.     In the agriculture sector in 2010, the GOI in 2010 intends to continue the important ongoing
programs to promote adaptation at the farm level. The GOI will evaluate performance to date in the
implementation of programs for rice intensification and farmer field schools. Based on the results and
needed adjustments, the GOI then plans to improve and scale up actions for adaptation through these
capacity development actions. The GOI will also enforce land development and management without
burning as part of the overall plan established under a MOA Ministerial Decree. In 2011 and 2012 the
Ministry of Agriculture will continue to improve and scale up actions for adaptation in these areas. As a
result of these actions, farmers will be better prepared for climate change impacts, with better sources and
channels of information. In the medium term, this will strengthen the institutional framework to improve
resilience to climate change impacts on food production (flood, drought, pests) at the community/farm
level.

184.     On disaster risk management, in 2010 the GOI will complete efforts to establish Local
Disaster Management Agencies (BPBD) in all remaining provinces. In 2011, the GOI intends to
implement Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) program activities according to the National Action Plan for
DRR that was published in November 2009. In 2012, GOI plans to establish a comprehensive risk
financing framework, which could combine several mechanisms, including reserve (on-call) budget,
stand-by financing, or weather derivatives. This work remains in early stages and is being developed and
assisted by the Bank through GFDRR grant resources. The result expected from these actions is an
improved institutional framework, nation-wide implementation capacity, and available resources for
disaster risk reduction and management. Climate change vulnerability and preparedness issues will be
mainstreamed into the national DRR framework.

185.     In the coastal sector, the Ministry for Marine Affairs and Fisheries plans to lay out a five
year program for implementation of the Indonesian Global Ocean Observing System (INAGOOS), a
marine monitoring program. The results from this monitoring system will inform the development of
further climate change adaptation activities in the coastal and marine areas, and contribute to the National
Adaptation Strategy. In 2010, the GOI will finalize plans and budgets for inception of the system. In

                                                     53
later years, implementation steps will include procurement of goods and works, development of human
resources, and establishment of facilities. Focusing on a key area of vulnerability, the GOI intends to
develop a strategy for coastal community resilience to cope with climate change. This strategy would
include plans for developing climate resilient villages in eight vulnerable districts on the north coast of
Java. The GOI will also implement a study on coastal vulnerability in relation to sea level rise in Java
and Bali. In 2011-2012, the GOI intends to implement the strategy for coastal community resilience to
cope with climate change in key target areas. These actions will result in improved coastal and marine
climate monitoring capacity and improved coastal community resilience in target locations. In later years,
the coastal resilience strategy will become a model approach for replication and scaling up in other
coastal vulnerable areas, when more resources are available. In the medium term, the result should be
improved coastal management and improved climate resilience among particularly vulnerable groups.

C.3 POLICY AREA 3: CROSS SECTORAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES

186.     The GOI has already established a strong framework of legal and analytical products to
mainstream climate change into the National Development Program. In 2010, the GOI intends to go
further by issuing a presidential decree on the National Action Plan for 26% GHG emission reduction.
Building on this in 2011, the GOI also plans to prepare Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions
(NAMAs) in accordance with the medium term development plan (RPJM) and the Indonesia Climate
Change Sectoral Road Map. Also in 2011, the GOI intends to extend the emissions reduction framework
to the provincial level by drafting provincial action plans for contributing to the 26% objective. In 2012,
this will be followed up by incorporating climate change programs into the regional midterm development
plans (RPJMD), which become the basis for budgeting and implementation. Results expected from these
efforts include a strengthened knowledge base, institutional framework, and legal basis for
implementation of both mitigation and adaptation programs. This will contribute to achievement of
national climate change objectives in the medium term, both domestically and internationally.

187.     In the area of policy coordination and financing scheme, in 2010 the GOI will implement
the ICCTF, which was developed and launched in 2009. In 2011 and beyond, the GOI intends to
continue implementation and provide financial support to specific projects. To establish a framework that
encourages local governments to address climate change needs, MOF plans in 2010 to design an inter-
governmental fiscal transfer mechanism to provide incentives for local governments to take priority
climate change actions. Given the lengthy consultative process required, this mechanism would be
finalized and established through a government legal instrument in 2012. This framework and funding
source will catalyze adaptation and mitigation action at the local and decentralized level. These actions
will yield better institutional mechanisms for coordination of climate policy formation, budget allocation,
and implementation. In the medium term, local governments will face more positive incentives to take
appropriate climate change actions and fewer disincentives or policy distortions.

188.    This is a wide program of activities across many sectors of government. Yet, it can be seen
that this is also a comprehensive program aimed at key priorities in each sector. These actions aim
at fundamental issues of governance, policy formulation, incentives and budgeting, all critical to effective
climate change programs. The World Bank and development partners are already assisting the GOI in
achieving a number of these proposed policy actions. The CC DPL provides the opportunity to better
coordinate and consolidate these efforts in a government-led program, with strong monitoring and
dialogue processes.

189.    The CC DPL Policy Matrix appears as the last four pages of this chapter, following a brief
discussion of consultation processes associated with development of the GOI's agenda. The next chapter
outlines the monitoring and evaluation processes built into the CCPL governance structure.


                                                    54
D.     PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES AND CONSULTATIONS

190.    The Bank's Country Partnership Strategy is developed through consultations with
government and external organizations. The Bank developed a CEA focused on climate change and
launched it in November 2009 in a multi-stakeholder venue. Both the CPS and the CEA specifically
foresee DPL as one of the instruments for engaging on climate change issues.

191.   Indonesia has had a wide and public dialogue on climate change issues, and on the program
loan as an instrument. Climate change has been an issue of national prominence since UNFCCC
COP13 was held in Bali in 2007. The GOI's foundational climate change documents (see prior actions)
have been launched at multi stakeholder events. The CCPL, this has been the topic of public comment
since August 2008, when first announced.

192.    Since the President's 26% commitment, this issue has gained even more attention, both
inside and outside of government. Indonesia's free and active press has carried articles describing the
program and the early debate within the GOI about the value of this instrument. Currently, the Steering
Committee is the main governance body where a wide range of positions and agencies are represented.
More information about the consultation process, including specific meetings held over the last year by
GOI and World Bank can be found in Annex 6.

193.    Most Indonesian civil society groups see adaptation and the position of the poor as the key
priorities and seek greater balance in the level of attention, relative to the mitigation agenda. Poor
and marginalized communities are also a great focus of attention, with the caution that climate-related
interventions should aim to assist development and relieve poverty, not just transfer carbon payments
among those currently controlling resources and wealth. Indonesia's key advocacy organizations for
communities and indigenous peoples are fully engaged on the issues of climate change, and particularly
LUCF. The Indigenous Peoples Alliance of the Archipelago (AMAN) is an invited participant / observer
in the FCPF governance process and has influenced the development of both UN REDD and FCPF
programs in Indonesia.




                                                  55
                                                                      Indonesia Climate Change Development Policy Loan
                                                           Matrix of Prior Actions, Future Indicative Actions and Anticipated Results
      Objectives              Prior Actions Recognized                             2010 Indicative Actions                    2011-2012 Indicative Actions             Expected Results
POLICY AREA 1: MITIGATION                                               NOTE: Triggers presented in bold type
Land Use Change and Forestry Sector Mitigation
   Improve policy   Peatland Conservation
 coordination and                                                                                                          2011: Issue a presidential
 management of                                                        Coordinate among ministries to control
                                                                                                                          regulation which includes special
       peat land                                                      peatland emissions, implemented under the                                                       The institutional and legal
                                                                                                                          measures for peatland conservation
                                                                      framework of presidential regulation.                                                         framework to conserve and
                                                                                                                          and peatland water management to
                    Issued and began implementation of a                                                                                                        restore peatland is improved, thus
                                                                                                                          minimize carbon emissions.
                    master plan on peat land rehabilitation in        Implement key steps in multi-sector policy                                                 reducing conflicting policies and
                    Central Kalimantan (MOFR Ministerial              dialogue toward establishing a legal framework                                                 improving coordination. In
                    Regulation No. 55 / 2008).                        for the National Strategy for lowlands with the                                            medium the term, this will help to
                                                                      focus on balancing development and                                                          reduce a major source of GHG
                                                                                                                          2012: Implement actions, based on
                                                                      conservation, considering peatlands as a major                                                         emissions.
                                                                                                                          presidential regulation to improve
                                                                      source of GHG emissions.
                                                                                                                          management of peat lands.
       Improve      Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD)
      regulatory
    framework for   Launched National Readiness Program for
         REDD       REDD (September 2009) and established             Complete the Ministerial Decree on Mechanism        2010: Establish a national registry
                                                                                                                                                                Rules for REDD activities will be
  implementation    legal framework through MOFR Ministerial          and Procedures of REDD by defining roles and        of REDD to track implementation of
                                                                                                                                                                    clarified, allowing greater
     and develop    Regulations No 68/2008 on Demonstration           responsibilities of government agencies, local      REDD activities and payments in a
                                                                                                                                                                development and investment in
   demonstration    Activities, No. 30/2009 on REDD                   communities, and the private sector in managing national carbon registry.
                                                                                                                                                                  demonstration activities, with
       activities   Procedures, and No. 36/2009 on                    carbon assets.
                                                                                                                                                                equitable sharing of benefits. In
                    Commercial Forest Carbon Projects.
                                                                                                                                                                   the medium term, this will
                                                                                                                          2012: Assess and develop
                                                                                                                                                                contribute to reducing emissions
                    Completed Participation Agreement with            Conduct/implement REDD demonstration                framework for forest fiscal
                                                                                                                                                                 from deforestation and forest
                    Forest Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF) in activities (at least 3), specify results in specific     management, including incentives
                                                                                                                                                                            degradation.
                    November 2009 initiated a REDD program            locations and partners.                             for regional stakeholders
                    with UN REDD Support in October 2009.
Improve basis for Forest Management and Governance
   timber legality,                                                                                                       2001: Strengthen implementation of
      strengthen                                                                                                          regulatory framework to enhance
 institutions, and                                                    Implement and monitor performance of GOI
                                                                                                                          on-going implementation of GOI
        improve                                                       regulation on timber legality. Assess capacity for                                             Forest governance and
                                                                                                                          regulation on timber legality by
    incentives for  Issued MOFR Ministerial Regulation No.            oversight, certification and monitoring in national                                          management are improved
                                                                                                                          monitoring and evaluation.
        regional    38/2009 on Timber Legality Verification           standards agency.                                                                            through clearer institutional
  governments to    System (System Verifikasi Legalitas Kayu,                                                                                                   means to address timber legality
                                                                                                                          2011: Formalize inter-governmental
   address forest   SVLK) to establish a national timber legality                                                                                               and improved incentives for local
                                                                                                                          transfer mechanism for local
       loss and     standard and a system for verification and        Design inter-governmental transfer                                                          governments. In the medium
                                                                                                                          government forest management
     degradation    monitoring to assist in reducing illegal          mechanism to finance and improve the                                                      term, this will help to reduce the
                                                                                                                          activities.
                    logging and forest loss and degradation.          incentives for local governments to                                                       deforestation rate and improves
                                                                      strengthen forest management activities                                                   the potential for REDD success.
                                                                                                                           2012: Evaluate and improve inter-
                                                                      toward emissions reductions.
                                                                                                                          govt transfer mechanism to finance
                                                                                                                          local government forest activities.


                                                                                               56
   Objectives          Prior Actions Recognized (CY 2009)                     2010 Indicative Actions                   2011-2012 Indicative Actions                Expected Results

Energy Sector Mitigation
  Improve policy   Renewable Energy Development
   framework to
       promote     Issued Presidential Decree No. 4 / 2010
renewable energy which assigns to PLN the acceleration of                                                             2011: Continue to improve policy
development and power plant development using renewable                                                               framework to promote geothermal
     investment    energy, coal, and gas and mandates PLN to       Improve policy framework for promoting
                                                                                                                      development and to provide
                   develop and purchase power from                 geothermal development to facilitate                                                       Improved and stable regulatory
                                                                                                                      exploration fund to mitigate
                   renewable energy resources (January 2010).      arrangements/deals between developer and off-                                             framework for renewable energy
                                                                                                                      upstream risk for eastern Indonesia.
                                                                   taker.                                                                                      development, with appropriate
                    Issued MEMR Ministerial Regulation No. 32/                                                                                                   risk and benefit sharing, will
                    2009 on Purchase Standard Price of                                                                                                       contribute to development of new
                    Electricity Power by PT PLN from                                                                  2011: Review the impact of
                                                                                                                                                               geothermal projects and other
                    Geothermal Electricity Power Station                                                              Ministerial Regulation No.31/2009
                                                                                                                                                              renewable energy investments.
                    (December 2009).                                                                                  and propose a new or revised
                                                                                                                                                                In the medium term, this will
                                                                                                                      regulation to promote renewable
                    Issued MEMR Ministerial Regulation                                                                                                          improve energy security and
                                                                                                                      energy development further and
                    No31/2009 on the purchase price of             Issue draft regulation clarify the scheme of                                                 reduce GHG emissions from
                                                                                                                      more effectively. Draft (2011) then
                    electricity from renewable energy (Nov 2009)   compensation for the incremental cost of                                                          electricity generation.
                                                                                                                      issue (2012) a regulation on
                    and MOF Ministerial Regulation No. 24/2010     geothermal electricity to off-taker.
                                                                                                                      improved framework for renewable
                    on tax incentives for renewable energy                                                            energy development.
                    development January 2010.
  Improve policy    Energy Efficiency
   framework to
 promote energy                                                                                                                                              Improved rules and incentives will
                                                                                                                      2011: Implement the master plan of
      efficiency                                                                                                                                                  encourage industries and
                    Issued Government Regulation No. 70/2009       Prepare a master plan for energy conservation      energy conservation (including
development and                                                                                                                                                  manufacturers to undertake
                    on Energy Conservation (December 2009).        including energy efficiency standards, energy      energy efficiency standards, energy
     investment                                                                                                                                              energy efficiency investments. In
                    MEMR developed and implemented national        audit program with a monitoring and evaluation     audit program with a monitoring and
                                                                                                                                                             the medium term, GHG emissions
                    system of energy audits for major firms in     framework, fiscal incentives options, and          evaluation framework, fiscal
                                                                                                                                                             will be reduced through enhanced
                    key sectors.                                   industry energy conservation.                      incentives options, and industry
                                                                                                                                                               energy efficiency, focusing on
                                                                                                                      energy conservation).
                                                                                                                                                                   energy intensive sectors
     Improve        Energy Pricing
  incentives for
energy production                                                                                                                                                Prices will begin to reflect
     and use                                                                                                                                                   economic and environmental
                     (Note this indicator is not exclusive, but
                                                                                                                                                              costs. In medium term, this will
                    reaffirms actions agreed under IDPL3. It is    Finalize a road map for improving subsidy policy   2011: Implement actions based on
                                                                                                                                                               provide incentives for energy
                    documented here to note its relevance for      of electricity.                                    the road map, including regulations.
                                                                                                                                                             conservation and development of
                    climate change mitigation, also.)
                                                                                                                                                                alternative energy sources,
                                                                                                                                                              contributing to GHG reductions.




                                                                                             57
   Objectives         Prior Actions Recognized (CY 2009)                         2010 Indicative Actions                                  2011-2012 Indicative Actions                 Expected Results
POLICY AREA 2: ADAPTATION AND DISASTER PREPAREDNESS
     Establish   Water Resources Sector
 strategic water                                                  Continue strategic assessment of the water future
  management                                                      of Java (prepare an action plan for priority                                                                 Water resource management will
  plans in key   Issued Presidential Regulation No. 12/2008 on    interventions incorporating climate change,                                                                          be improved through
   river basins  Water resource councils. Established the         urbanization, economic development and food                                                                  development of integrated plans
                                                                                                                                         2011: Complete master plans for
                 National Water Resource Council (NWRC) has       security as integral part of River Basin Strategic                                                           and establishment of responsible
                                                                                                                                         the Java River Basins which
                 been established and met several times.          Water Management Plans and framework for River                                                                  institutions. In medium term,
                                                                                                                                         include climate change adaptation
                 Prepared integrated water resource               Basin Master Plans).                                                                                         contributes to ability to anticipate
                                                                                                                                         measures, by enacting ministerial
                 management plans (POLA) with climate change                                                                                                                      and respond to water-related
                                                                                                                                         decree.
                 assessment in national strategic river basins on Nationally, complete 12 provincial water resource                                                            climate change impacts (drought
                 Java.                                            councils, 12 Coordination Teams for WRM in River                                                             and flood risks) and to resilience
                                                                  Basins (TKPSDA) and 8 Integrated Water                                                                         at the region/river basin level.
                                                                  Resources Management Plans (POLA).
     Scale up    Agriculture Sector
    actions to                                                                                                                           2011: Continue the 2010                  Farmers better prepared for
improve climate                                                   Evaluate performance, then improve and scale up                        progress to improve and scale up         climate change impacts, with
  resilience in  . Develop an irrigation asset management
                                                                  actions for adaptation in agriculture including                        actions for adaptation in              better sources and channels of
    agriculture  information system. Implemented System for
                                                                  climate field school, System for Rice Intensification                  agriculture including climate field   information. In medium term, will
                 Rice Intensification (SRI) practice in target
                                                                  (SRI), and to enforce land development and                             school, System for Rice                strengthen resilience for climate
                 provinces. Implemented Climate Field School
                                                                  management without burning as part of an overall                       Intensification (SRI), and to               change impacts on food
                 Program in target provinces.
                                                                  plan (based on MOA Decree No 26/2007).                                 enforce land development and          production (flood, drought, pests)
                                                                                                                                         management without burning.              at the community/farm level.
    Scale up        Disaster Risk Management
   actions to                                                                                                                            2011: Implement Disaster Risk
    establish       Enacted Law No 24/2007 on Disaster                                                                                                                         Institutional framework, capacity,
                                                                                                                                         Reduction (DRR) program
    national        Management and issued Presidential Regulation                                                                                                               and resources will be improved
                                                                                                                                         activities according to the
  disaster risk     No. 8/2008, which established a National                                                                                                                     for disaster risk reduction and
                                                                                                                                         National Action Plan for DRR
 reduction and      Disaster Management Agency (BNPB). In 2009,                                                                                                                 management. Climate change
 management         GOI finalized the National Action Plan for            Continue the efforts to establish Local Disaster                                                      adaptation issues (vulnerability,
                                                                                                                                         2012: Implement comprehensive
     system         Disaster Risk Reduction (NAP-DRR 2010-2012)           Management Agency (BPBD) in all provinces.                                                                  preparedness) will be
                                                                                                                                         risk financing framework
                    and formally launched the plan in February                                                                                                                     mainstreamed into policy,
                                                                                                                                         combining mechanisms, including
                    2010. GOI incorporated mainstreaming of DRR                                                                                                                budgeting and implementation for
                                                                                                                                         reserve (on-call) budget, stand-by
                    in context of adaptation into medium term                                                                                                                      disaster risk reduction and
                                                                                                                                         financing, and weather
                    development plan (RPJMN, 2009)                                                                                                                                        management.
                                                                                                                                         derivatives.
    Establish       Marine and Fisheries Sector
  systems and                                                             Finalize plans and budgets for inception of the 5-year         2011-2012: Continue implementation           Coastal and marine climate
  strategies to                                                           implementation of the Indonesian Global Ocean                  of INAGOOS to provide information     monitoring capacity will be improved.
improve climate                                                           Observing System (INAGOOS), an ocean monitoring                for marine adaptation plans.            Local community resilience will be
 preparedness       In May 2009, GOI launched the National Plan of        program that provides data about ocean and atmosphere                                                   improved and provide a model for
and resilience in   Action (NPOA) of Coral Triangle Initiative on coral   interaction.                                                                                          replication in other vulnerable areas.
the coastal and     reef, fisheries and food. GOI approved a roadmap of    Develop a strategy for coastal community resilience to                                                In the medium term, strengthening
 marine sector      CTI actions for 2010-11 in November 2009.             cope with climate change, including a plan for climate                                               the institutional and local capacity for
                                                                          resilient villages in 8 vulnerable districts on the north      2011-2012: Implement the strategy     resilience and improved management
                                                                          coast of Java, and implement a study on coastal                for coastal community resilience to       in coastal areas will contribute to
                                                                          vulnerability in relation to sea level rise in Java and Bali   cope with climate change.                         climate resilience


                                                                                                       58
 Objectives           Prior Actions Recognized (CY 2009)                        2010 Indicative Actions                   2011-2012 Indicative Actions               Expected Results

POLICY AREA 3: CROSS SECTORAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
   Strengthen   Mainstreaming Climate Change in the National Development Program
   knowledge                                                                                                             2011: Draft provincial action plan
base and legal                                                                                                           for contributing to 26% emission
    basis for                                                                                                            reduction objective.
climate change GOI finalized the Second National                                                                                                               Strengthened knowledge base,
action and link Communication to UNFCCC. Submitted                                                                       2012: Incorporate climate change     institutional framework, and legal
    these to    mitigation actions and commitments under
                                                                                                                         program into regional midterm         basis for implementation of both
    national    Copenhagen Accord (January 2010). GOI         Issue a presidential decree on National Action
                                                                                                                         development plans (RPJMD) at              mitigation and adaptation
budgeting and prepared and issued the "Development Planning Plan for voluntary 26% GHG emission                          Kabupaten level.                     programs. This will contribute to
    planning    Response to Climate Change" (2008) and        reduction.
                                                                                                                                                               achievement of national climate
   processes    updated it in March 2010. GOI finalized the
                                                                                                                         2011: Prepare Nationally             change objectives in the medium
                "Indonesia Climate Change Sectoral Roadmap"
                                                                                                                         Appropriate Mitigation Action                        term.
                (ICCSR) in March 2010.
                                                                                                                         (NAMA) in accordance with
                                                                                                                         midterm development plan
                                                                                                                         (RPJM) and ICCSR.
   Strengthen
      policy     Policy Coordination and Financing Scheme for Climate Change
  coordination
  and develop                                                                                                                                                    Institutional mechanisms for
    financing                                                                                                                                                   coordination of climate policy
 mechanisms                                                                                                              2011: Continue to implement and      formation, budget allocation, and
for addressing                                                     Implement an innovative funding mechanism for         support climate change projects      implementation will be improved.
                 The GOI issued the National Action Plan
climate change                                                     climate change through the Indonesia Climate          under the Indonesia Climate               The legal and institutional
                 Addressing Climate Change (December 2007);
                                                                   Change Trust Fund (ICCTF).                            Change Trust Fund (ICCTF).               framework for financing for
                 established a National Council on Climate
                                                                                                                                                                climate change action will be
                 Change by Presidential Decree No. 46/2008
                                                                   Design inter-governmental fiscal transfer             2012: Finalize Climate Change         improved. In the medium term,
                 (July 2008); and launched the Indonesia Climate
                                                                   mechanism to provide incentives for local             inter-governmental                   local governments will face more
                 Change Trust Fund (October 2009).
                                                                   governments to take priority climate change actions   transfer/incentives mechanism for         positive incentives to take
                                                                                                                         local government                         appropriate climate change
                                                                                                                                                              actions and fewer disincentives or
                                                                                                                                                                       policy distortions.




                                                                                            59
                       VI. Operational and Implementation Issues
A.      Environmental Aspects and Social and Poverty Impacts

194.     Operational Policy 8.60 (Development Policy Lending) mandates the Bank to determine
whether policies supported by the operation are likely to cause significant effects on the country's
environment, forests and other natural resources as well as assess the poverty and social impacts.
The Indonesia CC DPL supports Indonesia's ambitions to reduce forest degradation and deforestation
through the development of necessary regulations and institutional capacity to oversee implementation. It
also addresses the need to promote renewable energy and support better coordination between different
institutions involved in climate change planning, budgeting and implementation. The assessment of
potential effects concludes that there are a few areas where environmental, social and poverty issues may
arise, mainly in relation to activities on REDD and peatland and indirectly through pricing reform for
geothermal electricity. A more thorough analysis of OP 8.60 requirements (based on Bank guidance) for
environmental aspects can be found in Annex 7, while poverty and social impacts are in Annex 6.

A.1 Environmental Aspects

195.   Proposed CC DPL actions for mitigation are likely to have positive environmental impacts,
for the most part. The environmental effects of policies related to adaptation and disaster
preparedness and cross-sectoral and institutional issues are expected to be neutral.

196.    The policy actions on forest and peat land management are designed to improve
environmental outcomes and reduce emissions. Preserving forest and restoring peat lands will have
environmental co-benefits beyond GHG emissions reductions, including improved water resource
management, improved biodiversity, preservation of natural habitats and reduced health losses associated
with smoke and haze. For peat land conservation and rehabilitation in Central Kalimantan, the
approaches must be designed carefully and applied according to best practice and adapted to local and
regional circumstances. To enhance outcomes and improve the underlying rule of law, the CC DPL also
proposes policy actions in the area of forest governance and law enforcement to reduce illegal logging
and the use of fire in land conversion. Improving the forest governance and management through a
Timber Legality Verification System is essential for REDD to function and tackling deforestation.

197.    The REDD framework being developed in Indonesia will ultimately have to come up with
mechanisms to avoid or mitigate negative environmental effects. The process of REDD program
development in Indonesia is being assisted by a growing set of investments at field and policy level by a
host of bilateral development partners and multilateral agencies through the FCPF and UN REDD
programs. The global and domestic NGO communities, as well as indigenous communities'
representatives, are well aware of these issues and engaged in the process at policy formulation and
implementation level. These investments as well as civil society monitoring and advocacy offer the
potential to improve the positive and reduce the negative aspects of REDD implementation.

198.    The policy actions on energy policy and promotion of geothermal and other renewable
energy sources and energy efficiency have the potential to reduce over-use of fossil fuels, reduce
GHG emissions, and produce co-benefits in terms of reduced local air pollution and improved
health outcomes. Investments in individual power plants will need environmental impact statements and
mitigation plans. Indonesia's laws and capacity for these kinds of reviews is increasing and the legal
basis for enforcement of environmental laws was strengthened in 2009. Communities and civil society
groups are well informed about the environmental review process and have opportunities to be heard in


                                                   60
the existing process. Local government capacity for implementation remains weak, but can be improved
and assisted for large investments, such as power plants.

A.2 Poverty and Social Impacts

199.     Proposed CC DPL policy actions for mitigation are likely to have positive poverty and
social impacts, for the most part. The poverty and social impacts of policies related to adaptation and
disaster preparedness and cross-sectoral and institutional issues are expected to be positive or neutral.
There is some potential for negative social and poverty impacts depending on how a scheme for REDD or
peatland improvements is carried out and how energy price changes are implemented. Climate impacts
may affect genders differently, depending on livelihoods and resource use.

200.    Improved climate change policies and programs can contribute to poverty reduction efforts
and a higher level of human development if they are properly crafted. Climate finance will bring
new resources to Indonesia in the form of concessional finance for mitigation and adaptation investments,
carbon payments and budget support. As the poor are most vulnerable to the adverse effects of a
changing climate, global efforts to mitigate global warming can have positive poverty impacts in
Indonesia. Domestic investment in adaptation can increase the resilience of the rural poor who are
dependent on agriculture and fisheries as well as the urban poor who are harmed by the flooding and
disease burden that comes with extreme weather events. Climate reforms or investments that generate
REDD payments or expand electricity access or reduce flooding and drought through water management
can improve living conditions for project beneficiaries. The impacts of climate-related disasters can be
reduced in poor communities through enhanced capacity for risk reduction, and specific interventions can
lower the vulnerability of coastal communities. Policies that can affect consumer prices need to be linked
to programs that anticipate and avoid negative impacts on the poor, e.g., reduction of energy subsidies
linked to financial support to the vulnerable through compensatory cash transfers and/or lifeline pricing.
Interventions should be carefully designed with stakeholder involvement to ensure that the roles and
needs of all affected groups, including women and marginalized communities, are addressed.

201.     There is some potential for negative social and poverty impacts depending on how a scheme
for REDD or improved forest governance is ultimately designed and how forest and peat land
conservation are carried out. Land-use patterns and values will be affected; some will gain and others
will lose financially from implementation of REDD approaches, or more rigorous environmental
standards in land management. Livelihood activities in some areas may be curtailed and possibly move to
other areas, creating social dynamics that may have negative consequences. There is a need for caution to
ensure that the implementation of REDD schemes does not unduly restrict the livelihoods or deny the
rights of indigenous peoples, or marginalized groups, including women. Any potential negative impacts
of change must be evaluated against the business as usual path, which would entail continuing loss of
habitat and biodiversity, illegal logging and revenue loss, and marginalization of poor and indigenous
communities. For these reasons, the GOI is undertaking a number of actions and consultations through its
REDD program, assisted by FCPF, UN REDD and other partners. To assist with the process of
preparation and understanding of the need for good design, as well as mitigation of unfavorable social
outcomes, the GOI is undertaking a Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment, as well as a
consultation process with CSOs and indigenous peoples. The SESA employs analytical and participatory
approaches to evaluate social, economic and institutional linkages and to integrate environmental and
social consideration into REDD policies, plans and programs (see Annex 6).

202.    Some energy sector policy actions, especially changes in prices (due either to higher cost of
renewable energy or reduction in energy subsidies), can have a potential adverse effect on the poor.
The GOI has in the past combined the reduction of subsidies with a targeted cash transfer program to
protect the poor from price changes for a transition period. In fact, the experience on targeting and

                                                   61
evaluating cash transfers has improved over time and the GOI has demonstrated the capacity to lessen the
adverse impacts on the poor, for example through the unconditional cash transfer program, at a time when
the GOI decided to undertake a major increase in kerosene prices in 2005. Under the program each
beneficiary family received an equivalent of US$ 10 in 4 installments over the course of a year. For the
poor recipients, the cash transfer more than compensated the losses incurred due to the fuel price increase.
More efficient energy use and pricing will make Indonesia's economy more efficient and potentially free
up resources that can be directed toward job creation and poverty alleviation. In addition, Bank analysis
shows that the overwhelming benefit of fuel subsidies is captured by higher-income groups, while the
major benefit of cash transfers is enjoyed by the poor through specific targeting approaches. These have
in the past been monitored and evaluated with Bank assistance.14

B.      Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation

B.1 Monitoring

203.    Monitoring the implementation and attainment of the DPL prior actions is done through
several mechanisms. These include GOI established Steering Committee and Technical Committee,
responsible for ensuring progress on agreed policy actions, as well as follow-up. In addition regular joint
meetings among GOI counterparts and development partners will be held to discuss interim progress in
achieving agreed milestones in the reform agenda and future triggers for the DPL series.

204.    The CC DPL operation will follow similar governance and monitoring structures, as have
been established under the existing program loan series. The coordination structure of the CCPL is
outlined in the figure below. The National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) closely
coordinates and monitors the implementation of policy actions taken by the responsible institutions. The
Steering Committee members are echelon 1 officials (director general or deputy level) of Line Ministries.
The Steering Committee gives policy direction, provides overall coordination of implementation; and
coordinates with development partners on confirmation of policy matrix implementation. The Technical
Committee members are echelon 2 (director level) of Line Ministries; the Technical Committee meets
                                                      more regularly and monitors schedules and
                                                      workplans, and reports to and provides
                                                      recommendations to the Steering Committee.
                                                      Following this coordination structure, progress
                                                      on policy actions is reviewed and monitored on a
                                                      quarterly basis with BAPPENAS and the
                                                      responsible GOI institutions, together with
                                                      partners. Under CCPL, the results of the review
                                                      and monitoring of progress on policy actions is
                                                      the basis to determine whether to move on to the
                                                      next annual operation in the series.
                                                         Figure 13: Coordination Structure of CCPL

B.2 Evaluation

205.  The Bank recognizes the importance of a solid program of policy actions linked to a results
framework for evaluation of performance. Annex 3B contains the monitoring and evaluation
framework, with outcome indicators to be assessed at the end of the DPL series. The Bank will work

14
 The Bank is supporting Indonesia's crisis monitoring and response system and the Family Support Program,
which targets the poorest households with pregnant women and young children with conditional cash transfers.

                                                    62
closely with BAPPENAS and the other agencies and development partners gathered in the steering
committee of the pre-existing program loans to monitor and assess reform progress and impacts during
the life of the program. Monitoring and evaluation will be supported by budgetary, legislative and
economic data provided by the authorities and verified in official disclosures and regulations.
Information will be tracked according to the Monitoring and Results Framework in Annex 3B. Where
baseline surveys are needed, the Bank will work with partners to mobilize the necessary resources.

C. Fiduciary Aspects, Disbursement and Auditing

206.    The borrower is the Republic of Indonesia and this operation is a single-tranche IBRD loan
of US$ 200 million. The loan would be made available upon loan effectiveness, as all policy actions
supported by the loan would have been completed prior to Board presentation. The government has
confirmed that Indonesia would borrow this amount as a Variable Spread Loan (VSL) in US dollar
currency with an annuity repayment schedule linked to commitments. Future operations in the series are
expected to be of similar amount.

207.    The loan disbursement will follow the standard Bank procedures for Development Policy
Lending. The loan amount will be disbursed into a foreign currency account of the borrower at Bank
Indonesia that forms part of Indonesia's official foreign exchange reserves. The equivalent rupiah
amount will immediately be transferred to the General Operational Treasury (SBUN) account of the
borrower that is used to finance budget expenditures, as the loan is intended to support the general
government budget. The borrower will provide to the Bank a written confirmation that this transfer has
been completed, and provide to the Bank any other relevant information relating to these matters that the
Bank may reasonably request. Disbursements of the loan will not be linked to any specific purchases and
no procurement requirements have to be satisfied, except that the borrower is required to comply with the
standard negative list of excluded items that may not be financed with Bank loan proceeds.

208.   PFM Environment. Indonesia has established a sound legal and administrative framework for
modern PFM. Changes in the legal and regulatory architecture are now largely complete and the
momentum has shifted to implementation of new PFM practices. Known weaknesses in financial
management and accountability continue to be gradually addressed through the PFM reform program.
Development partners are actively engaged. Key elements of the reforms are supported by the economic
DPL triggers, as well as the GFMRAP project and initiatives supported by development partners.
However, much remains to be done, and it will take time to realize the full impact of these reforms.

209.     In the meantime, some fiduciary risks will arise for this operation. Although the pace of
implementing the planned reforms has been somewhat slow over the past year, the trajectory of reform is
in the right direction and the current government continues to demonstrate a commitment to continue the
task of completing the planned reforms in PFM.15 Taking these into consideration, the Bank assessment
team assesses the fiduciary risk as moderate and does not propose putting in place any additional
fiduciary arrangements for this operation.

210.    Management of Foreign Exchange. The foreign exchange control environment is assessed to
be generally satisfactory. The country is no longer subject to the Extended Arrangement from the IMF.
Bank Indonesia (BI) was last subject to the transitional procedures under the Fund's safeguards
assessment policy in 2002. That assessment recommended remedial action to address a number of
vulnerabilities in the audit arrangements of BI. The main recommendations have been implemented,

15
  For more a more complete discussion of these issues, the DPL 6 Program Document captures the full spectrum of
PFM issues - background, reform priorities and key areas for future attention

                                                      63
including the establishment of an independent audit committee at BI and the publication of BI's audited
financial statements. Audited financial statements for BI for 2008 have been reviewed and we note that
the audit report issued by the BPK contained an unqualified opinion.

D.      Risks and Risk Mitigation

211.     Coordination of GOI's climate change national action plans. While coordination across
sectors remains a challenge, Indonesia has improved the clarity of its national climate change action plan.
These improvements owe much to the Government's response to the President's pledges to reduce
emissions. The DPL operation directly harmonizes partner support while focusing analysis, policy advice
and monitoring to the steering committee where all institutions are represented, with the expectation that
this high level body will provide a forum for cooperation beyond the DPL.

212.     Commitment to policy reform actions over the medium term. Government commitment to
reform is considered to pose low risk, given Indonesia's high profile international commitments, and the
integration of Climate Change into the Medium Term Development Plan (RPJM).

213.    Operation size and visibility. With other partners' parallel financing, climate change
program/policy loans represent substantial lending levels. The Bank has focused its efforts on choosing
streams of policy actions designed to lead to substantial progress on this critical agenda.

214.    Fiduciary and governance risks. Corruption and governance weaknesses remain impediments
to development. The economic DPL series with a key strand focusing on public financial management
provides an umbrella for Bank engagements designed to reduce fiduciary risks.

215.    Reputational risk. The CC DPL touches a number of "hot button" issues such as deforestation,
land management, and energy pricing that draw the attention and criticism of stakeholders. These issues
have been discussed with NGOs and other stakeholders through Bank and GOI consultations at various
fora. Additional outreach will be undertaken by the GOI and its partners in programmatic lending to
explain the nature, contents and benefits of the operation.

216.     Forest management is a long term challenge; there is risk that progress will be slow. The
risk that business-as-usual will continue is partly mitigated by the potential for access to a system of
payments for preserving forest carbon stocks. However REDD itself has risks that cannot be mitigated at
the project level as international agreement on a GHG control framework may not arise.

217.    Energy pricing remains a difficult political challenge and the risk is that progress will be
intermittent. The GOI recognizes the importance of progress on this agenda, as the resources from
previous subsidy reductions have been important to financing key social programs. More recently the G20
commitment is an important marker, but energy price reform remains a critical political issue.

218.    Poverty and social impacts. There is the possibility that low income groups will not benefit
from climate finance distribution mechanisms such as REDD. This can be mitigated through a
combination of good design and transparency. Similarly, the impact of an increase in energy prices on
the poor can be reduced by introducing a compensatory cash transfer program; Indonesia used this
approach during recent energy price adjustments. Disclosing and consulting on policies and plans is
another measure to allow for public scrutiny and feedback.

219.    Macroeconomic and systemic risks. The robustness of Indonesia's macroeconomic framework
is far more certain than during recent operations in the period of financial crisis. The economy's

                                                    64
performance through the crisis has been remarkably solid; growth slowed briefly and moderately. Fears
of significant balance of payments pressures have proved to be largely unfounded. The banking sector's
health, overall, remains strong. The ongoing soundness of Indonesia's public finances has been
recognized by ratings agencies as they incrementally upgrade their assessment of the quality of the
government's debt. However, the scale and speed of recent foreign capital inflows, combined with the
openness of Indonesia's capital account, present an ongoing risk that financial asset prices may be change
sharply for reasons that may only be tenuously linked to local macroeconomic fundamentals. We note,
however, that the real impact of extreme changes in prices over 2008-09 was mild ­ indeed, Indonesia's
floating exchange rate helped insulate domestic producers and consumers from the global downturn in
2009. The country's greater and still-accumulating foreign exchange reserves (above US$ 70 billion by
April 2010) provide an additional protective buffer against the exchange rate volatility associated with an
outflow of short-term capital.




                                                    65
ANNEXES

Annex 1:    Letter of Development Policy (draft attached separately)

Annex 2:    Government Policy/Overall Development Program

Annex 3:    (3A) The WB CC DPL Matrix ;
            (3B) The CC DPL M & E matrix;
            (3C) The CCPL GOI-JICA-AFD Matrix

Annex 4:    Review of Past Climate Change Program Loans

Annex 5:    Indonesia ­ IMF Assessment Letter
            To be provided before Board Submission

Annex 6:    Poverty and Social Assessment

Annex 7:    Environmental Assessment

Annex 8:    Overview of World Bank Engagements and Instruments

Annex 9:    Indonesia at a Glance

Annex 10:   Map of Indonesia




                                              66
Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy




                                        67
68
69
70
71
72
Annex 2: Government Policy/Overall Development Program
Part 1: The First 100 Day Program

In the first week of November 2009, the new government has finalized the First 100 Day Action
Programs for the Kabinet Indonesia Bersatu II. Out of the 45 program items, 15 was declared by President
SBY as Select Program (Program Pilihan) and made it the obligation for this new Cabinet to deliver
within the first 100 days. The First 100 Day Program is linked to the first year program of the new
government and to the medium term (5 years) development plan. It is important to note that program to
deal with climate change and environmental degradation, as well as program to increase awareness and
preparedness to response to natural disasters are part of the 15 Select Programs. The fifteen Select
Programs can be summarized as follows:

   1. Eradication of legal mafia: Within the first 100 day GOI is determined to eradicate all kind of
      corruption-based practices in Indonesia's judiciary system. These include (a) bribing; (b)
      extortion; (c) the trading of court cases involving prosecutors, judges, defense lawyers, and court
      administration system; (d) threatening witnesses; (e) imposing unlawful charges. The President's
      office invited people to submit and report cases related to the above issues.

   2. Revitalization of defense industry: Within the first 100 days, GOI will develop roadmaps and
      master plan to revitalize this industry, especially to fulfill domestic needs as well as to support
      on-going foreign contracts.

   3. Dealing with terrorism: Within the first 100 days, GOI will come up with the plan to increase
      capacity, restructure and develop programs of works of the institutions responsible for handling
      terrorism. Indonesia will be entering a new stage in dealing with terrorism, i.e. prevention of and
      countering terrorism. For this, GOI will complement the standard military approaches
      (intelligence and military operations) with more inclusive approach involving community leaders
      to build awareness through community educations and activities to prevent and counter terrorism.

   4. Increasing supply of electricity: Within the first 100 days, GOI will make sure that for the next
      five years electricity supply will meet the needs of industry and commercial sector, households,
      transportations, etc. GOI will conduct provincial level assessment of the supply gaps, and develop
      alternative sources of energy other than coal to meet projection of demand the next 5 years.

   5. Increasing food production and security: Within the first 100 days, GOI will re-formulate the
      master plan and stages until 2014 for increasing food production and security.

   6. Revitalization of sugar and fertilizer mills: Within the first 100 days, in line with the need to
      increase food production and security, GOI will come up with blue print and programs to increase
      capacity of the sugar and fertilizer industries.

   7. Resolving complexities in land use and spatial plans: Within the first 100 days, GOI will
      formulate mechanism to resolve (a) the land use conflicts; (b) spatial plan violations; (c)
      conflicting laws and regulations regarding land use and spatial plans so that within the next five
      years more lands can be used productively.

   8. Infrastructure development: Within the first 100 days, GOI will come up with the blue print
      and financing plan to develop infrastructure involving regional government and private sector for
      the next five years. Many infrastructure projects in the future will be developed using public-
      private partnership approach.


                                                  73
   9. Developing entrepreneurship in SME (small and medium enterprises) by providing more
      KUR (Kredit Usaha Rakyat/micro credit): Starting 2010, GOI will make Rp. 2 Trillion
      available for KUR and developing entrepreneurship through BLK (Balai Latihan Kerja/Work
      Training Centers).

   10. Mobilization of financing sources outside central and regional governments' budgets:
       Within the first 100 days, GOI will come up with the plan to mobilize financial resources from
       outside the governments (central and regional) budgetary systems to support various development
       programs and projects. The effort will include cooperation with banks and non-banks financial
       institutions.

   11. Managing climate change and environment: Within the first 100 days, GOI will ensure that
       Indonesia has the Action Plan for the next 5 years, 2020 Action Plan, Energy mix 2020, and 2050
       Action Plan. Indonesia will ensure that forest management will be conducted properly and
       eradication of illegal logging and forest fires will be intensified.

   12. Health sector reform: Within the first 100 days, GOI will come with a comprehensive plan to
       change people's paradigm from `free health care' to `healthy life is beautiful and free'. For this
       GOI will change the functions, roles and tasks of health institutions in the regions like Puskesmas
       (Community Health Center) and Posyandu (Integrated Service Points). Immunizations, Family
       Planning, and eradication of infectious diseases will be intensified.

   13. Education sector reform: Within the first 100 days, GOI will issue a plan to create more
       systematic links and prevent mismatch between the quality of human resources produced by
       education institutions and training centers with the needs of labor market. Policy, mechanism and
       action plan will be issued involving a three partite program among the government ­ labor
       markets ­ educational institutions.

   14. Increasing preparedness to deal with natural disasters: Within the first 100 days, GOI will
       have established two standby forces ­ one in Halim Perdana Kusuma military air base in Jakarta,
       and one in Abdul Rahman air base in Surabaya (?) -- ready for deployment to disaster locations
       anywhere in Indonesia.

   15. Increasing synergy between the central and regional governments: Within the first 100 days,
       will have increased coordination between the central and regional governments in all aspects to
       increase synergy in development efforts. GOI will issue a plan to synchronize policy and
       regulations between central and regional governments.

Part 2: Medium-Term Development Program (RPJM) 2010-2014

The second series of Medium Term Development Plan 2010-2014 (RPJM) is the elaboration of
Presidential Vision, Mission and Programs which includes: (1) the strategy of national development;
(2) general policy directives; (3) programs of ministries/state agencies and inter ministries/agencies,
regional government and inter-regional government; and (4) macro economic framework.

The 2009-2014 RPJM documents consist of three books with the following themes: Book I contains the
strategy, general policy and macro economic framework which reflects the vision "Realizing
Prosperous, Democratic and Just Indonesia"; Book II contains sectoral development plans with the
theme "Strengthening Synergy Across Development Sectors"; and Book III contains regional
development plans with the theme "Strengthening Synergies between Center and the Regions and
Inter-region".



                                                   74
RPJM also reveals the GOI priorities over the next five years period which can be summarize as follows:

        Priority 1: Bureaucracy and Governance Reforms which includes strengthening the
        governance reform through increased productivity, integrity and transparency, improving public
        services; and increasing personnel capacity; and improving the population record system.

        Priority 2: Education Sector Action Program which includes increasing access to education,
        development of education system to support economic growth to increase the supply of
        entrepreneurs and skilled labor force.

        Priority 3: Health Sector Action Program with emphasis on development of health care system
        through preventive measures through expansion of clean water provision system, eradication of
        slum areas with the objective to increase life expectancy from 70.7 to 72.0 years, and the
        achievement of overall MDG targets in 2015.

        Priority 4: Poverty eradication with the target of reducing absolute poverty level from 14.1 in
        2009 to 8-10% in 2014, through improvement in income distribution, family-based social
        protection, community empowerment, and expansion of economic opportunity to low income
        communities.

        Priority 5: Food Sector Action Program which include increasing food security, continuation
        of agriculture revitalization for food self-sufficiency, increasing competitiveness of agricultural
        products, increasing farmer's income, and sustainability of environment and natural resources.

        Priority 6: Infrastructure Action Program to increase infrastructure in support of economic
        growth in a fair/just manner, prioritizing wider community interests by encouraging participation.

        Priority 7: Improving Investment and Business Climate by increasing legal security,
        procedural simplification, information system improvement, and development of Special
        Economic Zone (KEK/Kawasan Ekonomi Khusus).

        Priority 8: Energy Action Program to achieve national energy security to ensure economic
        growth by institutional restructuring and optimization of alternative energy

        Priority 9: Environment and Disaster Management Action Program to promote conservation
        and utilization of environment to support sustainable growth of the economy and welfare with
        proper risk management to anticipate climate change.

        Priority 10: Development of the Lesser, the Fore-front, the Outer-most, and the Post-
        conflict regions to ensure growth and to sustain peace.

        Priority 11: Development of Culture, Creativity, and Technological Innovation to develop
        and protect the plurality of culture, arts and science with the appreciation, and to develop
        innovation, knowledge and technology based on Indonesia's comparative advantage as maritime
        and island-based country.

        Priority 12 (under Coordinating Minister of Social Welfare): Society Welfare Development
        which includes provision of better service for annual Haj Pilgrimage, increased harmony in inter-
        faith affairs, promotion of tourism, formulation of policy to mainstreaming gender issues into
        various ministries' policies and better protection of women and children, Increased performance
        of national sports delegations in Asian Games and 2012 Olympics, and Revitalization of youth
        and scout movements.


                                                   75
        Priority 13 (under Coordinating Minister of Economic Affairs): Economic Development
        which includes implementation of Presidential Regulation no. 28/20018 on National Industry
        Development, increasing trade diplomacy, increasing service and protection for Indonesia's labor
        force abroad.

        Priority 14 (under Coordinating Minister of Politic, Law and Security): Politic, Law and
        Security Development which includes increasing coordination for handling terrorism,
        implementation of de-radicalization to counter terrorism, increasing Indonesia's role in helping
        support the world peace, strengthening and establishing communication among corruption
        prevention institutions, increasing state assets recovery, increasing legal security, increasing
        protection of human right, and empowering strategic defense industry.

Indonesia National Action Plan (NAP) to Combat Climate Change, Jakarta, December 2007

Introduction. As a country that is vulnerable to their impacts, it is important for Indonesia to mitigate
global warming and climate change. Indonesia would therefore reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the
energy sector, and from land use, land-use change and forestry, while also increasing carbon
sequestration. Indonesia is ready to work together bilaterally or multilaterally with other countries to
tackle climate change. Efforts to control climate change cannot be separated from economic development
and poverty alleviation. People that have met their economic needs will be better placed to protect the
environment. Because of this a strategy that focuses on economic growth (pro-growth), poverty
alleviation (pro-poor), and employment opportunities (pro-job), combined with environmental protection
(pro-environment) creates the basis for sustainable development. The NAP remains the long term
framework for GOI climate change action; it will be revised and updated in 2010.

Overview. Although Indonesia does not have any obligation to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, it
does have an interest in playing an active role in global efforts to tackle climate change. The NAP is a
dynamic instrument that must be examined periodically and revised and improved in its effectiveness
accordingly. Public policy instruments to guide sustainable development along with NAP, including the
supporting economic and fiscal instruments, should be accompanied with the means to integrate the
implementation of the social-ecological targets of the NAP, in order to continuously monitor and measure
the changes. Under mitigation, the NAP identifies energy and land use change and forestry as key
priorities. In the energy sector, three main priorities are diversification toward renewable energy sources,
energy conservation, and implementation of cleaner energy technologies. Under adaptation, the NAP
identifies water resource, agriculture, coastal, marine and fisheries; infrastructure, health and forestry and
biodiversity as key issues. The NAP also focuses strongly on the need for institutional capacity
improvement and the need for harmonization and revision of the regulatory policy framework for
sustainable development management. The NAP outlines existing climate change response actions,
including ratification of international agreements, creation of domestic institutions, passage of laws and
regulations in the energy, minerals, and forestry sectors, and implementing programs to improve energy
use, address forest and land fires, combat illegal deforestation, improve management of peat land, address
flooding issues and conduct integrated coastal zone management.

Mitigation. The NAP outlines specific areas where Indonesia will seek international cooperation and
funding in support of domestic climate change mitigation efforts.

·       LULUCF sector (technology to control forest fire, technology for sustainable use of peat land,
        integrated tree planting programs).

·       Power plant (clean coal technology, new renewable energy, solar energy, wind energy, wave
        energy and carbon capture and storage-CCS);


                                                     76
·       Energy intensive industrial sector (cement, pulp and paper, ceramic, fertilizer, cooking oil, sugar,
        textile and iron and steel);

·       Environmental management and environmental audit for industrial processes and industrial
        equipment (replacement of chiller, boiler and furnace);

·       Agro-industry sector (tapioca and coconut palm process);

·       Waste utilization sector (agriculture, husbandry and urban waste);

·       Transportation sector (fuel switching, low emission vehicle technology and energy saving
        transport technology);

·       Oil and gas sector (carbon capture and storage ­ CCS - and gas flaring);

Adaptation. The NAP also identifies key areas where Indonesia seeks support, including climate
information forecasting) to manage risk; agricultural intensification and irrigation technologies; water
resources management improvements for early warning, drought management, and water use efficiency;
energy and water saving technologies in the industry sector; and health sector improvements to prevent
disease, identify impacts, and utilize natural medicinal plants.

Capacity Building. To increase adaptation skills/capacity and to preserve local knowledge, Indonesia
seeks support in monitoring and forecasting, fiscal and financial policies and instruments, and screening
of technologies.

Finance. Indonesia's approach to strategic climate financing includes using domestic public finance
through new mechanisms and fiscal instruments; developing approaches for technology transfer from
developed countries; and increasing international support for Indonesia's development priorities.

The Indonesia Climate Change Sectoral Roadmap (ICCSR), December 2009

The Indonesia Climate Change Sectoral Roadmap (ICCSR) is meant to provide inputs for the 5 year
Medium-term Development Plan (RPJM) 2010-2014, and also for the longer term plan to 2030. The
ICCSR documents the GOI's long-term commitment to emission reduction and adaptation measures. The
roadmap places particular emphasis on the challenges emerging in the forestry, energy, industry,
agriculture, transportation, coastal area, water, waste and health sectors. The roadmap includes ongoing,
innovative, and future climate mitigation and adaptation programs and actions to be integrated into the
national development plan. BAPPENAS' policy is to address these challenges and opportunities through
effective development planning and coordination of the work of all line ministries, departments and
agencies of the GOI. ICCSR is a dynamic document and it will be improved based on the needs and
challenges to cope with climate change in the future. The Roadmap sets up three sets of activities in each
development sector: (1) Data, Information and Knowledge Management (2) Planning and Policy,
Regulation and Institutional Development, and (3) Plans and Programs Implementation and Control with
Monitoring and Evaluation.

Overall, the objectives of ICCSR are gradually (1) to improve climate related decision/policy making
process and development planning; (2) to develop capacity of national ministries and agencies to deal
with climate change; (3) to optimize national development plan under the mitigation commitment and the
needed adaptation actions; (4) to significantly reduce the risks of climate change impacts in all sectors,
and (5) to move the GHG contributing sectors into low-carbon development pathway. On mitigation, the
GOI has endorsed a commitment to reduce GHG emission by 26% by 2020, from a business as usual
path. Forestry, peatland management, industry, energy, transportation and waste sectors are the primary
sectors that are expected to deliver this commitment. Reducing deforestation and shifting in the country

                                                    77
energy mix will be the main features of the new plan. On adaptation, priority is given to: water, marine
and fisheries, agriculture, and health. These are areas in which Indonesia will be most affected and
response/ adaptation needs to be prioritized. Dealing with expected water shortages, shifting in
agricultural lands and seasons, re-settlement induced by land inundation and increased natural disasters
will be the main challenges on adaptation.

The GOI recognizes three cross-cutting challenges when formulating the ICCSR: (1) Food security issue,
as it is predicted that agricultural productivity in Indonesia will decrease 15 ­ 20% by 2080 as a result of
global warming; (2) Degradation of natural and built environmental degradation related to forest fires,
floods, urban environment; and (3) synchronizing spatial planning and forest land use vis-à-vis the need
for mining, agriculture and energy sector developments. GOI also recognized two major obstacles
throughout the ICCSR development process: imbalances in scientific information about climate change
and less than effective inter-sector coordination.




                                                    78
Annex 3A:The WB CC DPL Matrix of Policy Actions

The focal areas and future directions to be supported by this CC DPL result from Bank and GOI
analytical work and consultation processes led by GOI. Indonesia's climate change agenda and
action plan stems from analysis and public consultations that contributed to Indonesia's National
Action Plan for Climate Change, the National Development Planning Response to Climate
Change, the Second National Communication to the UNFCCC and the Indonesia's Climate
Change Sectoral Roadmap. In addition, the Bank's CEA: Investing in a More Sustainable
Indonesia and Low Carbon Development Options study, as well as sectoral studies in forestry
and energy, all provided technical input that informed the process of identifying key policy areas
included in the matrix.

The specific policy actions in the matrix result from an intensive process of dialogue among GOI
agencies, the Bank and development partners. The Technical Committee and Steering
Committee process helped to ensure that CC DPL policy actions reflect demonstrated
commitments from responsible agencies. Through the SC process, the GOI and partners have
been able to refine a focused set of policy targets that are linked to GOI strategic plans, but also
grounded in the reality of annual budget constraints. The results can be seen in the more
streamlined set of policy areas and indicative actions. Trigger actions are in bold face.




                                                79
                                                           Indonesia Climate Change Development Policy Loan
                                                Matrix of Prior Actions, Future Indicative Actions and Anticipated Results
  Objectives           Prior Actions Recognized                        2010 Indicative Actions              2011-2012 Indicative Actions            Expected Results
POLICY AREA 1: MITIGATION                                      NOTE: Triggers presented in bold type
Land Use Change and Forestry Sector Mitigation
 Improve policy Peatland Conservation
coordination and                                                                                            2011: Issue a presidential
management of                                                 Coordinate among ministries to control       regulation which includes special
   peat land                                                  peatland emissions, implemented under        measures for peatland                  The institutional and legal
                                                              the framework of presidential regulation.    conservation and peatland water       framework to conserve and
                                                                                                           management to minimize carbon        restore peatland is improved,
                 Issued and began implementation of a
                                                              Implement key steps in multi-sector policy   emissions.                              thus reducing conflicting
                 master plan on peat land rehabilitation in
                                                              dialogue toward establishing a legal                                                  policies and improving
                 Central Kalimantan (MOFR Ministerial
                                                              framework for the National Strategy for                                           coordination. In medium the
                 Regulation No. 55 / 2008).
                                                              lowlands with the focus on balancing                                             term, this will help to reduce a
                                                              development and conservation, considering    2012: Implement actions, based            major source of GHG
                                                              peatlands as a major source of GHG           on presidential regulation to                   emissions.
                                                              emissions.                                   improve management of peat
                                                                                                           lands.
    Improve      Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD)
   regulatory
 framework for   Launched National Readiness Program
     REDD        for REDD (September 2009) and
implementation   established legal framework through
  and develop    MOFR Ministerial Regulations No
 demonstration   68/2008 on Demonstration Activities,
                                                                                                           2011: Establish a national
    activities   No. 30/2009 on REDD Procedures, and Complete the Ministerial Decree on
                                                                                                           registry of REDD to track
                 No. 36/2009 on Commercial Forest       Mechanism and Procedures of REDD by                                                    Rules for REDD activities will
                                                                                                           implementation of REDD
                 Carbon Projects.                       defining roles and responsibilities of                                                  be clarified, allowing greater
                                                                                                           activities and payments in a
                                                        government agencies, local communities,                                                 development and investment
                                                                                                           national carbon registry.
                 Completed Participation Agreement with and the private sector in managing carbon                                                in demonstration activities,
                 Forest Carbon Partnership Facility     assets.                                                                                   with equitable sharing of
                 (FCPF) in November 2009 initiated a                                                                                           benefits. In the medium term,
                                                                                                           2012: Assess and develop
                 REDD program with UN REDD Support                                                                                             this will contribute to reducing
                                                                                                           framework for forest fiscal
                 in October 2009.                       Conduct/implement REDD demonstration                                                    emissions from deforestation
                                                                                                           management, including
                                                        activities (at least 3), specify results in                                                and forest degradation.
                                                                                                           incentives for regional
                                                        specific locations and partners.
                                                                                                           stakeholders




                                                                                     80
 Improve basis      Forest Management and Governance
    for timber                                                                                              2011: Strengthen
      legality,                                                                                             implementation of regulatory
    strengthen                                                                                              framework to enhance on-going
institutions, and                                               Implement and monitor performance of GOI    implementation of GOI regulation       Forest governance and
     improve                                                    regulation on timber legality. Assess       on timber legality by monitoring    management are improved
  incentives for    Issued MOFR Ministerial Regulation No.
                                                                capacity for oversight, certification and   and evaluation.                     through clearer institutional
     regional       38/2009 on Timber Legality Verification
                                                                monitoring in national standards agency.                                          means to address timber
governments to      System (System Verifikasi Legalitas
                                                                                                            2011: Formalize inter-                  legality and improved
 address forest     Kayu, SVLK) to establish a national
                                                                                                            governmental transfer                     incentives for local
     loss and       timber legality standard and a system for
                                                                Design inter-governmental transfer          mechanism for local government     governments. In the medium
   degradation      verification and monitoring to assist in
                                                                mechanism to finance and improve the        forest management activities.      term, this will help to reduce
                    reducing illegal logging and forest loss
                                                                incentives for local governments to                                              the deforestation rate and
                    and degradation.
                                                                strengthen forest management activities      2012: Evaluate and improve          improves the potential for
                                                                toward emissions reductions.                nter-govt transfer mechanism to             REDD success.
                                                                                                            finance local government forest
                                                                                                            activities.

  Objectives         Prior Actions Recognized (CY 2009)                  2010 Indicative Actions             2011-2012 Indicative Actions           Expected Results

Energy Sector Mitigation
 Improve policy Renewable Energy Development
  framework to
     promote      Issued Presidential Decree No. 4 / 2010
    renewable     which assigns to PLN the acceleration of                                                  2011: Continue to improve
      energy      power plant development using                                                             policy framework to promote
  development     renewable energy, coal, and gas and           Improve policy framework for promoting      geothermal development and to
 and investment mandates PLN to develop and purchase                                                                                                 Improved and stable
                                                                geothermal development to facilitate        provide exploration fund to
                  power from renewable energy resources                                                                                           regulatory framework for
                                                                arrangements/deals between developer and    mitigate upstream risk for
                  (January 2010).                                                                                                                     renewable energy
                                                                off-taker.                                  eastern Indonesia.
                                                                                                                                               development, with appropriate
                    Issued MEMR Ministerial Regulation No.                                                                                      risk and benefit sharing, will
                    32/ 2009 on Purchase Standard Price of                                                                                      contribute to development of
                    Electricity Power by PT PLN from                                                        2011: Review the impact of
                                                                                                                                                new geothermal projects and
                    Geothermal Electricity Power Station                                                    Ministerial Regulation
                                                                                                                                                   other renewable energy
                    (December 2009).                                                                        No.31/2009 and propose a new
                                                                                                                                                investments. In the medium
                                                                                                            or revised regulation to promote
                    Issued MEMR Ministerial Regulation                                                                                         term, this will improve energy
                                                                Issue draft regulation to clarify the       renewable energy development
                    No31/2009 on the purchase price of                                                                                            security and reduce GHG
                                                                scheme of compensation for the              further and more effectively.
                    electricity from renewable energy (Nov                                                                                        emissions from electricity
                                                                incremental cost of geothermal              Draft (2011) then issue (2012) a
                    2009) and MOF Ministerial Regulation                                                                                                  generation.
                                                                electricity to off-taker.                   regulation on improved
                    No. 24/2010 on tax incentives for                                                       framework for renewable energy
                    renewable energy development January                                                    development.
                    2010.


                                                                                       81
 Improve policy   Energy Efficiency
  framework to
promote energy                                                                                                                                   Improved rules and incentives
    efficiency                                                                                                2011: Implement the master          will encourage industries and
  development     Issued Government Regulation No.              Prepare a master plan for energy              plan of energy conservation         manufacturers to undertake
and investment    70/2009 on Energy Conservation                conservation including energy efficiency      (including energy efficiency       energy efficiency investments.
                  (December 2009). MEMR developed               standards, energy audit program with a        standards, energy audit program      In the medium term, GHG
                  and implemented national system of            monitoring and evaluation framework, fiscal   with a monitoring and evaluation     emissions will be reduced
                  energy audits for major firms in key          incentives options, and industry energy       framework, fiscal incentives         through enhanced energy
                  sectors.                                      conservation.                                 options, and industry energy       efficiency, focusing on energy
                                                                                                              conservation).                             intensive sectors

    Improve       Energy Pricing
 incentives for                                                                                                                                     Prices will begin to reflect
     energy                                                                                                                                       economic and environmental
production and                                                                                                                                     costs. In medium term, this
      use          (Note this indicator is not exclusive, but
                                                                                                              2011: Implement actions based         will provide incentives for
                  reaffirms actions agreed under IDPL3. It      Finalize a road map for improving subsidy
                                                                                                              on the road map, including            energy conservation and
                  is documented here to note its relevance      policy of electricity.
                                                                                                              regulations.                         development of alternative
                  for climate change mitigation, also.)
                                                                                                                                                 energy sources, contributing to
                                                                                                                                                         GHG reductions.

  Objectives        Prior Actions Recognized (CY 2009)                     2010 Indicative Actions              2011-2012 Indicative Actions           Expected Results

POLICY AREA 2: ADAPTATION AND DISASTER PREPAREDNESS
    Establish      Water Resources Sector
 strategic water                                           Continue strategic assessment of the water
  management                                               future of Java (prepare an action plan for                                             Water resource management
plans in key river                                         priority interventions incorporating climate                                             will be improved through
     basins        Issued Presidential Regulation No.
                                                           change, urbanization, economic development                                              development of integrated
                   12/2008 on Water resource councils.
                                                           and food security as integral part of River                                             plans and establishment of
                   Established the National Water Resource                                                      2011: Complete master plans
                                                           Basin Strategic Water Management Plans and                                              responsible institutions. In
                   Council (NWRC) has been established                                                          for the Java River Basins
                                                           framework for River Basin Master Plans).                                               medium term, contributes to
                   and met several times. Prepared                                                              which include climate change
                                                                                                                                                     ability to anticipate and
                   integrated water resource management                                                         adaptation measures, by
                                                           Nationally, complete 12 provincial water                                                 respond to water-related
                   plans (POLA) with climate change                                                             enacting ministerial decree.
                                                           resource councils, 12 Coordination Teams for                                              climate change impacts
                   assessment in national strategic river
                                                           WRM in River Basins (TKPSDA) and 8                                                     (drought and flood risks) and
                   basins on Java.
                                                           Integrated Water Resources Management                                                 to resilience at the region/river
                                                           Plans (POLA).                                                                                    basin level.




                                                                                       82
Scale up actions    Agriculture Sector
   to improve                                                                                                                                                 Farmers better prepared for
     climate                                                                                                              2011: Continue the 2010
                                                                    Evaluate performance, then improve and                                                   climate change impacts, with
  resilience in     . Develop an irrigation asset                                                                         progress to improve and scale
                                                                    scale up actions for adaptation in agriculture                                           better sources and channels
   agriculture      management information system.                                                                        up actions for adaptation in
                                                                    including climate field school, System for Rice                                            of information. In medium
                    Implemented System for Rice                                                                           agriculture including climate
                                                                    Intensification (SRI), and to enforce land                                              term, will strengthen resilience
                    Intensification (SRI) practice in target                                                              field school, System for Rice
                                                                    development and management without                                                      for climate change impacts on
                    provinces. Implemented Climate Field                                                                  Intensification (SRI), and to
                                                                    burning as part of an overall plan (based on                                                 food production (flood,
                    School Program in target provinces.                                                                   enforce land development and
                                                                    MOA Decree No 26/2007).                                                                       drought, pests) at the
                                                                                                                          management without burning.
                                                                                                                                                                 community/farm level.
Scale up actions    Disaster Risk Management
   to establish                                                                                                           2011: Implement Disaster
national disaster   Enacted Law No 24/2007 on Disaster
                                                                                                                          Risk Reduction (DRR)                  Institutional framework,
 risk reduction     Management and issued Presidential
                                                                                                                          program activities according to   capacity, and resources will be
       and          Regulation No. 8/2008, which
                                                                                                                          the National Action Plan for         improved for disaster risk
 management         established a National Disaster
                                                                                                                          DRR                                reduction and management.
     system         Management Agency (BNPB). In 2009,
                                                                    Continue the efforts to establish Local                                                   Climate change adaptation
                    GOI finalized the National Action Plan for
                                                                    Disaster Management Agency (BPBD) in all              2012: Implement                         issues (vulnerability,
                    Disaster Risk Reduction (NAP-DRR
                                                                    provinces.                                            comprehensive risk financing           preparedness) will be
                    2010-2012) and formally launched the
                                                                                                                          framework combining                 mainstreamed into policy,
                    plan in February 2010. GOI
                                                                                                                          mechanisms, including             budgeting and implementation
                    incorporated mainstreaming of DRR in
                                                                                                                          reserve (on-call) budget,         for disaster risk reduction and
                    context of adaptation into medium term
                                                                                                                          stand-by financing, and                     management.
                    development plan (RPJMN, 2009)
                                                                                                                          weather derivatives.
    Establish       Marine and Fisheries Sector
  systems and                                                       Finalize plans and budgets for inception of the                                            Coastal and marine climate
  strategies to                                                                                                           2011-2012: Continue
                                                                    5-year implementation of the Indonesian                                                    monitoring capacity will be
improve climate                                                                                                           implementation of INAGOOS
                                                                    Global Ocean Observing System (INAGOOS),                                                  improved. Local community
 preparedness                                                                                                             to provide information for
                                                                    an ocean monitoring program that provides                                               resilience will be improved and
and resilience in                                                                                                         marine adaptation plans.
                    In May 2009, GOI launched the National          data about ocean and atmosphere interaction.                                            provide a model for replication
the coastal and     Plan of Action (NPOA) of Coral Triangle                                                                                                  in other vulnerable areas. In
 marine sector      Initiative on coral reef, fisheries and food.    Develop a strategy for coastal community                                                       the medium term,
                    GOI approved a roadmap of CTI actions           resilience to cope with climate change,                                                  strengthening the institutional
                    for 2010-11 in November 2009.                   including a plan for climate resilient villages in                                            and local capacity for
                                                                                                                          2011-2012: Implement the
                                                                    8 vulnerable districts on the north coast of                                                resilience and improved
                                                                                                                          strategy for coastal community
                                                                    Java, and implement a study on coastal                                                   management in coastal areas
                                                                                                                          resilience to cope with climate
                                                                    vulnerability in relation to sea level rise in Java                                         will contribute to climate
                                                                                                                          change.
                                                                    and Bali                                                                                            resilience




                                                                                             83
 Objectives       Prior Actions Recognized (CY 2009)                 2010 Indicative Actions             2011-2012 Indicative Actions         Expected Results

POLICY AREA 3: CROSS SECTORAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
  Strengthen    Mainstreaming Climate Change in the National Development Program
  knowledge                                                                                              2011: Draft provincial action
   base and                                                                                              plan for contributing to 26%
legal basis for                                                                                          emission reduction objective.
    climate     GOI finalized the Second National                                                                                           Strengthened knowledge
change action Communication to UNFCCC. Submitted                                                         2012: Incorporate climate
                                                                                                                                         base, institutional framework,
and link these mitigation actions and commitments under                                                  change program into regional
                                                                                                                                                and legal basis for
  to national   Copenhagen Accord (January 2010). GOI     Issue a presidential decree on National                                            implementation of both
                                                                                                         midterm development plans
  budgeting     prepared and issued the "Development      Action Plan for voluntary 26% GHG                                                 mitigation and adaptation
                                                                                                         (RPJMD) at Kabupaten level.
 and planning Planning Response to Climate Change"        emission reduction.                                                            programs. This will contribute
  processes     (2008) and updated it in March 2010. GOI                                                                                   to achievement of national
                                                                                                         2011: Prepare Nationally
                finalized the "Indonesia Climate Change                                                                                   climate change objectives in
                                                                                                         Appropriate Mitigation Action
                Sectoral Roadmap" (ICCSR) in March 2010.                                                                                        the medium term.
                                                                                                         (NAMA) in accordance with
                                                                                                         midterm development plan
                                                                                                         (RPJM) and ICCSR.
 Strengthen
     policy    Policy Coordination and Financing Scheme for Climate Change
coordination                                                                                                                              Institutional mechanisms for
and develop                                                                                                                               coordination of climate policy
  financing                                                                                                                               formation, budget allocation,
mechanisms                                                                                               2011: Continue to implement
                                                                                                                                           and implementation will be
       for                                                 Implement an innovative funding mechanism     and support climate change
               The GOI issued the National Action Plan                                                                                       improved. The legal and
 addressing                                                for climate change through the Indonesia      projects under the Indonesia
               Addressing Climate Change (December                                                                                          institutional framework for
    climate                                                Climate Change Trust Fund (ICCTF).            Climate Change Trust Fund
               2007); established a National Council on                                                                                   financing for climate change
   change                                                                                                (ICCTF).
               Climate Change by Presidential Decree No.                                                                                 action will be improved. In the
                                                           Design inter-governmental fiscal transfer
               46/2008 (July 2008); and launched the                                                                                            medium term, local
                                                           mechanism to provide incentives for local     2012: Finalize Climate
               Indonesia Climate Change Trust Fund                                                                                         governments will face more
                                                           governments to take priority climate change   Change inter-governmental
               (October 2009).                                                                                                              positive incentives to take
                                                           actions                                       transfer/incentives mechanism
                                                                                                                                           appropriate climate change
                                                                                                         for local government
                                                                                                                                                 actions and fewer
                                                                                                                                               disincentives or policy
                                                                                                                                                     distortions.




                                                                                 84
Annex 3B: The CC DPL Results Framework (Monitoring and Evaluation) Matrix

The Monitoring and Evaluation matrix on the following pages links the policy areas to tangible
results. The matrix lists the measurable results, indicators, baselines and targets for each policy
area, aiming for evaluation of success in 2012 after 3 more CC DPL operations. These will
continue to be sharpened and strengthened in future operations and in consultation with the
Government.




                                                85
Annex 3B: The CC DPL Results Framework (Monitoring and valuation) Matrix
                    Objectives                             Monitoring Indicators       Target (2012)               Baseline (2009)
Policy Area 1: Mitigation
Land Use and Forestry Sector Mitigation
                                                                                                           Measured hotspots 2009
                                                                                                           Indonesia: 73,800
                  Improve policy coordination and        Incidence of hotspots/     10% reduced from
                                                                                                           Riau: 10,448
                  management of peat land                clearing of peat lands     baseline
                                                                                                           Source: WWF-I Forest Fire
                                                                                                           Monitoring Program
                  Improve regulatory framework for
                                                         Number of demonstration                           4 REDD demo sites
                  REDD implementation and develop                                   8 REDD Demo Sites
                                                         pilots in REDD projects                           Source: MOFR
                  demonstration activities
                                                                                                           Baseline is average of prior
                                                                                                           years. Illegal Logging Cases:
                  Improve basis for timber legality,
                                                                                                           2007 = 278; 2008 = 171; 2009 =
                  strengthen institutions, and improve                              10% improvement in
                                                         Number of forest crime                            69
                  incentives for regional governments                               cases brought over
                                                         cases brought to court                            Encroachment Cases: 2007 =
                  to address forest loss and                                        2007-2009 average
                                                                                                           79; 2008 = 45; 2009 = 25
                  degradation
                                                                                                           Source: MOFR/PHKA forest
                                                                                                           case tracking data base
Energy Sector Mitigation
                  Improve policy framework to
                                                         MW of capacity under       40% increase over      2009 = 1065 MW installed
                  promote renewable energy
                                                         construction               baseline               Source: MEMR
                  development and investment
                                                                                                           Steel: Electricity Arc Furnace:
                                                                                                           700 kWh/t
                                                                                    Energy efficiency      Ceramics: 16.6 GJ/t
                  Improve policy framework to
                                                                                    improved by 5% in at   Tires: 8100 kcal/kg
                  promote energy efficiency              Energy efficiency ratios
                                                                                    least one key          Cement: 800 kcal/kg clinker
                  development and investment
                                                                                    industrial sector      Glass: 12.4 GJ/ton
                                                                                                           Source: IEA Energy Policy
                                                                                                           Review for Indonesia, 2008




                                                                    86
Policy Area 2: Adaptation and Disaster Preparedness
                  Establish strategic water            Number of water
                                                                                                               2009: 3 Plans
                  management plans in key river        management plans              2012: 12 Plans
                                                                                                               2010: 5 Plans
                  basins                               established
                                                       Percentage of farmers
                                                       surveyed that show            20% increase over
                  Scale up actions to improve climate                                                          2010 baseline will be
                                                       understanding and             baseline in targeted
                  resilience in agriculture                                                                    established through survey
                                                       practicing of adaptation      kabupaten
                                                       techniques
                  Scale up actions to establish        Number of provinces with      2012: 33 provincial
                                                                                                               2009: 5 provincial agencies; 20
                  national disaster risk reduction and local disaster management     agencies; 40 district
                                                                                                               district level agencies
                  management system                    agencies                      level agencies
                                                       Percentage of coastal
                  Establish systems and strategies to communities that show          10% increase over
                  improve climate preparedness and     greater awareness and         baseline in 8 districts   2010 baseline will be
                  resilience in the coastal and marine changed practices relative    on north coast of         established through survey
                  sector                               to baseline in target         Java
                                                       locations.
Policy Area 3: Cross Sectoral and Institutional Issues
                                                                                     10 Trillion Rupiah for
                                                                                     Ministerial proposed
                                                                                                               1.736 Trillion Rupiah allocated
                   Strengthen knowledge base and        Increased financing for      projects (cumulative)
                                                                                                               for 2009
                   legal basis for climate change       GOI actions related to the   National
                                                                                                               National Development Planning
                   action and link these to national    26% emissions reduction      Development
                                                                                                               Response to Climate Change
                   budgeting and planning processes     plan                         Planning Response
                                                                                                               (BAPPENAS 2008)
                                                                                     to Climate Change
                                                                                     (BAPPENAS 2010)
                   Strengthen policy coordination and   Funding for climate          £9 Million (UK            Baseline = 0 funding through
                   develop financing mechanisms for     change projects through      Pounds) pledged           ICCTF in 2009
                   addressing climate change            ICCTF                        10% disbursed




                                                                   87
ANNEX 3C: The CCPL (GOI-JICA-AFD) Phase 2 Policy Matrix

The policy actions in the matrix for the CC PL operation form the basis for the Bank's CC DPL
operation. Due to a change late in the development process, the order of policy areas is changed,
with cross cutting issues discussed first, then mitigation, and finally adaptation. Other than that,
the structure is the same.

In addition to the order, this matrix includes a few items beyond those chosen for emphasis by
the Bank team. In particular, this matrix includes under cross cutting issues, a policy area on
GHG emissions and absorption measurement. Under forestry mitigation, this matrix includes a
policy area on afforestation and reforestation. Under energy mitigation, this matrix includes a
policy area on transportation. In the interest of streamlining the matrix, highlighting actions with
the highest impact, and focusing on key issues in the narrative, the Bank team chose not to
emphasize these areas in the CC DPL. These areas remain part of the policy dialogue with the
GOI and will be included in future operations as the dialogue evolves and the priority associated
with these actions is clarified.

To illustrate the areas of harmonization (the WB CC DPL matrix is a selected subset of these
actions), the indicative year 2010-2012 actions selected by the Bank for the CC DPL from the
overall CCPL Phase II matrix are bolded.




                                                88
                                               Prior Actions to be recognized                                                     Responsible       Further Indication of
Sector           Outcome Area                                                                Indication of CY2010 Actions
                                                         (2007-2009)                                                              Institutions    CY2011 and 2012 Actions
1 Key Policy Issues (Upstream Strategy)
   1.1Mainstreaming Climate Change in the National Development Program
         Climate change program is      National Action Plan Addressing Climate           Finalize Indonesia Climate Change       BAPPENAS       Prepare Nationally
         implemented in all related     Change, National Council on Climate               Sectoral Roadmap (ICCSR).                              Appropriate Mitigation
         ministries towards the         Change by Presidential Decree, and                Issue a presidential decree on            CMPW         Action (NAMA) in
         achievement of national target "Development Plan Response to Climate             National Action Plan for 26% GHG          CMEA         accordance with midterm
         (26% GHG emission reduction    Change." were issued.                             voluntary reduction.                    BAPPENAS       development plan (RPJM)
         from BAU in 2020)              The steering committee for climate change         Submit mitigation actions and           BAPPENAS       and ICCSR.
                                        program loan coordination was established.        commitments under Copenhagen               DNPI
                                        Comprehensive and Sectoral Assessment             Accord to UNFCCC, based on                             Draft provincial action plan
                                        and Planning Process (Road Map) on                commitments by the president, policy                   for contributing to 26%
                                        climate change were prepared.                     documents and policy dialogues.                        reduction.
                                                                                          Revise a "National Action Plan             DNPI
                                                                                          Addressing Climate Change (2007)".                     Incorporate climate change
                                                                                                                                                 program into regional
                                                                                                                                                 midterm development plan
                                                                                                                                                 (RPJMD) at Kabupaten
                                                                                                                                                 level.
   1.2Financing Scheme and Policy Coordination for Climate Change
         Policy coordination on climate  Climate actions were incorporated into           Implement innovative funding            BAPPENAS       Continue to support the
         change is enhanced and linked   Medium Term Development Plan (and                mechanism for climate change                           funding mechanism for
         to National Budget and Planning annual and longer term budgets).                 through the Indonesia Climate                          climate change projects
         processes.                      Indonesia Climate Change Trust Fund (Oct         Change Trust Fund (ICCTF).                             under the Indonesia
                                         2009) was launched.                                                                                     Climate Change Trust Fund
                                                                                                                                                 (ICCTF).

                                                                                          Conduct a study on the                     MOF         Finalize the design of DAK
                                                                                          implementation possibility of                          for Climate Change or
                                                                                          Performance Based Budgeting (PBB),                     special incentives concept
                                                                                          for programs and policies of line                      for local government
                                                                                          ministries related to climate change.
                                                                                          Improve the existing design Climate      Bappenas,
                                                                                          Change DAK or special incentives           MOF
                                                                                          concept for local government




                                                                                     89
                                         National Disaster Management Agency              Continue the efforts to establish           BNPB        2011: Implement Disaster
                                         (BNPB) was established, and National Action      Local Disaster Management Agency                        Risk Reduction (DRR)
                                         Plan for Disaster Risk Reduction (NAP-DPR        (BPBD) in all provinces                                 program activities
                                         2010-2012) was finalized.                                                                                according to the National
                                         Institutional strengthening of BNPP was                                                                  Action Plan for DRR
                                         initiated in 2008, and Incorporated                                                                      2012: Implement
                                         mainstreaming of DRR in the context of                                                                   comprehensive risk
                                         climate change adaptation into the medium                                                                financing framework
                                         term development plan (RPJM, 2009) was                                                                   combining mechanisms
                                         done.                                                                                                    including reserve (on-call)
                                                                                                                                                  budget, stand-by financing,
                                                                                                                                                  and weather derivatives.
   1.3 GHG Emission & Absorption Measurement
         Monitoring mechanism for        Finalize Second National Communication to        Submit main report of 2nd National          KLH         Implement SIGN with the
         carbon emission and absorption  UNFCCC.                                          Communication to UNFCCC.                                close coordination among
         is established through National                                                  Develop the GHG Inventory System            KLH         relevant institutions and
         GHG Inventory System.                                                            (SIGN) through official process and                     prepare for the National GHG
                                                                                          design an Indonesian national MRV                       Inventory.
                                                                                          System
2 Mitigation
    2.1Forestry
          2.1.1        Forest Management and Governance
                                        Government Regulation on Forest Planning          Design norms, standards and                MOFR         Strengthen the regulatory
                                        Management and Forest Utilization was             procedures on how Forest                 Local Gov'ts   framework for FMU
                                        issued. 29 model FMUs are planned for 27          Management Units (FMUs) manage             MOHA         management institutions at
                                        provinces, and 13 were approved by the            forests.                                                local level for conservation,
                                        Minister of Forestry.                             (Ministerial Decree was issued in 2010                  protection, and production
                                                                                          and will be applied to the newly                        FMUs (implementing and
                                                                                          established FMUs)                                       technical guidance)
                                                                                          Design a concept on                        MOF          Formalize
                                                                                          intergovernmental transfer DAK             MOFR         intergovernmental transfer
                                                                                          mechanism to finance and improve                        mechanism to finance local
                                                                                          the incentives for local                                government forest
         Forest governance and
                                                                                          governments through                                     activities.
         management is improved
                                                                                          strengthening forest management                         2012: Evaluate and improve
         through the establishment of
                                                                                          activities toward emissions                             intergovernmental transfer
         improved rules on FMUs,
                                                                                          reductions.                                             mechanism to finance local
         financial scheme for local
                                                                                                                                                  government forest
         governments, and timber
                                                                                                                                                  activities.
         legality.
                                         Ministerial regulations was issued for Timber    Implement and monitor                      MOFR         Strengthen the
                                         Legality Verification System (Sistem             performance of GOI regulation on                        implementation of
                                         Verifikasi Legalitas Kayu, SVLK) for             timber legality. Assess capacity for                    regulatory framework to
                                         establishing a national timber legality          oversight, certification and                            enhance on going
                                         standard and a system for verification and       monitoring in national standards                        implementation of GOI
                                         monitoring to assist in reducing illegal         agency.                                                 regulation on timber
                                         logging and forest destruction.                                                                          legality by monitoring and
                                                                                                                                                  evaluation.
         2.1.2 Peatland Conservation



                                                                                     90
                                   The master plan on peat land rehabilitation in   Coordinate among ministries to           Menko Ekon   Issue a presidential
                                   Central Kalimantan was issued. National          control peatland emissions                Bappenas    regulation which includes
                                   budget for implementation on the master          implementation under the                              special measures for
                                   plan in Central Kalimantan has been              framework of presidential                             peatland conservation and
                                   allocated (around 739 Million Rp. in national    regulation.                                           peatland water
                                   budget). BPDAS has completed the annual          Implement key steps in national            MOFR       management to minimize
                                   planning for rehabilitation.                     multi-sector policy dialogue                PU        carbon emissions.
An institutional framework to
conserve and restore peatland is                                                    (seminar proceedings, policy               MOA
improved.                                                                           principles) toward establishing a           KLH
                                                                                    legal framework for the national
                                                                                    strategy for lowlands with the focus
                                                                                    on balancing development and
                                                                                    conservation considering peatlands
                                                                                    as major source of GHG emissions.
2.1.3 REDD
                                   National Readiness Program for REDD was          Complete the Ministerial Decree on         MOFR       Establish a national
                                   launched; Completed preparatory analysis,        Mechanism and Procedures of                MOF        registry of REDD to track
                                   issued consolidated report, developed            REDD by defining roles and                            implementation of REDD
                                   regulatory framework and selected locations,     responsibilities of government                        activities and payments in
                                   and initiated REDDI pilot projects (with         agencies, local communities, and                      a national carbon registry.
                                   several donors and NGOs). The GOI has            the private sector in managing
                                   submitted a Readiness Program Proposal to        carbon assets.
                                   the FCPF and initiated a REDD program with       Conduct/implement REDD                     MOFR       Assess & develop
Emissions from deforestation       UN REDD Support (FAO-UNDP-UNEP)                  demonstration activities (at least 3),                framework for forest fiscal
and forest degradation is
                                                                                    specify results in specific locations                 management, including
reduced through the
                                                                                    and partners.                                         incentives for regional
implementation of a national
                                                                                                                                          stakeholders.
REDD framework
                                                                                                                                          Study the possibility to
                                                                                                                                          establish an accreditation
                                                                                                                                          system to place a premium
                                                                                                                                          over REDD projects
                                                                                                                                          conserving biodiversity.
2.1.4 Afforestation and Reforestation
                                  Maintenance of previously planted area and        Rehabilitation of protected areas          MOFR       Design an improved
                                  replant in critical forest through Gerhan were    consisting replanting of 100 thousand                 monitoring system of
                                  done. Develop plan and review mechanism           ha and develop technical design for                   reforestation program (with
                                  and impacts of GERHAN program for next            another 100 thousand ha.                              supporting from development
                                  forest rehabilitation activities were done.                                                             partners will be consulted
                                                                                                                                          with Ministry of Forestry)
                                                                                                                                          2012: Design new procedure
Carbon sink capacity is                                                                                                                   for rehabilitation monitoring in
increased through reforestation                                                                                                           place, covering growth of
activities.                                                                                                                               trees along time.

                                                                                                                               MOFR       Maintain plantation areas
                                                                                                                                          conducted in 2010.




                                                                               91
                                                                                            Issue a ministerial decree on forest       MOFR         Initiate steps to simplify
                                                                                            land allocation for timber plantation                   regulations and taxation to
                                                                                            (HTI and HTR).                                          reduce complexity for forest
                                                                                                                                                    plantation and climate
                                                                                                                                                    change investment by the
                                                                                                                                                    private sector.
2.2 Energy
     2.2.1 Renewable Energy Development
                                     Government regulation on geothermal                    Improve policy framework design          Menko Ekon     Continue to improve policy
                                     business activity, MOF decrees on Taxes                for promoting geothermal                    MOF         framework design to
                                     incentive, and MEMR decree on assignment               development to facilitate                 Men PAN       promote geothermal
                                     of preliminary survey were issued. Ministerial         arrangements / deals between            (supported by   development, and provide
                                     Regulation No. 32 year 2009 on Purchase                developer and off-taker.                   MEMR)        exploration fund to mitigate
     Improve energy security and     Standard Price of Electricity Power by PT                                                                      upstream risk for eastern
     reduce future GHG emissions     PLN from Geothermal Electricity Power                  Identify financing needs to mitigate                    part of Indonesia.
     from electricity generation     Station was issued on December 4, 2009                 upstream risk of geothermal
     through new geothermal projects                                                        projects.
     within an improved policy
                                                                                            Issue draft regulation to clarify the       MOF
     framework for private sector
                                                                                            scheme of compensation for the            (MEMR)
     participation.
                                                                                            incremental cost of geothermal
                                                                                            electricity to off-taker.
                                                                                            Demonstrate progress by signing           MEMR
                                                                                            PPAs (at least 1) of geothermal             MOF
                                                                                            projects.                                Bappenas
                                                                                                                                       (PLN)
                                           The Law no. 30/2007 on Energy (promote           Ministerial regulation (MOF) No.          MEMR          Review the impact of
                                           renewable energy development) was                21/2010 (PPH) and No. 24/2010 (PPN          MOF         Ministerial Regulation
                                           enacted.                                         DTP) on incentives for renewable                        No.31/2009 and propose a
                                           National Energy Council (Dewan Energi            energy development was issued in                        new or revised regulation
     The promotion of renewable            National: DEN) was established.                  January 2010.                                           to promote renewable
     energy development is improved        Ministerial Regulation No31/2009 on the          Presidential Decree No. 4, 2010 on         MEMR         energy development
     by monitoring, evaluating and         purchasing price of electricity from             assignment to PLN to conduct                MOF         further and more
     revising the new regulations.         renewable energy was issued in Nov. 2009.        acceleration of power plant                             effectively, and Draft (or
                                                                                            development using renewable energy,                     issue) a regulation on
                                                                                            coal, and gas has been issued on                        improved framework for
                                                                                            January 8, 2010.                                        renewable energy
                                                                                                                                                    development.
     2.2.2 Energy Efficiency
                                           (no prior action from 2007-2009 under            Conduct a study on a national               MOI         Replicate the same approach
     GHG emissions are reduced (or         CCPL)                                            framework for emission reductions in       MEMR         to other industrial sectors
     strategies for reducing GHG                                                            the cement sector.
     emissions are formulated) by                                                                                                                   Conduct a study to introduce
     enhanced energy efficiency in                                                                                                                  new and more energy
     energy intensive sectors through                                                                                                               efficient technology, and
     the use of new technology and                                                                                                                  survey the potential of energy
     the rehabilitation, renovation and                                                                                                             efficient technology for
     replacement of existing facilities.                                                                                                            electricity generation.




                                                                                       92
                                             Ministerial Regulation No. 70 year 2009 on        Prepare a master plan for energy         MEMR    Start to implement the
                                             Energy Conservation was issued on                 conservation including the energy         MOF    master plan of energy
                                             December 16, 2009.                                efficiency standards, energy audit        MOI    conservation, and start the
                                             National system of energy audits for major        program with a monitoring and                    implementation of the
                                             firms in key sectors were developed and           evaluating framework, of fiscal                  programs in the master
         Demand side management
                                             implemented.                                      incentives options, and the industry             plan, including energy
         becomes a major part of
                                                                                               energy conservation, with the                    efficiency standards,
         government regulations and
                                                                                               sectoral approach, with MEMR and                 energy audit program with
         eventually contribute to fiscal
                                                                                               MOI.                                             a monitoring and
         budget management.
                                                                                                                                                evaluating framework, of
                                                                                                                                                fiscal incentives options,
                                                                                                                                                and the industry energy
                                                                                                                                                conservation.
         2.2.3 Pricing
                                             (no prior action from 2007-2009 under             Finalize a road map for improving        MEMR    Preparation for
          Energy consumption is better       CCPL)                                             subsidy policy of electricity             MOF    Implementation actions
          controlled by a more cost-                                                                                                    (PLN)   based on the road map,
          oriented pricing mechanism,                                                                                                           including the regulation.
          contributing to reducing both
          GHG emissions and energy
          subsidies
    2.3 Transportation
          2.3.1 Modal Shifting
                                             (no prior action from 2007-2009 under             Develop BRT (Bus Rapid Transit) in 2     MOT     Continue development BRT
                                             CCPL)                                             cities : Tangerang, and Sarbagita Area           in other cities.
          The increase rate of car users
                                                                                               (Denpasar, Badung, Gianyar,
         remains at a low level, and is
                                                                                               Tabanan) Bali.
         less than that of users of public
                                                                                               Improve pedestrian facilities in Bukit   MOT     Continue development of
         transportation.
                                                                                               Tinggi and develop bicycle lane in               pedestrian facilities and
                                                                                               Sragen.                                          bicycle lanes in other cities.
         2.3.2 Traffic Management
                                            (no prior action from 2007-2009 under              Develop ATCS (Area Traffic Control       MOT     Continue development ATCS
         Traffic management is enhanced CCPL)                                                  System) in Bogor and Surakarta                   in major cities.
         enough to avoid deteriorating
         traffic congestion.
         2.3.3 Better Combustion Engines and Fuels
                                            (no prior action from 2007-2009 under                                                               Install converter kit for public
         Using better combustion engines CCPL)                                                                                          MOT     transportation 1000 unit/year
         and fuels prevails.                                                                                                                    in major cities
3   Adaptation
    3.1 Climate Forecasting and Impact and Vulnerability Assessment
         Strengthening of institutional and 73 Automatic Weather Stations, 19 weather          Start developing the climate modeling    BMKG    Prepare Vulnerability Map in
         regulating framework.              RADARs, and 31 Digital rain gauges were            as the basis of the development of               priority area.
                                            installed.                                         impact and vulnerability assessment.
                                            Study for Ocean Carbon, and marine and




                                                                                          93
                                            coastal vulnerability to sea level rise were                                                MMF
                                            conducted.                                          Implement INAGOOS to cope with                 Implement INAGOOS into
                                                                                                climate change.                                operational oceanography
                                                                                                                                        KLH
                                                                                                                                        DNPI
                                                                                                                                               Prepare a National Action
                                                                                                                                               Plan of Adaptation (NAPA)
                                                                                                                                               for Climate Change based on
                                                                                                Prepare an academic paper for                  impact assessment (KLH,
                                                                                                Government Regulation to the criteria          DNPI, BAPPENAS, and
                                                                                                of the impact of climate change.               BMKG)



3.2 Water Resources Sector
     Improving water resource               Presidential Decree on Water resource               Continue to implement strategic         PU     Complete master plans for
     management in integrated               council was issued, and the National Water          assessment of the water future of              the Java River Basins
     manner to strengthen the               Resource Council (NWRC) has been                    Java, and prepare an action plan for           which include climate
     resilience to the increasing           established and met several times. Based            priority interventions incorporating           change adaptation
     drought and flood risks,               on that, integrated water resource                  climate change, urbanization,                  measures, by enacting
     specifically in nationally strategic   management plans (POLA) with climate                economic development and food                  ministerial decree.
     river basin in Java island.            change assessment in national strategic river       security to become an integral part
                                            basins in Java island were prepared, and 3          of the River Basin Strategic Water
                                            POLA are finalized and proceeded for                Management Plans (Pola WS) and
                                            Ministerial Decree (Bengawan Solo, Brantas          the framework for the River Basin
                                            and Cimanuk river basins).                          Master Plans, with the national
                                                                                                target of 2010 : completing 12
                                                                                                provincial water resource council,
                                                                                                12 Coordination Team for Water
                                                                                                Resources Management in River
                                                                                                Basins (TKPSDA) and 8 Integrated
                                                                                                Water Resources Management Plan
                                                                                                (POLA).
3.3 Agriculture Sector
                                            Develop an irrigation asset management              Evaluate performance, then              MOA    Continue the 2010 progress
                                            information system.                                 improve and scale up actions for               to improve and scale up
                                            System for Rice Intensification (SRI) practice      adaptation in agriculture including            actions for adaptation in
                                            (total: 345 packages) and the Climate Field         climate field school, System for               agriculture including
                                            School Program (total: 468 units) were              Rice Intensification (SRI), and to             climate field school,
                                            carried out.                                        enforce land development and                   System for Rice
      Strengthening of institutional and
                                                                                                management without burning as                  Intensification (SRI), and to
      regulating framework to improve
                                                                                                part of an overall plan (Minister of           enforce land development
      resilience of farm production and
                                                                                                Agriculture Decree No.                         and management without
      reduce drought risk.
                                                                                                26/Permentan/OT.14/2/2007).                    burning as part of an
                                                                                                                                               overall plan (Minister of
                                                                                                                                               Agriculture Decree No.
                                                                                                                                               26/Permentan/OT.14/2/2007
                                                                                                                                               )
3.4 Marine and Fisheries Sector


                                                                                           94
                                     The Indonesian National Plan of Actions          Develop a strategy for coastal           MMF   Implement the strategy for
                                     (NPOA) of Coral Triangle Initiatives on Coral    community resilience to cope with              coastal community
                                     reef, fisheries and food security (CTI-CFF)      climate change, including the plan             resilience to cope with
                                     was launched, and detailed NPOA was              of climate resilient village in 8              climate change.
Strengthening of institutional and   improved. Manage and Rehabilitate coral          districts in northern coast java,
regulating framework to manage       reef in 15 districts within 8 provinces          implementing study on coastal
coastal zones and small island.      (COREMAP) were carried out.                      vulnerability in relation to sea level
                                                                                      rise in Java and Bali, research on
                                                                                      the variability of CO2 Flux in Banten
                                                                                      Bay.




                                                                                 95
Annex 4: Review of Past Indonesia Climate Change Program Loans 16
Background and Process


In August 2007 Japan and Indonesia confirmed their participation in an effective framework on climate
change beyond 2012. The understanding of the two leaders was to strengthen cooperation at bilateral,
regional and international aiming at: (i) halving GHG emissions from the current level by 2050 with the
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities; (ii) promoting
sustainable forest management; (iii) promoting the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM); (iv)
promoting sustainable resource use,, appropriate adaptation and mitigation measures in climate change,
the improvement of management capacity and measures for natural disaster risks raised by climate
change; and (v) promotion of cooperation between the two countries in various fields such as energy
efficiency and conservation, renewable energy and clean coal technology.

In January 2008 Japan unveiled the a financial mechanism which purports to extend assistance to
developing countries that are aiming to achieve both emission reductions and economic growth and which
are working to contribute to climate stability. The Financial Mechanism amounts to approximately US$
10 billion in total over five years, with two objectives: 1) assistance for adaptation to climate change and
improved access to clean energy (US$ 2 billion); and 2) assistance for mitigation of climate change (US$
8 billion). The Climate Change Program Loan (CCPL) to Indonesia is the first case to utilize the
Japanese ODA scheme under the Financial Mechanism.

The CCPL to Indonesia comprises of three single-tranche loans planned for between 2007 and 2009,
supplying assistance to the implementation of a policy matrix agreed initially between GOJ and GOI.
The matrix is based on Indonesia's "National Action Plan Addressing Climate Change" which was
launched at Bali COP 13. The CCPL is designed to support the agreed policy actions under the key
policy pillars of mitigation, adaptation, and cross cutting issues in terms of encouraging GHG reduction
and sequestration, strengthening country resilience to the anticipated negative impacts due to climate
change and improving institutional frameworks related to mitigation and adaptation.


the Government of France indicated its willingness to step in. The policy matrix was finally agreed upon
between the GOI, Agence Française de Développement (AFD) and the GOJ, in the first semester of 2008.
In the framework of the CCPL, the AFD provided in 2008 a US$ 200 million loan to GOI as a first
tranche, in co-financing with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Based on the satisfactory
achievements of the 2008 "Policy Matrix" and on the upgrading of the 2009 "Policy Matrix", AFD
provided in 2009 a US$ 300 million soft and long-term loan to GOI as a second tranche, which has been
disbursed at end of August 2009. The World Bank is now joining the third and final year of the current
CCPL, through contributing an additional US$ 200 million on top of altogether US$ 600 million to be
jointly contributed by AFD and JICA.

In addition, the AFD financed - on a grant basis - targeted technical assistance dealing with energy
efficiency in cement and steel industry (for the Ministry of Industry), and a feasibility study of a small-
scale green carbon market and methodology for spatial planning (for the Ministry of Forestry). AFD also


16
  Source: Background and Policy Issue Note on Climate Change Program Loan (Cool Earth Program Loan) to the
Republic Of Indonesia. Division 2, Development Assistance Department I, Japan Bank for International
Cooperation. July 2008. Additional meetings and discussions with the JICA and AFD teams provided additional
source material for this annex.

                                                    96
financed the second phase of the "GHG abatement cost curve" study by McKinsey & Company for the
National Council on Climate change (DNPI).

Governance and Monitoring Framework

The overarching goals of the program loan are to (i) promote mitigation of climate change through
enhancing GHG emission sequestration and controlling GHG emissions; (ii) strengthen country
adaptation capacity responding to negative impacts of climate change; and (iii) promote cross sectoral
actions related to climate change, by supporting the implementation of GOI policy actions on climate
change through policy dialogue.

The National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) is the Executing Agency, closely
coordinating and monitoring the implementation of policy actions taken by the responsible institutions.
The coordination structure of the CCPL is outlined in the figure below. Ministerial Decree no 203/2008
has been enacted for the Establishment of Steering Committee for Climate Change Program Loan
(including a Technical Committee).

The Steering Committee members are director generals or deputies of Line Ministries. The Steering
Committee's mandate is to: give policy direction for the implementation of policy matrix; overall
coordination for the monitoring of policy matrix implementation; approve the monitoring results;
coordinate with the donors on confirmation of policy matrix implementation.

The Technical Committee consists of directors from line ministries, and is mandated to develop the
schedule and work plan; provide technical coordination for monitoring of the policy matrix; provide
recommendations to the Steering Committee; and report to the Steering Committee of monitoring results.
The respective line ministries in charge are: Ministry of Forestry; Ministry of Mining and Energy;
Ministry of Industry; Coordinating Ministry of Economic Affairs; Ministry of Public Works; Ministry of
Agriculture; Ministry of Environment; Bakosurtanal; BMG; and Ministry of Finance.



Quantitative and qualitative outcome indicators in the policy matrix closely link to the achievement of
each policy action to be implemented by the responsible institutions. Progress on policy actions is
reviewed and monitored on a quarterly basis with BAPPENAS and the responsible institutions of GOI,
and in close coordination with the co-financing partners. Throughout review and monitoring process, on a
basis of policy dialogue, advisory assistance is also extended to expedite or improve policy actions. The
results of the review and monitoring on annual policy action progress between January and December is a
basis to determine if moving on to the next tranche is appropriate.

Monitoring on policy actions intends not only to review and encourage progress, but to coordinate
considerable development partner assistance on climate change in a harmonized manner. Thus, a review
and monitoring of progress is also closely coordinated with partners that extend grant and technical
assistance directly related to implementation of policy actions.

Has carried out JICA most of the monitoring and evaluation activities, using a dedicated team of
professionals from Japan and Indonesia. An AFD funded forestry expert has been part of the monitoring
team, and helps the GOI to monitor the progress towards the implementation of the forestry indicators.
JICA also provides GOI with policy recommendations related to the policy matrix and provides technical
assistance for specific policy actions. The monitoring team coordinates with JICA experts deployed at
concerned line ministries and works with co-financing partners, and other development partners providing
technical assistance related to the key policy actions. The monitoring team annually produces evaluation

                                                   97
reports based on the progress in achieving policy actions, as defined in the matrix. The evaluation report
forms the basis for decisions about the next tranche of financing and informs the negotiation between the
development partners co-financing the operation.

The CCPL Policy Matrix is detailed with 54 line items and a dozen ministries responsible for progress for
different policy actions. The monitoring task is a full time job for several professionals. The initial year
for prior actions was 2007 and disbursement occurred in 2008. At end 2008, progress against policy
actions was deemed sufficient to disburse the second tranche of payments in 2009.

In terms of lessons of experience, the length of the CCPL policy matrix makes it very burdensome to
monitor. JICA has had a team of 15 staff carrying out the monitoring process. The heavy monitoring
process has, however, enabled a deep engagement with the government on a technical level.
Nevertheless, JICA and AFD have been keen to reducethe amount of line items in the 2010 policy matrix
to enable a more cost efficient monitoring and better ownership of the matrix by the GOI counterparts
involved. In a technical committee meeting in February 2010, all partners and GOI agreed that a
streamlined approach would allow more focus on key climate change policy priorities.

The SC on March 24 reached agreement on achievement of prior actions from 2009. The program of
activities was reviewed in detail and line ministry representatives offered some additional explanation.
On the whole, out of 54 indicators, 41 were fully or exceedingly attained and 13 were shown to have
made substantial progress; none were unfulfilled or cancelled. The development partners congratulated
the GOI agencies for the effort involved in completing these actions. Separately, working with GOI
counterparts at technical level, the Bank and development partners gathered the documentation for each
specific action achieved.




                                                    98
Annex 5: Indonesia ­ IMF Assessment Letter




                                         99
100
ANNEX 6: Overview of poverty and social issues in Indonesia

This section reviews the current snapshot and trends of poverty and general welfare situation in Indonesia
over the past five to ten years period. It presents some changes in the poverty indicators, major aspects of
social development, and employment. It is conceivable that climate change have a negative impact on
poverty and social development. Shifting in cropping seasons, shrinking of arable land, changing in the
water balance will all have impacts on agricultural productivity and farmer's income. Warming in the sea
temperature and its impact on the reef ecosystem will reduce marine resource productivity and put more
challenge to increasing income of the fisher folks. On the policy side, because of those potential impacts,
climate change policies, whether it is related to mitigation or adaptation, must look into their impacts on
poverty and social development.

1. Poverty Reduction
Higher levels of economic growth have not translated, to the extent hoped for, into greater poverty
reduction. Much of the population remains in poverty or vulnerable to it.

Until recently, high rates of economic growth have been slow to be reflected in poverty reduction.
Though poverty rates fell quickly from 1997-98 crisis levels, progress until recently has been slow and
higher rates of growth had not translated to faster poverty reduction. With the exception of 2006, when
the poverty rate jumped sharply in response to the increase in fuel prices, poverty gradually declined in
Indonesia after the crisis until 2007, when it had fallen below pre-crisis levels. The rate of decline had
been disappointing in the context of stronger growth. GDP growth averaged 7 percent annually between
1990 and 1996, with a four percentage point reduction in poverty. By contrast, between 2003 and 2007,
poverty had fallen by only one percentage point with growth averaging over 5 percent per year.
However, poverty has since fallen by over two percentage points in the last two years, to 14.2 percent by
early 2009. It remains to be seen what effect the 2008-09 global economic crisis has had.

In addition, much of the population remains vulnerable to poverty. Nearly half of Indonesia's
population in 2007 could reasonably be considered "near poor" or poor, with per-capita consumption
levels less than a third above the national poverty line. These households are vulnerable to myriad
aggregate and idiosyncratic shocks such as food price increases or employment and health shocks that can
drive them into poverty. Although 41 percent of the poor households escaped poverty between 2003 and
2004, over one-third of non-poor households fell into poverty, highlighting the fluid nature of poverty and
the depth of household vulnerability in Indonesia.

An analysis of the impacts of policies to help mitigate the climate change through a series of simulation
exercises on a dynamic inter-regional Computable General Equilibrium Model has returned the following
indicative results: (1) Programs to reduce deforestation with some compensation (i.e. REDD scheme) is
likely to result in poverty reduction provided that the price of the carbon has to be significant enough
(close to US$ 20/ton) and the government distribute the compensation income mostly to rural areas . With
the pattern of business ownership concentrated in Jakarta, the government will need to be careful with
inter-regional transfer and its impact in the welfare of people in the off Java rural areas; (2) the reduction
of fuel subsidy is likely to reduce poverty (as most of the subsidy is currently enjoyed by the rich)
provided that the government ensures redistribution of the proceed for the most needy through a direct
targeted subsidy; (3) the shifts toward renewable source of energy in the power generation sector will also
likely reduce subsidy possibly due to the new and expanding activities of the renewables sector.




                                                    101
2. Human Development Outcomes
Human development outcomes continue to be uneven despite significant increases in public
expenditures.

Indonesia's human development outcomes are uneven and lag others in the region. Because of
geographic and income-related disparities and differences in the quality of health, water and sanitation
and education service delivery at the local level, Indonesia's performance in terms of human development
outcomes has been quite uneven over the last decade. Over that period, there has been little improvement
in some indicators and, in the case of a few, there has even been some regression. As a result Indonesia
lags behind its neighbors in a number of areas and is unlikely to achieve several of its health-related
MDGs. In particular, the country has made very little headway in reducing maternal mortality (420 per
100,000 births is high given Indonesia's income level), reducing child malnutrition (which has remained
at around 25 percent in the last few years), and in addressing geographic and income-related health
disparities.

          Table 1: Indonesia continues to under-perform on some critical health outcomes
Country or category
                                          Life     Infant    Under-5         Maternal            DPT Skilled birth
                        Per-capita expectancy mortality mortality        mortality rate immunization attendance
                              GNI       (2006) rate (2006) rate (2006)           (2005)    rate (2006) (2000-2006)
                       (2006 USD)      (years) (per 1000) (per 1000)     (per 100,000)            (% )         (%)
Bangladesh                   440            64         52          69             570             88           20
Cambodia                     480            57         68          87             540             82           44
Vietnam                      690            71         15          17             150             94           90
India                        820            64         57          76             450             55           47
Sri Lanka                  1,170            75         11          13              58             99           96
Indonesia                  1,420            68         26          34             420             70           72
Philippines                1,420            71         24          32             230             88           60
China                      2,010            72         20          24              45             93           98
Thailand                   2,990            70          7           8             110             98           97
Malaysia                   5,490            74         10          12              62             96           98
East Asia & Pacific         1672            71         22          27             124             90           92
Lower middle income         1936            71         23          28             130             91           92

Sources and notes: World Bank (2008a) and World Bank (2008b) drawing on WDI and WHO
data.


National averages for health indicators mask significant geographic and income-related inequalities
within the country. In poorer provinces, such as Gorontalo and West Nusa Tenggara, the infant and
child mortality rates are four to five times higher than those in richer provinces such as Bali and
Yogyakarta. Health indicators for the poor are also far worse than those for the rich: child mortality rates
among the poorest quintile in 2003 were 3.5 times the rate among the richest quintiles (World Bank,
2008a).

Behind the impressive increase in enrollment rates at the national level, wide regional and systemic
differences remain. Indonesia tends to lag behind other lower middle income countries in early
childhood education and higher education, with gross enrollment rates of 21 percent and 17 percent
respectively. In addition, while the enrollment gap between males and females and across income groups
has been reduced ­ especially at the primary education level ­ striking inequalities remain across income
groups at the pre-school, junior secondary and senior secondary levels. Indonesia also scores poorly and
lags behind in student learning in international assessments, indicating that the quality of education
remains a concern.

                                                      102
Access to water supply services in Indonesia is among the lowest in the region. Provision of piped
water services is inadequate. The percentage of the urban population served by piped water had reached
40 percent by 1997 but declined to 31 percent in 2005; the national average is only 17 percent. Access to
improved water has declined from 90 percent in 1995 to 87 percent. The environmental consequences of
access through large-scale use of private unregulated wells are high. Land subsidence, higher costs of
reaching drinkable well water and proximity to septic tanks pose high environmental and health risks. The
high incidence of water-borne diseases disproportionately affects the poor. Climate change is predicted to
lead to some water shortage in some areas and thus exacerbate the difficulty in clean water provision to
the community.

Sanitation coverage in Indonesia is well below the average for South-East Asian countries, being 55
percent compared to 67 percent in 2006. Network sewerage coverage, estimated at 1.3 percent, is one of
the lowest in Asia. Sanitation coverage has increased nationwide by 9 percentage points since 1990 but,
on current trends, Indonesia will fall short of the MDG sanitation target of 73 percent by 10 percentage
points, or about 25 million people. Over 96 percent of human waste is not treated prior to disposal while
the manner in which private sanitation systems (including septic tanks) are managed and operated
frequently risks contamination of ground and surface water.

Environmental degradation contributes to high economic and social costs. High deforestation rates
contribute to decreasing water quality, soil fertility and land productivity as well as increasing water
shortages, fires and haze, health impacts, downstream siltation and flooding. Moreover, because a fifth of
Indonesians live in government-administered "forest zone" (which may lack trees), they are vulnerable to
shifts in policies and land use claims, which can result in conflicts and increasing pressure on state assets
and budgets. Fisheries resources that provide the main source of livelihood for fishing communities are
also declining throughout the country; fishing communities have nearly twice the poverty rate as the
national average and are vulnerable to loss of fisheries habitat, climate change and rising fuel prices.
Indonesia's environmental conditions impose significant economic costs (Bappenas, 2007). The health
and other economic costs attributable to water pollution and limited access to safe water and sanitation are
estimated to have been US$ 6.3 billion in 2006 (2 percent of GDP). The annual costs of air pollution to
the Indonesian economy have been calculated at around US$ 400 million per year. These costs are
disproportionately borne by the poor because they are more likely to be exposed to pollution and less
likely to be able to afford mitigation measures. As climate change  without proper adaptation ­ will
likely intensify environmental degradation in both terrestrial and marine biomes, it will also increase the
threat to food security and of vector-borne diseases.

3. Employment
Despite recent signs of progress, Indonesia lags behind its more prosperous neighbors in producing
higher value-added non-agricultural jobs.

Employment growth has failed to match population growth since the crisis and job creation in the
formal sector has been especially sluggish. Between 1999 and 2003, the percentage of the Indonesian
workforce employed in the formal sector fell from 43 percent to 35 percent. There are signs of a recovery
since then but the employment rate in the formal sector is still below what it was prior to the crisis. The
open unemployment rate, which was 8.1 percent in 2001, rose further to 11.2 percent in 2005 before
falling to 9.1 percent in 2007. This trend is mostly driven by youth aged 15 to 24, who have consistently
made up over half of the unemployed and currently have an unemployment rate of 25 percent.
Unemployment is especially high ­ roughly 33 percent ­ among young people under the age of 25 with
high school and college degrees. In addition, real median wages, after growing rapidly from 1999 to
2003, have since stagnated.


                                                    103
Increasing numbers of workers were pushed into agriculture after the crisis; in 2008, over 40
percent of Indonesia's labor force still derives its livelihood from low-productivity activities in
agriculture and related areas. During the post-crisis recovery period, increasing numbers of workers were
pushed into agriculture and by 2003, agricultural employment had returned to 1991 levels. Most of the
increase in agricultural employment came at the expense of the service sector, a driver of pre-crisis
expansion. Non-agricultural employment resumed growing rapidly between 2003 and 2006 and
agricultural employment fell to its lowest level since 1997. Despite this growth, just 30 percent of the
labor force is employed in high-value added activities in manufacturing and services. Indonesia's
agricultural productivity has been low with just half the average productivity of the services sector and
one-eighth of the productivity of industry. There have been no signs of productivity improvement despite
the recent falling share of the labor force engaged in agricultural employment. In 2008, over 40 percent
of Indonesia's labor force still derives its livelihood from low-productivity activities in agriculture and
related areas. Indonesia is not keeping up with its neighbors in moving workers out of agriculture and
progress has stagnated (see Figure 1). Vietnam has a high share of agricultural employment but it is
falling quickly as the country's share of industrial employment is increasing and will soon surpass
Indonesia. Thailand has already surpassed Indonesia and workers are continuing to move off the farm
while Malaysia's share of agriculture workers remains stable and very low.


Figure 1: Unlike its neighbors, Indonesia is not moving its workers out of agriculture

   80                                Share of the labor force in agriculture (%)
   70
               THA
   60                                                                                                               VNM
   50
                                                                                                                              IDN
   40
                                                                                                                            PHL
   30
   20
                                                                                                                    MYS
   10                                                                                                                       KOR
    0
        1990

                1991

                       1992

                              1993

                                       1994

                                              1995

                                                     1996

                                                            1997

                                                                   1998

                                                                          1999

                                                                                 2000

                                                                                        2001

                                                                                               2002

                                                                                                      2003

                                                                                                             2004

                                                                                                                     2005

                                                                                                                             2006




Sources and notes: WDI and BPS (SAKERNAS labor force surveys).


In the future, the labor absorbing capacity of the agricultural sector, including fishery, is predicted to be
lower due to decreases in productivity of the biomes induced by the climate change. Shrinking
agricultural lands and degradation of coral reef system due to temperature rise will lead to declining
productivity, hence employment opportunities in these sectors. As noted in Chapter 3, women and
female-headed households are a higher share of Indonesia's poor and are more susceptible to negative
shocks from natural disasters, economic downturns, or climate induced impacts. Climate changes that
affect water supply, agriculture, livelihood options and disease processes can also have unequal gender
impacts, an area that needs more study.




                                                                                 104
4. Participatory Processes and Consultations for GOI Climate Change Agenda

Indonesia has had a wide and public dialogue on climate change issues, and on the program loan as an
instrument. Climate change has been an issue of national prominence since UNFCCC COP13 was held in
Bali in 2007. Since the President's commitment at the G-20 meeting in September, this issue has gained
even more attention, both inside and outside of government. The GOI's foundational climate change
documents (see prior actions) have been launched at multi stakeholder events. The table below highlights
some key events and examples of stakeholder consultations.

Although most international attention and funding have focused on mitigation, most Indonesian
institutions and NGOs see adaptation as the key priority and seek greater balance in the level of attention.
Poor and marginalized communities are also a great focus of attention, with the caution that climate-
related interventions should aim to assist development and relieve poverty, not just transfer carbon
payments among those currently controlling resources and wealth.

Indonesia's key advocacy organizations for communities and indigenous peoples are fully engaged on the
issues of climate change, and particularly LUCF. The Indigenous Peoples Alliance of the Archipelago
(AMAN) is an invited participant / observer in the FCPF governance process and is quite clear and able in
expressing its views about rights and REDD and has influenced the development of both UN REDD and
FCPF programs in Indonesia.

The Bank's Country Partnership Strategy is developed through consultations with government and
external organizations. The Bank developed a CEA focused on climate change and launched it in
November 2009 in a multi-stakeholder venue. Both the CPS and the CEA specifically foresee DPL as
one of the instruments for engaging on climate change issues.

In the specific case of the CCPL, this has been the topic of public comment since August 2008, when first
announced. Indonesia's free and active press has carried articles describing the program and the early
debate within the GOI about the value of this instrument. Currently, the Steering Committee is the main
governance body where a wide range of positions and agencies are represented.

                                     Event                                             Date
     Consultation on Indonesia Climate Change Sectoral Roadmap (ICCSR)      November 2009
     Launching of Indonesia Climate Change Sectoral Roadmap (ICCSR)         31 March 2010, Bappenas
     2nd National Communication to UNFCCC                                   Nov 2009, Hotel Borobudur
     National REDD Strategy consultations                                   March 2009; Sept 2009
     DNPI McKinsey Mitigation cost curve consultation                       June-July 2009
     DNPI McKinsey cost curve launch                                        Oct 2009
     RPJM Medium Term Development Plan                                      Jan 2010, Bappenas
     ICCTF (Indonesia Climate Change Trust Fund) consultation               June-September 2009
     ICCTF launch                                                           Oct 2009, Bappenas
     National Water Council launch                                          August 2008
     National Climate Change Council launch                                 June 2008
     National Energy Council launch                                         August 2009
     UNREDD                                                                 August-Oct 2009
     FCPF (Forest Carbon Partnership Facility)                              September 2009
     WB CPS                                                                 Dec 2008
     WB CEA, Environmental Issues Discussion                                19 Nov 2009
     CTF donors & NGOs consultation during joint mission                    Nov 5-13, 2009

                                                   105
5. Social and Poverty Impacts: Review of Operation

This section examines the proposed prior actions of the CC DPL in the context of potential effects on
poverty and social issues and the capacity for the GOI to mitigate potential negative effects through
specific programs or social safety nets. A summary is provided in the table 1below.

Social and poverty impacts will generally be positive or neutral, but with potential for negative
effects related to REDD and geothermal energy development that need to be addressed by GOI.
The Bank's FCPF engagement and UN-REDD assistance (with the potential addition of FIP and other
development partners) aim to help the GOI address these issues on the forestry side. On the energy side,
the Bank has a wide range of engagements with the GOI on energy pricing and social safety net issues
(some of which are summarized in Chapter IV).

The team consulted Bank guidance to perform the analysis of "likelihood of significant effects,"
relying on the Good Practice Note: Using Poverty and Social Impact Analysis to Support Development
Policy Operations. Further analytical support to analyze GOI's capacity to mitigate identified potential
negative impacts have been derived from the Indonesia Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) (WB
2009); Sustaining Economic Growth, Rural Livelihoods, and Environmental Benefits: Strategic Options
for Forest Assistance in Indonesia (WB 2006); Ministry of Finance Green Paper: Economic and Fiscal
Policy Strategies for Climate Change Mitigation in Indonesia (Ministry of Finance 2009); Making the
New Indonesia Work for the Poor (WB 2006); and Developing a market for REDD in Indonesia (WB
2009).

Policy Area 1: Climate Change Mitigation. Prior actions for this policy area have the potential for
significant negative effects in relation to policies that have effects on peatland, forests/REDD, and
geothermal energy promotion.

The CC DPL operation supports REDD readiness activities, which include preparatory analyses,
development of a regulatory framework and identifying demonstration projects. Once operational, a
REDD program has the potential for negative social and poverty effects by restricting the use of the
natural resource asset by local stakeholders and mismanagement/misplacement of REDD funds. For peat
land conservation or rehabilitation, significant negative effects can be caused if interventions occur on
lands that have on-going activity by small holders, forcing those affected to relocate to new areas or
discontinue with their activity (e.g., annual crops or oil palm cultivation.)

For these reasons, the GOI is undertaking a Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment
(SESA) as it prepares for implementation of REDD strategy options (see text box below). The SESA
is a tool that aims to employ analytical and participatory approaches to evaluate social, economic and
institutional linkages and to integrate environmental and social consideration into policies, plans and
programs that get implemented in the service of REDD. The REDD program, and specifically the SESA,
are supported through the Bank's FCPF engagement, where a grant agreement with the GOI is under
preparation. At the same time, UN REDD is engaging on similar issues with communities and
indigenous peoples, though in specific sites in Indonesia. This analytical work is not a final answer to the
social concerns, but rather part of a process of identification, awareness and resolution.




                                                   106
                            Overview of the Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment

     SESA is a tool that aims to employ analytical and participatory approaches to evaluate social, economic and
     institutional linkages and to integrate environmental and social consideration into policies, plans and programs
     that get implemented in the service of REDD.

     SESA has two components: the strategic assessment (SA) and the Environmental and Social Management
     Framework (ESMF). The assessment addresses drivers of deforestation by applying analytical tools as well as
     participatory processes. The assessments aim to develop recommendations for institutional, policy and legal
     adjustment to the REDD strategy. After the SA identifies potential policies and legal adjustments, the
     management framework looks at institutional, regulatory and capacity requirements to implement these. The
     ESMF includes/addresses baseline social and environmental situation, potential risks and impacts of proposed
     adjustments, interventions and projects within the REDD strategy, and scenario analyses. The ESMF helps to
     monitor and mitigate potential both social and environmental risks of implementation of the REDD strategy.

     The SA should provide inputs for policy recommendations at a national scale. The ESMF comes after to monitor
     the implementation of REDD strategy implementation phase. The ESMF should address gaps concerning legal
     institutional, regulatory and capacity to manage social and environmental risks and outline applicable safeguard
     policies. SESA is used to encourage public awareness and to encourage stakeholders to participate in refining and
     implementing the REDD strategy.

     SESA has two kinds of outputs: First, it contributes to identifying and minimizing potential risks that might
     result from the implementation of REDD policy. Second, it contributes to identifying and capturing potential
     benefits of both social and environmental impacts that might be delivered from the REDD policy.

     The SESA approach can be used to assess drivers of deforestation, assess REDD demonstration activities in
     specific sites, identify general issues related to land and forest uses being raised by key stakeholders, or describe
     management and governance issues, such as distribution of REDD revenues. SESA helps stakeholders and
     government to pay sufficient attention to traditional forest users, communities that depend on forest to support
     their livelihoods, including women and indigenous peoples and how REDD may affect them, as well as groups
     who use forest resources for commercial purposes.



Substantial preparatory work and consultations to develop a working scheme for REDD and for
peatland have already been completed by GOI, including the Indonesia Forest Climate Alliance
consolidation report, the REDD regulatory framework (see prior actions), and the Forest Resource
Information System. All of these reports and rules are available on websites and are discussed in the
press, so that stakeholders, researchers and advocacy organizations have the opportunity to understand the
issues and judge potential negative aspects and to take action to adjust the outcomes. Indonesia's REDD
framework was developed not only by regulatory processes, but also through consultation processes with
key stakeholders at both national and sub-national levels. It is recognized that demonstration activities
will have to consider forest conditions, as well as socio-economic conditions and customary community
practices of those living in the forest vicinity and sustaining their livelihoods from it. The GOI has stated
that REDD is not just about deforestation and selling carbon credits, but also about sustainable
development, governance, poverty reduction and economic development.17 This indicates that the GOI
understands the issues, takes them seriously, and is working actively to address these points as it develops
its REDD program, within the context of the legislative and budget constraints that it faces. As an
example, the Ministry of Forestry and the Ministry of Finance are now working together to formulate a
regulatory approach to the mechanism for the distribution of proceeds from REDD. The legitimacy of a
prior decree was questioned by both government and non-government stakeholders because of potential


17
     Developing a market for REDD in Indonesia. The World Bank Indonesia REDD team. January 2009.

                                                            107
inequity in the distribution of benefits and now the rule is under review. This shows that Indonesia's
governance systems and consultation processes are robust enough to question and revise rules that are
established with insufficient attention to unintended consequences.

Indonesia also has an increasingly complex set of institutions, advocacy organizations, and a free
press that help to guard against excesses of regulatory power that would tend to disadvantage or
marginalize certain groups in the course of a REDD program. For example, the National Climate
Change Council and the National Forest Council are governmental institutions with legal basis that serve
in part as venues for multi-stakeholder consultations and wider reviews of government policies and
implementation approaches. The international REDD framework will also include mechanisms on how a
REDD system should mitigate possible negative impacts on the poor and increase social benefits from
REDD.      Thus, Indonesia's REDD program is being developed in the context of an international
framework of consultations, performance expectations, and independent scrutiny. For all these reasons,
we believe that there are appropriate and available processes (and watchdog organizations to monitor the
processes) for potentially affected communities to participate in decision making, to register complaints
about unfair distribution of resources or benefits, and to seek redress through regulatory processes or the
media.

Although there is some potential for negative social/poverty outcomes, this potential depends on
how a REDD scheme or peatland intervention is ultimately designed and carried out. With
sufficient guidance, consultation and technical input, it should be possible to design approaches that do
not disadvantage the poor, or compensate them sufficiently for losses. The potential for negative impacts
must also be evaluated against the certainty of the business-as-usual path, which would entail continuing
loss of habitat and biodiversity, degrading environmental conditions, inequitable distribution of benefits
and ongoing marginalization of poor and indigenous communities. In this regard, there is at least some
potential that an open process of development and design of REDD or peat land intervention, with
sufficient consultation and compensation could result in some poor communities getting improved living
conditions (e.g., more secure tenure on a different plot of land, or better quality of environment on an
existing plot of land). Land-use patterns and values will be affected; some will gain and others will lose
financially from implementation of REDD approaches, or more rigorous environmental standards in land
management. Some people will discontinue livelihood activities in some areas and possibly move to
other areas, creating social dynamics that may have negative consequences. There is a need for caution to
ensure that implementation of REDD schemes does not unduly restrict the livelihoods or deny the rights
of indigenous peoples, or marginalized groups or women. With appropriate assignment of property
rights, REDD schemes have the potential to generate financial benefits for forest dependent communities.
More work will be needed to harmonize regulations and incentives across departments and levels of
government to ensure appropriate, transparent, and accountable approaches to REDD revenue distribution
and fiscal balance with local governments. There is a lack of capacity among regional stakeholders to deal
with all the complex issues surrounding carbon trade, avoided deforestation and monitoring pilot
implementation, but this is being developed through an expanding range of development partner and
NGO investments and programs, with active participation of civil society organizations, such as the
Partnership for Governance and others.

The REDD framework being developed in Indonesia will ultimately have to come up with
mechanisms to avoid or mitigate such developments. The process of REDD program development in
Indonesia is being assisted by a growing set of investments at field and policy level by a host of bilateral
development partners and multilateral agencies through the FPCF and UN REDD programs. The global
and domestic NGO communities, as well as indigenous communities' representatives, are well aware of
these issues and engaged in the process at policy and implementation level. These investments and civil
society checks offer the potential to improve the positive and reduce the negative aspects of REDD
implementation.

                                                   108
The policy actions to promote geothermal energy development in the CC DPL operation include
pricing reforms and compensation mechanisms. Geothermal electricity is more expensive than coal-
fired power in Indonesia and someone has to pay this difference. If the government covers the cost
difference directly to PLN through a compensation mechanism or subsidy, this increases the burden on
the state budget and has an opportunity cost in terms of other possible pro-poor spending programs. If the
government allows the price of electricity to rise to cover this cost, consumers will pay more for
electricity. While geothermal is only a small share of overall power production, the incremental impact
on the overall cost of electricity in the case of cost pass through will be small. Since the objective is to
increase the share of renewables over time, it is useful to discuss, design and implement mitigation
options before price distortions or dislocations become larger.

Indonesia already has substantial positive experience with providing a social safety net to protect
the poor in the case of energy price rises. The cash transfer scheme to mitigate the impact of a price
rise GOI has been used in the case of fuel price hikes in the past. The cash transfer scheme targets poor
households with quarterly cash payments, in an amount calculated to offset much of the increased cost
based on average daily use. The Bank has assisted the government in the design and implementation of
this scheme since 2005 when it was first introduced. The approach has evolved into a conditional cash
transfer, where the (increasingly well targeted) recipients are expected to show evidence of health or
school visits in return for the transfer payment.18 Another option for mitigating the impact of price rises is
to devise a progressive tariff structure so that the well-off pay more for energy than the poor. In fact, the
two options can and have been used together, for example, as in prior fuel price hikes, the cost of
kerosene was held to rise less steeply, as it is a fuel predominately used by poorer members of society.
This demonstrates that the government has the capacity, experience and regulatory options at its disposal
to mitigate the impact of an energy price rise on the poor.

Policy areas 2 (Climate Change Adaptation) and 3 (Institutional and cross-sectoral issues) were not
identified to contain prior actions that would cause significant negative poverty or social impacts.
Rather, these actions aim to assist poorer social groups, such as farmers or coastal communities, to
develop skills and capacity to adapt the effects of climate change in the future.

The policy actions on energy policy and promotion of renewable energy sources and energy
efficiency also have the potential to reduce over-use of fossil fuels, reduce GHG emissions, and
produce co-benefits in terms of reduced local air pollution and improved health outcomes. More
efficient energy use and pricing will make Indonesia's economy more efficient and potentially free up
resources that can be directed toward job creation and poverty alleviation. Particular investments in
power plants in particular sites will need environmental impact statements and mitigation plans.
Indonesia's laws and capacity for these kinds of reviews is increasing and the legal basis for enforcement
of environmental laws was strengthened in 2009. Communities and civil society groups are well
informed about the environmental review process and have opportunities to be heard in the existing
process. Local government capacity for implementation remains weak, but is being improved.




18
  The Bank is supporting Indonesia's crisis monitoring and response system to better target the poor and supporting
both PNPM and the Family Support Program, which targets the poorest households with pregnant women and their
young children by providing conditional cash transfers.

                                                       109
                                              Annex 6: Table 1 Poverty and Social Assessment Review
                                                                                    Poverty and Social Assessment Review
                                                                             (OP 8.60 review of "likelihood of significant effects")
POLICY AREA 1: MITIGATION
No. Policy Action                        Impact         Potential negative effects and government mitigation capacity                    Potential positive impacts
                                         19

1.    Improve policy coordination        Yellow    Rehabilitation of peat land can exclude its possible current use by small
      and management of peat land                  holders.
                                                    Potential negative impacts can be identified through consultations and
                                                   community engagement                                                                Improved health outcomes due to
                                                    Appropriate and acceptable compensation can be negotiated, in cash or              reduced smoke and haze
                                                   kind (suitable land elsewhere)
                                                    Ongoing GOI process to develop coordination mechanism a
                                                   presidential decree has potential for improved decisions and outcomes.
2.    Improve regulatory framework Yellow          Potential likelihood of significant positive and negative effects (of eventual
      for REDD implementation and                  REDD implementation):
      develop demonstration                        - Inequitable distribution of benefits
      activities                                   - Restriction of access to traditional users of forest.
                                                   - Corruption/mismanagement of funds.
                                                   - Lack of capacity among regional stakeholders to deal with all the
                                                                                                                                     Deforestation rates decreased.
                                                   complex issues surrounding carbon trade, avoided deforestation and
                                                                                                                                     Increased local livelihoods for local
                                                   monitoring pilot implementation.
                                                                                                                                     populations.
                                                    Potential negative impacts and capacity development needs are being
                                                   addressed through the Indonesia's response to the international REDD
                                                   framework.
                                                    GOI is undertaking a strategic environmental and social assessment
                                                   (SESA) with Bank assistance
                                                    MOFR decree on the distribution of benefits from REDD is being
                                                   reviewed and improved.
3.    Improve basis for timber           Green     No likelihood of significant negative effects                                       Illegal logging rates reduced
      legality, strengthen institutions,                                                                                               Illegal use of fire to clear land
      and improve incentives                                                                                                           reduced, reduced forest fires
                                                                                                                                       SFM practices improved



19
          Grading adapted from Assessing the Environmental, Forest, and Other Natural Resource Aspects of Development Policy Lending ­ A World Bank Toolkit (2008): Red
­ Very Likely Negative Impact; Yellow- Potential for Negative Impact; Blue ­ No Impact; Green ­ Positive Impact.
                                                                                 110
4.    Improve policy framework to     Yellow    Potential likelihood of significant positive and negative effects:
                                                                                                                            More clean domestic energy
      promote renewable energy                   If higher electricity price is passed through to consumers, the poor
                                                                                                                            Improved energy security.
      development and investment                    could be affected.
                                                                                                                            Reduced emissions of GHGs and
                                                 GOI has experience with a social safety net program (unconditional
                                                                                                                            conventional pollutants
                                                cash transfer to poor) during the previous fuel subsidy cuts.
                                                                                                                            Increased competitiveness
                                                 GOI could design a progressive tariff scheme that protects the poor
                                                while charging the well off more. Could use both mechanisms together.
5.  Improve policy framework to Green           No likelihood of significant negative effects.
                                                                                                                        - Greater efficiency in energy use, more
    promote energy efficiency
                                                                                                                        competitive fossil fuel using sectors
    development and investment
POLICY AREA 2: ADAPTATION AND DISASTER PREPAREDNESS
No. Policy action                 Impact    Potential negative effects and government mitigation capacity                      Potential positive impacts
6.  Establish strategic water     Green  No likelihood of significant negative effects.                                      Reduced vulnerability of
    management plans in key river                                                                                            communities in high-risk areas to
    basins                                                                                                                   natural disasters, including those
                                                                                                                             that are exacerbated by climate
                                                                                                                             change
7.    Scale up actions to improve       Green   No likelihood of significant negative effects.                              Reduced vulnerability to climate-
      climate resilience in agriculture                                                                                     inducted drought and changing
                                                                                                                            rainfall patterns
8.  Scale up actions to establish     Green  No likelihood of significant negative effects.                                 Increased resilience to climate-
    national disaster risk reduction                                                                                        intensified disasters
    and management system
9.  Establish systems and strategies Green   No likelihood of significant negative effects.                                 Higher capacity of coastal
    to improve climate                                                                                                      communities to adapt to climate
    preparedness and resilience in                                                                                          change
    the coastal and marine sector
POLICY AREA 3: CROSS SECTORAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
No. Policy action                     Impact    Potential negative effects and government mitigation capacity                 Potential positive impacts
10. Strengthen knowledge base and Blue       No likelihood of significant negative effects                                  Improved climate governance and
    legal basis for climate change                                                                                          higher accountability
    action and link these to national
    budgeting and planning
    processes
11. Strengthen policy coordination Blue      No likelihood of significant negative effects.                                 More effective mainstreamining of
    and develop financing                                                                                                   climate in development planning
    mechanisms for addressing                                                                                               and budgeting
    climate change




                                                                             111
Annex 7: Environmental Assessment
Overview of Environmental Issues in Indonesia20

Indonesia's forests are among the most extensive, diverse and valuable in the world. Indonesia holds
the world's third largest tropical rainforest, with forest land covering about 120 million ha or about 60%
of the country's land area. Indonesia is often referred to as a mega biodiversity region, i.e. having one of
the highest levels of biological diversity in the world. In terms of species diversity, Indonesia is among
the top five in the world. Over half of these species are endemic plants only found in Indonesia. Indonesia
is not only rich in species diversity, but also in the wealth of its different ecosystems. Indonesia is also
rich in marine and coastal ecosystems and is part of the `coral triangle' epicenter of marine biodiversity.

However, Indonesia's terrestrial biodiversity is threatened with rapid deforestation, though now
evidence shows the rate declining. Impacts of human activities, including habitat destruction, over
exploitation, illegal logging and forest clearance have resulted in Indonesia hosting a long list of
endangered species. Recent estimates indicate that, although reduced from past highs, deforestation and
forest degradation is still over 1 million ha per year. In addition to impacts on biodiversity, habitat and
landscapes, deforestation, forest degradation and peat fires are resulting in globally significant GHG
emissions, which amount to over two-thirds of Indonesia's total emissions. For Indonesia, tackling
emissions from LULUCF and peat provides the most cost effective short to medium term emission
reduction opportunity.

In the future, fossil fuel emissions will continue to grow and may exceed forest and land use
emissions, if those are brought under control. Thus, the energy sector is an important for moving
toward a low carbon development path. Indonesia's electrification rate is presently around 66%. The
government target is to increase this to 93% by 2020. Under the Government's power generation program,
a first phase of 10,000 MW of capacity has been commissioned in recent years, mainly from coal-fired
plants. A second 10,000 MW program will rely more on geothermal and renewable energy sources.
Indonesia has the world's largest geothermal energy reserves and has other renewables (hydropower,
wind, solar, and biomass). Yet, with current energy price distortions, it will be more difficult to promote
efficiency, cleaner technology or innovation for environmental and climate benefits.

Inadequate environmental management remains a challenge for Indonesia. Over the past decade,
many aspects of environmental management and natural resource management have been decentralized to
the local level. Natural resource management and environmental quality are now more dependent on local
leadership, institutional capacity and willingness to conform to national standards and regulations. The
current picture across Indonesia is mixed, with some regions demonstrating commitment to sustainability,
while others are opting for exploitation with short-term gains. Greater local control has had positive
aspects through reputational programs, greater political will, interagency collaboration, community
empowerment, and integration of environment in spatial planning. At the same time, decentralization has
revealed obstacles to good environmental management, including: inadequate standards and enforcement;
distorted incentives; lack of community empowerment; and insufficient local government implementation
and enforcement capacity.


20
  This analysis draws on the following documents: World Bank (2009). Investing in a More Sustainable Indonesia:
Country Environmental Analysis. BAPPENAS (2007) Indonesia Country Natural Resource Environmental
Analysis. Jakarta. World Bank (2007). Towards an Efficient Fuel Products Market in Indonesia: Achieving an
Equitable and Sustainable Policy. World Bank (2006), Sustaining Economic Growth, Rural Livelihoods, and
Environmental Benefits: Strategic Options for Forest Assistance in Indonesia. Ministry of Environment (2008),
State of the Environment Report.

                                                     112
There is an impressive set of laws, policies, programs, and national as well as local institutions that
are responsible for environmental and natural resource management. The latest developments
include the revision of the environmental legislation, which now has a more robust approach to the use of
Environmental Impact Assessment and expanded enforcement authority, among others improvements.
Despite the substantial investment in environment and natural resources policy and staff development,
actual implementation of rules and procedures has been poor due to weak commitment by sector agencies,
low awareness in local departments and capacity challenges at all levels. Also, awareness about the
expected negative environmental impacts of unmanaged and exploitative development and the
mechanisms for stakeholders to hold government agencies accountable for their performance are weak.
Environmental considerations have only been integrated weakly into planning and programming
processes, especially in the area of public investment and in regional plans for land and resource use.

Indonesia's spending for environmental purposes was low for the decade prior to 2006, but has
begun to increase substantially in recent years. Environmental revenue collection has been low and
natural resources have been under-valued. Fuel and electricity subsidies enhance over-consumption,
burden the budget and benefit higher income groups, while making it difficult for renewables to compete.
Legal and financial incentive structures are not very effective in curbing illegal logging, but recent
changes in the deforestation rate show some progress. Policy distortions in fishing and mining have
contributed to unsustainable harvesting patterns and illegal mining activities. Conflicting sector-based
regulations and national laws, including those involving decentralization, contribute to the weak
implementation. Environmental fiscal reform is one approach to address these distortions through the use
of taxation and pricing instruments to raise revenues, but also to provide incentives for more sustainable
behavior. The Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Finance are now developing the capacity and
tools for wider application of environmental fiscal reform with assistance from the German and Danish
governments.

Forest loss is one of the most prominent causes of environmental degradation. The drivers of
deforestation include governance failings, illegal logging, land use conflicts, and deliberate
conversion for agricultural uses, including cash crops and tree crops. In this last category, oil palm
stands out as a major contributor, since its high value and market growth are attractive to both large and
small holders. Ten provinces account for 78 percent of dry forest loss and 96 percent of swamp forest
loss as well as related emissions, with just Riau, Central Kalimantan and South Sumatra accounting for
over half of all losses and emissions. Although there is uncertainty about the magnitude of such
emissions, there is consensus that forestry and land use are key priorities for mitigation. The policy and
institutional issues, driving forces, impacts, and development costs of forest and land degradation have
been well-known for many years in Indonesia.

The conversion of peatlands for agricultural or plantation use through burning and drainage is a
concern because peatland has much higher GHG emissions than dryland forests and because
emissions continue for long periods as the drained peat compresses, degrades and oxidizes. Peat
forests are being degraded via tree removal and drainage for plantation or agricultural development, using
canals for wood removal, burning and drainage for development of plantation crops, such as oil palm and
pulpwood. Opening up and draining of peat lands has enormous consequences outside the development
area as the effects of drainage will extend beyond the project boundary (often a concession) and increase
GHG emissions and fire risks. Recent years have seen a range of conflicting or contradictory policies
regarding peat land, with some Ministries or local governments promoting or subsidizing conversion,
while others strive for protection or rehabilitation. As an example of this, a temporary moratorium on
peatland development was introduced, but later a Ministry of Agriculture decree allowed regulated
conversion on some types of soils in some types of areas. This uncertain and changing policy
environment contributes a short term planning horizon, such that businessmen, developers or local
governments may choose opportunistic projects, rather than sustainable ones with longer term benefits.

                                                  113
Large scale fires are an ongoing challenge for Indonesia, especially during El Niño Southern
Oscillation events. Fires are traditionally used to clear land as a least-cost option by smallholders. The
fires in 1997/1998 affected close to 12 million hectares across Indonesia and led to economic losses,
estimated in the range of $9 billion. Peatlands that have been drained ­ even if plantation development is
halted ­ become more susceptible to fire. Without better land use allocation, equity and law enforcement,
local people and companies will still find it cost effective to use fire to clear land.

Inadequate environmental management and growth without attention to environmental outcomes
and costs ­ poses a challenge for Indonesia that hurts the poor and the economy. The economic
consequences of climate change represent the highest potential cost to Indonesia's economy in the long
term, amounting to annual losses of between 2.5 and 7.0 percent of GDP by the end of the century.
Significant economic losses are also caused by other types of environmental degradation, especially
deforestation, soil depletion, and coastal/marine degradation. Inadequate water and sanitation constitute
the largest short-term cost to the Indonesian economy, estimated at more than $6 billion in 2005 or more
than 2 percent of GDP. The health impacts of outdoor and indoor air pollution have been estimated at
$4.6 billion per year or about 1.6 percent of GNI. In total, environmental degradation costs are likely to
grow in the future and are currently on par with the average annual growth rate. These costs are
disproportionately borne by the poor who are more vulnerable, more exposed and less able to cope with
the impacts of pollution and resource degradation. Climate change has the potential to exacerbate these
impacts and costs.

Adaptation is a priority because of Indonesia's vulnerability to climate change. Specific areas of
Indonesia are highly vulnerable to multiple climate change hazards (drought, floods, landslides, sea level
rise). While temperatures may only increase modestly, more intense rainfall and sea-level rise will
negatively affect food security, water resources, coastal areas, farming and coastal livelihoods, forests,
marine biodiversity, and health. People and ecosystems are especially vulnerable to climate risks on Java,
Bali, parts of Sumatra, and a large area of Papua. Climate change will have the most impact on the
poorest Indonesians who are more likely to be living in marginal areas that are susceptible to drought,
flooding and/or landslides; dependent on climate-sensitive agriculture or fisheries for their livelihoods;
and have fewer assets to cope with the impacts of a changing climate.

While fossil fuel GHG emissions per capita and emissions intensity are low, they are increasing
rapidly. Industry is currently the largest source of carbon emissions, the transport sector is the
largest user of liquid fuels and petroleum is currently the main contributor to CO2 emissions. Even
assuming a decrease in energy intensity, emissions from energy consumption could triple by 2030 from
2005 levels on a business as usual path (as estimated by IEA 2007). Mitigating these emissions will
require more realistic energy pricing, a better enabling environment to develop renewable energy
resources, and greater efficiency in the industrial, power, manufacturing and transport sectors.

Environmental Review of Operation

Environmental effects will generally be positive or neutral and contribute to achieving generally
desired aims of many development and research agencies. The environmental review for CC DPL is
contained in the following matrix and discussed briefly here. The CC DPL's current year operation is
based on a focused set of prior actions achieved in 2009 in the context of the CC-PL process. The Bank's
CC DPL operation will build on the same underlying policy matrix and monitoring framework developed
under the CC-PL process. This environmental review of operation addresses the current program.
Separate OP 8.60 reviews will be conducted along with future operations.



                                                  114
The tools consulted to perform a quick analysis of "likelihood of significant effects" were (i)
Assessing the Environmental, Forest, and Other Natural Resource Aspects of Development Policy
Lending ­ A World Bank Toolkit (2008), (ii) Policy and Institutional Reforms to Support Climate Change
Adaptation and Mitigation in Development Programs ­ A Practical Guide and the (iii) Good Practice
Note on Environmental and Natural Resource Aspects of Development Policy Lending. Further analytical
support to analyze GOI's capacity to mitigate identified potential negative effects have been derived from
the Indonesia Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) (WB 2009); Sustaining Economic Growth, Rural
Livelihoods, and Environmental Benefits: Strategic Options for Forest Assistance in Indonesia (WB
2006); and Ministry of Finance Green Paper: Economic and Fiscal Policy Strategies for Climate Change
Mitigation in Indonesia (Ministry of Finance 2009).

Policy Area 1: Climate Change Mitigation. These proposed policy triggers will, for the most part,
not likely result in significant negative effects. Policy measures on reducing deforestation and
degradation through REDD, improving peatland management, and improving forest governance have
potential for both negative and positive effects to the environment. Preserving forest and peat lands will
have environmental co-benefits beyond GHG emissions reductions, to include improved water
management, improved biodiversity habitat, and reduced health losses associated with smoke and haze.
For peat land conservation, the approaches must be designed carefully and applied according to best
practice and adapted to local and regional circumstances. To enhance outcomes and improve the
underlying rule of law, the CC DPL also proposes policy actions in the area of forest governance and law
enforcement to reduce illegal logging and use of fire in land conversion, in particular.

Policy Area 2: Climate Change Adaptation and Disaster Preparedness. Recent analysis for the
Southeast Asia region suggests that Indonesia is highly vulnerable within the region to various
aspects of a warming climate. The eastern and western portions of densely-populated Java, the coastal
regions of much of Sumatra, parts of western and northern Sulawesi, and southeastern Papua islands all
rank highly in terms of potential climate hazards. Indonesia is susceptible to all major climate change
risks (drought, floods, landslides, sea-level rise) except cyclones. Water management is thus a key
adaptation issue. Proposed policy actions will either have a beneficial or neutral effect on the
environment.

Policy Area 3: Institutional and cross-sectoral issues. Indonesian legislation related to environment
and natural resources management is both detailed and extensive. Yet the regulatory framework is
often overlapping and contradictory between central government and regional level. Provinces and
districts may issue regulations that contradict national legislation or regulations. Without strong
enforcement from the central government, or strong incentives driving local leadership to take a proactive
role in conforming to national environmental legislation and regulation, success in environmental
management at the local level depends largely on the level of commitment or political will of the
individual leadership. Identified policy actions are assessed to be neutral.




                                                  115
                               Annex 7: Table 1. Environmental Review of CC DPL PROPOSED POLICY PROGRAM
            POLICY AREA 1:                                                                       Environmental Review
              MITIGATION                                                        (OP 8.60 review of "likelihood of significant effects ")
No.         Policy Action              Impact21          Potential negative effects and government mitigation capacity                    Potential positive impacts
1.         Improve policy coordination Green            No likelihood of significant negative effects as per Assessing ... The      Can lead to decreased GHG emissions
           and management of peat                       World Bank Toolkit (p. 27).                                                   and retention of existing carbon stocks.
           land                                                                                                                     Improved health outcomes due to less
                                                                                                                                      smoke / haze
2.         Improve regulatory         Yellow        Potential likelihood of significant positive and negative effects (of eventual
           framework for REDD                       REDD implementation):
           implementation and develop               - Deforestation moves outside of areas designated for REDD.
           demonstration activities
                                                                                                                                       Deforestation rates decreased.
                                                     Potential negative impacts and capacity development needs can be
                                                                                                                                       REDD contributes to conservation of
                                                    addressed through properly applied best practices in consultative process,
                                                                                                                                       biodiversity (e.g. tigers)
                                                    design and compensation approaches.
                                                                                                                                       Concentrating on three provinces
                                                     The ongoing development of Indonesia's REDD program is a focal point
                                                                                                                                       contributing over half of deforestation
                                                    for efforts to address these issues.
                                                                                                                                       (Riau, Central Kalimantan, South
                                                     Indonesia's aim to be responsive to the international REDD framework
                                                                                                                                       Sumatra) can have significant effects.
                                                    (with development partner support) offers a good chance that identified
                                                    issues can be addressed responsibly (although resources could be a barrier).
                                                     GOI is undertaking a strategic environmental and social assessment
                                                    (SESA) that will help to develop the stakeholder assessments and strategic
                                                    options to help in developing appriate mitigation responses
3.         Improve basis for timber      Green      No likelihood of significant negative effects as per Assessing the                 Illegal logging rates reduced
           legality, strengthen                     Environmental, Forest, and Other Natural Resource Aspects of                       Illegal use of fire to clear land reduced,
           institutions, and improve                Development Policy Lending ­ A World Bank Toolkit (p.26-27).                       reduced forest fires
           incentives ...                                                                                                              Sustainable Forest Management
                                                                                                                                       practices improved
4.                                       Yellow     Potential likelihood of significant positive and negative effects:
           Improve policy framework                 As per Assessing ... the World Bank Toolkit (p. 39).                                  Cleaner, lower emissions power
           to promote renewable energy                 Potential for PLN to increase tariffs for electricity, potentially leading         generation
           development and investment                    to increase in kerosene use for cooking instead of electric stove.               Promotion of clean domestic energy
                                                     GOI has experience deploying a social safety net program (unconditional              Reduced emissions of GHGs and
                                                    cash transfer to poor) during the previous fuel subsidy cuts to mitigate rise         conventional pollutants
                                                    of kerosene price.

      21
                As per Assessing the Environmental, Forest, and Other Natural Resource Aspects of Development Policy Lending ­ A World Bank Toolkit (2008): Red ­ Very Likely
      Negative Impact; Yellow- Potential for Negative Impact; Blue ­ No Impact; Green ­ Positive Impact.

                                                                                        116
5.     Improve policy framework        Blue/    No likelihood of significant negative effects. As per Assessing the
                                                                                                                             - Greater efficiency in energy use leading
      to promote energy efficiency     Green    Environmental ... World Bank Toolkit (p. 39).
                                                                                                                             to lessened pollution.
      development and investment
        POLICY AREA 2:                                                                     Environmental Review
ADAPTATION AND DISASTER                                                     (OP 8.60 review of "likelihood of significant effects ")
        PREPAREDNESS
No. Policy action                      Impact        Potential negative effects and government mitigation capacity                     Potential positive impacts
6.     Establish strategic water       Green    No likelihood of significant negative effects. As per Assessing the          
      management plans in key                   Environmental, Forest, and Other Natural Resource Aspects of
      river basins                              Development Policy Lending ­ A World Bank Toolkit (p. 37).
7.     Scale up actions to improve     Green    No likelihood of significant negative effects. As per Assessing the          
      climate resilience in                     Environmental, Forest, and Other Natural Resource Aspects of
      agriculture                               Development Policy Lending ­ A World Bank Toolkit (p.24).
8.     Scale up actions to establish   Blue     No likelihood of significant negative effects.                               
      national disaster risk
      reduction and management
      system
9.     Establish systems and           Blue/    No likelihood of significant negative effects. As per Assessing the          
      strategies to improve climate    Green    Environmental, Forest, and Other Natural Resource Aspects of
      preparedness and resilience               Development Policy Lending ­ A World Bank Toolkit (p. 30-31).
      in the coastal and marine
      sector
    POLICY AREA 3: CROSS                                                    (OP 8.60 review of "likelihood of significant effects ")
        SECTORAL AND
    INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
No. Policy action                      Impact        Potential negative effects and government mitigation capacity                     Potential positive impacts
10.    Strengthen knowledge base       Blue     No likelihood of significant negative effects                                
      and legal basis for climate
      change action and link these
      to national budgeting and
      planning processes
11.    Strengthen policy               Blue     No likelihood of significant negative effects.                               
      coordination and develop
      financing mechanisms for
      addressing climate change




                                                                                   117
Annex 8: Overview of World Bank engagements and instruments in Indonesia.

CC DPL is consistent with, and supportive of, the Bank's strategy on climate change and development.
Over the last decade the Bank has worked to integrate climate change concerns into its development
policy. These efforts crystallized in the Bank's Strategic Framework for Climate Change and
Development (2008), which makes effective climate action part of core development efforts. The 2010
World Development Report emphasizes the interrelationship between successful climate action and
development progress in client countries. CC DPL is also consistent with the series of innovative carbon
and climate financing instruments developed over the last decade. The Bank manages climate-related
financing instruments in concert with sustained dialogue with clients on climate change, analytical work
and capacity building efforts.

CC DPL is a strategic component among a range of instruments that the Bank employs to assist Indonesia
with climate-related activities in the forestry and energy sectors. The Bank uses investment lending,
Climate Investment Funds, Carbon Finance, analytical services, and grant resources from GEF and other
sources to address key development and climate challenges.

The following tables illustrate Bank engagements across a range of financing instruments in forestry and
energy in Indonesia. The tables are illustrative, not comprehensive, in regard to development partner
contributions and engagements. Several specific operations are highlighted below the table. This shows
that CC DPL is aligned with other financing instruments and engagements and can add value in key areas.

CC DPL can also enhance new financing instruments that aim to strengthen engagement in REDD, forest
conservation, and forest carbon markets. The Forest Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF) helps prepare a
carbon market for avoided deforestation. Indonesia joined the FCPF through a participation agreement
signed in November 2009. Building on FCPF, the Forest Investment Program provides financing for real
investment in forest protection infrastructure, activities that contribute to countries' REDD and forest
carbon sequestration efforts. Indonesia recently became one of 5 pilot countries for development of an
investment strategy to make use of this instrument.

Assistance for the GOI's forest climate agenda has included access to financing and technical assistance.
In the year before Bali COP 13, the World Bank coordinated development partner support for the
Indonesia Forest Climate Alliance (IFCA) which helped to develop the Government's REDD platform in
2007. Subsequently, Indonesia joined the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility which approved a $3.6
million grant to support the country's REDD readiness program. At the project level, the $17.5 million
Aceh Forest and Environment Project (funded from the Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias) is
supporting several different REDD demonstration projects as models for financing sustainable forest
management. Indonesia has been approved for participation in the Forest Investment Program (of the
Climate Investment Funds), which could provide additional concessional financing for activities to reduce
carbon emissions from forests and preserve existing reservoirs of forest carbon.

The World Bank is supporting the Government's climate agenda with a range of instruments in the energy
sector. In the energy sector, the Bank is developing a $500 million geothermal investment project which
is supported by a GEF grant to improve the investment climate for this renewable resource as well as a
programmatic carbon finance activity. In addition, $400 million of concessional financing from the Clean
Technology Fund has been requested for an investment plan that would further support World Bank and
ADB investments in geothermal as well as IFC and ADB guarantees for commercial bank financing of
other renewables and energy efficiency in the private sector. The Bank is also providing carbon finance
for CDM projects that include solid waste management, industrial energy efficiency and fuel substitution,
and geothermal energy.


                                                  118
Through regular donor coordination meetings, the Bank ensures alignment and avoids overlap with other
donors' activities. Coordination with UN-REDD takes place through the Bank's FCPF engagement. The
Bank's forest sector engagements are consistent with other initiatives and investments and emerge from
the general forest policy dialogue among the GOI, Bank and Donors over the last five years. This shared
understanding of the policy challenges and opportunities is documented in Sustaining Economic Growth,
Rural Livelihoods, and Environmental Benefits: Strategic Options for Forest Assistance in Indonesia, a
joint publication of the Bank with six other development partner organizations. CC DPL focuses on three
main policy directions that are considered essential upstream policy areas that need attention in the forest
sector to make progress on emissions reductions.

Investments are also being made in capacity-building and knowledge generation on climate change.
BAPPENAS, in partnership with AusAID and the World Bank, has developed tools to model the
environmental and climate consequences of different development pathways. The Bank his working with
Ministry of Finance and DNPI to develop the building blocks of a low carbon options study which has
included work on overall emissions as well as the forestry, energy, industrial, and transport sectors. A
continuing partnership also exists with the Ministry of Finance to build its capacity on the use of fiscal
policy to affect climate change mitigation and adaptation.




                                                   119
Table 1: CC DPL Linkages With Forest Sector Engagement Instruments
                                                                               CIF /      FCPF /                                     Development
POLICY AREAS/Activities                           Lending CC DPL               FIP         CPF          AAA/TA           GEF           Partners
FOREST GOVERNANCE
    T imber legality verification                              Direct                                                             EU/UK VPA
    Law enforcement capacity                                                      *                  FLEG                         US Lacey
    Forest revenue systems improvement                         Direct             *                  Low Carbon       Possible    MOF/DFID,
    Local Govt responsibilities                                Indirect           *                  Green Paper      Possible    GT Z, KfW, AUSAID, EU
    T imber tracking & monitoring                                                                                     Possible    EU, US
    MRV implementation                                                            *      Indirect                                 UN
    Private sector practices & incentives         IFC          Indirect                              IFC, FLEG                    EU/UK
REDD
                                                                                                                                  UN REDD, DFID,
    Readiness architecture                                                               Direct      IFCA                         Norway, CIFOR
    Demonstration activities                      IFC          Direct                                                             Many bilaterals& NGOs
    Capacity building : Info sharing                                              *      Direct      IFCA                         Most partners
    Capacity building : Regional Govts                         Indirect           *                                               Many partners
    Carbon revenue mgmt & distribution                                            *                  Low Carbon                   MOF/DFID
    Coordination & scaling up                                                     *      Direct
    Indigenous peoples roles                                                      *      Direct                                   Many partners
REDD PLUS / CONSERVATION
                                                                                                                      ADB Active,
    Biodiversity & Heart of Borneo                                                *                  AFEP, GT I       WB MSP      NGOs, GEF Ias
    3rd party monitoring networks                                                 *                                               NGOS
    Redesignating forest areas                                                    *                                               Many NGOs
    Concession restoration / Private sector       IFC                             *                                   WB Active   NGOS
    Forest plantation development                 IFC                             *                                               Private Sector
    Conservation trust fund, design                                               *                                   Possible    US T FCA, Kehati
PEATLAND
    Mechanisms & incentives                                    Direct             *                  WACLIMAD         Possible    Netherlands, DFID, US
    Revenue sharing instruments                                Direct             *                                   Possible    AUSAID
    Community engagement/revenue sharing                                          *                  WACLIMAD                     Netherlands, DFID
    Oil palm national strategy                                                    *                                               Netherlands, RSPO, IFC
    Fire & haze task force                                                        *                  ADB                          ADB, GT Z
    Linkages with agriculture                                                     *                  WACLIMAD                     Netherlands
BROADER POLICY ISSUES
                                                                                                     IFCA, Industry
     Industry restructuring                                                                          studies                      CIFOR, DFID
     Plantation development                       IFC                             *                  IFC                          Private Sector
     Land use rationalization                                                                                                     Many NGOs

     FIP investment strategy for Indonesia is not developed. * indicates probable or possible areas of investment.




                                                                           120
Table2: CC DPL Linkages with Energy Sector Engagement Instruments
                                                                             Carbon Mkt:                                              Development
POLICY AREAS / Activities              Lending          DPL      CIF / CTF                         AAA/TA               GEF
                                                                                CPF                                                     Partners
RENEWABLE ENERGY

                                    Geothermal                                               Prep: PPIAF study
                                                                 WBG / ADB
   Geothermal power                 Clean Energy                                             on geothermal                            Japan, Private
                                                                 ($300
   development                      Investment                                               resource risk                            Sector
                                                                 million)
                                    Project (PGE)                                            mitigation

                                                                             Prep: Carbon                        Active: Pricing
                                                                             Finance                             Policy, Credible
                                                                                                                                      Japan, AUSAID,
   Geothermal policies & barriers                     CC DPL                 Framework for                       transaction tenders,
                                                                                                                                      NGOs
                                                                             Geothermal                          and risk mitigation
                                                                             Development                         instrument
   Biomass development                                           IFC banks                                                            UN, Germany
                                                                                                                                      Netherlands,
   Biofuel / palm oil                                                        IFC RSPO        Oil palm study
                                                                                                                                      DFID
                                                                             CPF Scoping                                              Germany /
   Micro hydro, solar, wind                                      IFC banks
                                                                             study                                                    PNPM
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
                                                                                                                                      German, US,
   Regulatory reform                                                                                             Possible
                                                                                                                                      Japan, AFD
                                                                                                                                      German, US,
   Energy audits / ESCOS                                                                     Low Carbon          Possible
                                                                                                                                      Japan, AFD
   Carbon market opportunities      IFC                                                      WBI                 Possible
   Private sector investment        IFC                          IFC banks                                       Possible
ENERGY PRICING
                                                                                                                 Pricing and Risk
                                                                                                                                      JICA, AUSAID,
   Geothermal incentives                                                                     Studies, TA         Mitigation Under
                                                                                                                                      KfW
                                                                                                                 GEF
  Electricity pricing                                 IDPL 1-3                               Studies, TA                              US, all
  Fuel pricing                                                                               Studies, TA                              US, all
POWER SUPPLY & DISTRIBUTION
                         Upper Cisokan
  Power supply           Pumped                                                                                                       JICA, AFD
                         Storage project
                                    Java-Bali Power
                                    Project &
   Power transmission &
                                    Transmission                                                                                      JICA, ADB
   distribution
                                    Development
                                    Project
                                                                                             Flagship, low
   Lower carbon options                                                                                                               DFID, AUSAID
                                                                                             carbon study
BROADER ISSUES & INVESTMENT BARRIERS
                                                                                             IFC Transaction
                                                                                                                 credible and
                                                                                             Advie to Central
                                                                                                                 transparent
   Level of foreign investment /                                                             Java Power
                                                      DPL 1-6                                                    geothermal tenders
   climate                                                                                   Project and
                                                                                                                 for geothermal
                                                                                             geothermal tender
                                                                                                                 under GEF
                                                                                             process
   Bureaucracy / cost of doing
                                                      DPL 1-6
   business




                                                                         121
Annex 9: Indonesia at a Glance
Indonesia at a glance                                                                                                                                               2/1
                                                                                                                                                                 4/1 0

                                                                                     East        Lower
Key Development Indicators                                                         Asia &       middle
                                                                                                                 Age distribution, 2008
                                                                    Indonesia      Pacific     income
(2009)                                                                                                                             Male                          Female

Population, mid-year (millions)                                         230.9        1,931       3,702          75-79
Surface area (thousand sq. km)                                         1,905       16,299       32,309          60-64
Population growth (%)                                                      1.2         0.8          1.2
                                                                                                                45-49
Urban population (% of total population)                                  50            44          41
                                                                                                                30-34
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                         513.4        5,080      7,692
                                                                                                                15-19
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                      2,230         2,631      2,078
GNI per capita (PPP, international $)                                  3,830          5,399      4,592            0-4

                                                                                                                        6          4      2       0          2       4    6
GDP growth (%)                                                            4.5           8.0        7.6                             percent of total population
GDP per capita growth (%)                                                 3.3           7.2        6.3

(most recent estimate, 2003­2009)

                               .25
Poverty headcount ratio at $1 a day (PPP, %)                               17            17          ..
                                                                                                                Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Poverty headcount ratio at $2.00 a day (PPP, %)                            50            39          ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                           71            72         68
                                                                                                                100
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                   25            22         46           90
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                 24            13         26           80
                                                                                                                 70
                                 5
Adult literacy, male (% of ages 1 and older)                              95             96         88           60
                                                                                                                 50
                                   5
Adult literacy, female (% of ages 1 and older)                            89             90         77           40
Gross primary enrollment, male (% of age group)                            1
                                                                          16              1
                                                                                         12         1
                                                                                                   12            30
Gross primary enrollment, female (% of age group)                          1
                                                                          12              1
                                                                                         10        106           20
                                                                                                                 10
                                                                                                                  0
Access to an improved water source (% of population)                       80            87         86
Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                 52            66         52                            1990    1995        2000         2007


                                                                                                                            Indonesia            East Asia & Pacific


                                                                                                          a
Net Aid Flows                                             1980          1990          2000       2009

(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                     941          ,71
                                                                         1 6           1,654       796
Top 3 donors (in 2007):
  Australia                                                  48            77            72        335
  United States                                               1
                                                             17            31           174          1
                                                                                                    17
  United Kingdom                                              18           22            34         70

Aid (% of GNI)                                                1.3          1.6           1.1       0.2
Aid per capita (US$)                                            6          1 0            8          4


Long-T erm Economic T rends

Consumer prices (annual % change)                          9.5            7.5           3.7        4.8
GDP implicit deflator (annual % change)                    31.0           7.7          20.4        8.4

Exchange rate (annual average, local per US$)             627.0       1,842.8      8,421 .8    10,390.0
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                             ..          301          100          191
                                                                                                                  1980­90 1990­2000      2000­09
                                                                                                                      (average annual growth %)
Population, mid-year (millions)                           148.3         178.2        206.3       230.9                      1.8               1.5                  1.3
GDP (US$ millions)                                       78,013        1
                                                                      1 4,426      165,021     540,274                      6.1               4.2                  5.3
                                                                         (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                24.0          19.4          15.6       15.3                   3.6                  2.0                  3.4
Industry                                                   41.7          39.1          45.9       47.6                   7.3                  5.2                  4.1
  Manufacturing                                            13.0          20.7          27.7       26.4                  12.8                  6.7                  4.7
Services                                                   34.3          41.5          38.5       34.1                   6.5                  4.0                  8.0

Household final consumption expenditure                      51.4        58.9          60.7       56.6                      5.2                6.6                 4.7
General gov't final consumption expenditure                  10.5         8.8           6.5        9.6                      4.6                0.1                 8.2
Gross capital formation                                      24.1        30.7          22.2       31.0                      7.7               -0.6                 5.9

Exports of goods and services                              34.2          25.3          41.0       24.1                      2.7               5.9                  7.8
Imports of goods and services                              20.2          23.7          30.5       21.3                      1.2               5.7                  8.6
Gross savings                                                 ..            ..            ..         ..


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2009 data are preliminary. Group data are through 2008. .. indicates data are not available.
a. Aid data are for 2007.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                                 122
                                                                                                                                                                         Indonesia

Balance of Payments and T rade                              2000           2009
                                                                                              Governance indicators, 2000 and 2008
(US$ millions)
Total merchandise exports (fob)                            62,124          1
                                                                          1 9,513
Total merchandise imports (cif)                            36,196         92,787               Voice and accountability
Net trade in goods and services                            29,862         21 ,042
                                                                                                       Political stability

Current account balance                                     16,616         10,582
                                                                                                     Regulatory quality
 as a % of GDP                                                 10.1            2.0
                                                                                                               Rule of law
Workers' remittances and
 compensation of employees (receipts)                           ,1
                                                               1 90       6,795                    Control of corruption

Reserves, including gold                                   27,257          66,104                                            0         25            50            75          100

                                                                                                        2008                     Country's percentile rank (0-100)
Central Government Finance                                                                                                          higher values imply better ratings
                                                                                                        2000

(% of GDP)
Current revenue (including grants)                             19.7          15.5            Source: Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastruzzi, World Bank

 Tax revenue                                                     1
                                                                1 .1          1
                                                                             1 .4
Current expenditure                                            15.6          10.2
                                                                                           T echnology and Infrastructure                                      2000           2008
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -1.8          -1.6
                                                                                           Paved roads (% of total)                                               57.1         55.4
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                              Fixed line and mobile phone
 Individual                                                      35          35                                00
                                                                                             subscribers (per 1 people)                                                  5           75
 Corporate                                                       30          30            High technology exports
                                                                                             (% of manufactured exports)                                          16.2         10.8
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                           Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                     143,358          148,454          Agricultural land (% of land area)                                      25            26
Total debt service                                        16,625           20,817          Forest area (% of land area)                                           54.0         48.8
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                                       ­                ­          Nationally protected areas (% of land area)                               ..          1
                                                                                                                                                                                1 .2

Total debt (% of GDP)                                          86.9          27.5          Freshwater resources per capita (cu. meters)                      13,398          12,578
Total debt service (% of exports)                                1
                                                                1 .2          14.1         Freshwater withdrawal (billion cubic meters)                          82.8              ..

Foreign direct investment (net inflows)                            ..           ..         CO2 emissions per capita (mt)                                            1.4          1.9
Portfolio equity (net inflows)                                     ..           ..
                                                                                           GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                            (2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                                  3.7          4.2
  Composition of total external debt, 2009
                                                                                           Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)                            734         803
                      Short-term,         IBRD, 7,876
                        26,565
                                                  IDA, 2,234

                                                         Other multi-                      W orld Bank Group portfolio                                         2000           2008
                                                        lateral, 24,381

                                                                                           (US$ millions)

                                                                                           IBRD
                                                                                            Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                 1 5
                                                                                                                                                                1 ,71          6,968
             Private, 53,685                       Bilateral, 33,713                        Disbursements                                                        1,051         1,398
                                                                                            Principal repayments                                                   761         1,252
                                                                                            Interest payments                                                     950            370

  US$ millions                                                                             IDA
                                                                                            Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                   714         2,006
                                                                                            Disbursements                                                           59           494
Private Sector Development                                  2000           2008             Total debt service                                                      31            40

Time required to start a business (days)                           ­          76           IFC (fiscal year)
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)                     ­         77.9           Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio                              880           664
Time required to register property (days)                          ­           39             of which IFC own account                                             480           650
                                                                                            Disbursements for IFC own account                                       20           208
Ranked as a major constraint to business                    2000           2008             Portfolio sales, prepayments and
 (% of managers surveyed who agreed)                                                          repayments for IFC own account                                        43               79
   Economic and regulatory policy uncertainty                      ..      48.2
   Corruption                                                      ..      41.5            MIGA
                                                                                            Gross exposure                                                          56               50
Stock market capitalization (% of GDP)                         16.3          19.3           New guarantees                                                           0               0
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)                                 6.0         10.0


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2008 data are preliminary.                                                                                     /1
                                                                                                                                                                               4/1 0
.. indicates data are not available. ­ indicates observation is not applicable.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).


                                                                                     123
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                       Indonesia


With selected targets to achieve between 1990 and 2015
(estimate closest to date shown, +/- 2 years)                                                                                   Indonesia


Goal 1: halve the rates for extreme poverty and malnutrition                                                    1990            1995                2000                    2008
                              .25
 Poverty headcount ratio at $1 a day (PPP, % of population)                                                         ..              ..                   ..                      ..
 Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty line (% of population)                                                 ..          17.5                 27.1                    16.7
 Share of income or consumption to the poorest qunitile (%)                                                         ..              ..                   ..                   7.1
 Prevalence of malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                             31.0             27.4                 24.8                  24.4

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling
 Primary school enrollment (net, %)                                                                              96                  ..                 93                     95
 Primary completion rate (% of relevant age group)                                                                94                96                 95                     105
 Secondary school enrollment (gross, %)                                                                           47                48                  55                     73
 Youth literacy rate (% of people ages 15-24)                                                                     96                 ..                  ..                    97

Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empower women
 Ratio of girls to boys in primary and secondary education (%)                                                   93                  ..                     96                    98
 Women employed in the nonagricultural sector (% of nonagricultural employment)                                   29                29                      32                    29
 Proportion of seats held by women in national parliament (%)                                                     12               13                       8                      12

Goal 4: reduce under-5 mortality by two-thirds
 Under-5 mortality rate (per 1  ,000)                                                                              91               66                      48                    31
 Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                                     60               48                      36                    25
 Measles immunization (proportion of one-year olds immunized, %)                                                   58               63                      72                    80

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths
 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled estimate, per 1 00,000 live births)                                             ..               ..                   ..                   420
 Births attended by skilled health staff (% of total)                                                            32               37                   64                      72
 Contraceptive prevalence (% of women ages 1     5-49)                                                           50               55                     ..                    61

Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS and other major diseases
 Prevalence of HIV (% of population ages 1 5-49)                                                                   ..               ..                  0.1                    0.2
 Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 people)                                                                  343              304                  270                    228
 Tuberculosis cases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                        ..                1                  20                     68

Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
 Access to an improved water source (% of population)                                                             72              74                   77                      80
 Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                                                        51              51                  52                      52
 Forest area (% of total land area)                                                                              64.3            59.2                 54.0                   48.8
 Nationally protected areas (% of total land area)                                                                  ..              ..                   ..                    1
                                                                                                                                                                              1 .2
 CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita)                                                                           0.8             1.2                  1.4                     1.9
 GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                                        3.6             4.1                  3.7                    4.2

Goal 8: develop a global partnership for development
                           00
 Telephone mainlines (per 1 people)                                                                               0.6              1.7                  3.2                       13.3
                                00
 Mobile phone subscribers (per 1 people)                                                                          0.0              0.1                  1.8                       61 .6
                      00
 Internet users (per 1 people)                                                                                    0.0              0.0                  0.9                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                  1 .1
                          00
 Personal computers (per 1 people)                                                                                0.1              0.5                  1.0                       2.0


   Education indicators (%)                                    Measles immunization (% of 1-year olds)                   ICT indicators (per 100 people)

   125                                                         100                                                       80
                                                                                                                         70
   100
                                                                75                                                       60
    75
                                                                                                                         50
    50                                                          50                                                       40
                                                                                                                         30
    25
                                                                25                                                       20
     0
                                                                                                                         10
           2000      2002        2004       2006        2008     0                                                        0

                                                                         1990      1995      2000      2007                     2000        2002       2004          2006          2008
             Primary net enrollment ratio


             Ratio of girls to boys in primary & secondary             Indonesia          East Asia & Pacific                  Fixed + mobile subscribers        Internet users
             education




Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. .. indicates data are not available.                                                                          /1
                                                                                                                                                                              4/1 0

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).



                                                                                   124
Annex 10: Map of Indonesia # IBRD 33420R2




                                            125
