Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONIA'
'.}   .   C  .  -   /  i    I
Report No. P-5401-MAI
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 38.6 MILLION
(US$55.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
*                     POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR CREDIT
FEBRUARY 19, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQ'IVALENTS
(February 1991)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha
US$1.00  = MK 2.56
MK1.00 = US$0.39
SDR 1.00 = US$ i.43
MEASURES
Metric Sysiem
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADMARC    Agriculture Development and Marketing Corporation
AIDS      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ASAC      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
DEVPOL    Statement of Development Policies, 1987-1996
ECMAC     Entrepreneurship and Capital Market Adjustment Credit
FIAS      Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FSEDP     Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project
IEC       Information, Education and Communication
ITPAC     Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
MDC       Malawi Development Corporation
MOH       Ministry of Health
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
PHN       Population, Health and Nutrition
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
WHO       World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
Government Fiscal Year: April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
POPULATION HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower          Republic of Malawi
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Health and Ministry of Community Services and
Social Welfare
Amount:           SDR 38.6 million (US$ 55.5 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard, with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan a/ Government         US$  6.3 million
IDA               US$ 55.5 million
EC                US$ 11.1 million
Netherlands/WHO   USS  1.4 million
TOTAL             US$ 74.3 million
Economic Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 9036-MAI
Map:                           IBRD No. 22688
Note: a/  Excludes taxes and duties of US$2.3 million
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bh recipienlts only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A POPULATION HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR CREDIT
1.    The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to the Republic of Malawi for the sum of SDR 38.6 million (US$55.5
million equivalent) Is submitted for approval. Part I of the document
discusses Malawi's development prospects and economic performance, and the
Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part II of the document describes the
proposed credit.
I. Country Policies and Bank Group Assistance Strategy
A. Background
2.    Malawi is characterized by pragmatic economic management, with
emphasis on a market-based policy framework and private sector production.
The economy, however, has a fragile and narrow resource base and faces
several structural weaknesses: smallholder agricultural productivity is
low, leading to seasonal food deficits and low nutrition levels; human
resources are largely undeveloped, with exceedingly poor education,
literacy, health and mortality levels; the population growth rate of 3.5
percent per annum is one of the highest in Africa; poverty is worsening;
and a small and narrow export base has undermined balance of payments
stability. As a result of these factors, Malawi has been extremely
susceptible to external shocks, which has undermined strong and sustainable
economic performance.
3.    The country successfully exploited its endowment during the 1960s and
1970s, when GDP more than doubled and real per capita income grew by 3
percent per year. The economic development strategy at this time
emphasized infrastructure and agriculture as vehicles for growth. While
prices paid to smallholders by the monopsonistic marketing board (the
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation -- ADMARC) were below
world levels, a considerable share of the profits was reinvested in the
sector, albeit in estate or agro-industrial investments. The estate sub-
sector was deemed critical to export performance. Explicitly recognizing
its constrained resources, the Government limited public expenditures,
particularly in the social sectors, and maintained tight macroeconomic
management, with low inflation levels and an appropriate real effective
exchange rate.
4.    Malawi's period of strong growth came to a halt in the early 1980s as
a result of external shocks, delayed policy responses, and intensification
of structural imbalances. On the external front, declining export prices,
soaring oil prices, and disruption of external transport routes through
Mozambique led to a dramatic decline in the terms of trade. While the
Government was responding to these shocks, the country was hit in the mid-



-  2  -
1980s by a worsening of the war in Mozambiquxe, which not only led to a
debilitating increase in international transportation costs but also to
increased security-related expenditures and a large influx of refugees.
This led to a sharp deterioration in macroeconomic balance and to policy
setbacks, culminating in an economic crisis in 1986 from which Malawi is
just recovering.
B. The Adjustment Process
5.    In response to the external shocks, the Government andertook a broad-
based structural adjustment effort beginning in 1981. This program was
supported by three SALs and two sector adjustment operations, the Industry
and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (ITPAC) and the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit (ASAC), from the Bank and other bilateral donors as well
as by successive arrangements with the Fund. A set of three Policy
Framework Papers (PFP) have been agreed with the Bank and Fund since
1988/89. The major elements of the adjustment package comprised: (a)
restructuring of the parastatal sector; (b) reforming smallholder
agricultural pricing and marketing; (c) establishing fiscal discipline; and
(d, restoring a relatively open exchange and trade regime.
6.    Restructuring of the parastatal sector included reorganization of
ADMARC and Malawi Development Corporation (MDC) as well as divestiture and
restructuring of the Press Group. ADMARC's financial position has improved
substantially with an estimated net profit (before tax) of MK 29.9 million
in 1989/90. The restructuring continues, including asset divestiture. MDC
has shed a number of operations and has become profitable. Financial
performance of the parastatal sector as a whole has been favorable and
financial targets under the PFP have been met. Profitability was restored
to the Press Group starting in 1984.
7.    Smallholder agricultural reform focused on strengthening price
incentives and expanding participation in marketing to the private sector.
Smallholder producer prices were increased significantly, with pricing
based on export-import price parity, or domestic conditions in the case of
maize. This resulted in improved performance among larger smallholders.
Private sector trading was encouraged, with the exception of tobacco and
cotton, and differentiated ADMARC producer and consumer maize prices were
implemented to facilitate this participation. The ongoing ASAC operation,
approved by the Board in March 1990, targeted policy reform to the smaller
farmers, including elimination of restrictions on smallholder production of
high value cash crops such as burley tobacco and liberalization of
fertilizer distribution, and estates, including increases in land rents.
8.    Fiscal policy under the adjustment program aimed at establishing
fiscal discipline, including development of a tax reform program and
strengthened budgeting procedures. A substantial reduction in the central
government budget deficit enabled a transfer of financial resources from
the Government to the private sector. The deficit declined initially from
15.5 percent of GDP in 1980/81 to 8.5 percent in 1984/85, and, in response
to the fiscal imbalances stemming from the second series of shocks, the
deficit again was reduced from 13 percent in 1986/87 to an estimated
6 percent in 1990/91. This fiscal discipline supported a 41 percent



average increase In private sector credit per year between 1988/89 and
1990/91. Structural reforms in budgetary planning included introduction of
a rolling Public Sector Investment Program and programmatic budgeting. The
Government also initiated a comprehensive tax reform program aimed at
improved tax administration and allocative efficiency, with a major
restructuring of indirect taxes. Revenue generation has remained strong at
20-21 percent of GDP.
9.    In the early adjustment period, Malawi's trade and exchange regime
was relatively open. However, this trend was reversed by gradual increases
in trade taxes compounded by the introduction of import exchange controls
in response to the 1985-86 crisis. Beginning in 1988, the Government
removed these import controls in a phased manner; the final stage of the
import liberalization program was completed in January 1991. Throughout
the adjustment period, the Government has made appropriate adjustments of
the exchange rate, resulting in a 15 percent depreciation of the real
effective exchange rate between 1985 and 1990. These adjustment measures
have resulted in increased efficiency of import use and increased
manufacturing capacity utilization.
10.   The structural reforms and improvements in short-term macroeconomic
management have stabilized the macroec.'nomic environment, as indicated by
the figures presented in Schedule A. After static growth in 1986 and 1987,
GDP grew by 3.0 percent in 1988 and 5.3 percent in 1989, restoring per
capita GDP growth to a positive level. Despite drought conditions, GDP
grew 4.8 percent in 1990 as a result of expansion in the manufacturing and
distribution sectors following the import liberalization program.
Inflation decelerated sharply from an average of about 30 percent in 1987-
88 to 16 percent in 1989 and 12 percent in 1990 as a result of tight
aggregate demand management. The improved performance in output and
relative price stability supported a large increase in gross investment,
from 12.3 percent of GDP in 1986 to an estimated 19.0 percent in 1990, and
national savings, from 6.3 percent of GDP in 1986 to 10.2 percent in 1990.
Despite the resumption of strong economic growth during the past few years,
structural weakness remain that impede the development of a sustainable
supply response in Malawi, as discussed below.
C. Central Development Issues
11.   As reviewed in the recent Country Economic Memorandum, Malawi's
central problem is poverty. It is estimated that 55 percent of the
population lives below the poverty line, almost entirely in rural areas.
The principal factors behind the pervasive problem of low income include
limited employment opportunities, low physical productivity of labor and
land, low levels of human capital, limited access to land and economic
rents, minimal income transfers, and rapid population growth.
Consequently, as noted below, these issues form the core of the development
agenda for the 1990s.
12.   Low aRricultural productivity.  As population pressure leads to
smaller farm sizes and continuous mono-cropping depletes soil fertility,
more than one-half of the rural population risks facing seasonal food
deficits and low nutrition levels. Adoption rates of higher-yielding maize



- 4 -
varieties and labor-saving technologies have been low in Malawi, due to
limited access to production credit packages, weaknesses in extension
services, and smallholder resistance to available varieties.
13.   Inadequate human resource development.  Malawi's human capital is
poorly developed. In education, primary and secondary enrollment rates are
low, the quality of the education system is uneven, and there is limited
vocational and technical skills training. Health conditions are among the
worst in the world, with high infant and maternal mortality rates, chronic
malnutrition, and shortages of key medical personnel.
14.   Rapid population growth.  Malawi is already one of the most densely
populateA -ountries in Sub-Saharan Africa, and, with a population growth
rate est.m.ted at 3.5 percent in the 1987 census, the problem is worsening.
Rapid populacion growth is inevitable over the next few decades. If
fertility remains constant, the rate of population growth is expected to
climb to four percent by 2015, implying a doubling of the population within
17 years. Growth of this magnitude threatens to exhaust the country's land
resources and create a massive demand for food, energy, and social
services.
15.   Employment.  Malawi's rapid population growth rate has created a
young age structure and fast-growing labor force, which is putting pressure
on labor market absorption. Given land corx.traints in agriculture, most of
the increase in employment opportunities will have to come from expansion
of off-farm rural employment and formal and informal urban employment.
However, the former is constrained by inadequate farm surpluses and limited
rural credit mechanisms, and the latter by the small size of the domestic
market and Malawi's limited comparative advantage in export manufacturing.
16.   Environmeatal degradation.  Malawi's natural resource base is
experiencing significant stress as a result of population pressures and the
influx of Mozambican refugees. In addition to the problem of increasing
soil degradation, natural forests are being rapidly depleted by firewood
and pole extraction, land clearing for cultivation, and excessive felling
of indigenous high-grade timber species. Under current trends, it is
estimated that the indigenous forest on customary land will be totally
eliminated over the next ten years.
17.   Narrow export base.  Malawi has a small and undiversified export
base, with tobacco accounting for 63 percent and tea and sugar for
10 percent each of total ex?ort proceeds.  This dependency on a few primary
agricultural commodities, which have been vulnerable to poor weather
conditions and declining prices in recent years, has contributed to highly
variable export earnings and widely fluctuating current account deficits.
18.   Economic management.  Despite the stated commitment to the private
sector, economic and political policy makers continue to demonstrate a
"control reflex" over private sector entrepreneurship and initiative. In
particular, the policy framework for industrial investment, small-scale
business activity, and financial sector intermediation has been overly
restrictive in several areas, which has constrained a broad-based supply
response and impeded the development of entrepreneurial talent.



D. Government Development Strategy
19.   The Government prepared a comprehensive new medium term development
strategy in 1987, the Statement of Development Policies. 1987-1996
(DEVPOL), in response to these development problems. As outlined in DEVPOL
and the three successive PFPs, the Government's principal development
objective is to increase the rate of economic growth to sustainable
positive per capita levels in the context of macroeconomic stability and
poverty reduction. Key issues are reviewed below.
Economic Growth
20.   Agriculture remains the key sector for growth in the Government*s
development strategy. Given land scarcity and the narrow cropping base of
the smallholder sub-sector, Government plans to increase food production
through increased fertilizer use and the adoption of higher-yielding maize
varieties. Emphasis is placed on the development of new research, credit
and extension programs to support the dissemination of improved crop
packages. Given the low land utilization rates in the estate sub-sector,
Government is introducing measures to increase productivity and labor
absorption in estate land. Growth in this sub-sector will be important in
raising export earnings, as much of the increase in smallholder production
is expected to be consumed domestically. Specific measures include the
establishment of an estate extension service, increased land rents, and
expanded access to medium-term investment funds. Given the central role of
natural resources in the economy, the Government is committed to further
strengthening of the incentive framework for sustainable natural resource
management.
21.   While agriculture is expected to remain the primary source of growth,
Government also expects significant output increases in the industrial
sector. Recent reforms, including import liberalization, reduction in the
scope of industrial licensing, and development of a new investment policy
statement, are expected to foster a more favorable environment for new
investment in export growth and efficient import substitution. Development
of small and medium-sized industries by Malawian entrepreneurs is a key
element in positioning the sector for future growth and expansion, and will
be necessary to help absorb the rapidly growing labor force and help the
development of rural areas.
22.   Finally, while the service sectors are highly dependent on economic
activity in the rest of the economy, further strengthening is envisioned to
ensure they do not to become a bottleneck in future growth. Reduction in
external transport costs is a high priority for Government and the
completion of the Northern Transport Corridor Project in 1993 is expected
to provide a significant impetus for growth. The expected reduction in the
cif margin from 40 percent in 1988 to 35 percent in 1993 under this project
will lower the price of imported inputs in domestic production and improve
the competitiveness of export production in world markets. Government also
continues to explore ways to reopen the traditional rou._es to Beira and
Nacala.   The financial sector remains extremely underdeveloped and
Government is planning to improve resource mobilization and financial



- 6 -
intermedtacion.  Specific measures include development of bond and equities
markets, improved monetary management, and expansion of rural credit
mechanisms.
Poverty Reduction
23.   The Government is increasingly emphasizing equity and distribution
issues in light of the pervasive poverty problem. Its development strategy
addresses the five key factors behind the poverty nexus that were reviewed
in para. 11. To address -he previously inadequate attention to human
resource development, the Government is increasing public expenditures for
health and education. The first priority in education is expansion and
quality enhancement of primary schooling, with emphasis also on science and
technical skills training, improved teacher training, and curriculum
reform. Special attention will be paid to increased access and retention
rates for girls. The main priorities in health are improved staffing of
primary health care, increased allocation of resources for maternal and
child care facilities, and strengthening of hospital and health service
management. Nutrition will receive special emphasis through increased food
security efforts and targeted supplemental food programs. To address the
problem of population growth, the Government is committed to expansion of
family planning activities, including increased population education in
school curriculum, expansion of child-spacing services, and support for a
new Family Welfare Association.
24.   To increase employment opportunities and labor productivity, the
Government is introducing new policy reforms and investments to support the
expansion of the urban and rural informal sector. Key measures include
liberalization of small-scale and micro-enterprise regulations,
introduction of labor-saving and income-generating programs for women, and
continued implementation of trade, finance, and industrial policies that
promote labor-intensive production. To improve land productivity, the
Government agriculture development strategy gives emphasis to the smaller
farmers who face the greatest food insecurity. Key measures include
expansion of burley tobacco production to smallholders, introduction of
food for work schemes and targeted credit schemes to farmers with less than
one hectare of land, and expansion of fertilizer marketing in small
packets. Finally, to raise the cash income of the poor, the Government
continues to review the scope for targeted transfer payments, including the
introduction of a new Social Program Support Fund to test pilot
interventions that reduce poverty among the most vulnerable groups.
Macroeconomic Management
25.   The Government places great emphasis on maintaining the macroeconomic
stability that has been achieved during the recent adjustment period. In
public finances, the Government will continue to maintain strict fiscal
discipline to reduce inflationary pressures and excess demand for imports
and to ensure adequate credit expansion to the private sector. Since the
tax burden on the economy is relatively high, the burden of fiscal
adjustment will continue to fall on expenditures, which will entail
difficult but critical choices among competing allocation priorities.
These efforts will be complemented by a comprehensive reform of the tax



- 7 -
system designed to improve the structure of incentives facing producers and
investors.
26.   The stance of monetary policy will continue to be geared towards
achieving and sustaining a low inflation rate and protecting the balance of
payments, while structural reforms in the financial sector will be
implemented with a view to strengthening monetary control, enhancing
domestic financial saving, and improving the allocative efficiency of
investment. Key policy measures include constrained monetary expansion,
maintenance of liberalized interest rates, and the introduction of more
market-based monetary control instruments.
Growth Prospects
27.   The Government development strate4,y is expected to lay the groundwork
for a resumption of strong economic growth. The projected economic
indicators are included in Scheduled A and summarized below in Table 1.
Real GDP is expected to increase by about 4.5 percent annually in 1991-93
reflecting increased capacity in manufacturing, construction, and
distribution, associated with higher levels of investment following the
import liberalization program; major productivity gains in the smallholder
and estate sectors generated by recent policy reform and investment
activity; and strong growth in the service sectors in response to financial
sector reform and liberalization of business regulations. These growth
levels will permit real increases in per capita consumption. Fixed capital
formation is projected to increase from 16.4 percent of GDP in 1990 to 18.5
percent in 1993 to support the higher output levels. The increase in
investment activity will be backed by improved domestic resource
mobilization, with domestic savings expected to increase from 8.1 percent
of GDP in 1990 to 14.7 percent in 1993 in response to financial sector
reform.  However, foreign savings will continue to play an important role
in financing the development program.  The current account deficit is
expected to decline gradually from 8.8 percent of GDP in 1990 to 6.0
percent in 1993, as export performance improves over the medium-term
following the increases in agriculture and industrial productivity.
TABLE 1: MALAWI - MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1990-1993
1990        1991         1992         1993
GDP Growth Rate                     4.8          5.0          4.5         4.5
Consumption/Capita Growth Rate    -0.8           1.1          0.7         0.7
Fixed Investment/GDP                16.4        18.0         18.5        18.5
Domestic Savings/GDP                8.1         12.8         13.9         14.7
Current AccountlGDP                 -8.8        -8.5         -7.2        -6.0



-8-
E. Bank Group Operations
28.   Over the past 25 years, the Board has approved 56 projects financed
by 53 IDA credits (totalling US$897 million excluding cancellations) and 10
Bank loans (totalling US$106 million excluding cancellations), of which two
were on third window terms. About a third of the total US$1003 million has
been provided through structural and sectoral adjustment operations, in
line with the critical need for adjustment in the last decade. Other
important areas were infrastructure and water (19 percent) to overcome the
constraints from limited rural infrastructure, agriculture (16 percent) in
line with the smallholder focus of the Government's development strategy,
and education (16 percent) to address the problem of inadequate access to
primary and secondary education. The balance has been used for energy,
health, development finance, technical assistance, industry, urban housing,
and institutional development. In recent years, the distribution of Bank
lending has shifted slightly, with more emphasis on adjustment lending
following the macroeconomic disequilibria of the mid-1980s and less
emphasis on infrastructure development with the completion of many key
investment projects, as shown in Table 2.
29.   Implementation of past lending operations has been relatively strong.
Adjustment operations have not experienced significant delays in tranche
releases. Nonetheless, the management capacity of the Government
frequently became over-stretched in trying to implement a comprehensive
adjustment package, particularly as new exogenous shocks continued to
undermine stabilization and adjustment efforts. In recognition of these
implementation constraints, the future adjustment lending program will be
focused sharply on a smaller, more manageable set of priority policy
issues, as reviewed below. Investment operations in general have been
implemented in a timely and effective manner.
TABLE 2: MALAWI - DISTRIBUTION OF BANK LENDING, FY86-90
(US$ Million)
Sector                                            Amount              % of
Total
Adjustment Lending                                 189.9                43
Agriculture and Forestry                            52.5                12
Industry and Finance                                 7.8                 2
Health and Population                               11.0                 2
Education                                           63.9                14
Urban and Water                                     20.0                 5
Transportation and Infrastructure                   42.2                 9
Energy                                              46.7                10
Institutional Development                           11.3                 3
Total                                              445.3               100



9
F. Bank Country Assistance Strategy
30.   The Bank will continue to play an important role In the design and
implementation of Malawi's development program as well as in the
mobilization and coordination of financial resources required to support
economic development. The primary goal of the country assistance strategy
is to support the four critical areas of economic growth, poverty
reduction, natural resource conservation, and macroeconomic management in
the Goverrnment's development agenda. This support will be provided through
a mix of economic and sector work, project and non-project lending, and aid
coordination.
Economic and Sector Work
31.   The Malawi ESW work program is designed to strengthen the analytic
underpinnings of our policy dialogue with Government, identify investment
priorities for our proposed lending program, and facilitate aid
coordination by providing a framework for other donors. In the area of
economic growth, the Bank has recently completed several sector studies on
agriculture, industry, and finance that formed the basis of the FY89
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit, the FY90 Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Credit, and the proposed Financial Sector and Enterprise
Development Project scheduled for Board review in FY91. A comprehensive
review of transport sector issues is currently underway, which is expected
to identify a broad range of policy, investment, and technical assistance
measures to improve the efficiency of resource use in road, rail and air
services. Future work is planned in the areas of energy pricing, which
will strengthen the incentive framework for the energy sector, and domestic
trade and distribution, which will address the remaining constraints to
private sector development associated with the high degree of concentration
in the formal economy.
32.   In the area vf povert S reduction, the Bank prepared a Country
Economic Memorandum in FY91 that laid out a comprehensive program to tackle
Malawi's poverty problem. This work, which was supported by several sector
studies in population, food security, and women in development, provided
the focus for the recent Consultative Group Meeting and laid the groundwork
for a concerted government and donor strategy to reduce poverty. The
review of social sector expenditure priorities in the report provided the
analytical underpinnings for the proposed operation, the Population,
Health, and Nutrition Project. In the area of natural resource
conservation, an economic report on environmental policy issues is being
prepared that will map out a medium-term policy reform and investment
program to ensure efficient and sustainable use of the resource base, with
emphasis on the pressing issues of deforestation, soil erosion, and water
pollution. This work is expected to form the basis for the Government's
Environmental Action Plan and future Bank lending.
33.   Finally, in the area of macroeconomic management, the FY90 Public
Expenditure Review, as well as future economic work on budget
rationalization, is expected to assist the Government in maximizing the
benefits of budget outlays in a tight fiscal environment. Close monitoring
of the size and composition of the annual Public Sector Investment Program



- 10 -
will continue to be a key issue in the work program and the policy dialogue
with Government. A review of public sector management issues is underway
to identify policy and technical assistance measures to improve the
incentive framework for effective economic management.
Lending Program
34.   The planned volume of lending for the FY91-95 period represents a
slight increase from the level of the FY86-90 period, with about three
lending operations programmed per year. This strong IDA support to Malawi
is appropriate in light of the extent of poverty in the country and the
effective implementation of economic reform. The evolution of the lending
program will be based on progress on policy performance, as reviewed in
para. 49, particularly in creating a more open environment for private
sector initiative and implementing the poverty reduction strategy. In
response to policy slippage, the lending program would be cut back
significantly, with suspension of adjustment operations and focus on
investments in sectors where implementation was proceeding smoothly and
where policy shortfalls would not jeopardize effective implementation. In
response to more rapid implementation of an appropriate policy framework
combined with evidence of sufficient institutional capacity, the lending
program could expand by about 20 percent.
35.   The lending program is gradually shifting towards a greater reliance
on investment operations. Planned non-project lending would decline from
the 40 percent level during the last five years. However, since
significant policy reform is still required to ensure a sustainable impact
of specific investment activities and since Malawi is expected to face
balance of payments pressures over the next few years as a result of
continuing external shocks, adjustment lending remains an important
component of the medium-term lending strategy. The need for future
adjustment assistance will continue to be reassessed in light of the
following uncertainties. First, Malawi continues to face a difficult
external situation related to the Mozambique civil strife as well as the
Gulf crisis. Second, the speed of the supply response as reflected in
export and import growth is uncertain. As adjustment lending tapers off in
the 1990s, sectoral investment projects will increasingly combine policy
elements and time-slices of the Government's sectoral investment program to
ensure adequate resource flows to the private sector, continued policy
improvement, and support for the Government's core expenditure program.
The specific components of the lending program are reviewed below.
36.   Reflecting recently completed economic and sector work, the Bank has
revised its agriculture strategy to address the pressing issue of low
productivity. More emphasis is being given to raise smallholder production
through development of appropriate technology, credit and extension
packages and improve the efficiency of resource use among estates. The
focal point of sectoral policy reform is the ongoing Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Credit. Future Bank investments will focus largely on the
expansion of smallholder access to agricultural services, particularly for
the smaller farmers, and improved conservation of the natural resource
base.



-  11  -
37.   The restructuring of the industry and trade policy environment has
been a major emphasis of Bank assistance during the past three years.
With a favorable policy framework in place, the Bank is now focusing on
another key constraint to industrial development: the thin, undeveloped
financial market. A recent review of financial sector issues identified a
number measures to deepen financial markets and improve the efficiency of
resource mobilization, which are contained in the proposed Financial Sector
and Enterprise Development Project (FSEDP), scheduled for Board review in
FY91. This investment operation will be complemented by the proposed
Entrepreneurship and Capital Market Adjustment Credit (ECMAC), scheduled
for Board review in FY92, which is designed to remove the policy
constraints to private sector entrepreneurship and initiative, particularly
in the areas of investment controls, small-scale business regulations, and
limited access to financial capital.
38.   The Bank will continue to support development of the physical
infrastructure required for growth. Given the constrained public
expenditure program, emphasis will be on integrated, sector-wide investment
operations that target high priority investments and provide sufficient
resources for the maintenance of the existing capital stock. Reflecting
the central role of transport shocks in Malawi's macroeconomic
disequilibrium during the past ten years, the strategy emphasizes
rationalization of transport sector investments and policies, through such
ongoing projects as the Northern Transport Corridor Project of FY88 and the
Infrastructure I Project of FY90 and current sector work on transport
policies. The restructuring of the parastatal transport agencies,
particularly Malawi Railways, will be a focus of Bank lending in this
sector. The strategy also emphasizes the appropriate expansion and
increased maintenance of infrastructure development functions, as well as
the implementation of the least-cost power development program.
39.   As part of the increased emphasis on poverty reduction, social sector
lending will be increased. The proposed operation, the Population, Health,
and Nutrition Project, is a key vehicle for this objective. Building on
several existing programs of bilateral donors, this proposed operation
provides critical support to strengthen primary health care programs,
increase family planning activities, and improve medical support services.
Ongoing education credits, including the Education Sector II Credit
approved in FY90, are focused towards expansion and quality enhancement of
primary schooling and increased efficiency in resource use. Finally,
additional investment in the development of rural water supplies is
expected to improve access to clean water and reduce the incidence of water
borne disease.
40.   Increased social sector investment will be matched by an expansion of
employment opportunities and labor productivity, directly benefiting the
poor who do not have many assets other than labor. The proposed credit as
well as future investment operations will address women in development
issues, particularly the need for labor-saving technologies that relieve
the constraints on women's time and enable them to seek other income
earning opportunities. Likewise, the proposed FSEDP and ECMAC operations
emphasize the expansion of credit to the small-scale sector. As reviewed
above, future investments in agriculture will directly support poverty



-  12  -
reduction objectives by targeting productivity increases for the smaller
farmers. Finally, continued macroeconomic policy reform under adjustment
operations will promote increased employment through greater labor-
intensity of production and higher investment levels.
41.   In response to growing need for natural resource conservation, future
Bank investments are expected to expand on-going projects in rural
afforestation and soil conservation and introduce new initiatives in
fisheries development, customary forestry management, rural water
pollution, and agroforestry systems. These investment efforts will be
complemented by further strengthening of the incentive framework for
efficient resource use, particularly adjustments in fuelwood and water
pricing and stricter enforcement of estate conservation and afforestation
covenants.
42.   Finally, in the area of macroeconomic management, the Bank will
continue to support policy measures to sustain macroeconomic stabilization
and technical assistance requirements to strengthen public sector
implementation capability. In public finance, future projects will
emphasize continued fiscal constraint, improved budgeting systems, and
expansion of the tax reform program. In monetary policy, the proposed
FSEDP operation will assist the Government in moving away from direct
regulation of commercial bank credit to a more market-based monetary
program. Given implementation constraints in several key ministries
involved in planning and implementing macroeconomic policy reform, the Bank
will continue to provide technical assistance to strengthen public sector
management, including the FY89 Institutional Development Project that
supported the restructuring of the Ministry of Finance and the
establishment of the Malawi Institute of Management.
43.   To ensure a successful winding down of the adjustment process in the
1990s, Bank lending will increasingly emphasizing the need to liberalize
macroeconomic management, particularly the government's "control reflex"
that has constrained a broad-based supply response in the critical areas of
agriculture, capital markets, and domestic trade and distribution. The
proposed ECMAC operation is expected to play a key role in addressing
policy obstacles to entrepreneurship that constrain physical capital
investment and limit access to financial and human capital.
Private Sector and Collaboration with IFC
44.   The Government's strategy gives the private sector a central role in
the development of the economy. As noted above, the Bank assistance
strategy includes support for policy reforms critical to removing
constraints to private sector entrepreneurship, increased emphasis in the
investment lending program on the financial sector as a vehicle for
extending resources to the private sector, and further economic and sector
work oriented toward private sector development including the issues of
concentration of ownership, private transport services, and micro-
enterprise development.
45.   The Bank will continue to work closely with other arms of the Bank
Group in expanding the opportunities for the private sector. The Bank is



-  13  -
working closely with the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) in
developing the appropriate policy framework for investment. The IFC
currently has seven operations in Malawi, totalling US$32.6 million in
gross commitments and is actively seeking new investments. Recently, IFC
has launched a number of initiatives to supplement its regular investment
activities in Africa, including the African Project Development Facility,
which has completed six projects and has three active projects in Malawi,
and the African Enterprise Fund, which is currently appraising a project in
Malawi. The Bank strategy is to work closely with the IFC in identifying
options for strengthening the flow of resources to the private sector in
Malawi.
Aid Coordination and Collaboration with IMF
46.   Reflecting the centrality of a stable macroeconomic environment to
the adjustment process in Malawi, Bank and Fund staff work in close
collaboration on the macroeconomic program. The third-year PFP was
presented to the Bank and Fund Boards in August 1990. Malawi is now in the
third year of a three-year ESAF program with the Fund; the final tranche
release was approved by the IMF Board in February 1990.
47.   A Resident Mission was established in Malawi about five years ago and
has been quite successful in improving our policy dialogue, supporting
supervision, and strengthening aid coordination. The Resident
Representative provides leadership to an active local donors' aid
coordination effort. In addition, bi-annual CG meetings have been an
effective mechanism for donor coordination and consultation. The third CG
meeting, which took place in May 1990, was successful in mobilizing needed
external resources, directing Government towards high priority investment
areas, and addressing key issues related to poverty alleviation and
budgetary processes.
48.   Bank lending operations have attracted a large volume of co-
financing, particularly of adjustment credits in line with the Special
Program of Assistance. Sector operations, such as the Northern Transport
Corridor and Infrastructure I Projects, have been effective in coordinating
the efforts of various donors. Various sector studies on population, food
security, transport, and the environment, together with the Public
Expenditure Review and Country Economic Memorandum, have provided a policy
framework and sector strategy which can be drawn on by other donors.
Continued active coordination will ensure ongoing support from the donor
community in achieving the objectives of balance of payments
sustainability, growth, and poverty reduction for Malawi.
G.    Performance Indicators
49.   The Bank will continue to monitor closely Malawi's economic
performance and revise the country strategy and operational program
accordingly. The principal indicators for judging progress on the
implementation of Malawi's adjustment program are reviewed below. In
economic growth, key measures include: development and dissemination of
appropriate high-yielding maize varieties; phased increases in estate land
rents; liberalization of investment regulations, zoning laws, and business



- 14 -
procedures related to industrial and small-scale enterprise development;
and restructuring of transport sector parastatals. In poverty reduction,
principal actions are: increased credit to the small-scale enterprise
sector; increased expenditures for primary health and education and for
family planning; and introduction of productivity enhancing measures
targeted to the smaller farmers. In natural resource conservation,
preparation of an Environmental Action Plan is the critical step. Finally,
in macroeconomic management, key measures include: maintenance of a real
effective exchange rate consistent with external competitiveness and import
demand; maintenance of strict fiscal discipline to ensure adequate
availability of resources to the private sector; implementation of new tax
reform measures in rate reduction and base expansion; preparation and
implementation of a prioritized Public Sector Investment program; and
introduction of market-based monetary control instruments.
H. Summary Assessment
50.   Despite Malawi's successful implementation of a comprehensive
adjustment program over the last decade, there is a consensus that much
remains to be done to ensure higher growth for a wider range of
beneficiaries in the economy. The poverty reduction and growth strategies
outlined above will be complementary and mutually reinforcing over time.
The effectiveness of the program, however, will be greatly influenced by
external events and the maintenance of policy commitment. On the external
front, the economy will be greatly influe.iced by events, positive as well
as negative, in neighboring Mozambique as well as by developments in the
terms of trade. On the policy front, progress will be judged by continued
responsible macroeconomic management and by continued implementation of
policies to open up the economy to private sector entrepreneurship and to
expand the participation of lower income groups, particularly in the
smallholder sector.
51.   However, one or more problems may emerge over the next few years and
undermine the structural adjustment process and Malawi's growth prospects.
In the event of an adverse exogenous shock, the strategy would remain
robust, but there would be a casc for a combination of stronger
macroeconomic adjustment and higher levels of concessional external
assistance from both IDA and other donors. There is an additional risk
that the political system will not be suited to absorbing the policy
changes required for growth combined with poverty reduction. In the event
of policy slippage, IDA will reassess its assistance strategy and focus on
core investment projects.
II. The Proposed Credit
52.   The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity. It would help finance a population, health, and nutrition (PHN)
project. The project would be parallel financed by the European Community
and World Health Organization (WHO).
53.   Sector Background and Strategy.  Within the context of the issues and
priorities described above, Government has initiated policy and program
reforms and improvements in population, health and nutrition to strengthen



- 15 -
services and address the extensive needs of the country, in line with the
DEVPOL strategy. The first phase of this reform and improvement effort has
involved preparation of new sectoral strategies and expenditure plans, both
for the near-term and for a ten-year horizon. This work has been backed by
extensive assessment of the problems, options, and implementation issues,
building on two IDA-aided projects (the First and Second Family Health
Projects, the former of which has been completed) and other donor
activities, and facilitated by three sector reviews and other studies.
Progress thus far on the reform program (and on the Second Family Health
Project) has been encouraging, but much more remains to be done.
54.   The next phase will focus on two main concerns.  First, many basic
PHN programs are still seriously inadequate. Primary health care, although
fully endorsed by all concerned, remains weak on the ground. Population
programs, supported by Government through its "child spacing" initiative,
are still inchoate compared to the need. Disease control, especially for
the highest priorities (malaria and acquired immune deficiency syndrome
(AIDS)), and nutrition interventions, are unable to keep pace with the
growing requirements. Vital opportunities to build on promising
experiments in women-in-development efforts that could improve PHN status
are being missed due to lack of resources. Second, many crucial support
services, including especially those relating to staffing issues,
pharmaceuticals provision, and information, education and communications
(IEC), continue to have major shortcomings, resulting in substantial
deficiencies in management and institutional capacity. Staffing
shortfalls, acute in several health cadres and at numerous facilities, are
not being adequately resolved. The pharmaceuticals supply system and IEC
programs are struggling. The nation's hospitals, instead of effectively
backstopping primary care facilities and meeting referral needs, are over-
congested, inefficient, and costly -- thus draining away resources required
elsewhere. The Government's budget for PHN services, and budget
management, are out of line with the DEVPOL goals.
55.   Project Objectives.  The project's objectives are to improve quality,
access, efficiency, and effectiveness in the sector through: (a)
strengthening of basic programs, focussing on primary health care, maternal
and child health care, child spacing (family planning), malaria control,
AIDS program, nutrition interventions, and women in development activities;
(b) strengthening of supPort services, focussing on staffing issues,
pharmaceuticals, and IEC; (c) efficiency improvements, focussing on
management strengthening, hospital decongestion, cost sharing, and budget
reform; and (d) support to the Government's social dimensions of adjustment
initiative.
56.   Project Description.  In line with these objectives, the project's
component on strengthening of basic programs will include: (a) for primary
health care and maternal and child health care, development and expansion
of the Health Surveillance Assistants into outreach-oriented and village-
based PHN promoters and service providers; rehabilitation and/or
construction of rural health centers; provision of rural housing where
needed to attract essential personnel; and provision of some vehicles to
improve the effectiveness of district level services; (b) for malaria,



-  16  -
improvements in logistical support, in the supply of anti-malarial drugs,
and in support for drug resistance monitoring; (c) for AIDS, acceleration
of efforts in education and prevention campaigns and in acquisition of
blood screening equipment; (d) for child spacing, launching of a Family
Welfare Council to promote family planning and expansion of the Ministry of
Health's (MOH) program; (e) for women in development, institutional
strengthening, upgrading of training activities, and testing of small scale
demonstration projccts on appropriate technology dissemination and credit
ptovision; and (f) for nutrition, extension of a community-level food
security approach developed and tested by the United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF), and a micronutrient deficiency program. The component on
strengthening of support services will include: (a) for staffing issues,
upgrading of training programs and facilities for health cadres currently
in critically short supply, and enhancement of personnel management
information and planning capabilities; (b) for the IEC program, expanded
activities for training health workers, and provision of resources for
conveying population, health, and nutrition messages to communities; and
(c) for pharmaceuticals, technical assistance and training on drug
procurement, distribution and production, and improvement of facilities and
equipment.  The component on efficiency improvements will include (a)
rehabilitation of three urban health centers and construction of two others
to shift more outpatient care away from the more costly and overcrowded
hospitals, (b) rehabilitation of one district hospital, construction of
another, and replacement of worn-out equipment in selected other hospitals;
(c) introduction of reforms in patient fees; and (d) budget reforms
involving increases in the MOH budget and the share of it devoted to
outreach and peripheral health services. The component on the social
dimensions of adjustment initiative will include support for a "social
support program fund" to assist small scale pilot interventions derived
from felt needs of communities and expressed through government or non-
government channels.
57.   Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The project is consistent with the
IDA lending strategy for Malawi and the latest Policy Framework Paper,
which emphasize human resource development. IDA involvement is needed
because (a) the new initiatives to be launched under this project involve
complex issues on which the Government has limited experience and capacity,
and thus requires technical and other assistance; and (b) IDA has a
comparative advantage in addressing the financial and institutional issues
in the health sector and in mobilizing donor support within a common
framework of sectoral objectives.
58.   The proposed project complements and reinforces the activities of
other donors, including: the African Development Bank (which has supported
improvement of curative services); United States Agency for International
Development (extensive assistance in multiple areas, involving, inter alia,
health education, rural water supply, and training of peripheral workers);
Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom (fellowships and
technical assistance); the Dutch, Egyptian and other governments
(technical assistance); European Community (expansion of peripheral and
curative services); the West Germany aid agency, Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau, (construction of Machinga Hospital as well as building and
rehabilitation of health centers); United Nations Development Program



- 17 -
(health manpower development and technical assistance); WHO (primary healtth
care); UNICEF (immunization program, diarrhoeal disease control, and
maternal and child health, with support from the Italian Government);
United Nations Fund for Population Activities (family life education); the
Japanese International Cooperation Agency (volunteers, vehlicles and drugs);
Canadian International Development Agency (bore holes for Health Centers);
and several non-governmental organizations involved in direct provision of
services. IDA has maintained close cooperation with donors during the
development of the project.
59.   Agreements and Recommendations.  Prior to negotiation, the Government
sent to IDA (a) the Statement of Health Policy and related policy action
program; (b) a five-year plan for each major hospital to improve efficiency
and reduce recurrent expenditures; (c) a detailed plan for rationalization
and management of the health services of Local Authorities and MOH at the
district level; (d) a plan for the decentralization of management authority
to the district, including the establishment of the District Health
Management Teams and the District Health Planning and Coordinating
Committees; (e) terms of reference and composition of the District Health
Management Teams and the District Health Planning and Coordinating
Committees; (f) evidence that the proposed Health Manpower Planning and
Development Unit will be established in the MOH; (g) an approved list from
Department of Personnel Management and Training showing all the approved
posts for each of the individual health facilities at the district level
(Local Authority, Private Hospital Association of Malawi and MOH); (h) a
plan for deployment of all 91192 graduates to individual health facilities
showing an increase in number of peripheral staff equal to the number of
graduates; (i) evidence that Government has introduced a revised fee
schedule for the "paying patients" service, has an implementation plan to
cover the full cost of this service by April 1992, and will assure that the
fees will be reviewed and increased every year subsequently; and (j) a plan
for the introduction of cost sharing measures.
60.   At negotiations, IDA and Government agreed on the issues and
documents noted above, including: the year the borrower will implement the
cost sharing measures; the requirement that for each of the fiscal years
1991/92 through 1994/95 the revenue and development budgets for peripheral
health services will be at least 2 percent higher than the appropriations
for the preceding fiscal year; and the inclusion of a line item in the
budget of MOH to cover non-salary items of Local Authorities' health
facilities.
61.   By credit effectiveness, the Government will send to the Bank: (a)
the proposed MOH revenue and development budgets for 1991/92; (b) a
detailed work program for FY 1991/92 to improve efficiency at each central
hospital; and (c) the first phase of a plan to raticnalize and manage Local
Authorities health services at the district level. Disbursement for the
women in development component will be conditioned on receipt and agreement
by IDA of a plan for administration of funds for income generating
activities in the 24 villages and receipt of a plan for the restructuring
of Magomero Training Program. Disbursement for Lilongwe District Hospital
will be conditioned on introduction of the new cost sharing measures at the
two central hospitals (which Government intends to do once the urban health



- 18 -
centers are completed and operational) and adoption of a revenue and
development budget satisfactory to the Association. The date for credit
effectiveness is expected to be June 1991.
62.   Justification and Risks:  The proposed credit is designed to support
the Government's population, health and nutrition programs and the key
adjustment measures stressed in the Policy Framework Paper, including
especially improved internal efficiency and increased cost recovery. The
credit would fund a major strengthening of district health services,
provide support for priority programs, reduce the incidence of malaria and
malnutrition, finance an accelerated program ef manpower development and
continue the institution building activities initiated under the Second
Family Health Project. There are three main risks. First, the fiscal
difficulties and constrained Government expenditures pose the risk that the
health budget may not increase fast enough to permit timely realization of
the investment plan and adequate funding of the system. This risk is being
minimized by the Government's commitment as stated in the DEVPOL to
allocate more resources to MOH and by the requirement that MOH submit its
forward budget estimates after approval by the Ministry of Finance for IDA
review. A second risk concerns the introduction of cost sharing measures
and their effect on demand for health services in the rural areas. This
risk is being minimized by the gradual pace proposed. A final risk is that
the staffing requirements for the consolidation of peripheral services
might prove difficult for Government to meet. This risk is being minimized
by the provision in the credit for the training of district health
administrators. Furthermore, the credit provides for the system to be
evaluated two years after its inception and adjusted if necessary.
63.   The project finances inputs primarily and has no impact on the
environment.
64.   Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 19, 1991



SCHEDULE A
- 19 -                                         Page I of I
MALAWI
KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1986-1993
--Ac-----Actual-------------   ---Etimt ----    -------Projected--
ioes    1986    1087?  lss        108S    1990      1991    1992    1990
----    ----    ---    - ---     ----    - ---     - ---   ---- - --
GOP Growth Rat. (Markot Pric-)          4.6   -0.2      2.6    8.0        S.3    4.6        5.0     4.6    4.6
CDY Growth Rate                         8.7   -3.2      2.1    6.8        6.4     2.9       5.0    6.8    6.1
GOY/Capita Growth Rat.                  0.2   -6.6   -1.4       8.2       1.8   -0.6        1.4     1.7    1.5
Consumption/Capita Growth Rate [1]    -0.1   -1.7   -4.8   -1.5           2.8   -0.8        1.1     0.7    0.7
Debt Service (USO million) E2]        128.i  166.4  141.8   165.1       134.6  117.8    110.0   114.1   08.6
Of Which: Interest                   44.8   68.8    60.4   52.0        47.6   48.8       44.1   48.1   42.0
Debt Serv1cQ/XQS                       44.5  657.    46.9   48.2         48.8   28.0       27.9   26.6   21.0
Gross Investment/CDP E3]               16.6    12.2   14.7   18.0        20.8   19.0       19.0   19.0   19.0
Of Which: Fixed Invostment/GDP       18.3   12.0   12.9   14.8         16.0    16.4      18.0   16.5   18.6
Of Which: Stock Building/GOP          5.2     0.2     1.C     8.8       4.8     2.7       1.0     0.6    0.6
Of Which: PubIlc Investment/GOP       6.8     7.8    5.6      5.4       6.2     6.8       6.4     6.4    6.4
Of Which: Private Investment/GOP     11.8    4.4      9.2   12.6       15.1   13.7       18.6   13.6   18.6
Domestic Srvings/GOP (4]               18.6    10.1   13.1    8.9         6.6     8.1      12.8   18.9   14.7
National Savings/CDP                   10.0    6.5   10.2    0.8          9.6   10.2       10.5   11.8   13.0
Covernment Revenues/GOP (5]            21.9   21.1   19.9   21.0         21.8   20.9       20.8   20.6   20.8
Government Expenditures/GDP            81.9   84.2   29.2   27.8         27.9   26.7       26.6   26.6   26.8
Fiscol Deficit/GDP                    -10.0  -18.1   -9.8   -6.8         -6.8   -5.8      -4.0   -e.0  -4.0
Deficit After Grants/GDP               -7.6   -0.6    -8.7   -1.2        -1.9   -1.6       -2.4   -3.1   -8.6
Consumer Price Index Change            14.9   14.8   26.8   81.8         16.7   11.7        6.4    8.9    6.0
Real Exchange Rate (1986 a 100)       100.0   69.8   68.6   86.4         08.2      ..
Export Growth Rate                     -2.8    8.0   -0.7   -6.7        -4.8   80.2         1.7    4.2    4.0
Export*/CDP                            24.4   22.7   24.4   28.2         17.9   22.8       20.5   20.2   19.9
Import Growth Rate E6]                 14.6  -14.7    -2.1   26.2         7.2    6.7        4.0    4.0    8.7
Imports/CDP                            29.2   24.7   26.0   82.4         88.1   88.1       28.7   26.8   24.2
Current Account (USO million) E6]     -06.7   -67.9  -65.1  -116.7    -171.4  -149.9   -168.0  -162.0 -140.2
Current Account/GDP                    -8.6    -5.7   -4.6   -8.4       -10.7   -6.8       -8.5   -7.2   -6.0
Current Account After Grants/GDP       -6.4   -8.8   -2.0   -1.1         -7.8    -8.9      -4.?   -4.1   -8.8
External R-esrves (USO million)        40.4   19.2   44.5  144.5         99.9  181.8      15?.4  164.1  168.1
Ext. Res. In Months of Imports          1.7    0.9      1.6    4.6        8.1     8.4       4.0    8.6      8.9
El] Consumption Indicators exclude morgency Imports related to refugees.
E2] Debt servie- Is calculated before debt relilof and debt conv-roion.
E3J Investment Includes stock-building. Parastatal Investment that Is not part of the Centrol Government Budget
is included under private sector date.
4 Savings indicators exclude emergency grants and Imports related to refugee.
6  Fiscal data Is presented on fiscal year basis beginning April 1 of year Indicated. Government revenues
exclude official transfere. Government expenditure exclude now power Investment In parastatal utility.
(6] Import and current account Indicators exclude emergency Imports related to refuges and now power
investment in parastatal utility.



- 20 -
SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan a/
Local       Forein      Total
--(US$ Million)-------
Estimated Cost
Prolect Component
Strengthening of Basic Programs               9.3          12.9        27.2
Strengthening of Support Services             6.4          12.8        19.2
Efficiency Improvement                        4.7          11.5        16.2
Social Programs Support                       0.25          0.25        0.5
Total Basic Cost                             20.7          42.5        63.2
Contingencies                                 3.6           7.5        11.1
Total Proiect Cost                           24.3          50.0        74.3
Financina Plan
IDA                                          16.7          38.8        55.5
EC                                            3.9           7.2        11.1
Netherlands/WHO                                             1.4         1.4
Government                                    6.3                       6.3
TOTAL                                        26.9          47.4        74.3
Estimated IDA Disbursement
1991     1992      1993     1994      1995    1996
Annual                    2.5      11.4     13.3      12.6       9.0     6.7
Cumulative                2.5      13.9     27.2      39.8     48.8    55.5
8/  Excludes taxes and duties of US$2.3 million.



- 21 -
SCHEDULE C
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR CREDIT
Procurement Methods and Disbursements a/
Procurement Method b/
ICe         LCB      IS/      Othor          Tot*l
LS 1/
Investment Costs
________________
1. Clvil Works                                24.0       1.5                  10.0 *       86.6
(21.6)     (1.0)                            (22.6)
2. Qoods
(1)  Equipment/Furniture/Vohicle       10.2       0.9                               10.1
(9.2)     (0-9)                            (10. 1)
(ii)  Drug*/Uaterials/Supplies           4.7                    0.6                   6.2
(4.6)                  (0.6)                (6.2)
(iII)  Funds                                                              6.6          5.6
(d5.5)       (5.S)
Sub-Totl                                  14.9       0.9           0.6    656          21.8
(18.7)     (0.9)        (0.5)   (656)       (20.8)
8. Services
(1)  Professlonnl Servic,
Technical Asslstance/
Tra ning/Workshop/Studi.s                                          9.4 e        9.4
(6.4)        (6.4)
Sub-Total                                                                 .94           9.4
(6.4)        (6.4)
----_------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--------------------
4. Incremental Recurrent Cost
__________________________
(I)  Salarl                                                            8.6 2/       3.5
(3.1)        (8.1)
(7i)  Operating Costs                                                    8.7          8.7
(2.7)        (2.7)
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--------------------
Sub-Total                                                                  7.6          7.6
(658)        (5.6)
Grand Total                                   88.9        2.4          0.5    82.6         74.3
(35.2)     (1.9)        (0.6)   17.7)       (65.6)
s/  Excludes taxes and duties of USS2. 3 mlIIon
b/  Figures In parenthosis show funds financed from IDA credit
1/  Includes item  to be procured by prudent shopping
.1 Activities subject to procurement arrangemento of EEC and WHO/Netherlands
ee/  Includes US$25 million subject to procurement arrangements of EEC and UNO/Netherlands



- 22 -
SCHEDULE D
Page I of 1
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR CREDIT
TIMETABLE AND KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)   Time taken to prepare:               14 months
(b)   Prepared by:                         Government with IDA assistance
(c)   Identification Mission:              November 1989
(d)   Preparation Mission:                 February/March 1990
(e)   Appraisal Mission:                   June 1990
(f)   Negotiation:                         February 1991
(g)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:       June 1991
(h)   List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:    Health Project PCR dated
December 31, 1989



23-                                        SCHEDULE E
>     :-       r. P- .Pagelot2'     -<g       -.  
14 
.-,,    . -.--   ----  ,      ^ -  -         ---;--------
hr    , 1   ' .r          -    ,..r.
V'"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I &;' -* 't?  c,:
1 .. _
;   44  ell
-     4.                *.i   .4W -, ,th c                                   1 -                                                       - ,?
'4                      xf~~~~~ '
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~t4
_l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                     C       *        ,is -  -t ,%   ''s.  ;-C
-  - -                                                                                                                4 -t4     1  ;~_    ,             
- --   r          ; - *a,1;Y 4                                           ,*       2t                                             *, s      
-s-  -  . st fi - vee ;! > # M v 6sX7~k '                                                                                4 ,4z~ ~t;
iPE
-F;i ~ ~ ~ Ai ;;5I SYv   !                                                                                           t      4 .  
bS~~~~~~7
.-ii, '4j; M>.rht   L  n 1LHA1                                                                                  ""        "' d
-     -      4;.    !n'k3M                                                                                                   '4ez   j  4 ', .  2   5
E^.   ,.,  _                                                                                         I0,, *h l  .'_E;>;-j;,;    '8   ?*   :4
i '4A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O .
'4Ls,,.,-5.' ;t  'C1                                                                                                               44  4,4 r,_gf  el4  F  -5d!    j;
lsT"l~1~                1 .2e r               ..4AE-.14.NI     1%:. & A C.- . 
'OI~    iab-Lar.
CTA it:1 s:6.A5eQ4 . 26
;4 Wt;ch repaid                                                                  MI I4N
TOTAL held by Eao a    & IDA                                                          4 --8.
A.aurt so!d
of wil'tc rea:d
TDTk  undisbursed                                                                                           %'
Notes:
I   Not ;et  e:t:e
It  Not '.et s-,red
tt  !kta' frrrned. Recwwerts. and CUtsta'd:rq hala-rf re:er'-;t  bt0h actlve and  mactllve L.aFns ird CredIts.
ip: ndctares 1frrcillv 'te.sed Clos,no Date.
5   'ndicjates CA  SEC.L 'LoEn s asd Credcts.
rhe Net  a'Vcrfrs;        Eani Peceverts a-e hastcraca! value, a'  ltsers are earret *.a!ue.
Ite S.C%  .s  F'fectvne. End r1osrnc dates are based uson tt LCr' Department offscal data ara are riot taken
frog tFe last Evdqet file.



SCHEDULE E
Page 2 Of 2
MALAWI
Statement of IFC Investments
(As of December 31, 1990)
Invoice    Fiscal                                                           ----US$ Million---
Number      Year       Obligor                         Type of Business   Loan  Equity Total
362-MAI    1977,1981, Dwangwa Sugar Corporation        Food & Food Processing
and 1986                                                        11.3    -    11.3
326-MAI    1976,1982  David Whitehead & Sons           Textiles & Fibers
818-MAI                                                                     10.8    -    10.8
643-MAI    1981,1982  Ethanol Company Limited          Chemicals &
614-MAI                                                     Petrochemicals  2.2    0.2   2.4
434-MA!    1979        Investment and Development    Development Finance
Bank of Malawi                                     0.8    0.8
832-MAI    1988,1990  The Leasing and Finance          Money a Capital
1236-MAI                Company of Malawi              Markets               0.7    0.2   0.9
602-MA!    1980,1984  Malawi Hotels Ltd.               Tourism               2.1    -       2.1
741-MAI    1987        Viphya Plywoods &               Plywood
872-MAI                 Allied Industries Limited                            3.9    0.6   4.4
Total Gross Commitments                             31.0    1.6  32.5
Less: Cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustments, repayments,
write-offs, and sales                               19.6    0.0  19.5
Total uncommitted investments -                      -       -
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   11.6    1.6  13.0
Total Undisbursed                                    0.0    0.0   0.0



MAI AWI
POPULATION, HEALTH, AND
NUTR1l iON SECTOR CREDIT
0                                   T
-~~~~              -
.,BI                                                                              k, P tS4-.At
0   I%
;  ,  /  lti egslsr \'Z tT,   t
C..o A 0 t   r        R0  e 
o   '*                                      T     ... ^  StwW
. Os AKRi  f.~K 8                          ; .         . r.d 
|   '   (  ~~VA +Xx <* \ e * A0                                           i..~...Jr
Z -~~ a                  C,rn.  c:ko       l     kt *    ()vl,-..,,...    
/AjvijflA' /.             0                                         *I'        5^     41
. - '<v *'h' tra  joko-  BeB'
'~~~~~~~'* .                                                          I.lra .tj |  B .SdJ'-C



