Document ol
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22328
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-22200; TF-21915)
ON A
SECTOR CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 55.5 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
FOR A POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
June 21, 2001
Human Development 1
Country Department 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1991)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha
MKI.00 = USS 0.39
USS 1.00 = MK2.56
Republic of Malawi
FISCAL YEAR
July I  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS - Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AT - Appropriate Technology
CBD - Community-Based Distributors
CHAM - Christian Hospital Association of Malawi
CHSU - Community Health Services Unit
CMS - Central Medical Stores
CS - Child Spacing
DIID - Department for International Develoment (U.K.)
DRF - Drug Revolving Fund
DHO - District Health Officer
DEIS - Demographic and Health Survey
EC/EU - European Commission/European Union
GOM - Govemrment of Malawi
HBC - Home-Based Care
HEU - Health Education Unit
HIV - Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
HSA - Health Surveillance Assistant
ICB - Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA - International Development Association
IEC - Information, Education and Communication
JICA - Japanese International Cooperation Agency
MASAF - Malawi Social Action Fund
MCH - Maternal and Child Health
MATC - Magomero Appropriate Technology Center
MOA - Ministry of Agriculture
MOF - Ministry of Finance
MOGYCS - Ministry of Gender, Youth and Community Services
MOHP - Ministry of Healthi and Population
MTEF - Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NEC - National Economic Council
NFPCM - National Family Planniniig Council of Malawi
NGO - Nongovenmment Organization
OPD - Outpatient Depaltment
Pl'IC - Primary 1icalthi Care
PMN - IPopulation, Hcaltlh and Nutrition
PIU - P'roject Implemeniation Unit
QAG - Quality Assurance Group
QECH - Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report
SDA - Social Dimension of Adjustment
STD - Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TBA - Traditional Birth Attendant
UNFPA - United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
USAID - United States Agency for Intemational Development
WFP - World Food Program
WHO - World Health Organization
WID - Women in Development
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:    Dzingai Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Oscar F. Picazo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     13
6. Sustainability                                                                         17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         20
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                        22
9. Partner Comments                                                                      24
10. Additional Information                                                               24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                      31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     37
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                       39
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                     40
Map IBRD 31130
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P00 1646                                       Pro ect Name: PHN SECTOR CREDIT
7Team Leader: Oscar Picazo                                 TL Unit: AFTHI1
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model U1LM) o]ICR             Report Date: June 21. 2001
1. Project Data
Namte: PHN SECTOR CREDIT                              L/C/TF Number: IDA-22200; TF-21915
CountryiDepartment: MALAWI                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: HB - Basic Health
KEY DA'T'ES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/01/88                                 Effective: 06/20/91           06/20/91
Appraisal:  05/14/90                                  MTR: 09/30/93               07/16/94
Approval:  03/26/91                                 Closing:  12/31/96           12/31/2000
Borrower/hlplenleniting Agency:  GOVERNMENT/MINlSTRY OF HEALTH AND POPULATION
Other Partners:  Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry of Gender, Youth and Community Services;
National Economic Council
ST'AFF                Curretl.                                  At Appraisal
Vice Presideent:     Callisto Madavo                            Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Darius Mans                                Stephen Denning
Sector Manager:       Dzingai Mutumbuka                         David De Fen-anti
Team Leader at ICR:   Oscar F. Picazo
ICR Primary Author:   Oscar F. Picazo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainabilitv: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrowver Peijbrmatnce: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality atEnt'y:                          U
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
owtotine r F) -- From   Pjc.roci implerental ion viewpoint, the pro>,ject farcd satisfactorily in that it
secceeded in imnlementinp a.neost all *he programned activities, nottably tihe completion ofant an mitious
civil works programn and empansior in the supply of Community healthl workers. THowever, inappropriate
pr%-tiecl design-5 (f6cusing too nwich or "'hardware" infrastrcture, and Complex mu.lti aoencv
implementation) -and lackel o suppoi ive polic y environm-ent ed to a situatdon -where satisfactory
implenmentation of activities cid not lead to desired outemes Thus, access to Qiuality and effttive health
care remains generally difticult in. Ihe country dtite to conrinuing shortage In key inputs such as drugs, other
mtedical supplies, amnd traEined hea.llt profvssEonlais especially nuarses. As a resuk.thEEe proiect's long-terms



development objectives rernained largely unnmet by project's end.
Sustainabiitvy      - Although specific p;roject interentions could be made more su stain^alule, project
invesiments in ,general have limited sustainability prospects and axe likely to be disconitiniued Nvithiout
frrdter donor support. In fact. some project activities cannot even be sustainedi up to project compietion.
Poor sustainability is due to the country's poverty, its weak economic prospects, the low levels of human
capital, and limited support infrastructure. Although the project appraisal identified these constraining
factors, it underestimated their gravity and was too optimistic about the Government's capacity and
commnitmenit to addresss them.
Institutional D)evelopmnent (Ni - Inipleinenuiig agencies gained skilUs in project management, planning,
procurement, and monitoiing, buti so feww ere trained to liave had a notice4able effect on the capacity of
these agencies over tihe long Term. rain ing prograims on health services and hospital administration were
extensively supported but Ole civil service has been unable to retain many of the trained workers. Training
of pharm:acists was extrenmely lirnitedl niative tiO Malawi's tneeds. The HIV/AIDS epidem7ic continties to
claim traiined workers .and managers. further eroding project efforts to buildl institutional capacity.
Bank: Pei]brmance eb9 .. The Bank appraisal team appar enily did not recognize tbe inappropriateness of a
multi-local, tnulti-coomponent, tnuliu-mplementor project designi for a coxutry with limited nxtagetnent
capacity. As a result of this "sprawliti'g design, the project did not nmove fast enough in the early years,
which the IDA supervision team tried to address by making frequent visits, adopting a "hands-on1"
approach. ancd trying different reporting formats, all viewed by project itmplementors as "too intrusive". A
new IDA team adopted a more collegial approach in tihe mid-1990s, %ith fkwer visits, clearer instructions,
a standard monitoring format for all components. and generally facilitative and supportive supervision,
resultiig in much-improved project perfonnance. Despite these best efforts by IDA staff. thEe flawed design
haunted the project throughout its life. and the task tearm's missed opportunity to dramnatically restructure
the project meant that it continied to be largely unwieldy. The absence of a strong TDA technical presience
in thle fiel-d also constrained policy dialogue with the Government and otlher donors, especially whenii the
project's external environment seriously deteriorated especialy since the mnid-1990s.
Borrower Peifrmanzce (5) - The project proved to be too complex for the Goverlinent of Malaawi's (GOM)
capacity to implement, thus the slow prog:ress in the first thn-e yeats. As project iniplementors gained
requisite skills fionm training and "iearning-b-y-doing", borrower performance cotisidemably imiproved.
Nevertheless, a more highly satisfactory performrarnce coul3d have been achieved withl tighter Ministty of
Health and Population (MOTIPi and Ministry of Finance (MOF')I supervision of the project, a mnore lastiiig
solution to counterpatt--find proble)ms. adcl a strionger political will to pursue diflicult ref.orm3s with respect
to pharmaceutical supply and user fees. On balance, however, Government impiemerntors did what tbey
cotild tnder the given capacity and policy constraints. and succeeded in completing almost all project
aclivities, resultil-ng in a ve,ry birtsh rate of disbursement by project closure.
-2 -



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Ojective:
The objectives as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) are to improve the quality, access, efficiency,
and effectiveness in the sector through strengthening of basic programs focusing on primary health care
(PHC), maternal and child health (MCH) care, child spacing/family planning (FP), malaria control, AIDS
program, nutrition interventions, and women-in-development (WID) activities; strengthening of support
services focusing on staffing issues, pharmaceuticals, and information, education and communication
(IEC); efficiency improvements focusing on management strengthening, hospital decongestion, cost
sharing, and budget reform; and support to the Government's social dimensions of adjustment initiative.
3.2 Rei,4ed Objective:
Project objectives were not revised during its life, and review of the objectives indicate the following. First,
although project objectives are in general still valid, they should have been translated into operational and
more monitorable terms, and with greater specificity and focus. On hindsight, a project logical framework
would have helped immensely in IDA's and the Government's understanding of the project. Although a
logframe was not an IDA standard at the time, such an exercise should have been done midway through the
project, leading to project retrofitting of outputs, activities, and inputs. The absence of such logframe
retrofitting, with targets and verifiable indicators, precluded proper periodic evaluation of the validity of
project objectives. Thus, although a midterm review was conducted, no revisions were made on the original
objectives. (Interestingly, the project did not support the health information system or related data-gathering
activities.)
Second, analysis of the way project objectives were cast, relative to current knowledge of the sector,
indicates that the project was too supply-driven (as were most health projects of the time) and had little
regard to household and other demand responses. The implicit assumption in these objectives was that if
health services were provided, household access and utilization would be ensured. This underlying
assumption turned out to be weak, as some health services and facilities remained underutilized for reasons
including difficulty of physical access by households, persistence of illiteracy especially of women,
behavioral and cultural constraints, poor information, and overall poverty.
Third, project objectives were too focused on "hardware" aspects. Almost half of project resources were
devoted to infrastructure construction, with the remaining resources spread out to fund "software" support
(training and commodities). Project resources devoted to policy development and implementation were very
limited relative to total project size. Poor achievement in the policy reform area especially in
pharmaceuticals and human resource development would later translate into weak service delivery, even
with the "hardware" already completed.
Fourth, project objectives were too ambitious relative to the country's underlying economic environment,
again a reflection of flawed project design. The project relied heavily on an optimistic view of economic
performance and a robust health budget. Thus, when it became obvious that the health budget would not
increase significantly to provide the increasing recurrent cost support for the expanding health
infrastructure, the original scale of the construction and rehabilitation plan should have been reassessed,
and the remaining project resources should have been redirected to more service delivery. To be sure, the
civil works program was re-directed rightly towards rural areas, but the magnitude of the construction and
rehabilitation program continued, and today many of the completed facilities are unstaffed or understaffed,
ill-maintained, and suffering from chronic shortage of drugs and other supplies.
Fifth, although project thrusts to strengthen government health services were consistent with GOM's
- 3 -



strategy in the late 1 980s when the project was being prepared, by the mid- I 990s it is clear that the health
care market was gradually being liberalized, with increasing participation of nongovernment organizations
(NGOs) and for-profit health providers. Because of the project objectives' strict focus on government
services, it was unable to take advantage of opportunities presented by the private sector. Thus, as civil
service wages and benefits stagnated and government health workers found it more attractive to work
elsewhere, the project was unable to offer creative mechanisms that would have tapped the skills of these
health workers, for instance, through service contracts.
Sixth, according to the SAR, the project was a "sector investment credit, rooted in specified components,
but with a strong policy-based orientation and content". In retrospect, the policy reform program for
human resources, restructuring of the Central Medical Stores (CMS), and user fees turned out to be the
least successful elements of this project, partly due to weak conditionalities, lukewarm GOM support to
policy reform, and weak institutional capacity to fonnulate and implement these policies. A specific
investment loan (SIL), with more focused interventions and less ambitious targets, would have achieved
what the project eventually did achieve.
Finally, withiout adequate technical and risk analysis at appraisal, the project was designed as a
"co-financing arrangement" with a number of donors, but such arrangement soon fell apart due to political,
strategic and other reasons cited by participating donors (see section on Financing). The co-financing
arrangement was probably too early for its time, and even now that Sector Investment Program (SIP) and
sectorwide approaches (SWAp) are being endorsed by some countries in the region (with the support of key
donors), Malawi is still likely to require more time to adopt this approach, establish the required
administrative apparatus, and translate the approach into operational terms.
3.3 Original Components:
In line with its objectives, the project had the following components. Component 1, Strengthening of
Basic Programs (US$27.2 million in the SAR), included (a) for PHC and MCI-, development and
expansion of the number of Health Surveillance Assistants (HSA) into outreach-oriented and village-based
PHN promoters and service providers, rehabilitation and/or construction of rural health centers; provision
of rural housing, where needed, to attract essential personnel; and provision of some vehicles to improve the
effectiveness of district-level services; (b) for malaria, improvements in logistical support in the supply of
anti-malarial drugs and in support for drug resistance monitoring; (c) for AIDS, acceleration of efforts in
education and prevention campaigns and in acquisition of blood screening equipment; (d) for child spacing,
launching of a Famnily Welfare Council - later to be called National Family Planning Council of Malawi
(NFPCM) - to promote family planning and expansion of the MOHP's population program; (e) for
Women-in-Development (WID), institutional strengthening, upgrading of training program, and testing of
stnall-scale demonstration projects on appropriate teclhology (AT) dissemination and credit provision; and
(f) for nutrition, extension of a community level food security approach developed and tested by UNICEF,
and a micronutrient supplementation program.
Component 2, Strengthening of Support Services (US$19.2 million), included (a) for staffing issues,
upgrading of training programs and facilities for health cadres currently in critically short supply, and
enhancement of personnel management information and planning capabilities; (b) for the information,
education and communication (IEC) program, expanded activities for training health workers, and
provision of resources for conveying PHN messages to communities; and (c) for pharmaceuticals, technical
assistance and training on drug procurement, distribution and production, and improvement of facilities and
equipment.
Component 3, Efficiency lmprovements (US$16.2 million), included (a) rehabilitation of three urban
- 4 -



health centers and construction of two others to shift more outpatient care away from the more costly and
overcrowded hospitals to less expensive lower-level health facilities; (b) rehabilitation of one district
hospital, construction of another, and replacement of worn out equipment in selected hospitals; (c)
introduction of reforms in patient fees; and (d) budget reforms involving increases in the MOHP budget and
the share of it devoted to outreach and peripheral health services.
Component 4, Social Dimensions of Adjustment (US$0.5 million), included support for a social program
support fund to assist small-scale pilot interventions derived from felt needs of communities and expressed
through Government channels and NGOs.
3.4 Revised Components:
Each of the original project components remained as originally designed. However, within components, a
few adjustments were made while some activities were eliminated for lack of progress. (a) Under
Component 1, the NFPCM did not stand the test of time and was dismantled due to budgetary cuts in 1999
even before the project ended. It appears, however, that this did not unduly prejudice the achievement of
project objectives in family planning as stakeholders, with Government support, decided on a more
cost-effective mechanism by establishing instead the Family Planning Association of Malawi, registered as
an NGO and affiliated with the Intemational Planned Parenthood Federation. (b) Under Component 2, the
personnel information and planning system did not continue to be functional for lack of qualified staff to
manage it. Similarly, the legislative framework for CMS restructuring did not materialize and the reform
program got stalled. However, midway through the project, drug revolving funds were introduced and
rapidly multiplied, thus easing the severe drug unavailability in rural areas. (c) Under Component 3, the
construction of a district hospital in Lilongwe was abandoned in favor, rightly so, of a greater focus on
rural/peripheral health services.
Although project activities were thematically grouped into components, in essence these were just "baskets"
where activities were collected. For instance, Component 2 contained such disparate "health inputs" as
human resource development, IEC, and drug supplies. A better, more organic approach to activity
groupings/components would have been the use of "health programs" rather than "health inputs". This
would have provided program managers as well as Bank supervisory missions a more strategic view of the
sector and a better grasp of project progress and sector performance. As it was, focusing on health inputs
merely resorted to a "checklist" monitoring approach of whether project activities were being done and
completed, not whether those activities were critical or necesary in the first place, nor whether they were
leading to the achievement of the project's development objectives. This poorly designed "Christmas tree"
project was typical of the IDA-funded health projects in the early 1990s.
Moreover, the actual coordination of components turned out to be too ambitious relative to the institutional
capacity of the MOHP and other implementing agencies. lntersectoral linkages were difficult to achieve
due to the complexity of project components, and the separate assignment of responsibilities within and
across components.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was poor for this project. Project design was inappropriate, appraisal was insufficient in
not being able to take account of all the major risks, and preparation was generally unfocused with a
tendency to add rather than streamline activities. The project's readiness for implementation was less than
assured when it was made effective. Although project preparation and appraisal took two years to
complete, little progress was made in the first three years of implementation, indicating that the project was
not operationally ready when it was approved. Indeed, based on the recollections of program managers,
stakeholder consultations were held (wide by the standards of the time), Government commitment to the
- 5 -



project was firm, and ownership was strong. However, commitment and ownership do not necessarily
translate into capacity to implement. Moreover, there was a clear mismatch between the ambitious
expectations of the project compared to local implementation and coordination capacity. The set time frame
for the achievement of project objectives was too short (5 years) - for instance, the construction program
was too cramped - and harmonization of activities (construction, equipping, staff training and deployment)
was implicitly assumed to flow smoothly and rather inexorably. In the end, the project took 10 years of
implementation, with as many as three project extensions.
Risk assessments were done but they were not sufficiently addressed in project design. Thus, the SAR
recognized significant management problems at the central and district levels, the lack of coordination
arrangement among various health activities, and insufficient capacity in the health sector generally. Yet,
the project still prescribed expeditious decentralization of activities to the districts and continued with a
complex multisectoral implementation structure. Similarly, GOM's fiscal difficulties were seen to pose
potential risks for project implementation especially with respect to the timely completion of the investment
plan and adequate funding of the health system. However, project design severely underestimated the depth
of Malawi's economic difficulties and their direct consequences on the sustainability of an expanding health
infastructure. The project rightly proposed cost sharing to buffer the adverse effects of fiscal stringency on
health services and also rightly identified the risks that fees would pose in reducing household demand for
health services. What was not foreseen was that the economic and fiscal situations would be even worse
than what they already were in the late 1980s, that there would be political impediments to a national fee
program especially in light of the ascendance of a multiparty system with a populist platform, and that
there were far more sophisticated administrative arrangements required to make a fee system work.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Oute-otne/achievenient of objective:
The project objective is "to improve the quality, access, efficiency, and effectiveness in the health sector".
The SAR did not provide specific measurable and verifiable indicators of these aspects, precluding
objective analysis of achievements. Nonetheless, an impressionistic analysis of trends in the health sector
as well as an examination of project activities show the following:
a) Access - Substantial achievements were made in civil works, with the completion of planned
construction and rehabilitation. The building of the Lilongwe District Hospital and the Lilongwe School of
Nursing was abandoned in favor of more rural health facilities. By project's end, it was estimated that 60%
of the civil works allocation was directed to rural facilities. The project supported all 3 govemment central
hospitals and 21% of the secondary/tertiary facilities, i.e., 50 urban and rural health clinics out of a total of
240 district hospitals and health centers. Overall, the number of GOM health facilities in Malawi increased
from 208 in the late 1980s to 356 by the late 1990s. Thus, during the period, the ratio of persons per
GOM district hospital improved from 381,000 to 250,000 and the ratio of persons per GOM clinic also
improved from 44,000 to 32,000. In the late 1980s, about 80% of the Malawian population lived within 8
km. of a service delivery point. By the end of the 1 990s, the average walking distance to the nearest health
facility has been reduced to 3-5 kilometers for most districts, with only the remotest districts recording 6-8
kilometers. By these criteria, although access to a physical facility continues to be difficult for the average
Malawian, it has certainly improved.
The number of HSAs and nurse-teachers trained under the project is also notable, although the output of
trained health workers remains very limited relative to the country's needs. The drug revolving fund (DRF)
program resulted in better access to drugs at the community level where these pharmacies are located; site
visits at project's end show that these continue to be well supplied with drugs. The construction of family
- 6 -



planning clinics, traditional birth attendant (TBA) clinics as well as under-5 children's shelters involved
communities which participated actively in their completion, management and use. Thus, access to these
physical facilities also improved.
b) Equity - The project aimed at improving the health status of vulnerable populations, but it had no
explicit equity indicators. However, program managers stated that the family planning units, TBA shelters,
under-5 children's shelters, and community-based distribution of contraceptives partially improved access
to health services by women and children, deemed to be the most vulnerable groups in Malawi. In addition,
the project did make a concerted effort to focus interventions in the 10 most disadvantaged districts under
Phase I (those with worst infant and maternal mortality rates), with urban districts and the remaining 14
better-off districts being relegated to Phase 2.
For the health sector as a whole, a study using data from the 1992 Malawi Demographic and Health
Survey (DHS) shows that basic health services in Malawi tend to be more equitably utilized by different
asset quintiles relative to similar health services in other African countries, say in Uganda (Gwatkin, et al:
2000). The computed concentration indices for health service indicators show that in the early 1990s
immunization, treatmeot for diarrhea, treatment for acute respiratory infection, knowledge of HLV/AIDS,
and antenatal care were quite fairly utilized across asset quintiles. However, delivery attendance and use of
contraceptives were less fairly utilized across asset quintiles. No Malawi time-series data on this issue is
available (the 2000 DHS is expected to be released in 2001), so one cannot conclude whether health
services are more equitably utilized now than it was at project inception.
c) Efficiency - The project's principal tlhrust in this regard is to reduce the patient volume at overloaded
tertiary facilities through the expansion of lower-level health services and imposition of user charges
especially at central hospitals to rationalize referral. It appears from existing data that this objective has not
been met. Primary health services continue to be relatively underutilized while costlier higher level
facilities are overused (WB-MOHP: 2000). Patient attendance at a Malawi govemment hospital outpatient
department (OPD) has been estimated to be 2 visits per year, which is high compared to only 0.9 visits per
year in Tanzania (HERA: 1999). Similarly, the Technical Working Group on Hospital Autonomy in
Malawi has asserted that as much as 85% of hospital admissions in central hospitals, and an overwhelming
number of OPD patients, are primary care patients who should have been treated at lower level facilities
(TWG: 1998). Within the project, the late completion (1999-2000) of "bypass clinics" to cater to
central-hospital patients in Blantyre and Zomba means that it remains to be demonstrated whether the
hypothesized improvement in referral pattem will take place. Overall, per capita outpatient attendance in
Malawi is 4 visits per year, even going up to 7-9 visits per year in some districts, which are extremely high
even by African standards (JICA: 1999). These figures indicate that repeat visits - a strong indicator of
system inefficiency - are common, possibly due to understaffed and/or poorly supplied facilities.
A secondary efficiency thrust in the project is more micro-oriented and focused on tertiary hospitals, e.g.,
provision of security fences to reduce theft, communication equipment to make medical staff more readily
accessible, installation of water meters, training of drivers including transport vehicle management, and
rehabilitation of kitclhen and laundty facilities to reduce cost of frequent repairs. No study has been
conducted to assess the achievement of thlese efficiencies, but hospital management staff confirm that
operations in their hospitals are better due to these project investments.
d) Quality - Although the combined effect of the project's construction and training programs is to
improve people's access to a health facility, some of these facilities by project closure have suffered from
staffing and medical-supply problems. IDA supervisory site visits in the last two years of the project
indicate that under-staffed and under-supplied facilities have become increasingly common, with adverse
- 7 -



effects on quality of care. Vacancies of various health cadres involved in direct patient care ranged from
33% to as high as 80% in some critical positions (GOM Budget Book). A survey conducted by the KPMG
in 1999 show that many district hospitals do not have doctors, that lower-level staff were performing
higher-skill functions, and that even in tertiary facilities patients rarely see a doctor (KPMG: 1999). In fact,
among neighboring sub-Saharan countries, Malawi has consistently registered one of the worst population
to health worker ratios, with I physician per 45,000 people in Malawi, compared to 1:22,000 in Kenya and
1 :11,000 in Zambia. (To be sure, both Kenya and Zambia have per capita incomes higher than Malawi's,
but the differential in these rates could not be explained solely by per capita incomes).
In addition, severe drug shortage at almost all levels of care, but principally at rural health centers, have
imperilled service delivery. Among traditional authorities interviewed for the Malawi Integrated Household
Survey (IHS: 1999), 54% said that malaria drugs are "always available" in the health facility, 38% said
they were "sometimes available" and 8% said they were "never available". Diarrhea treatment (rehydration
salts) showed a similar pattern of unavailability: 65% always, 23% sometimes, and 12% never available.
Because they are critical, the quality standard for these two drugs is 100% availability at all times. The
continuing very high rate of malaria case fatality (25.2% of hospitalized cases) indicates severe
unavailability of anti-malarial drugs or poor quality of care for this disease condition. In conclusion,
although the project has done much to train health staff and to improve the physical condition of health
facilities, quality of care - as indicated by the availability of qualified health worker and/or drugs -
continues to be a major problem.
e) Effectiveness - No facility- or program-level indicators on effectiveness are available so one could only
surmise the effectiveness of project interventions from higher-level indicators of health status. It is difficult
to precisely measure project effectiveness in tenrns of these health status improvements, nor to attribute
these results to the project alone. (It must be noted that there are a lot of other players in the Malawi's
health sector.) Nevertheless, since the project is large enough to have affected the entire sector, and since its
design has a sectorwide orientation, it is helpful to review Malawi's health indicators during project closure
relative to what they were at project onset so that project effectiveness can be assessed. On the positive
side, improvements were recorded in family planning and child spacing. The contraceptive prevalence rate
for modemn methods doubled from 7% in 1987 to 14% in 1998 (Macro lnt'l: 2000), helping to reduce total
fertility rate from 7.3 children per woman of reproductive age in 1990 to 6.6 children in 1999. In nutrition,
iodine deficiency declined dramatically from 41.5% in 1990 to 27.0% in 1996, principally due to project
inputs. Child health improved, although only marginally. For instance, infant mortality rate per 1,000 live
births declined modestly from 149 in 1990 to 135 in 1999 while under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births
declined from 265 to 220. These modest achievements, however, pale in comparison to neighboring
countries with faster reductions in infant and child mortality (see WHO World Health Report: 2000).
Despite these achievements, modest as they are, it is clear that Malawi's health status has been
deteriorating. From 1989 to 1999, adult mortality rate per 100,000 dramatically worsened from 429 to
664 for males, and 349 to 618 for females. The deepening HIV/AIDS problem certainly accounted for a
significant proportion of these deaths; HIV/AIDS incidence itself more than doubled from 7.0% in 1988 to
16.2% in 1999. But other diseases and health conditions were also to blame. For instance, Malawi's case
fatality rate (CFR) for malaria in the late 1 990s remained extremely high (25.2% of hospitalized cases),
i.e., I in 4 persons diagnosed as having malaria died. In the same vein, maternal mortality ratio (MMR)
worsened from 560 deaths per 100,000 live births in 1990 to 620 in 1995. And the stunting rate - an
indicator of malnutrition - in Malawi actually deteriorated from 48.7% of surveyed children in 1992 to
64.5% in 1997, based on DHS and IHS data. The CFR and MMR indicators show continuing severe
weaknesses in Malawi's healthl system since malaria deaths could be averted with adequate and early
treatment with anti-malarial drugs; and most matemal deaths could be prevented with timely and adequate
-8 -



referral which, by implication, Malawi continues not to have.
If these indicators could be taken to reflect project outcomes, then the project had a checkered record, at
best, and negligible impact at worst. The project did contribute to modest improvements in health status
especially in family planning and iodine-deficiency malnutrition, but health status with respect to
HIV/AIDS, maternal care, and malaria remained unimproved, or even worsened. In addition, closer
scrutiny reveals that improvements in infant and child mortality rates were only marginal, and that child
morbidity patterns remain unchanged (anemia, diarrhea, pneumonia/respiratory infections, malaria and the
like continuing to take their toll). Finally, WHO modelling of long-term trends (World Health Report:
1999) indicates that Malawi has performed poorly in improving health status relative to its neighbors
(Kenya, Zambia, and Tanzania), and that such weak performance is worsening rather than improving.
f) Sustainability - Sustainability considerations pervaded the SAR and explicit policy conditions were
imposed on health financing especialy on budgetary allocation. The GOM made a deliberate effort over the
past decade to increase the share of health in the total government budget (7.3% in FY91 to 11.6% in
FY99), meeting its target set in the Letter of Health Development Policy. However, by 1995, this fiscal
achievement in the sector was being eroded with the onset of devaluation and inflation, leading to steep
decline in real per capita health expenditures (from US$6 per capita in FY91 to US$2 in FY97). Sharp
declines in the real value of health expenditures were experienced in FY95 and FY96, and severely so
towards the end of the 1 990s and on to the new decade. Thus, in most of the 1 990s, the expansion of the
Malawi health infrastructure - a growth of 6-8 clinics and about 2 district hospitals a year during the
decade - though perhaps justifiable on the basis of nieed, could no longer be maintained with adequate
recurrent spending and that the Malawi health budget was no longer sufficient for its ever-increasing
population. This fact begs the question of why system expansion continued to be a Government norm that
was supported by the project.
(In retrospect, the ideal IDA response would have been to restructure the project, cancel components, and
shift towards recurrent fun ding possibly through a SWAp. However, this would have required changing the
project's development objectives which necessitates re-approval by the IDA Board, and which the IDA task
team opted not to do since it entailed possibly a one-year delay in project implementation. Indeed, IDA's
Fiscal Restructuring and Developmeint Project 11 provided increased budgetary allocations to health, but
even these did not suffice.)
To cushion the adverse impact of budgetary stringency, there was modest effort to explore alternative
resource mobilization mechanisms (user fees), but by project's end, fee schemes have not been adopted
nationally but were initiated only for very restricted set of services and facilities (central hospitals), and
even these have had weak management and un-updated fee schedules and therefore checkered performance.
Drug revolving funds were adopted to enhance the sustainability of drug supplies, but soon a parallel
"free-drug" program (the Bakili Muluzi Initiative) was also launched. In view of these experiences, project
investments in the context of the overall Malawi health sector could only be rated, in general, as
unsustainable without fulther donor support.
g) Impact of Income Generating Activities (IGAs) - A number of the WID initiatives were quite
successful as pilot schemes. A final assessment of the maize mill component, for instance, indicated that
sound market research on the choice and siting of mills, good management procedures, and reliable
back-stopping services have made these schemes viable undertakings that contribute to the socio-economic
upliftment of women and their families. Maize mills were also shown to significantly reduce the amount of
time and labor women spend to process their food so that they can spend more time to do other activities.
However, their impact has been reduced by the relatively small scale of these interventions, their limited
-9-



"demonstration effects" to neighboring communities and groups, and the large supervision costs entailed in
maintaining these pilots.
4.2 Outputs by comiponents:
In general, component and subcomponent outcomes were deemed to be substantially achieved for project
interventions in PHC and the training and deployment of HSAs; malaria control; AIDS control; WID; the
Bunda College nutrition model; the Ministry of Agriculture nutrition model; the lEC program;
pharmaceutical procurement; hospital efficiency interventions; civil works; and PIU management and
support. However, only partial achievements were reported for the NEC nutrition program; the MOHP
nutrition program; human resource development; and reforms of Central Medical Stores (CMS).
Component 1, Strengthening Basic Programs: Notable achievements were the training and support
program for HSAs; support and supervision for the malaria program; and support to the AIDS and
Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD) program, especially drugs, supplies and bicycles for the home-based
care (HBC) subcomponent. The relevance of activities, the commitment of program managers, and the
availability of funds were cited as major reasons for the positive achievements. On the other hand, delays
in procurement and disbursements due to onerous IDA procedures, the lack of monitoring of outcomes and
over-emphasis on process indicators, the Govenmment's inability to meet its counterpart obligations, and the
weakening of community spirit in the villages - possibly as a result of worsening household economic
conditions - constr-ained what could have been more substantial achievements.
a) Primnary' Health Care (PHC) - Substantial: The project rehabilitated 50 rural health centers and built
61 under-5 children's shelters. It also trained 3,600 HSAs and 900 supervisors. The project procured 24
twin cabs and 24 ambulances for districts, 4 vehicles for the regional offices, 1,046 push bicycles for HSAs
and 900 for supervisors, and 28 motorbikes for HSA supervisors at the district level.
b) Druig Revolving Funds (DRF) - Substantial: The project supported the initial and refresher training of
400 dispensary sites involving 800 people, and 800 new sites were in training for a total of 1,200 DRFs
when the project ended. The project also trained 500 village health committees involving 5,000 people,
around 1,000 community-based distributors (CBD) of contraceptives and supplies, 6,000 growth
monitoring officers, and 5,000 san-plast makers.
c) Malaria Control - Substantial: The project met its target in training health workers in malaria case
management. The project procured the initial set of 42 microscopes which were distributed by the
Community Health Services Unit (CHSU). However, only 9 out of the 35 microscopes requested for the
second consignment were purchased. The project also supported the establishment of microscopy centers
by initiating the microscopy traininig of laboratory personnel and HSAs. Efficacy and malaria resistance
studies on Fansidar/SP were done in 3 sites over the years instead of 3 sites per year. The project also
supported the filming of malaria IEC teaching materials to be used by the ChlSU. Ranged against these
achievements, the fundinig for insecticide treated materials was only US$24,000 per year for 3 years, which
was grossly underestimated, and only 8,000 nets were purchased. Procurement of insecticides was done
only once, in 1997. In addition, although the project purchased 30 motorbikes for the districts, the program
only received 8 of the 15 vehicles requested in the latter part of the project.
d) AIDS Prevention and Control - Substantial: The project trained 57 health workers in STD syndromic
management. It also procured and distributed all STD drugs for syndromic management (except for
benzathine penicillin), but the receipt of the drugs was delayed from 1996 to 1998. In the area of
counseling and testing, the project trained 79 social and health workers in counseling and 19 lab technicians
and assistants in the servicing of ELISA machinies. The project also procured HIV testing kits, HBC drugs
- 1 0 -



and supplies, and 300 bicycles to be used for HBC visits. It funded the training of trainers (37 health
workers) in the management of AIDS-related illnesses and supervision of STD patients, HIV sentinel
surveillance in STD patients, and a study on the magnitude, impact and mitigation strategies for AIDS.
e) Child Spacing and Reproductive Health - Substantial: The project trained some 1,000 CBDs who were
provided with 280 bags of contraceptives and medical supplies. It also funded the construction of 25
family planning units and 48 TBA shelters (in lieu of the originally planned equipping of 12 fixed facilities
in existing health centers). The project also procured 280 TBA kits and 100 ambulance bicycles. The
NFPCM was planned to be the centerpiece of this program, with project plans to construct and furnish the
office building. However, the GOM deferred these plans, and as the budget crisis became more severe, it
was clear that the government could not afford further expansion of the bureaucracy and the Council was
dismantled, from which a local NGO was established.
f) Women-in-Develop7nent (WID) and Women 's Credit Prograam - Modest: Achievements were reported
for the strengthened institutional capacity for WID and the transfer of appropriate technology (AT) for a
range of income-generating activities to 71 women's groups in four districts. To fund the adoption of AT,
the project established a women's credit program that extended loans to 228 groups with 2,280
beneficiaries. By project's end, 28 maize mills had been allocated to 24 groups throughout the country.
Repayment rate to the loans was high (95%), but the credit program was extended only to 50% of the
districts, hence the partial achievement of outcomes. Limited mobility of program officers, the suspension
of IDA funding for part of this program, and the delayed establishment of credit mechanisms with lending
institutions all contributed to what would have been a larger project impact.
g) Ministry of Gender, Youth and Community Services (MOGYCS) - Substantial: The project
strengthened MOGYCS by advocating the creation and filling of 36 posts, providing basic management
training to 140 community development agents (CDAs), 36 WID officers, and 228 others, and procuring 9
vehicles, 25 motorcycles, and 30 push bikes. The project also built 10 staff houses in 10 districts.
h) Magoinero Appr opriate Technology Center (MA TC) - Substantial: The project supported the
improvement and reorganization of the MATC by constructing 2 "kholas", I ablution block, I office block,
I classroom block, and 5 staff houses. It supported the upgrading of the post of principal to P7. It
facilitated the review and revision of the MATC curriculum. Thirteen appropriate technologies were
adopted at MATC.
i) MO-P Nutrition - Substantial. Community and demand-driven involvement from the very beginning
(especially empowenrent of communities for the community feeding of under-5 children), regular
supervision, and political support especially for salt iodization were cited as factors contributing to the
substantial achievements in this area. The project achieved remarkably high coverage of trained
community health volunteers, with 7,777 trained compared to a target of 3,500. In terms of impact,
program evaluation indicates that iodine deficiency disorders was reduced from 56% total goiter rate in
1993 to 27% in 1996. However, the iron folate supplementation program for pregnant women was less
successful as complicated procuremnent procedures led to erratic supplies.
j) MOA Nutrition - Substantial. Good community organization led to a demand-driven scheme that
involved full community participation in seed distribution, food production, and food utilization. Again, the
project exceeded its target for seed distribution of 1,500 households, with 4,000 households being reached.
This subcomponent also produced the National Plan of Action on Nutrition (NPAN), which now embodies
the Government's strategy in the sector.
- 11 -



k) NEC Nutrition - Negligible. The NSSA report on nutrition was not completed as the extemal
consultant failed to deliver his output. Program coordination in nutrition that was supposed to be done by
NEC was only partially achieved due to high staff tumover, prolonged institutional restructuring, and a
general lack of appreciation of food security and nutrition at the policy level.
Component 2, Strengthening of Support Services: Support services covered manpower development,
lEC, and pharmaceuticals procurement.
a) Manpower Development - Modest. The project trained 13 (or 50%) of the hospital administrators in
the country. In addition, it sponsored a study on "The Analysis of Human Resources in Health". The lack
of GOM strategic vision for human resource development, however, constrained further progress in this
area. The planned training, in most cases, was not utilized because the underlying institutions were not
reformed. In other cases, there were no potential candidates for available training slots. Finally, a
yet-undetennined number of trained staff have left the civil service. Because of these factors, the long-term
impact of this subcomnponent is doubtful.
b) Information, Ediucation and Comnnutnication (IEC) - Substantial. Project-sponsored radio programs,
the procurement of IEC vehicles and bicycles, and the rehabilitation of the IEC Unit contributed positively
to the strengthening of the delivery of key health messages via different media (video, radio and TV spots,
comics, magazines and brochures). Five training sessions on skills development and three regional
empowerment workshops were also held.
c) Pharmaceutical Surpplies - Modest. The project funded the physical rehabilitation of the CMS, the
development of an Essential Drug Program, and the training of 6 pharmnacists. Sustained progress was not
achieved, however, due to the government's reluctance to undertake a comprehensive pharmaceutical
refonn program (starting with the granting of a parastatal status to CMS), the severe shortage of trained
pharmacists and trainable phannacists (some students dropped out of college), inadequate government
funding for pharmaceuticals, and leakages due to poor procurement, distribution, and information systems.
Component 3, Efficiency Improvement: Substantial achievement under this component is reflected in the
completion of almost all the planned infrastructure.
a) Construction and Rehabilitation - Substantial: The project constructed 42 health centers (12 more than
the 30 originally planned); all of the 25 FP units; all of the 7 urban health centers plus I new one; 339 rural
staff houses out of 442 (the shortfall due to the withdrawal of the European Union from the project); 67
under-5 shelters, and 46 shelters for traditional birth attendants. The project also completed training
hostels for the Kamuzu College of Nursing; the Lilongwe School of Health Sciences; the Zomba School of
Nursing; the Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital; the Lilongwe Central Hospital; and the Mzuzu Central
Hospital. Twelve tutor houses were erected for CHAM health facilities. The project also rehabilitated and
extended the Magomero Development Training College. Some 5,800 san-plasts were molded and 480
shallow wells were protected and installed with Malda pumps. In the civil works procurement process, the
project facilitated the development of the capacity of local contractors and consultants.
b) Hospital Efficiency - Substantial. For the three central hospitals, security fences were erected, all the
planned 23 vehicles were purchased (of which 12 were ambulances), and communication was improved
through the provision of cell phones to key staff and paging systems in central hospitals. The Queen
Elizabeth and Lilongwe central hospitals' kitchen and laundry services were also rehabilitated. The Zomba
Hospital mortuary was constructed and equipped.
- 12 -



c) MOHP Buidget Reforms - Modest. GOM succeeded in increasing the nominal share of health in the
government budget, but real per capita health expenditures have not kept pace with inflation and population
growth. GOM also succeeded in increasing the share of the health budget going to district and lower-level
facilities (from 37% in FY90 to as much as 54% in FY97), with a corresponding decrease in the share
going to central MOHP headquarters (which declined from 22% to 10% during the same period) and
central tertiary hospitals (which declined from 48% to 17%). However, a central hospital continues to have
an allocation 3-5 times larger than that of an average district hospital. Moreover, the steady increase in the
number of primary/secondary facilities from 202 in the late 1980s to 284 in the late 1990s means that the
overall increase in the allocation to district and lower facilites has not translated to an increase in the
average allocated to each primary/secondary facility, i.e., there are more resources going to the periphery
but system expansion means that there is less going to each rural facility. Thus, the risk identified in the
SAR of "inadequate funding of the system" became a self-fulfilling prophecy.
d) User Fee Reformns - Modest. The MOHP adopted an incremental, phased approach to cost sharing
starting with the central hospitals (Queen Elizabeth and Lilongwe). However, it never moved beyond this
stage, and the GOM failed to establish a national policy on fees. A unit cost analysis study was initiated,
but it remains to be showni how the results will be used operationally.
Component 4, Social Dimension of Adjustment (SDA) or Social Program Support Fund: This
component succeeded in creating an environment for the political and social acceptability of self-help
mechanisms in Malawi through social funds. The Final Report for the SDA Project (1993) contained nine
recommendations on how to expand social programs which were eventually incorporated into the design of
a separate project on the Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF) as well as related initiatives.
4.3 Net Present Value/Fcononic rate qf,retun:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate oqfreturn7:
Not applicable.
4.5 bIstitutional developpment inmpact:
The project had a marginal impact on institutional development. The project suffered from weak project
management in its initial phase. The decisionmaking structure was highly centralized and consultative
mechanisms were weak. These were exacerbated by high senior-staff turnover, slow recruitment of PIU
staff, and poor definition of PIU staff roles and functions. By the mid-1990s, many of these problems have
been eased, but implementing agencies continued to suffer from shortage of specialized skills such as
procurement, planning, and monitoring. The project's impact on public sector management is also modest.
Although the project trained a substantial number of public servants, many of them soon left the civil
service for greener pastures. Little was done to improve the organizational structure and to improve the
incentives in public service. The project indeed trained a number of hospital administrators, but poor pay,
many staff vacancies, and commodity shortages (drugs, supplies) combine to reduce their administrative
effectiveness.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 FIactors oulside the control of go vernente or implementilg agency:
a) Weather - Adverse weather conditions affected the project in various ways. The drought in the
mid-I 990s severely diminislhed economic growth, leading to fiscal difficulties in the health sector and
constraining the sector's ability to deliver services. Poor economic growth also diminished households'
- 13 -



purchasing power which set back GOM's fee initiatives. Heavy rains in late 1999 and early 2000 halted
much of the remaining construction program (staff houses), necessitating extension of the project's closing
date to December 2000.
b) HIV/AIDS - The epidemic turned far more serious than expected, taking its toll on both health workers
and patients. By project's closure, almost half of the health positions had been unfilled, a significant
percentage of which is certainly due to AIDS. Frequent staff absences or time off from work (from own
illness, or for caring for an affected family member, or from attending funerals of colleagues or relatives)
reduced the actually available hours of health workers for patient care. The patient load changed
dramatically that by project's end, AIDS patients have begun crowding out non-AIDS patients in health
facilities. How such a phenomenon affected project outcomes is not clear, but since health workers and
management capacity have been in such short supply in Malawi to start with, the AIDS epidemic certainly
was an unwelcome burden on, and distraction from, other key public health issues that the project was
concenied with.
5.2 Factors generally suibject to governmient control:
a) Counterpart Funds - Fiscal difficulties during periods of project implementation constrained the
government's ability to meet its requirements for counterpart funds and delayed a few activities. This was
certainly the case in the mid-I 990s and more seriously as the decade drew to a close. Counterpart
contributions were particularly heavy for civil works (USS2.9 million estimated for the entire project life).
The Goveniment, however, tried its best to meet its obligations so that by project's end, the arrears problem
has been solved. In addition, by 1998/99 salaries for HSAs have been transferred from the project to the
Government, with specific line item devoted to it.
b) Human Resource Shortage - All project interventions relied on an adequate supply of health workers.
Malawi has grappled with this shortage in the past, but the situation became acute starting in 1998. As
much as 50% of the available nursing posts are now unfilled. The nursing shortage has arisen from a
complex set of demand and supply factors. On the demand side, the low pay and poor staff benefits of
government health workers; the liberalization of healtlh service delivery resulting in the exodus of
government workers to private practice (both non-profit and for-profit providers) which offer better salaries
and benefits; and the increasing demand for skilled nurses in neighboring countries and in Europe
contributed to the vacancies.
However, supply factors also caine into play, including (a) the Malawi Nursing and Midwifery Council's
insistence that Malawi should produce degreed nurses (i.e., higher-skilled registered nurses, mainly
hospital-based, with a longer and therefore more expensive training period) rather than the lower-skilled but
more cost-effective community health nurses (enrolled nurses); (b) the serious lack of nursing tutors many
of whom have left the civil service for greener pastures; (c) the severe scarcity of secondary school
graduates in general, and those going to nursing in particular, which is also due to the training system's
focus on degree-nursing; (d) limited science education needed to underpin medical and nursing training; and
(e) increasing death and morbidity from the AIDS epidemic. Not all of these factors are amenable to GOM
action or influence, but it certainly could have set stronger policy direction with respect to the types of
nurses needed by the healthl system, it could have expedited civil service refonn to "right-size" the
bureaucracy and enhance the benefits of trained health workers, and it could have set a program to produce
more secondary school graduates and strengthen science education for nursing and medicine.
c) Drug Shortage - Drug availability is a key indicator of quality perception by patients. Much of the
solution to the problem of chronic unavailability of drugs is subject to GOM influence and control, but
inadequate financing, weak governance and management of the Central Medical Stores, poor logistics and
- 14-



distribution systems, insufficient plaining, and outright pilferage have combined to make the supply of
pharmaceuticals severely inadequate and unreliable, especially at the peripheral clinics. A major
donor-supported effort to refonn the pharmaceutical sector in the mid-1990s faltered as the Government
failed to enact the Parliamentary bill to transform CMS into an autonomous body.
5.3 Factoiis generallv subject to implenmenting agency) conitrol:
a) MOHP Project Monitoring - The lack of built-in project monitoring and evaluation mechanism led to
frequent situations where problems were identified mostly during IDA missions and addressed after. The
absence of a logical framework (logframe) specifying the project outputs and deliverables also contributed
to weak monitoring. Strategically, a project steering committee consisting of the different representatives
of the various implementing agencies should have been organized to provide direction for the project in the
context of the evolving health issues and concerns. Frequent changes in the MOHP leadership at the
Minister, Permanent Secretary, and directorate levels may also have weakened the Ministry's attention on
this project.
b) PIU Establishment, Staffing, Procurement and Financial Management - On the face of it, the
establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) seems inconsistent in the context of the sector loan
approach of this project. The ideal strategy would have been to beef up the MOHP's Planning Unit so that
it can exercise its mandated functions of planning for the sector and monitoring sector performance. The
SAR does not discuss in detail why the PIU approach was preferred; in fact, the higher salaries offered to
PIU staff - while providing incentives for perfornance at PIU - soon became a bone of contention for
non-PlU MOH-P staff who were also doing significant work for the project. On hindsight, since the project
could not "top-off' MOHP staff salaries (thus rendering moot the use of Planning Unit staff to do project
work without being paid), establishinlg the PIU became a neccessity for project activities to be
implemented.
The PIU approach appears to have worked well, with most project activities successfully implemented. In
the process, local capacity to implement IDA-funded activities were strengthened. The filling up of the post
of the PIU coordinator, however, took an inordinate amount of time, and the project experienced three more
changes in PIU coordinator until its closure. Difficulties in procurement also marked the early years of the
project, partly because of the project staffs inexperience and more specifically, their lack of familiarity
with IDA procedures. Loose coordination between MOHP and the PIU also resulted in delays in
disbursement. Drug supplies to the CMS were sometimes adversely affected by these delays, resulting in
drug shortages. Delays in the completion of some infrastructure were often traced to late payments to
contractors.
c) Coordination of Construction, Staffing, and Equipping Activities - There were instances where
staffing/equipping of facilities were not hannonized with the completed construction and rehabilitation. For
instance, the last batch (Phase 2) of urban health centers, family planning clinics, and training hostels could
not be used long after they were completed because the large consignment of furniture and equipment were
not shipped on time. By May 2000, none of the completed urban health centers were fully operational
because the health staff had not been assigned, or additional staff had not been hired. In some instances, a
security company had to be engaged to protect unoccupied facilities and staff houses from theft. In yet
other instances, actual thefts occurred. The commissioning became especially problematic with the
dissolution of regional health offices whichi originally accepted the completed infrastructure, and the
transfer of this function to individual district health offices. Many of these problems could have been
averted with better planninig and coordination with the client/user of facilities. These negative factors also
meant that even if project activities were being achieved (construction), the development impact of these
activities (better access and health status) were not being met.
- 15-



5.4 Costs and financing:
a) Costs - Cost escalation due to bursts of devaluation and consequent inflation affected the tendering and
awards of civil works, especially for the rural component of the project. The kwacha fluctuated from
US$I=MK3.5 in 1992 to MK50 in May 2000. Local inflation sometimes reached as high as 50% per
year, even reaching 68% in the project's last year, far higher than the project-assumed local inflation rate of
5%. The price uncertainties made contractors reluctant to sign contracts denominated in the local currency.
The inflation also led to PIU staff clamoring for salary levels higher than anticipated during project
preparation.
Comparison of the actual cost versus the original budget of the infrastructure program indicates that some
components had lower actual costs (e.g., CHAM tutors' housing, the Lilongwe School of Health Sciences
hostels, WID/Magomero), indicating that certain savings were gained. Other components showed higher
actual costs (e.g., KCN hostels, KCN Appropriate Technology Center, Zomba hostels, district taining
hostels, and urban health centers). However, making direct comparison is difficult since the scope has
changed for some of the components. The proportion of professional fees to construction cost appears to
be reasonable for most of the components (10% to 20%), except for the KCN Appropriate Technology
Center (37%).
No similar analyses have been made on drug procurement and technical assistance, the two other major
project inputs. However, witlh respect to tecnlical assistance, local consultancy rates often crept up to the
level of their interntational counterpal-ts, a plhenomenon observed not only for this IDA project but for other
donor-funded projects as we]l. To date, there has not been donor agreement to resolve this issue, although
a similar initiative to standardize travel and daily subsistence allowance has been successfully completed.
b) Financing - The project hiad a sectorwide orientation as reflected in its original financing design.
However, donor cofinancing fell apart as the European Union (EU), with an expected project contribution
of US$ I 1. I million, quit for political reasons as the country was moving towards multiparty democracy.
(EU originally committed to the parallel-finiancing of 231 new rural houses, rehabilitation of 24 rural
houses, and the construction of the Chiradzulu District Hospital.) Otlher bilateral donors that promised
sector support within the context of the project went on their own. U SAID was supposed to support the
training of additional HSAs and supervisors, but with a change in its strategy, it went on to develop its own
health projects in family planning and AIDS prevention. The World Food Program (WFP) also left
project-funded nutrition activities after a change in its strategy. The Dutch support for pharmaceuticals,
however, pushed through. Although it was not formally a part of the project's financing plan, the much
hoped-for additional revenue from user fees did not materialize due to govermnent's inability to launch a
national cost sharing program.
The falling apart of financing agreements is not unique to this project nor to Malawi; similar design in the
Tanzania Health and Nutrition Project also resulted in each donor going its separate way. Knowledge
culled from the implementation of SWAps in other countries in the 1 990s indicate that cofinancing
agreements require so much more extensive agreements, especially with respect to the strategic direction of
the health sector; overall sector finiancing; respective roles of each of the funding partners, the Govemment
itself, and other stakeholders; common sector monitoring and evaluation arrangements; etc. On hindsight,
and using the SWAp standards of today, it appears that the "cofinancing" arrangement envisioned under
this project is nothlinlg more tlhan the artifical collection of truly disparate activities.
- 16 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainahilitv rating:
Although project components generally achieved good outcomes, most were deemed of unlikely
sustainability mainly due to the government's continuing budget difficulties, the country's poverty, and
limited cost-recovery potential especially of public health interventions. However, there are certain
exceptions (i.e., high sustainability), including the HSAs; the maize mills program of WID; the salt
iodization program; and certain hospital-efficiency activities.
a) Health Suirveillance Assistants - Salaries of HSAs have been regularized in the GOM budget.
However, no donor has been willing to support HSA training after the PHN project closed. There are
continuing concems among some donors that HSAs are of "lower standard" than that required by Malawi's
health system, a position that the Goveniment also took at the inception of the HSA program but which it
has since abandoned. A thorouglh and objective evaluation of the HSA program (recruitment, training, and
deployment) is called for to settle this issue
The maintenance and replacement of IHISA bicycles is uncertain as there has been no government policy on
the ownership of these assets. The maintenance of motor vehicles is also uncertain.
b) Drug Revolving Funds - DRFs operate on a partial cost-recovery basis which have enhaced their
sustainability. However, poor drug logistics at CMS hampers their operation. The maintenance and
replacement of bicycles used under the program is also uncertain. Although the GOM increased the
per-capita financing of drugs in FY01 and promised to do so for the succeeding fiscal years, it is unclear
how much of this increase will be devoted to primary-care drugs offered by the DRFs. Finally, program
expansion cannot be ensured with no donors willing to shoulder future DRF training costs.
c) Malaria Control - In the short tenn, donors have indicated continued support for this program. For
instance, the World Bank has committed to provide assistance for environmental affairs and vehicle
maintenance for one year. However, support for subsequent years is uncertain. The critical activity of
training health workers still lacks funding.
d) HIV/AIDS Control - This program continlues to attract donor grant support, with pledges made during
the AIDS Roundtable conference in March 2000. So far, the 5-year HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework
(2000-2004) has attracted US$109 million in donor pledges (compared to total cost of US$120 million).
Institutional support at least for the next two years has been committed. Institutional restructuring is being
considered, witlh the AIDS control program likely to become an autonomous body. STD drugs and
reagents are being supported under DflD's new Sexual and Reproductive Health Project and condoms are
being funded largely by USAID and DflD. However, home-based care services lack support. The
replacement of project-provided bicycles for the home-based care program is also uncertain. The care of
AIDS orphans has not received the attention it deserves.
e) Child Spacing and Reproduictive Health - Community-based distributors of contraceptives now get
their supplies from the Government as well as from donors. Traditional birth attendants continue to get
support from donors. Villages are being empowered to maintain ambulance bicycles under this program.
The NFPCM has been dismantled, and a local family planning NGO has taken its role and functions.
f) MOGYCS suipervision of WID activities - Fuel and other maintenance costs for motorcycles used in
supervision will be unfunded once the project ends. Therefore, supervision of WID activities is expected to
be adversely affected.
- 17-



g) Appropriate technology in WID - The maize mills introduced under the project will be sustainable once
the loans are paid off, and indications are that they will be. The bamboo, weaving, and integrated farming
technologies introduced to entrepreneurs are also highly sustainable. However, the Magomero Appropriate
Technology Center itself is not deemed to be commercially viable. Further development and diffusion of
appropriate technology, training, and outreach and extension services are uncertain due to the inadequate
Govemment budget. Current supervision under the Economic Activities Program (EAP) is limited to only
eight districts.
h) Nuitrition - Salt iodisation is now official Government policy. Manufacturers' and importers' adherence
to this policy should ensure sustainability of this nutrition intervention. The community-based management
of malnourished children also has potential for longer-tenn sustainability as the active participation of
affected communities has been observed. IHlowever, further advocacy for support from other organizations
is needed. The iron folate program is not sustainable at present since there is no official Government policy
to fund and provide it. The Goveniment should regard iron folate supplementation to pregnant women as a
policy priority.
i) Manpower Development - In the midst of the human resource crisis in health, the Government simply
does not have resources for pre-service or in-service training. In view of the stalled civil service reform,
neither does it have resources to upgrade the salaries and benefits of health workers so that their retention
can be assured. For a long time, the situation was worsened by the absence of a national policy on human
resources generally, and training specifically.
j) Information, Eduication and Co0nmmnication - The production of programs by the IEC Unit is deemed
sustainable if it charges appropriate fees to cover production costs of videos and written materials.
Without such a fee, the Unit would need a seed fund for production and training. The funding of radio
airtime is unicertain. It is suggested that the GOM should finance this function after the project ends.
k) Pharmaceuticals - The maintenance of project-rehabilitated CMS offices and warehouse is not ensured.
Though the project sponsored the training of the first set of phannacists, their number is so inadequate (6)
relative to the needs of the country; 2 have left the civil service for greener pastures. Work of foreign
technical experts under the Essential Drugs Program (EDP) has wound up, but the program is not complete
nor sustainable. It has been suggesteded that the EDP should be revived with Malawian nationals at the
helm.
I) Hospital Efficiency - Most of the project fuinded investmenits in this area are low-maintenance (e.g.,
security fences, kitchen equipment). Those requiring recurrent cost support (transportation,
communication) are now budgeted under the central hospitals' allocations.
m) Civil Works - The significant infrastructure investment under this project is such that their maintenance
is unlikely unless the Govenmment or donors dramatically increase the operations and maintenance budget.
Minor maintenance of inifrastructure can be handled at the district level, but the district management team
need to be sensitized on this issue, and be able to craft creative means of generating local resources for
maintenance. Modest user fees, for instance, may be tapped in this regard. The absence of an
infrastructure maintenance policy and financing is a major hindrance to increasing the useful life of capital
investments in Malawi. Training centers can be rented out commercially, but this would require
refurbishment.
n) Vehicles - Vehicle maintenanice is problematic. The traditional roles are for donors to provide capital
- 18 -



investments and for the Govemment to provide recurrent budget, but this has led to a perverse incentive
structure where the Government, strapped for maintenance budget, would rather request for a new vehicle
rather than repair an existing one. Historically, most donors cannot provide recurrent cost support, but
they are often quite willing to provide yet another new vehicle. Clearly, this vicious cycle has to stop. The
strict "labelling" and use of vehicles by donor and/or by program also has to stop since this engenders fleet
inflexibility and unsustainability.
6.2  Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition arrangements vary from one implementing agency to another and from one program to another.
Some project-suppoLted activities have been regularized into agency programs (as discussed above).
Others are yet to transit into regular operations.
(a) GOM needs to come up with proposals on how to continue the training programs in the HSA and DRF
programs.
(b) Existing HIV/AIDS project activities have been folded over into the 2000-2004 HIV/AIDS Strategic
Framework but USS9 million in the plan continiues to be unfunded.
(c) No clear strategy has been developed to institutionalize WID and appropriate technology activities. A
1997 evaluation proposed the conversion of the MATC into an autonomous agency, but GOM has not
taken up this proposal.
(d) The National Plan on Nutrition (NPAN) has been completed but it remains to be seen how specific
interventions in the project will be supported under NPAN implementation.
(e) MOHP with bilateral donor support has come up with a national Human Resource Development Plan
in health which the GOM hopes to present to donors for pledging. The plan calls for the recruitment,
training and deployment of at least 200 nurse-techniicians, 50 new medical assistants, and 20 radiography
technicians per year. The larger civil service refonns (staff rationalization and decompression of the wage
structure) continue to be under discussion with the GOM.
(f) No specific arTangement has been made to institutionalize IEC activities.
(g) The DflD has revived plans for CMS restructuring and pharmaceutical sector reforms. GOM has
endorsed the proposed workplan, which calls for a two-stage restructuring of CMS at the end of which it
ought to be a streamlined, semi-autonomous body recapitalized through multi-donor contributions. The
first phase involves reviewing the Essential Drug List on the basis of vital health needs, preliminary work
supporting the creation of the CMS as a Trust, and the development of information systems to monitor
compliance with agreed policies and financial allocations. A "District Drug Fund" to be co-funded by
donors and the GOM is also being contemplated.
(h) On civil works, a maintenanlce program for regular preventive maintenance with a separate line item
must be established. Staff should also be assigned for maintenance. The maintenance of technically
sophisticated equipment procured under the project is especially problematic. The possibility of outsourcing
equipment maintenance should be considered. A GTZ-funded project is assisting the Govemment with a
comprehensive maintenance program.
(i) On budget refonns, the Medium-Te-tn Expenditure Framework (MTEF) process is being
- 19-



institutionalized within the Govemment and specifically at MOHP. A recent ICR of the macroeconomic
program in Malawi indicates that the MTEF's success in the medium term has been mixed and that further
capacity strengthening is required.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The IDA team identified the project with the requisite extensive high-level government consultations.
However, these consultations should have gone deeper to the grassroots level, a process that could have
better improved implementability especially since a significant portion of it was community-oriented. The
IDA appraisal team conducted extensive background analyses and formulated a fiscal modeling exercise,
but the project's lack of unifying focus, complexity, over-ambitiousness, and intensive coordination
requirement relative to GOM's implementation capacity, bespeak of the IDA team's weakness in translating
analyses and models into institutionally implementable design. For instance, some project tasks were given
to the wrong institutions, as was the case of food security which was assigned to the Ministry of Local
Government instead of the Ministry of Agriculture. Also, the IDA team's forecasts of inflation, exchange
rate, and fiscal revenue proved to be too overly optimistic. The project conditionalities especially with
respect to pharmaceutical sector refonrs were weak, reflecting what appears to be the design team's
preference for short-tern- panacea (i.e., desire to get drugs into the country as soon as possible) rather than
a long-term solution (i.e., institutionally and financially sustainable arrangement). Both IDA and the
Government enthusiastically embraced the project, and donors unilaterally endorsed it with commitrnents to
participate, and for some donors to co-finance. But the co-financing arrangement was ill-conceived relative
to the existing apparatus to cany it throuLglh at the time, and so it soon fell apart. Clearly, there were basic
design flaws in the project.
7.2 Supervision:
The early years of the project must be distinguished from the latter years because of the frequency and
change in approach to supervision following the changes in the composition of IDA supervision teams.
Supervision was very frequent during the early period, with as many as four missions made in 1991, and
three annual missions from 1993 to 1995. Hlowever, component managers viewed the IDA team during this
period as "arrogant", more interested in "policing", "fault-finding", and "treating the loan like a grant". The
supervision missions were seen to be implementing rather than supervising the project, and imposing
frequent and often unexplained changes in the reporting formats. ln the latter part of the project,
supervision was reduced to only two visits a year, but the new IDA task team was deemed more collegial
and gave clearer project direction, especially after the midtenn review. The monitoring format was
standardized for all componenits, with clear indications of what were accomplished and what were not, and
the actions needed to address these. Largely in part to the intensive support provided by the IDA task team
in procurement, activities were expedited during the latter half of the project.
The project's external environmenit, hiowever, rapidly deteriorated in the latter half of the 1 990s under the
specter of a chronic budget crisis; an AIDS epidemic that took its toll on management, technical, and
service-delivery capacity; and the entry of more donors each lobbying for Government management
attention. While the IDA team did its best to resolve the internal issues in the project that eventually
resulted in a very high overall project disbursement rate, the external issues were far knottier and required
more time and intensity than is available in two-week, twice-yearly supervision missions. Indeed, a PHN
resident advisor was in place in Lilongwe from April 1995 to December 1998, and a social sector
coordinator from October 1999 to December 2000, but due to a combination of factors (highly centralized
structure of the Bank, mismatch of techlnical skills, inadequate IDA HQ mentoring and monitoring of
resident mission staff, and the GOM's and other donors' preference to deal with visiting IDA missions
- 20 -



rather than with a resident advisor/coordinator especially on matters of sector policy and strategy), the
presence of resident advisor/coordinator only marginally improved, if at all, IDA's ability to conduct policy
dialogue and to provide techniical assistance to help resolve these external factors. Surely, IDA's weak
technical presence in the country (compared to, say, the bilateral donors) translated into weak supervision
especially in a project with heavy-duty policy elements, and under a sector environment that was fast
deteriorating.
7.3 Overall Bank perfbrmance:
The second half of the project was supervised far better than the first half, and the herculean efforts of the
IDA task team since 1995/96 must be recognized. However, the legacy of a flawed project design, the
missed opportunity to dramatically restructure the project midway through its implementation when the
external environment was already deteriorating, and the weak IDA technical presence in the country are
factors that make IDA supervison, on balance, unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Govemment perfonnance was deemed satisfactory. According to those who had institutional memory of the
project, high-level civil servants participated actively to the preparation process. The voluminous data
requiremeints produced as annexes to the SAR (health facilities, health manpower resources, fiscal
resources, donor resources, etc.) speak of the level of technical commitment that the Government had for
this project to proceed. One could also infer the level of multi-sectoral and multi-donor consultations that
were held. However, like the IDA team, the Government also proved too sanguine about its capacity to
implement a multi-sectoral, multi-donor project.
7.5 Government implemilentation performanice:
Overall GOM implementation perfonrance was deemed satisfactory. Project implementation was slow in
the first half of the project due to high tumover of project coordinators, project managers, and MO1H1P
principal secretaries, as well as their general inexperience with IDA procedures. As a result, by 1994 only
16% of the total credit amount had been disbursed. Throughout its remaining life, project management had
a checkered perfon-nance, but generally became more satisfactory by project's end. The late payment of
counterpart contributions also delayed implementation, with intermittent arrears occuring from 1997
onwards. The project's compliance to project covenants and conditions was deemed satisfactory overall,
although particular difficulties were registered ptior to 1993. As far as can be ascertained, no political
pressure was felt with respect to the location of facilities supported by the project, a rather remarkable
achievement. The Government's inability to pursue politically contentious initiatives in user fees and
pharmaceutical sector refonns, however, slhould be noted.
7.6 Implementing Agencv:
According to program managers, MOHP supervision of the different project components was weak, and
supervision by the MOF and the Economic Planning and Development was even weaker and more
infrequent. There was no project steering committee that met regularly, and the PIU was virtually left on its
own to direct the project. Similarly, the program managers were left largely on their own to manage their
components, with little interaction from the larger context of the MOHP, MOGYCS, and other related
government operations. It is clearly the perseverance of these component managers that made the
difference for the project.
7.7 Overall Borrowver performance:
Borrower performance was also markedly better during the second half of the project. Judged on the basis
of sector performance, the Government clearly fell short of its commitment to resolve issues in drug supply,
human resources, user fee policy, and donor management. However, the project conditionalities in these
- 21 -



areas were very weak to start with, and the Government all met them. The PIU also succeeded in
completing all the programmed activities, despite the extreme scarcity of project management and
monitoring skills. Overall, therefore, Borrower perfonrance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Project Design, Focus and Balance
a) Typical of the IDA-funded health projects in sub-Saharan Africa in the early 1990s, the PHN Sector
Credit was large, unwieldy and had little focus. Its complex design took little account of GOM's
institutional capacity limitations. Future projects should be more focused, with consideration placed not
only on what is needed but what can be effectively implemented within a reasonable time frame.
b) Project inputs and activities were very well monitored but outcomes were not. The absence of a
logframe and verifiable indicators constrained proper evaluation of outcomes and impact. The lack of
project support for health infonnationi system improvement was also notable. IDA health projects are now
mandated to be more rigorously defined by a logframe, but attendant investments in health information
systems continues to be inadequate. This slhould be redressed in a new project.
c) Project "hardware" (health centers, staff hiouses, hostels) were completed, but complementary "software"
(drugs, personnel, and monitoring visits) were inadequate and underfunded. As a result, health service
provision remains incomplete, unavailable, iureliable, or poor. New health projects should ensure a proper
balance between "hardware" and "software" interventions. Such balance could be achieved better if project
components are organized as "health programs" rather than "health inputs" that are simply grouped
together for convenience.
d) The project should have devoted resources to private initiatives as well as regulation of private
providers. The ptivatization of the health sector in the early 1 990s without requisite regulation and
specification of roles may have contributed to the human resource crisis in the late 1990s. On the other
hand, given the project's focus on government services, NGOs and the private sector were largely untapped
as partners in health (though CHAM was tapped for training). In view of capacity constraints in the
governmenit system and potential in the private sector, succeeding project should tap the rest of civil society
- organized communities, NGOs. employers. and other institutions with capacity - to participate in service
provision.
Government Commitment and Policy Conditionalities
e) More objective and robust tests of Goveniment ownership and capacity at entry should be undertaken,
especially for large investment loans. A small Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) provides a built-in
(incremental) approach to nurturing ownership and commitment and developing institutional capacity
before scale-up, but this is not available in a SIL or a SIP, which often requires heavy-duty conditionalities.
These shortcomings could be addressed in two ways. First, a more intensive institutional analysis should
be conducted to inform the project design process and address key capacity gaps. Second, conditionalities
should be sequenced properly in such a way that their achievement become, in themselves, measures of
continuing Government commitment. Thus, there should be separate but related conditionalities for project
identification, appraisal, effectiveness, and implementation, and IDA should not hesitate to apply the
agreed-upon sanctions if there is a serious lapse in commitment.
- 22 -



f) IDA should have pushed more strongly for conditionalities in CMS, HRD, and cost sharing reforms.
The case of the Tanzania H&N Project clearly shows the efficacy of strong conditionalities in these areas
while the case of the Malawi PHN Sector Credit shows the inefficacy of weak conditionalities. Inasmuch as
the policy and implementation of CMS, HRD, and fee reforms remain pending, agreement with the GOM
and donors on a unified set of conditionalities should be reached prior to any new health project. The
conditionalities could be made at various levels and through various initiatives (health project,
macroeconomic adjustment, or debt relief program).
Sustainability
g) The project's output achievemenits were substantial but largely unsustainable given GOM's budgetary
constraints and the country's poverty situation. ln this regard, the role of donors in the sector need to be
re-examined since traditionally, they provide funds for capital investments and foreign exchange
requirements. The case of Malawi's health sector argues for donor provision of recurrent cost support to
an extent that should be defined by players in the sector, including the optimal and sustainable size of the
health network. To this end, the National Health Plan - with its financial requirements exceeding forecast
resources - needs to be further prioritized so that it could become the basis for a SWAp.
h) Activities underpinned with policy tended to be highly sustainable (e.g., HSA salaries, food iodization)
while those without requisite policy support tended to be highly unsustainable (e.g., cost sharing, drug
financing and CMS restructuring, training programs, facility maintenance, ownership of bicycles and
CHAM staff houses, provision of iron folate to pregnant women). GOM failure to translate successful
initiatives into official policy meant that budgetary commitments were not made for them. Learning from
this experience, policy development should be made a stronger element of health projects, and program
managers should be trained to fonnulate and advocate for appropriate policies to support their programs.
i) Govermnent and donors need to take maintenance more seriously. The risk of infrastructure
over-expansion can be minimized by better planning and location standards, political advocacy to abide by
those standards, and GOM commitment to properly maintain rather than unduly expand the system. Donors
should be more open to providing recurrent cost support for assets that already exist (buildings, equipment,
vehicles), rather than constructing or purchasing new ones. GOM should have an overall maintenance
policy.
j) Substantial project investments in training were lost as personnel left the civil service. Given the large
public subsidies provided to trained staff, bonding and other employment arrangements should be
considered, e.g., contracts requiring a staff to stay a set number of years after training. Any large-scale
HRD program should also be made in the context of a civil-service reform program as low wages reduce
and can nullify any expected productivity effects of skill acquisition.
Project Management and Supervision
k) Program managers now recognize that IDA procurement rules protect both the GOM and contractors.
More extensive training on lDA procurement procedures, medium-tenn work planning especially for
intemational competitive bidding, and more frequent communication through electronic connectivity
(e-mail) should be made a requirement for a new health project. To expedite project disbursement, the
procurement plan, bidding instrumenits, advertisements, and short-lists should be prepared prior to project
effectiveness.
1) Clearly, two supervision visits a year to a project with serious policy dimensions are not sufficient,
- 23 -



especially when the situation in the country reaches a critical level. These visits should be complemented by
a strong IDA technical presence in the country so that policy dialogue can continue and not reduced to a
spasmodic pattemn where intenisive dialogue occurs only once a semester and dissipates through most of the
year. Recruitment for these scarce technical and leadership skills is the key, and IDA should undertake an
international search to get the best available candidate.
m) The project was extended three times, all extensions based on the need to complete project activities
(i.e., based on a satisfactory implementation experience), but not necessarily on the proven track record of
achieving a demonstrated satisfactory development outcome. A better IDA criterion for project extension is
clearly called for, one that satisfies both implementation and development outcomes.
Government-Donor Cofinancing and Sectorwide Approach
n) Judged from thie SWAp standards of today, the project's attempt at cofinancing was rather naive as it
was simply an artificial collection of donor-funded activities which soon fell apart with the change in
political leadership and the participating donors' respective change in strategy. We now know from the few
years that SWAp has been implemented in other countries that a health sector strategy must be the starting
point of any confinancing program, and that commitment must be made on the Govemrnment's good faith in
abiding with the agreed-upon strategy.
o) Any discussion among the Government, its donors partners, and other stakeholders on SWAp and SIP
must focus on the size of Malawi's healtlh network that can realistically be sustained with adequate
recurrent spending from the Govemment, donors, and household users; the role of donors in the provision
of recurrent spending and the modality, agreements, commitments, and monitorable indicators required to
do this; and the role of households and communities in the maintenance of investments and tlhe specific
function of user fees under conditions of a low-income economy. SWAp in essence is a commitment to a
financing program, and until there is strong agreement on the size of the health network and the priorities
that must be funded, then any cofinanicing agreement will run the risk of falling apart.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agencv.-
The ICR exercise was done in close collabotation with GOM implementing agencies, commencing with the
ICR workshop in May 2000. The ICR Workshop Proceedings were prepared and finalized by the
Government and included in Annex 9. Additional tables were produced by the PIU and also appended in
Annex 9. No additional comments were provided by the Government on the final version of the ICR. The
Government is currently sponsoring an external evaluation of this project, using a Japanese PHRD grant.
(f; Co/xnanciers:
The ICR draft was circulated to cofinaciers in January 2001. Mr. Ric Pepperkom of the Dutch Embassy
in Lusaka, Zambia c-mailed his comments, which have been incorporated in the final version.
(c) Othetr pertietrs (N\rGOss/privaute sector):
No comments were received from NiGOs and the private sector.
10. Additional Informationi
The ICR was drafted by Oscar F. Picazo, task team leader for the Malawi health sector, with support
provided by Muhammad Pate Ali, Young Professional at AFTI11.
- 24 -



The ICR mission was held in May 2000 and consisted of Oscar F. Picazo, health economist; Marguerite
Salah, operations specialist; Demissie Habte, health specialist (all AFTHl); Milla Maclachlan, nutrition
advisor (HDNHE); Mariatou Tala Jallow (pharmaceuticals consultant); and Lisa Hanson (architect
consultant). The mission was joined by Malawi resident mission staff Donald Manda, social sector
coordinator; Donald Mphande, financial management specialist; and George Sikazwe, procurement
specialist. The ICR mission culminated in a two-day stock-taking and learning workshop organized by the
Ministry of Health and Population and held at the Malawi Institute of Management on the 23rd and 24ti.
During the ICR workshop, Dr. Elizabeth Mason of WHO/Afro also participated. The workshop was
attended by officials, program managers, and staff of the project's implementing agencies. The proceedings
of this workshop are in Annex 9.
David Chidyaonga, project coordinator, supervised the completion of the project performance tables which
was prepared by the staff of the PIU. Brigida Arriaza-de-Figueroa, program assistant (AFTHI) provided
support in completing the IDA tables.
The ICR draft was reviewed in a Malawi country team meeting on February 7, 2001 which was chaired by
Darius Mans (AFC02), country director for Angola, Malawi and Mozambique. The ICR country team
meeting was attended by Johannes Zutt (AFC02), Sudhir Chitale and Hassan Zaman (AFTMI), and
Demissie Habte, Mary Mulusa, and Comelis P. Kostermans (all of AFTH I). Written comments were
received from Robert Liebenthal, manager of the Malawi Country Office (AFMMW) and Andrew Follmer,
operations analyst (AFTH I) while oral comments were provided by Jaime Biderman, lead specialist for
quality (AFTQK) and Marguerite Salah (AFTH 1). Norbert Mugwagwa, former team leader of Malawi
health and population, and Marguerite Salah also provided useful institutional memory on this project by
leaving the set of project documents (aide memoires, project status reports); Ms. Salah also provided the
narrative context of some project interventions which were otherwise not captured in the project's "paper
trail".
The draft ICR was submitted to the MOHP in Lilongwe in March 2001.
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Andicat6rvMatri                                                   .          .       
ASPECT AND INDICATOR                  INDICATOR AT ONSET OF PROJECT,   INDICATOR AT CLOSURE OF PROJECT,
COMPONENT, OR RELEVANT ACTIVITY  COMPONENT, OR RELEVANT ACTIVITY
Infant mortality rate per 1,000 live births  149 in 1990                    135 in 1999
Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births   265 in 1990                  220 in 1999
Contraceptive prevalence rate for modern    7% in 1987                      14% in 1998
rnethods
Total fertility rate per woman of reproductive  7.3 children in 1990        6.6 children in 1999
age
Iodine deficiency                     41.5% in 1990                         27.0% in 1996
Male adult mortality rate per 100,000  429 in 1989                          664 in 1999
Female adult mortality rate per 100,000  349 in 1989                        618 in 1999
AIDS prevalence rate                  7.0% in 1988                          16.2% in 1999
Maternal mortality ratio per 100,000 live  560 in 1990                      620 in 1995
births
Note: The project did not have a logframe, nior was it retrofitted using a logframe. There were no specific
indicators to be tracked to show project progress. The table of indicators above was generated
retrospectively to reflect explicit and implicit objectives. Trends at project onset are compared with those
at project closure to show achievements.
Output Indicators:
* 0       } t ;00000;indIcator/Matrix4 i          }0  j|4 -0    Projecte In las PS    ctual/Lates  st02$j; };2 0-00;I-m   --00-0:t .
COMPONENT 1 - STRENGTHENING OF
BASIC SERVICES
Rehabilitation and construction of 30 rural  142 rural health centers and 339 staff houses 42 rural health centers and 339 staff houses
health centers and 462 rural staff houses                                   were constnrcted
Training and support of 3,600 health  3,600 HSAs                            3,600 HSAs were trained, deployed, and now
surveillance assistants (HSAs)                                              receive salary from the GOM budget; 7,777
community health workers were trained
Improvement and reorganization of the  iN.A.                                MATC building was constructed and
Magomero Appropriate Technology Center                                      organization was strengthened, 13
appropriate technologies were disseminated,
and 24 women's groups operated
income-generating projects
Training and equipping of 5,500 community  N.A.                             5,222 CHVs and 6,000 growth monitoring
health volunteers (CHVs) on malnutntion                                     volunteers were trained; 1.23 million iodized
I                                     capsules and 50 million iron folate tables
were procured and distributed
COMPONENT 2 - STRENGTHENING OF
SUPPORT SERVICES
Construction and rehabilitation of student    10 hostels and 12 tutor houses  10 hostels were constructed in central
hostels and tutor houses                                                     hospitals and selected district hospitals: 12
tutor houses were constructed
Development of information, education and   N.A.                            "Moyo" magazine, "Health Infrastructure
communication (IEC) materials                                               Development magazine, radio health shows,
comics, and videos were produced
Rehabilitation of Central Medical Stores    |NA.                             CMS was renovated; 6 pharmacists were
(CMS) and training of pharmacists                                           trained, but only 2 are still working with the
l                                      Govemment
- 26 -



COMPONENT 3- MANAGEMENT AND
EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT
Rehabilitation of 6 urban health centers and  7 urban health center and 1 new urban  7 urban health centers were renovated and 1
construction of 2 new urban health centers  health center                   new urban health center was constructed
Introduction of cost sharing fees to patients  N.A.                         Cost sharing fee program piloted only in
central hospitals
Increase in the budgetary allocation to  N.A.                               The share of MOHP to the total GOM budget
MOHP, and the share of outreach health                                      increased from 7.3% in FY91 to 11.6% in
services to such allocation                                                 FY99. Of the total MOHP budget, the share
going to distrct and lower-level units
increased from 37% in FY90 to 54% in
FY97.
End of project
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cosl by Componeiet (in US$ million e uivalenit)
.. . ...                 .6Apprisal~J   tctu tolLats _J, cenae of
:;.;  .0. ;. ;; - -0-; ;\;Y, ,;, ,P;,; ,Si,;,  ,: f   ,g,g,; ,   ,,,., ;,q,!  ,,0,X,0,,,0,.  ;, ,f,, ;,000   t I  0  l:'t A 0 0    .   ,  ,  ,  ;~~~... ...   AC, us
't000-00t-0-'40t:00000i'000t'MimatP E'imt                                   Appraisal'netit0'tt0000-0 't 4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..     i.D,0EE3,D  roe       o .   7....... E:-.....
ProiecuCost By Compo nent'                 US$ mJiionj  US  milion.-
Strengthening of Basic Programs                             27.20            24.90              91.5
Strengtheniig of Support Services                           19.20            18.80              97.9
Efficiency Improvement                                      16.20             15.00             92.6
Social Programs Support                                      0.50             0.60             100.2
Total Baseline Cost                                         63.10            59.30
Physical Contingencies                                      2.50
Price Contingencies                                         8.70
Total Project Costs                 74.30             59.30
Total Financing Required                  74.30             59.30
Note: The appraisal estimates were based on cofinancing agreements with EU (US$1 1.1 million),
WHO/Netherlands (US$1.4 million), and the Govenmment (US$6.3 million). The EU cofinancing
arrangement was not implemented as planned while disbursement data were not available for the
WHO/Netherlands support, nor for the Government share. For these reasons, the "actual/latest estimate"
column only reports disbursements from IDA.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (A praisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Metho..d.
1. Works                         24.00           1.50           10.00     1    0.00           35.50
(21.50)         (1.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (22.50)
2. Goods                         14.90           0.90           6.00            0.00          21.80
(13.70)         (0.90)         (6.00)          (0.00)        (20.60)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           9.40            0.00           9.40
Professional services,           (0.00)         (0.00)          (6.40)         (0.00)         (6.40)
technical assistance,
training, workshops,
studies
4. Miscellaneous - Salaries      0.00            0.00           3.50            0.00           3.50
(0.00)         (0.00)          (3.10)         (0.00)         (3.10)
5. Miscellaneous -               0.00            0.00           3.70            0.00           3.70
Operating expenses               (0.00)         (0.00)          (2.70)         (0.00)         (2.70)
6.- Miscellaneous                0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)9        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         38.90     1    2.40            32.60           0.00          73.90
(35.20)         (1.90)         (18.20)         (0.00)        (55.30)
Note: Table 4.6 of the SAR (p. 48) has a total of US$55.5 million for IDA. However, the details only
amount to US$55.3 million.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-28 -



Proc-urement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB -                         O r            N. B.F..   Total Cost
. . . . . . . . - . - - . ~~~NCB             .      t: Oter. :      ---: 
1. Works                         5.42           13.59           1.90           0.00          20.91
(5.42)        (13.59)         (1.90)         (0.00)        (20.91)
2. Goods                         6.71            0.00           5.24           0.00          11.95
(6.71)         (0.00)         (5.24)         (0.00)        (11.95)
3. Services                      0.00            0.17           12.11          0.00          12.28
Professional services,           (0.00)         (0.17)         (12.11)        (0.00)        (12.28)
technical assistance,
training, workshops,
studies
4. Miscellaneous - Salaries      0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous -               0.00            0.00           6.46           0.00           6.46
Operating expenses               (0.00)         (0.00)         (6.46)         (0.00)         (6.46)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         12.13           13.76         25.71           0.00          51.60
(12.13)        (13.76)        (25.71)         (0.00)    L  (51.60)
The ICB and NCB data above are based on an analysis of 78 procurements approved by the Bank and the
documentation of wbich are available at Headquarters. Some procurements under the project did not
require HQ approval, i.e., those falling below a certain threshold amount. All of these procurements were
placed under "Other".
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremnental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
-ercentage of Apraisal
| - - - Componenat    :  -Appraisal_Estimate -       Actua/Latest Estimate       -
IDA       GoDt.     CbF.        IA      - GoVLt     CoF.    IDA       ov.   CoF.
Strengthening of Basic    24.00      2.70      11.10     22.20      2.70       0.00     92.5   100.0   0.0
Programs
Strengthening of Support    17.00    1.90      1.40      15.50       1.90      1.40     91.2   100.0  100.0
Services
Efriciency Improvement    14.00      1.60      0.00      13.40       1.60      0.00     95.7   100.0   0.0
Social Programs Support   0.50       0.10      0.00       0.50       0.10      0.00     100.0  100.0   0.0
TOTAI,                    55.50      6.30      12.50     51.60       6.30      1.40     93.0   100.0   11.2
Note: (1) Although the SAR contains summary appraisal estimates for IDA, Government, and cofinacier
contributions, it does not contain estimates by specific components as required in the table above. The data
reported for "appraisal estimates" above were imputed from the "Financing Plan by Disbursement
Category" annex of the SAR. (2) The Govermment's proposed contribution of US$6.3 million in the SAR
excludes taxes in the amount of US$2.3 million. By project closure, all Government arrears have been paid.
- 29 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Eatin:
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation    Development
Month/Year    Count              Specialty                         Progress         Obective
Identification/Preparation
Ident: 1989                   3    Details not available
Prep: Feb. 1990               8    Division chief, public health
specialist (2), health economist,
human resource economist,
economists (3)
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appr: June 1990              10    Division chief, health
economist, public health
specialist, WID consultant,
HRD consultant, architect
consultant, pharmaceuticals
consultant, nutrition
specialist, lEC specialist,
research assistant
Nego: Feb. 1991                7   Sector manager, division chief,
public health specialist, lawyer,
procurement officer, financial
management specialist,
economist
Supervision
Msn 1: 1991                 N.A.   Details not available
Msn 2: June 28,                6   Public health specialist,
1991                               economist, consultants (3)
Msn 3: 1991                 N.A.   Details not available
Msn 4: Nov. 25 to              7   Public health specialists (2),
Dec. 6, 1991                       population specialist, manpower
(combined with                     consultant, nutrition consultant,
Second Family                      architect consultant, lEC
Health Project                     consultant
mission)
Msn 5: May 28 to               5   Public health specialist,               S                S
June 18, 1992                      population specialist, public
health consultant, economist
consultant, architect consultant,
Msn 6: Mar. 21 to              2   Population specialist, operations       S                S
25, 1993                           analyst
Msn 7: July 1993               9   PHN specialists (2), population         S                S
l               specialist, operations specialist,
economist, architect consultant,
HRD consultant, AlDS specialist,
nutrition specialist
-31 -



Msn 8: Oct. 4 to               5   PHN specialist, manpower                U                S
12, 1993                           specialist, architect consultant,
population specialist, WID
specialist
Msn 9: Jan. 30 to              2   Division chief, population              S               HS
Feb. 18, 1994                      specialist
Msn 10: Apr. 6 to              I   Population specialist                   S                S
29, 1994
Msn 11: June 29                2   Population specialist, operations       S                S
to July 16, 1994                   officer
(mid-term review)
Msn 12: Feb. 13 to             9   Population specialist, operations       S                S
27, 1995                           specialists (2), public health
specialist, economist, architect
consultant, HRD consultant,
management specialist, AIDS
specialist
Msn 13: Aug. 28               10   Population specialist, operations       S                S
to Sept. 8, 1995                   analyst, AIDS specialist,
architect consultant, WID
specialist, public health
specialists (3), HRD consultant,
management specialist
Msn 14: 1995/96             N.A.   Details not available                   S                S
Msn 15: May 26 to              8   Population specialist, operations       U                S
July 5, 1996                       analyst, manpower consultant,
(combined with                     public health specialists (2), WID
MASAF mission)                     consultant, economists (2)
Msn 16: Dec. 6,                7   Population specialist, operations       U                S
1996                               specialist, manpower consultant,
architect consultant, public
health specialists (2)
Msn 17: 1997                N.A.   Details not available                   S                S
Msn I 8: Sept. 21 -            5   Population specialist, operations       S                S
Oct. 17, 1997                      officer, financial management
(combined with                     specialist, public health
MASAF mission)                     specialists (2)
Msn 19: Feb. I to  l           S   Operations officer, population          S                S
14, 1998                           specialist, public health
specialist, architect consultant,
pharmaceuticals consultant
Msn 20: Nov. 10i               7   Operations officer, population          S                S
1998                               specialist, public health
specialists (2), architect
consultant, pharmaceuticals
consultant, financial
management specialist
-32 -



Msn 21: June 28               8   Health economist, operations          S               S
to July 9, 1999                   officer, population specialist,
public health specialist, architect
consultant, pharmaceuticals
consultant, financial
management specialist,
procurement specialist
Msn 22: Jan. 31 to            7   Health economist, operations          S               S
Feb. 11, 2000                     officer, public health specialist,
pharnmaceuticals consultant,
financial management specialist,
social sector coordinator,
procurement specialist
Msn 23: May                   8   Health economist, operations          S               S
15-26, 2000                       officer, public health specialist,
architect consultant,
pharmaceuticals consultant,
financial management specialist,
social sector coordinator,
procurement specialist
ICR
May 15-26, 2000              8    lHealth economist,                    S               S
(combined with                    operations officer, public
supervision                       health specialist, architect
mission)                          consultant, pharmaceuticals
consultant, financial
management specialist,
social sector coordinator,
procurement specialist
Note: Because of the age of the project (10 years), project records could not be completely reconstructed
especially ptior to computerization. Changes in the task team have also contributed to incomplete
institutional memory about the project. The above table reconstructs, on a "best effort" basis, all the facts
known about the project from available informationi.
(b) Staff
| Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               USS ('000)
ldentification/Preparation      Bank staff - 62.9             BB - US$ 139.8
Consultants - 0.0                TF - US$ 0.0
Total - 62.9            Total - US$ 139.8
Appraisal/Negotiation          Bank staff - 101.3             BB - US$ 243.5
Consultants - 4.9              TF - US$ 10.5
Total - 106.2                Total - 254.0
Supervision                    Bank staff - 405.7            BB - US$ 1,166.7
Consultants -              TF - US$ 640.7
304.9           Total - US$ 1,807.4
Total - 710.6
- 33 -



ICR                          Bank staff- 10.0             BB - US$ 50.0
Consultants - 0.0             TF - US$ 0.0
Total - 10.0           Total - USS 50.0
Total                       Bank staff - 579.9          BB - US$ 1,600.0
Consultants -             TF-US$ 651.2
309.8          Total - US$ 2,251.2
Total - 889.7
Legend: BB-Bank staff funded from Bank Budget; TF-Consultants funded from Trust Funds. Note:
FACT and SAP figures do not break down staff weeks and costs among preparation, appraisal, and
negotiation. It is simply assumed here that 50% of the 1990 LEN figure is for preparation and 50%/c is for
appraisal. It is also assumed that all of the 1991 LEN figure is for negotiation.
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
n Macro policies                          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                          O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                OR  * SU O M  O N  O NA
% Financial                               O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
* Institutional Development               0 N  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
O Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Social
E Povertv Reduction                 0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
El Gender                           OH OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specij9)            O H  * SU O M  ON  O NA
Communitv organization and cohesion
Z Private sector development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  O N  * NA
Z Public sector management                f) H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  (O N  O SU O M  O N  * NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank anid Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
IZ Lending                                          O.HS O S  * U  O HU
I Supervision                                       OHS O S  * U  0 HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS   * U   0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperfonnance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS   OU  O HU
I Government implementation performance             0 HS * S  0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency perfiormance                O HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Government of Malawi/World Bank (1999). Public Expenditure Review, Chapter 6: Health.
Gwatkin, D., S. Tutstein, K. Johnisoni, R. Pande, and A. Wagstaff (May 2000). Socio-Economic
Differences in Health, Nutrition, and Population: Malawi. The World Bank HNP Network.
Health Research for Action (HERA) (1999). Health Care Financing in Tanzania: Costing Study of
Health Services. Final Report.
Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) (1999). Primary Health Care Study: Geographic
Information System (GIS) Component.
Kandawire, J.A.K., P.A.K. Kishindo, C.V.D. Chilimampunga, P.R.T. Ntata, and L.L. Semu (Aug. 1993).
Final Report for the Social Dimension of Adjustment (SDA). Zomba, Malawi: Department of
Sociology, Chancellor College, University of Malawi.
Macro Intemnational (May 2000). Family Planning and Reproductive Health Survey: A Baseline
Survey of Selected Pilot and Control Districts in Malawi. Lilongwe, Malawi: Population and Family
Planning Project, Ministry of Health and Population.
Ministry of Gender, Youth and Community Services (January 1999). Report on the Assessment of the
WID-PHN Maize Mill Component. Prepared by the Planning Division.
Ministry of Health and Population/National Family Planning Council (July 1999). Closure of the
National Family Planning Council and Constitution of the Family Planning Association of Malawi.
Typescript.
Ministry of Healthi and Population (July 1997). Malawi Health Sector Strategic Plan Background
Report of the Hospital Autonomy Working Group.
National Statistics Office and Macro International (Sept. 1997). Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices in
Health Survey 1996. Zomba, Malawi.
Ngwira, N. (1994). Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices Towards Family Planning and Population
Issues. Report on Systematic Client Consultation Workshops, July 24-30.
Republic of Malawi (2000). National Plan of Action for Nutrition. Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation Development.
World Bank (April 1990). Malawi Public Expenditure Review. Report No. 7281-MAI. Southem
Africa Department.
World Bank (1991). Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Malawi, Population, Health and Nutrition
Credit. Population and Human Resources Division, Southern Africa Department.
World Bank (1998). Malawi AIDS Assessment Study, Vols. 1 and 2. Report No. 17740 MAI.
- 37 -



World Health Organization (1993). Macroeconomic Development and the Health Sector in Malawi.
Macroeconomics, Health and Development Series No. 9. Geneva.
World Health Organization (1999). The World Health Report 1999: Making a Difference. Geneva,
Switzerland.
World Health Organization (2000). The World Health Report 2000: Health Systems - Improving
Performance. Geneva, Switzerland.
- 38 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
No survey was untdertakeni for this ICR.
- 39-



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Summary of Proceedings of the ICR Workshop for the Malawi PHN Project
(Sector Credit 2220-MAI)
1. Background and Objectives
I.    This report summarizes the proceedings of the ICR Workshop for the Malawi PHN Sector Credit
that was held at the Malawi Inistitute of Management in Lilongwe, Malawi from May 23 to 24, 2000. The
workshop was attended by 39 participants: 29 from the Government of Malawi (GOM), nine from the
World Bank, and one from WHO/AFRO (observer). The names of participants are on Section VIII.
2.     The workshop was organized by the Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) to assess the
outcomes and sustainability of the different components of the project as well as the project as a whole, and
to assess World Bank and Borrower-GOM performance in the project. Prior to the workshop, each of the
managers of the project's different components prepared their own respective intemal project
self-assessments that provided invaluable inputs into the ICR process. During the workshop, the mission
explained the objectives of the ICR and the content of the report, the required inputs for the completion of
the report, the schedule for the report's completion, and the respective responsibilities of the MOHP and the
project implementing agencies as well as IDA staff.
3.    The workshop provided opportunity for both the GOM and the World Bank to look back at the
project together and to draw useful lessons especially those that need to be applied in subsequent
IDA-funded projects in Malawi's health sector. The discussions were marked by open and candid
exchange of views between Govemment and Bank participants.
11. Method
4.     For the first day, workshop paLticipants were asked to assess the outcomes and sustainability of
each of the project components. Participants were divided into four groups: Group I - Strengthening of
basic services including primary healtlh care and the health surveillance assistants (HSAs) program, the
AIDS control program, and the family planning and matenial and child health programs. Group 2 -
Women in Development (WID) and nutrition programs including those of the National Economic Council
(NEC), Bunda College, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the MOHP. Group 3 - Support services including
human resource development (HRD); information, education and communication (IEC) program; and
pharmaceuticals supply. Group 4 - Civil works, the hospital efficiency program, and the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU).
5.     For the assessment of component outcomes (45 minutes), each group was asked to discuss the
following: (a) Overall, how do you assess your component's or subcomponent's success (substantial,
partial, negligible) in the achievement of outcomes? (b) What are your 1-3 best achievements in your
component or subcomponent? If possible, provide quantitative measures of such achievement. (c) Explain
your assessment of achievement or non-achievement. What are the reasons behind the (substantial, partial,
negligible) achievement of outcomes?
6.     For the assessmenit of component sustainability (45 minutes), each group was asked to discuss the
following: (a) Overall, how would you assess the sustainability prospects (likely, unlikely, uncertain) of
activities initiated in your component or subcomponent? Consider "sustainability" to cover financial,
institutional, policy, and behavioral aspects, or other aspects you think are important in ensuring that said
activities are carried forward and continued after project support ends. (b) Explain your assessment of
sustainability and, if possible, provide quantitative data to support your claim. What are the reasons
- 40 -



behind the (likely, unlikely, uncertain) sustainability prospects of your component's or subcomponent's
activities? (c) What are the most sustainable aspects in your component? What should be done to ensure
such sustainability? (d) Wbat are the least sustainable aspects? What should be done to make these more
sustainable?
7.     For the drawing of lessons learned (60 minutes), each group was asked to discuss the following:
(a) What are the most significant and relevant lessons (positive, negative) you learned from your
component or subcomponent? Discuss at least 2 key lessons you learned. (b) How are these lessons
learned being applied in the current and future work of the MOHP, the Government, implementing
agencies, NGOs and the health sector in general? How are these lessons to be reflected in any future IDA
project in Malawi?
8.     For the second day, workshop participants were asked to assess the achievement of project-wide
development objectives and the respective perfonnance of the Bank and the Bofrower-Govemment in the
project. To do this, participants were organized into three groups at random. For the assessment of
project-wide objectives (60 minutes), each group was asked the following: (a) How do you assess the
achievement of project objectives (substantial, partial, negligible) in terms of the following aspects: macro
policies, health sector policies, finanicial objectives, institutional development, physical objectives, poverty
reduction, gender issues, other social objectives, environmental objectives, public sector management, and
private sector management? In making the assessment, please consider only what the PHN Project initiated
or supported to avoid mis-attribution of achievement or failure. (b) Explain your assessment of each of the
above aspects. Provide illustrative examples, descriptions, or data to support your claim. (c) As a group,
please mark with an "x" your rated assessments in the table below. Please arrive at a consensus as much
as possible. If there are strong disagreements on each of the ratings, please note the points of disagreement
and summarize them.
9.     For the assessment of World Bank performance (30 minutes), each group was asked to answer the
following: (a) How do you assess Bank and Bank-staff performance (highly satisfactory, satisfactory,
deficient, highly deficient) under this project? Please note that this is a nine-year project so that you must
also consider the earlier staff who have left the project. (b) Explain your assessment of Bank performance.
Please provide illustrative cases or examples. (c) As a group, please mark with an "x" your rated
assessments in the table below.
10.    Similarly, for the assessment of Borrower perfoi-nance including those of implementing agencies
(30 minutes), each group was asked to answer the following: (a) How do you assess
Borrower-Govemrment perfomnance (highly satisfactory, satisfactory, deficient, highly deficient) under this
project? Please note that this is a nine-year project so that you must also consider earlier government
administrations and project and component managers and coordinators. (b) Explain your assessment of
Borrower-Govemment perfonrance. Please provide illustrative cases or examples. (c) As a group, please
mark with an "x" your rated assessments in the table below.
Ill. Assessment ot Achievement of Project Development Objectives
It.    Substantial achievements were reported for physical objectives and other social objectives. Partial
achievements were reported for macro policies, health sector policies, financial objectives, institutional
development, poverty reduction, gender issues, and public sector management. Environmental objectives
and private sector development were deemed not applicable.
- 41 -



Table A-1: Assessment of Achievement of Project Objectives
Achievement of Objectives       Group I         Group 2         Group 3          Overall
Macro policies                    Partial        Substantial       Partial          Partial
Health sector policies            Partial          Partial         Partial          Partial
Financial objectives              Partial          Partial         Partial          Partial
Institutional development         Partial          Partial         Partial          Partial
Physical objectives             Substantial      Substantial     Substantial      Substantial
Poverty reduction               Substantial      Substantial     Negligible         Partial
Gender issues                    Negligible      Substantial     Substantial        Partial
Other social objectives         Substantial      Substantial     Substantial      Substantial
Environmental objectives          Partial        Not applic.     Not applic.      Not applic.
Public sector management        Substantial      Negligible        Partial          Partial
Private sector management       Not applic.      Not applic.       Partial        Not applic.
Macro policies - Partial: Although the MOHP budget was increased dramatically in nominal
terns, the ensuing inflation swept away most of the budget increases gained by the health sector. The
Government also initiated the process of direct funding to districts, which is still in progress. Fee schemes
were not adopted nationally but were initiated for certain restricted set of services and facilities.
Health sector policies - Partial: The significant number of health surveillance assistants and
nurse-teachers trained under the project were noted. The output of trained health workers, however,
remains very limited.
Financial objectives - Partial: Modest effort was done to explore altemative resource mobilization
mechanisms for the sector. As the project enlded, no national cost sharing policy has been adopted. Fee
programs are limited to the 3 central hospitals, and even these have checkered performance. The concept of
Drug Revolving Funds was adopted, but soon a parallel free-drug program (the Bakili Muluzi Initiative)
was also launched.
*      Institutional development - Partial: Key professional cadres were trained, including a large
number of accounts persoinel, 50% of hospital administrators, and four out of the six pharmacists in the
country.
Physical objectives - Substantial: All civil works were completed except the Lilongwe District
Hospital and School of Nursing.
Poverty reduction - Partial: Although the project was aimed at improving the health status of
vulnerable populations, project impact on poverty will take time to be realized, and even then, the
non-improving level of poverty in Malawi due to factors outside the health sector is such that such impact
would still be not substantial.
*      Gender issues - Partial: Thle family planning uniits, shelters for traditional birth attendants (TBA),
shelters for under-5 (U5) children, and community-based distribution of contraceptives were seen as having
partially improved access to healthi services by women.
*      Social objectives - Substantial: The DRF program as well as local construction of TBA and U5
shelters all involved communities which participated actively in their completion and management.
- 42 -



*      Environmental objectives - Not applicable: However, project activities involving shallow well
protection and san-plast casting was deemed envirometitally friendly. The HSAs were also trained in
environmental protection, which is one of their functions in the community.
*      Public sector management - Partial: Although the project trained a substantial number of public
servants, little was accomplishied to improve the organizational structure and incentives in public service.
*      Private sector management - Not applicable: However, the project did build staff houses at
CllAM facilities which are private nonprofit providers.
IV. Assessment of Achievement of Outcomes
12.   In general, componenit and subcomponent outcomes were deemed to be substantially achieved for
project interventions in primary health care (PHC) and the supply of HSAs; malaria control; AIDS control;
Women-in-Development (WID); the Bunda College nutrition model; the Ministry of Agriculture nutrition
model; infonnation, education, and communication (lEC) program; pharmaceutical procurement; hospital
efficiency interventiolis; civil works; and PIU management and support. However, only partial
achievements were reported for the NEC nutrition program; the MOHP nutrition program; and human
resource development.
Table A-2: Assessment of Outcomes and Sustainability
Components                   Outcomes                Sustainability
PHC, DRFs, and HSAs                         Substantial    Likely for HSA salaries; uncertain
for HSA and DRF training
Malaria Control                             Substantial    Uncertain, except bednets in DRF
AIDS Control                                Substantial     Likely (w/ donor commitments)
CS, FP & MCH                                Substantial              Uncertain
WID Component                               Substantial      Uncertain, except maize mills
NEC Nutrition                                 Partial        Uncertain, except iodization
Bunda College Nutrition                     Substantial              Uncertain
Min. of Agriculture Nutiition               Substantial              Uncertain
MOHP Nutrition                                Partial                Uncertain
Human Resources Development                   Partial                Uncertain
IEC Program                                 Substantial    Uncertain, except fee-based services
Pharmaceuticals                             Substantial              Uncertain
Hospital Efficiency                         Substantial    Uncertain without recurrent cost
support
Civil works                                 Substantial              Uncertain
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)           Substantial               Unlikely
13.   Strengthieninlg Basic Programs: Best achievemtents noted were the training and support program
for HSAs; the support and supervision for the malaria program; and the support to the AIDS/STD
program, especially drugs, supplies and bicycles for the home-based care (HBC) component. The
relevance of activities, the commitment of program managers, and the availability of funds were cited as
major reasons for the positive achievements. On the other hand, delays in procurement and disbursements
due to onerous procedures, the lack of monitoring of outcomes and over-emphasis on process indicators,
the Govemment's inability to meet its counterpart obligations, and the weakening of voluntary spirit in the
- 43 -



communities constrained what would have been more substantial achievements.
PHC Subcomponent, Substantial: The project rehabilitated 42 rural health centers and built 61
under-5 shelters. It also trained 3,600 HSAs and 900 supervisors while 400 more HSAs are in training.
The project procured 24 twin cabs and 24 ambulances for districts, 4 vehicles for the regional offices,
1,046 push bicycles for lHSAs and 900 for supervisors, and 28 motorbikes for HSA supervisors at the
district level.
DRE Subcomponent, Substantial: Thle project supported the initial and refresher training of 400
dispensary sites involving 800 people, and 800 new sites are in training for a total of 1,200 DRFs when the
project ends. The project also trained 500 village health committees involvinig 5,000 people, 1,000 CBDs,
6,000 growth monitorinig officers, and 5,000 san-plast markers.
*      Malaria Control Program, Substantial: The project met its target in training health workers in
malaria case managemenit. The project procured the initial set of 42 microscopes which were distributed by
CHSU. However, only 9 out of the 35 microscopes requested for the second consignment were purchased.
The project also suppotted the establishment of microscopy centers by initiating the microscopy training of
lab personnel and HSAs. Efficacy studies on Fansidar (SP) were done in 3 sites over the years instead of 3
sites per year. The project also supported thie filning of malaria IEC teaching materials to be used by the
CHSU. Ranged against these achievements, the funding for insecticide treated materials (ITM) was only
US$24,000 per year for 3 years, whiclh was grossly underestimate, and only 8,000 nets were received.
Procurement of insecticides was only done once in 1997. In addition, although the project purchased 30
motorbikes for the districts, the program only received 8 of the 15 vehicles requested in the latter part of the
project.
AIDS Control Program, Substantial: The project trained 57 health workers in STD syndromic
management. It also procured and distributed all STD drugs for syndromic management except for
benzathine penicillin, although the receipt of thie drugs was delayed, from 1996 to 1998. In the area of
counseling and testing, the project trained 79 social and health workers in couniseling and 19 lab technicians
and assistants in the servicing of ELISA machines which were serviced twice by external experts. The
project's procurement of HIV testing kits was completed in 1998. The project also provided home based
care (HBC) drugs and supplies, and 300 bicycles to be used for visitations. It provided training of trainers
to 37 healtlh workers in the managemenit of AIDS related illnesses and supervision of STD patients. HIV
sentinel surveillance in STD patients was done. In 1997, the project also sponsored a Study on the
Magnitude, Impact and Mitigation Strategies.
Child Spacing and Reproductive Health, Substantial: The project trained some 1,000 CBDs, who
were provided with 280 bags for contraceptive and medical supplies. It also constructed 48 TBA shelters
constructed, provided and distributed 280 TBA kits, and supplied 100 ambulance bicycles.
14.    Womten-in-Development: In general, substantial achievements were reported for this component in
terms of the strenigthenied institutional capacity for WID, the transfer of appropriate technology for a range
of income-generating activities, and the high rate of repayment (95%) under the women's credit schemes.
Ministry of Gender, Youth and Community Services (MOGYCS), Substantial: The project
strengthened MOGYCS by advocating the creation and filling of 36 posts, providing basic management
training to 140 CDAs, 36 WID officers, and 228 others, and procuring 9 vehicles, 25 motorcycles, and 30
push bikes, and built 10 bouses in 10 districts.
- 44 -



*      Malawi Appropriate Techniology Center (MATC), Substantial: The project supported the
improvement and reorganization of thie MATC by constructing 2 kholas, I ablution block, I office block, I
classroom block, and 5 staff houses. It supported the upgrading of the post of principal to P7. It
facilitated the review and revision of the MATC curriculum. Thirteen appropriate technologies were
adopted at MATC.
Women's Credit Program, Partial: To fund the adoption of appropriate technologies, the project
established a women's credit program that extended loans to 228 groups with 2,280 beneficiaries. By
project's end, 28 maize mills bad been allocated to 24 groups throughout the country. Repayment rates to
the loans was quite high (95%). However, the credit program was extended only to 50% of the districts,
hence the partial achievemenit of outcomes. Limited mobility of program officers, the suspension of World
Bank funding for part of this program, and the delayed establishment of credit mechanisms with lending
institutions all contributed to what would have been a larger project impact.
15.    Nutrition: For the first time in the history of Malawi, substantial fundinig was made available to
address nutritional problems under the PHN Project. With the outcome of the activities so far
implemented, it is now possible to come up with a more focussed strategy for addressing nutritional
problems. The project's nutrition subcomponents were implemented by three entities: the MOHP, the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), and the National Economic Council (NEC).
MOHP Nutrition Subcomponent, Substantial: Community and demand-driven involvement from
the very beginning (especially empowerment of communities for the community feeding of under-5
chiildreni), regular supervision, and political suppolt especially for salt iodization were cited as factors
contributinig to the substantial achievements. The project achieved remarkably high coverage of trained
communiity healtlh volunteers, with 7,777 trained compared to a target of 3,500. In terms of impact,
program evaluation indicates that iodine deficiency disorders was reduced from 56% in 1993 to 27% in
1996 (fotal goiter rate). However, the iron folate supplementation program for pregnant women was less
successful as complicated procurement procedures led to erratic supplies.
MOA Nutrition Subcomponent, Substantial: Good community organization led to a
demand-driven scheme that involved full community participation in seed distribution, food production, and
food utilization. Again, the project exceeded its target for seed distribution of 1,500 households, with
4,000 households being reached. This subcomponent also produced the National Plan of Action on
Nutrition, which is now embodies the Government's strategy in the sector.
NEC Nutrition Subcomponenit, Partial: The NSSA report on nutrition was not completed as the
external consultant failed to deliver his output. Program coordination in nutrition that was supposed to be
done by NEC was only partially achieved due to high staff turnover, prolonged institutional restructuring,
and a general lack of appreciation of food security and nutrition at the policy level.
16.    Strenzgthlening of Support Services: Support services covered manpower development, IEC, and
pharmaceuticals procurement.
Manpower Development, Partial. The project trained 13 - or 50% - of the hospital administrators
in the country. In addition, it sponsored the Analysis of Huuman Resources in Health. The lack of
Goveniment strategic vision for humani resource development, however, constrained further progress in this
area. The plannzed traininlg, in most cases, was not utilized because the underlying institutions were not
reformed. In other cases, there were no potential candidates for available training slots.
- 45 -



IEC Program, Substantial. Project sponsored radio programs, the procurement of IEC vehicles
and bicycles, and the rehabilitation of the lEC Unit contributed positively to the strengthening of the
delivery of key health messages. However. curiously, the World Bank rejected the community
lEC/outreach proposals.
-      Phannaceutical Supplies subcomponent, Substantial. The project funded the physical
rehabilitation of the Central Medical Stores, the activities for the development of an essential drug
program, and the training of 6 pharmacists. Sustained progress was not achieved, however, due to the
govemment's reluctance to undertake a comprehensive pharmaceutical refonn program (starting with the
granting of a parastatal status to CMS), the severe shortage of trained pharmacists and trainable
pharmacists (some students were dropped out of college), inadequate govemment funding for
pharmaceuticals, and leakages due to poor procurement, distribution, and information systems.
17.    Efficiency Inaproveinient and Civil Works: Substantial achievement under thlis component is
reflected in the completion ol almost all the planned infrastructure.
Constructioni and Relhabilitation, Substantial: The project constructed 42 health centers instead of
30; all of the 25 FP units, all of the 7 urban health centers plus I new one, and 339 staff houses out of 442
(the shortfall due to the withdrawal of the European commission for the project). The project also turned
over training hostels for the Kamuzu College of Nursing; the Lilongwe School of Health Sciences; the
Zomba School of Nursing: for the Queen Elizabeth, Lilongwe, and Mzuzu central hospitals; and 12 tutor
houses for CHAM health facilities. The project also rehabilitated and extended the Magomero
Development Traininig College. In thle civil works procurement process, the project facilitated the
development of the capacity of local contractors and consultants.
*      SHospital Efficiency, Substanitial. Security fences around the three central hospitals were erected,
all the targeted 23 vehicles were purclhased, and communication was improved through the provision of cell
phones to key staff and paging systems in the hospitals.
18.    Project Inpleinentation Unit (PIU): Most project activities were successfully implemented
according to the DCA. In the process, local capacity to implement IDA funded activities were
strengtlhened. Project staff, however, took issue with the constant changes in MOHP leadership and project
coordinators as well as World Bank staff involved in the project. The filling of the post of PIU project
coordinator took an inordinate amount of time.
V. Assessment of Sustainability
19.    Although project componient(s generally achieved substantial outcomes, most were deemed of
uncettain sustainability mainly due to the Govemtnent's budget difficulties and the country's poverty level.
The exceptions (i.e., highi sustainability) are the salaries of HSAs which have been regularized in the
budget; AIDS control program whichi continiues to receive donor and Govemment financial commitment;
the maize mills program of WID; the iodization program which now enjoys official Govemment support;
and certain hospital-efficiency activities that receive recurrent cost support from the central hospitals'
budgets.
Health Surveillance Assistants Program - Salaries of HSAs shifted to the Govemment. But no
donor willing to suppolt HSA training. Maintenance and replace of bicycles uncertain. Maintenance of
vehicles and equipment is also questionable.
-46-



*     Drug Revolving Funds - This program could be made sustainable but the poor drug logistics at
CMS hampers its operation. The maintenance and replacement of bicycles used under the program is also
uncertain.
Malaria Control Program - In the short term, donors have indicated support. For instance, the
World Bank has committed assistance for environimental affairs for one year and vehicle maintenance also
for one year. However, support for the subsequent years is uncertain. Thus, the long term sustainability of
the program is questionable. The critical activity of training health workers still lacks funding.
AIDS Control Program - Sustainability is likely for this program due to donor support pledged
during the AIDS Roundtable conference in March 2000. Institutional support for the next two years have
been committed. Institutional restructuring is being considered, with the AIDS control program likely to
become autonomous. STD drugs and reagents are being supported under DfID's new Sexual and
Reproductive Health Project. However, home-based care services lack support. The replacement of
bicycles for the hiome-based care program is also unlikely.
Child Spacing and Reproductive Health - A modicum of sustainability is being established under
this program. CBDs now get their supplies from the Government. TBAs still get support from donors.
Villages are being empowered to maintain ambulance bicycles.
MOGYCS supetvision of WID activities - The maintenaance and fuel for motorcycles used in
supervision are unfunded. Therefore supervision of WID activities will be adversely affected.
*      Appropriate techniology in WID - The maize mills introduced under the project will be sustainable
once the loans are paid off. The bamboo, weaving, and integrated farming technologies introduced to
entrepreneurs are also highly sustainable. However, the MATC itself is not deemed to be commercially
viable. Further development and diffusion of appropriate technology, training, and outreach and extension
services are uncertain due to the inadequate Government budget. Current supervision under the Economic
Activities Program (EAP) is limited to only eight districts.
Nutritioni - The salt iodisation program is sustainable as it is underpinned by official policy. The
community based management of malnourislhed children also has potential for longer-term sustainability as
it involves the active participation of communities affected. However, further advocacy for support from
other organizationis is needed. The iron folate program is not sustainable at present; the Government
should regard iron folate supplementation to pregnant womnen as a policy priority. As to the NPAN, there
seem to be high demand for the document, but it remains to be seen how it will be implemented.
Manpower Development - Human resource development is probably the most serious problem
facing the sector. The government simply does not have resources for training (pre-service or in-service).
The situation is made worse by the absence of a national policy on human resources generally, and training
specifically. The past 2-3 years have witnessed large-scale staff departure; there is a need to retain trained
staff through appropriate incentives, career path, and other mechanisms.
IEC - The production of programs by the IEC Unit is deemed sustainable if it charges appropriate
fees to cover the production costs. Without such a fee, the Unit would need seed fund for production and
training. The funding of radio airtime is uncertain; it is suggested that the Government should finance this
function after the project ends.
Pharmaceuticals - The rehabilitation of the CMS offices and warehouse was completed, but its
- 47 -



maintenance is not ensured. Though the project sponsored the first set of pharmacists, their number is so
inadequate (6) relative to the needs of the country; as a result of the scarcity of these skills, two have left
the civil service for greener pastures. Work of foreign technical assistants under the Essential Drugs
Program has wound up, but the program is not complete nor sustainable. It was suggested that the EDP
should be revived witlh Malawian nationals at the helm. Serious problems at the CMS demonstrate that the
project has not been successful in this activity.
Civil Works - The significanit number of construction and rehabilitation under this project is such
that their maintenance is uncertain unless the Government or donors dramatically increase the maintenance
budget. Minor maintenance of infrastructure can be hatndled at the district level, but the district
management team need to be sensitized on this issue. The absence of an infrastructure maintenance policy
and financing is a major hindrance to increasing the useful life of capital investments in Malawi. Vehicle
maintenance is also very problematic. Training Centers can be rented out on commercially, but this would
require refurbishment.
VI. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
20.    Bank perfonnance in project identification was deemed satisfactory. The extensive Govemment
and high-level consultations made during this stage was noted. However, these consultations did not go
down to the grassroots level or project target groups. Bank perfonnances in project preparation and
appraisal, in general, were both rated satisfactory. However, the appraisal mission can be faulted with the
lack of focus, complexity, and ambitiousness of the project, as well as the wide coordination required
relative to the capacity of the project implementors and the PIU. Some tasks were given to the wrong
institutions, e.g. food security was assigned to the Ministry of Local Govemments instead of the Ministry
of Agriculture. Overall, project supervision was also deemed satisfactory. The early years of the project
must be distinguished from the latter years because of the frequency and change in approach to supervision
following the changes in supervision teams. Although supervision was vety frequent during the early
period (as many as six visits a year), the supervision team was rather arrogant (policing, fault-finding,
treating the loan like a grant), acting like it was "implementing" rather than supervising the project, and
imposing frequent chanlges in reporting fomnats. Althouglh the frequency of supervision was reduced to only
two visits a year in the latter part of the project, the supervisioni teams were deemed more collegial in their
approach and gave clear project direction, especially after the mid-term review.
21.    Governiment performanlce was deemed satisfactory for project preparation in view of the level of
civil-servants' participation and Govemment commitm-ent to the process. Project implementation was slow
in the first half of the project due to high staff tum-over (project coordinators, project managers, and
principal secretaries). Througlit the life of the project, the late payment of counterpart contributions also led
to delayed implementation. Despite these, in general, project implementation was deemed satisfactory.
However, some observers noted the weak MOHP supervision of the different project components.
Supervision by the Ministry of Finance and EP&D was even more infrequent, if any. There was no project
steering committee, and the PIU was left on1 its own to manage the project. Covenant compliance was
deemed satisfactory, especially in recenit years. However, the Government's inability to pursue politically
contentious initiatives in user fees and phannaceutical sector reform was noted. Project operation is also
rated satisfactory, assumilg the Government provide the required financing for activities started under the
project.
- 48 -



Table A-3: Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
Project Stages           Group I         Group 2          Group 3          Overall
Bank Perfornantce
* Project identification         Highly        Don't know      Satisfactory     Satisfactory
satisfactory
* Project preparation           Deficient      Don't know      Satisfactory     Satisfactory
* Project appraisal             Deficient      Don't know      Satisfactory     Satisfactory
* Project supervision          Satisfactory      Highly        Satisfactory     Satisfactory
satisfactory
Gov't Performanice
* Project preparation           Deficient      Don't know        Highly         Satisfactory
satisfactory
* Project implementation        Deficient      Don't know      Satisfactory     Satisfactory
* Covenant compliance          Satisfactory    Don't know      Satisfactory     Satisfactory
* Project operation            Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Satisfactory
VIl. Lessons Learned
*      The PHN Project is vast and unwieldy and has little focus. This is typical of the first- generation
Bank-funded PHN "Christmas Tree" projects. (Should a new IDA project be more focused? What should
be the basis for such focus?)
*      SDonor co-funding arrangemenit fell apart as EC (US$1 1.1 million) pulled out for political reasons.
Other bilateral donors who promised support within the context of the PHN Project also left. USAID was
supposed to support the traininlg of additional HSAs and supervisors from the health center teams. The
WFP also left project-funded nutrition activities after a change in its strategy. (How can this lesson be
applied in discussions on SIPs and SWAps?)
*      There were frequent changes on all sides - IDA task managers, PIU coordinators, and MOHP PS's
- that affected project implementation. (On the other hand, some changes were beneficial, e.g., opportunity
to get rid of hawkish task managers, or Project Coordinators not well-versed and unwilling to leam IDA
rules.)
The project's output achievemenits were substantial but largely unsustainable given the GOM's
budgetary constraints in most of the 1990s. (What ought to be the role of donors in this regard?
Traditionally, donors are supposed to provide funds for "capital investments" and "foreign exchange
requirements". Should they now provide recurrent-cost support? To what extent?)
Outputs were very well monitored but outcomes were not. Absence of logical framework
indicators and baseline data constrained proper evaluation of outcomes and impact. (Why was health
information system left out in this project? What should be the role of health information system
strengthening in a new project?)
Most project activities were implemented despite what is perceived to be cumbersome IDA
procedures. However, PI U patience, commitment, and learning on these procedures eventually paid off.
- 49 -



There is now recognition that these rules protect both the Government and contractors. It seems we can
work within the "cumbersome" procedures but there is a need (a) for all-around training on Bank
procedures for all of those involved in the project; (b) for better work planning, preferably medium-term,
especially for international competitive bidding; and (c) for better and more frequent communication.
Electronic connectivity (e-mail) should be could be made a requirement.
*      "lHardware" (health centers, staff houses) were completed, but complementary "software" (drugs,
personnel, and in certain cases, management) were inadequate. Result: health service provision remains
incomplete, unavailable, unreliable, or poor. (What does this indicate for a new project? What is the
proper balance between "hardware" and "software"?)
*      Demand-driven interventions (community initiatives) tend to be more sustainable than
supply-driven ones ("top-down" programs). (What does this imply in terms of the need for information,
education and communication; or for behavior change developmenit more generally; or for community
organizing?)
*      Activities underpilned with policy tend to be highly sustainable (e.g., H.S.A. salaries, food
iodization). Absence of policy tends to make activities unsustainable (e.g., cost sharing, drug financing and
CMS, training programs, facility maintenance, ownership of bicycles, ownership of CHAM staff houses,
provision of iron folate to pregnanit women).
There were instances of Govemnment failure to translate many successful initiatives into official"
policy" which could have been translated into budgetary commitments, thus enhancing sustainability. (How
can policy-making be strengthened in a new project? What should be the role of program managers in
formulating appropriate policies about their programs? Should there be project inputs to enhance
policy-making? What?)
*      On hindsight, refocusing of the project towards rural areas (where 80% of people live) proved to be
beneficial, thouglh it was initially contentious. Scrappinig of some buildings also proved to be beneficial as
institutions "disappeared" from the scene. (What does this imply for a new project design? fixity vs.
flexibility; "blueprinit" approach vs. adaptability to changing circumstances or new knowledge gained).
-      Govetmment needs to take maintenance more seriously into account. (How should the risk of
infrastructure "over-expansioni" and multiplicity of fleets be minimized so that Government can provide
more adequate maintenance budget for these capital assets -- infrastructure, vehicles -- that already exist?
What ought to be Government's mainteniance policy? What ought to be donors' policy with respect to
providing more buildings and vehicles vis-a-vis maintaining them?)
* -    Should IDA have pushed more strongly for "conditionalities" (e.g., CMS reforms, cost sharing) to
get things done? What is thie proper role of IDA in this regard? What is the role of the technical ministry
and the Government as a whole? (Inasmuch as the policy and implementation of cost sharing and
pharmaceutical sector reforms remain, what should be done in a new project to address these? Similarly,
the policy constraints on humani resource development, e.g., focus of training, curriculum, entry
requirements need to be addressed to ease the production of key personnel in extremely short supply.)
To expedite project disbursement, the procurement plan, bidding instruments, advertisements,
short-lists, etc. should be prepared prior to project effectiveness. (ls this feasible in a new project? Who is
to do them "prior to" the appointmenit of PIU? Is a project preparation facility called for to fund consultants
to prepare TORs and RFPs?)
- 50 -



*      PIU is necessary for such vast project with complex rules and regulations. (Yet the better status of
PIU staff is often a sticky issue with Govenmment. Hlow should this be resolved? Can the difference be "
ameliorated" with incentives provided to program managers? How should this be done within IDA rules?)
*      It seems the political element was felt more "negatively", i.e., non-action on key policy fronts like
CMS restructuring and user fees, rather than "positively", i.e., interference on location of clinics, hostels.
(How should political pressure be handled? Are there technical or planning instruments that can be used to
reduce adverse effect of such political pressures?)
Substantial Tnvestments in training were lost as personnel left the civil service. (Given the large
public subsidies provided to trained staff, what "bonding" arTangements should be made? Should there be
a contract to be signed for staff to stay a set number of years after training?)
*      Sizeable numnber of teclhnical trainilg were conducted. (However, not as much training was done
in planning, project management, supervision and monitoring, quality assurance, and health financing.)
The project did not focus much on the private sector; in one instance where staff houses were
provided to CHAMI nurse-tutors, the policy on ownership was not clarified, leading to confusion. On the
other hand, the privatization of the health sector without requisite regulation and specification of roles may
have contributed to the continuinig human resource crisis. (How should the strengths of the NGO and
private non-profit and for-profit sectors be tapped in a new project without engendering negative results?
How should organized communities and the rest of civil society participate more, and therefore take greater
responsibility for, health issues?)
Vill. List of Participants
Group 1 - Basic Health Programs - (I) W.C. Nkhoma, Manager, National AIDS Control
Secretariat; (2) Allan Macheso, Manager, MOHP Malaria Control Program; (3) A. Agabu, Support
Officer, MOHP AIDS Control Program; (4) W.E. Limbe, Coordinator, MOHP Health Surveillance
Assistants Program; (5) Ann Phoya, Project Coordinator, Population and Family Planning Project; (6)
Demissie Habte, Healtlh Specialist, World Bank.
Group 2 - Women-in-Development and Nutrition - (1) Aubrey Chibwana, Food and Nutrition
Officer, Ministry of Agriculture; (2) Veronica Kamvanzina, Senior Food and Nutrition Officer, Ministry of
Agriculture; (3) Kelvin Banda, Economist, National Economic Council; (4) Peter Mwanza, Senior
Economist, National Economic Council; (5) Therese Banda, National Micronutrient Coordinator, MOHP;
(6) Milla McLachlan, Nutrition Advisor, World Bank; (7) Milliasi Guluka, Project Accountant,
MOGYCS; (8) Ivy Chirambo, Fonrer WID Coordinator, MOGYCS; (9) Henry Mdebwe, Nutritionist,
MOHP; (10)1. Z. Kanklhumbwa, Acting WID Coordinator, MOGYCS; (11) Marguerite Salah, Operations
Officer, World Bank.
Group 3 - Support Services and Human Resources - (1) A. M. Chinombo, Nursing Officer,
MOHP; (2) G. R. Kadewere, Chief Phannacist, Central Medical Stores; (3) S. L. Ngwira, Controller of
Human Resources, MOHP; (4) N. B. Mwambakulu, Health Services Administrator, MOHP; (5) Mariatou
Tala Jallow, Consultant-Plharmacist, World Bank; (6) Jonathan Nkhoma, Chief Health Education Officer,
MOHP.
Group 4 - Civil Works, Hospital Efficiency, and Project Implementation Unit - (1) David
Chidyaonga, Project Coordinator, MOHP-PIU; (2) James Kambalametore, Project Quantity Surveyor,
MOHP-PIU; (3) Alice Makhambera, Project Accountant, MOHP-PIU; (4) Lisa Hanson,
- 51 -



Architect-Consultant, World Bank; (5) Donald Mphande, Financial Management Specialist, World Bank;
(6) C. M. Sinigo, Administrative Officer, MOHP; (7) G. M. Mwanza, Procurement Officer, MOHP-PIU;
(8) A. F. Kalima, Under Secretary, MOHP; (9) J.Q. Kamvantope, Assistant Procurement Officer/Project
Officer, MOHP; (10) George Sikazwe, Procurement Specialist, MOHP; (I1) Oscar Picazo, Health
EconomistlTask Team Leader, World Bank.
The following participants also attended the opening and/or plenary sessions: (1) George
Mkondiwa, Permnanent Secretary, MOHP; (2) R.H. Mapemba, Head of Planning Unit, MOHP; (3)
Elizabeth Mason, Medical Director, WHO/AFRO; (4) Donald Manda, Social Sector Coordinator, World
Bank.
- 52 -



SUPPORTING TABLES
Table A-4: Civil Works Under the PHN Project by District and by Type of Works
District     No. of Health &  FP Unit Trng    PHN Staff House    CHAM             MASAF
Sites   Matern.           Hostel                      Staff House Staff House
Center
Orig. Districts
Karonga             11     3 new     I new      -      23 new, 10 rehab       -            -
Mzimba              23     1 rehab    I new     -      40 new, 3 rehab        -            -
Mchinji             7      1 rehab    I new     -       13 new, 4 rehab       -            -
Dowa                6      Irehab    I new      -          13 new             -            -
Kasungu             11    2 rehab    I new      -          27 new             -            -
Liongwe             10    2 rehab    I new     4        18 new, 4 rehab       -            -
Mangochi            8      1 rehab    I new     -      10 new, 14 rebab       -            -
Chikwawa            7      1 rehab    I new     -      16 new, 4 rehab        -            -
Nsanje              6      1 rehab    I new     -       11 new, 4 rehab    l+office        -
block
Mwanza              3      1 relhab    I new    -          17 new             -            -
Other Districts
Rumphi              6      2 rehab     -        -           7 new             -         2 new
Chitipa             9      2 rehab    I new     -           4 new             -         5 new
Nkhata Bay          3      2 rehab    I new     -       10 new, I rehab       -            -
Nkhotakota          6      2 rehab     -        -          11 new             -            -
Salima              6      2 rehab    I new     -           8 new             -            -
Ntchisi             2         -       I new     -           6new              -            -
Ntcheu              7      2 rehab    I new     -           8 new             -         2 new
Dedza               4      2 rehab    I new     -       8 new, I rehab        -
Blantyre            3      2 rehab    I new    3           10 new             -
Chiradzulu          4     2 rehab    I new      -          10 new             -
Thyolo              5      2 rehab    I new     -           6 new             -         4 new
Zomba               5      2 rehab    I new    2            4 new          I hostel      8 new
Mulanje             5      2 rehab    I new     -           7 new             1         2 new
Phalombe            4      2 rehab    I new     -          10 new             3
Machinga            9      2 rehab     -        -           9 new             -          I new
Mzuzu               3         -        -        I             -               3            -
Total        173      43        22       10           351               9           24
Addenda
Facilities                                        Works
Queen Elizabeth Central Ilospital, Blantyre  Brick wall fences, kitchen renovation, laundry renovation,
wards renovation
Zomba Central Hospital, Zomba              Brick wall, mortuary
Lilongwe Central Hospital                  Brick wall, renovation of paying wards
Magomero Training Center                   4 staff houses, 2 classrooms, I workshop
Source: Project Implementation Unit
- 53 -



Table A-5: Studies Under the PHN Project
Title and Date            Consultants           Status                Impact
AIDS Assessment Study (1997) Dr. Inamnbao of MDA and   Completed    Used as input into the AIDS
Dr. Basett                             Strategic Plan
Technical Assitance Towards    Ziken Intemational    Completed      Used as input into the Health
Developing a Health Strategic                                             Strategic Plan
Plan (Feb. 1997)
National Sample Survey of     Dr. Kwame Kwofi of       Partly         Analysis not completed
Agriculture (1998)           Marketing Consultants    completed
Public Health Expenditure    Mr. T. Mwase and Mr.   Completed    Used as input in health planning,
Review (1998)                       Tsoka                            the MTEF, and PER 2000
Unit Cost Study (1998-99)       KPMG/Blantyre        Completed       Used as input in planning
Source: Project Implementationi Unit
Table A-6: Graduates of Degree Programs Supported Under the PHN Project
Program          No. of     Year           Location        Duration          Status
Persons
Masters in Health        13      1996-98    Tanzania Institute of   I year, 5   All completed, but I
Services                                       Development        months       has passed away
Administration                             Management (Mzumbe)
Masters in Public        2       1996-98     Boston University     I year      Both completed
Health                                         (USA); Keele
University (UK)
Bachielor of Science in  60      Various          Malawi            n.a.        All completed
Nursing
Bachelor of Phamnacy     8       1992-93     Rhodes Univ. and     3-4 years  6 completed, 2 dropped
University of Westem                    out
Cape (South Africa)
Source: Project lmplementationi Unit
Table A-7: Participants of Short Term Training Programs Under the PHN Project
Program             No. of     Year          Location       Duration       Status
Persons
Financial Management           2         1999          Namibia        4 weeks   Both completed
Procurement Management         2      1997; 1998   Kenya; Tanzania    3 weeks   Both completed
Micro-Enterprise Development   1         1999        South Africa     4 weeks      Completed
Managing Training Functions    1         1999        South Africa     3 weeks      Completed
Source: Project Implementationi Unit
- 54 -



Table A-8: Workshops, Seminars and Conferences Under the PHN Project
Activity                Year and Location              Theme             No. of
Parti-
cipants
Decentralization Workshop             1995, Mangochi        Working out how MOHP        120
decentralization will fit into
the national policy
Hospital Efficiency Seminars (3)       1996, Regions       Improving service delivery  n.a.
efficiency
National Health Plan Workshop         1997, Mangochi            Health planning         120
Drug Revolving Fund Symposia     1998, Mangochi and Mzuzu   Consultations with DRF      100
stakeholders
Drug Revolving Fund Workshops (4)   1998, Salima, Lilongwe,   Developing DRF manual     100
Mponela and Mangochii       and community
empowerment handbook
lEC Nutrition Workshop                1998, Mangochi       Developing IEC messages      40
and materials
Health Surveillance Assistant     1998 and 1999, Mangochi  Refresher courses on HSAs    90
Trainers Worksbops
Human Resources Workshop               1998, Lilongwe      Human resources planning     20
Working with Media                    1999, Mangochi       Skills development in mass   90
media
Monitoring and Evaluation of IEC      1999, Mangochi         Skills development in      30
Program                                                    monitoring and evaluation
PHN Project ICR Workshop               2000, Lilongwe          ICR methodology          50
Source: Project Implementation Unit
Table A-9: Study Tours Under the PHN Project
Study Tour          Destination and Date              Purpose                 No. of
Participants
Hospital Autoniomy         Nairobi, Kenya, 1998    To learn about the autonomization   5
of the Kenyatta National Hospital
Women-in Development   Kumasi, Ghana, May 2000 To learn about the sustainability of    5
Ghana's appropriate technology
interventions
Women-in-Development         Zimbabwe, 2000      To learn about the sustainability of  4
biogas operations
Source: Project Implementation Unlit.
- 55 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31130
320    Toor    2                    s   TANZANIA                                                  360
To Dor es Solo=_ 
0  20  40  60  80  100
KILOMETERS             ,
-10                                                             =t                                                                                10
MALAWI
n                   ,              , ^             A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Li rpta 
RUMPHI
V> >                   ) 
* M       L ci,>,a ke
/  z       n   ff *     Chikangowa   Si n Ass'                             }Io
Z A  M  B I A               /                   }lSnIbA        BAY  /                              PRINCIPAL ROADS
12f                    i,                            IN^        I ewswhL f --    SELECTED UNPAVED ROADS
2 g     >! {s v /aV */-r\TI  RIVERS
X   /   *~#$  s.--.  L                       0   TOWNS
f   ,   /t                                 @ tS  \  qS   S    DISTRICT CAPITALS
J   /,  ,--  \   Malawi   *] 69 NATIONAL CAPITAL
-((f$J - DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MOZAMBIQUE
Mc         k-\      *        )      ~               oknjilo
,<                    ~~~~~~~~~T. Lu so              o         I          J       ^         2Mktil 
140-9                                                                           0fE    j                                               140
De ~          \            ,r~ -t ,Xdzo  \  _9fu ToNacojo
Xsros --~~%E t No Ah/~ngochiv  
_ -  /  \.@L    1--  \\    Lake
RWANDA'I           BKENYA                                                            Bolok)   MA&HINGA
DEMOCRATIC                                                       MOZMBIQU                               N
CONGO                                                                                                       0 6
r f x g X 4 OCEAN          0                                          / Zl oM{ Jt // \  PHALOMBE
Mwt                        DL 1      -1 MuCi oj
t  f  f  f X 9 t lG2i)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                 Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.
_ _   )     ,,_./                                                                                               T \kk  <   /    i  \  *  /    )   'he boundaries, color,denominations
j    \,   ~ZIMBABWE  t                                -3                                             Chirmamc    and anyother informatiOnshown an
5  1   \.   i   <   aF                 /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e.rz ~~~~*'4 %o                     this map do not (mpfiy, on the paJrt of
5  j   1   J'   X                                                          ~~~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ W5  The World BJonk Group, any judgment 
IANG BOTSWANA      ?                   -n Mthelegalsttuscofnytrritary,or
i           *t    &          y -              \ .                                          <            * Nsanje  any endorsement or acceptance of
!   - .t SOUTH  'C ,            ,     rJ                                       )t   <             suchbounwasries.
h     J'    ~~AFRICA     /340                                                                                            36
V.                                                         ____J___'__________________MD                                       UtIoB___
October 2000



