Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C./i  Z--- 71 _-   A - M/
Report No. 9036-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR CREDIT
Population and Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department
kis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
-ir officsal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
February, 1991
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
MK 1.00 = US$ 0.89
US$ 1.00 = MK 2.68
SDR '.00   USS 1.48
Republic of Malawi
Fiscal Year: April 1 - March 81
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS         Acquired Irmune Deficiency Syndrome
AfDB         African Development Bank
CCAM         Chitukuko Cha Amayi of Malawi
CDA          Community Development Assistant
CHN          Community Health Nurse
CDW          Community Development Workers
CHS          Chief of Health Servicos
CHV          Community Health Volunteer
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
CUS          Centrol Medical Stores
CS           Child Spacing
DEPD         Department of Economic Planning A Development
Devpol       Statement of Development Policies
DHO          District Health Officer
DPMT         Department of Personnel Management and Training
EC           European Community
ENM          Enrolled Nurses Midwife
EPI          Expanded Program on Immunization
HCW          Home Craft Worker
HEU          Health Education Unit
HIV          Human Immuno-D-ficiency Virus
HRID         Human Resource Institutional Development
HSA          Health Surveillance Assistant
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IDD          Iodine Deficiency Disorders
IEC          Information, Education and Communication
IUD          Intra Uterine Device
JICA         Japanese International Cooperative Agency
KCH          Kamuzu Central Hospital
KfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCD          Local Competitive Bidding
MCH          Maternal and Child Health
MIM          Malowl Institute of Management
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
MOCS         Ministry of Community Services
MOH          Ministry of Health
MOLG         Ministry of Local Government
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
ODA          Overseas Development %.;ministration
OPC          Office of the President and Cabinet
PHAM         Private Hospital Association of Malawi
PHC          Primary Health Care
PHICS        Promoting Health Interventions for Child Survival
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PSIP         Public Sector Investment Program
RHT          Regional Health Team
RMCH         Regional Maternal A Child Health Coordinator
RNO          Regional Nurse Officer
RPHI         Regional Public Health Inspector
SRN          State Registered Nurse
QECH         Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital
TBA          Traditional Birth Attendant
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNFPA        United Netions Fund for Population Activities
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VHC          Village Health Committee
WFP          World Food Program
WHO          World Health Organization
WID          Women in Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Credit
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic Data                                                             1
Credit and Project Summary                                           ii
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan                                   iv
I.  INTRODUCTION .......................... ......................    1
Av  Economic and Policy Environment...........................   1
B. Government's Commitment to the Social Sectors ............ .  2
II.  THE POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTORS ................  4
A.  Basic Characteristics of the Sector          .      .       4
B.  Issues and Constraints           ......... . .  15
C. Bank Group Experiernce and Lessons Learned ................arn  23
D. Role of Other Agencies and Organizations . ................. 23
III. GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY ............................... ............... #25
A. The Reform Program ...................     ..................... 25
B. The Revised Public Expenditure Plan .....................    26
C.  Priorities for Programs and Services.....................  29
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT              ............. . 36
A.  Objectives, Rationale, and Summary Description ...*.......  ..36
B. Detailed Description ...................................... 38
C.  Project Cost ..............................................  43
D.  Financing Plan ............................................  47
E.    Procurement                 ...............................................  48
F.   Disbursement ................................... *................   50
G.  Implmettin........            nt..................  51
H. Reporting and Monitoring ..................................  51
V.   BENEFITS  AND  RISKS .............................  .............   53
A.  Benefits ................................ ... 53
B.     Risks .............................. . . .. . ........ .#   54
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIOVS ................................ 55
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Malawi in June 1990 and comprised Ms. Nwanganga G. Shields (Mission Leader,
IDA), Messrs. Michael Mills (Health Economist, IDA), David Sebina (Public
Health Specialist, IDA), Ms. Hope Phillips (Research Assistant, IDA) and
Messrs./Mesdames. R. Chhabra (WID Specialist, Consultant), J. Huddart
(Health Manpower Specialist, Consultant), L. Hansen (Architect,
Consultant), J. van Haperen (Pharmaceutical Specialist, Consultant), J.
Levinson (Nutrition Specialist, Consultant) and W. Lynn (IEC Specialist,
Consultant). Dr. Anthony Measham (Division Chief and Public Health
Specialist) was the lead advisor for this operation. Ms. Patricia Samuel
provided secretarial support in the preparation of the report. Messrs.
David de Ferranti and Stephen Denning are the managing Division Chief and
the Department Director, respectively, for this operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Title                                                              Page No.
Arunex A       -    Letter of Health Development Policy..........         58
Annex AA      -    Policy Action Program........................         65
Annex B        -    Annual Review Actions................                 77
Annex C        -    Hospital Efficiency Improvement Component....         84
Annex D        -    Primary Health CareFund.....................          89
Annex E        -    Studies and Evaluation,
Technical Assistance, Fellowships..........         91
Annex F        -    Supervision Plan....                                  98
Annex G        -    Studies & Evaluation, Technical Assistance
and Fellowships....                               101
Annex Ti  -    Ten Leading Causes of Death 0-4 years
and 5-14 years.......                              102
Annex T2  -    Ten Leading Causes of Admission Among
Children Under Five....                            103
Annex T3  -    Number of Health Institutions Under
Ministry of Health        ........   ........      104
Annex T4  -    Health Centres, Hospitals, Dispensaries,
PECs per Populationp.......................        105
Annex T5  -    Health Facilities, Number of Beds by
Controlling Agen                    cy...          106
Annex T6  -    Out-patient Returns by District and
Controlling Agency.y ...                           107
Annex T7  -    Number of Health Institutions Under
Local Government, 1989.....       8                108
Annex T8  -    Number of Traditional Birth Attendants by
109
Annex T9  -    Summary of 1995 Staff Requirements at
Minimum Standards & C&G Recommended
Standards (MOH, PHAM & LG                )         110
Annex T10 -    Projected Staffing 1995, 2000 Based on
Current & Proposed Training Intakes .........      111
Annex Tll -    Manpower Projections 1989-2000 Based on
Proposed Training Intakes & Reduced
Student Dropout Ra            t    e     s        112
Annex T12A-    Investment Program (In Detail)                            113
Annex T12B-    Recurrent Costs of Investment Program.............*       116
Annex T12C-    Recurrent Budget Projection...................            120
Annex T12D-    Investment Program by Source of Fundinges ng...           124
Annex T13 -    Summary Account by Project Componenton.e.**.. t..         125
Annex T14 -    Financing Plan by Disbursement Category...........        133
Annex T1S-    Disbursement Schedule...h...                               135
Annex T16 -    Implementation Schedule..he        t ul...................  136
Annex T17 -    List of Documents in the Project File.............        137
Chart 1   -    Organization Chart of Ministry of
Health Hedqatr....                                 138
Chart 2   -    Organization Chart for Ministry of Health
Regional and District Organization.... n..         139
Chart 3   -    Functional Organization Chart - Malawi
Ministry of Heal                    th......... ......... . ....  140



Table 3.1      Development Expenditures for 1991/92-1995-96......  27
3.2      Ministry of Health - Estimated Recurrent
Expenditures for 1990/91 and 1995196 .........  29
Table 4.1      Health Investment Financing Plan..................  37
4.2      Summary of Project Cost by Component...............  44
4.3      Summary of Project Costs by Category.............  45
4.4      Assumed InflationRates...........................  46
4.5      Financing Plan by Component.......................  47
4.6      Project Cost by Procurement Method and
Disbursementb.............                     48
MAP
IBRD No. 22688



- i -
BASIC DATA
Country Data
Per Capita GNP (1989)                                          US$179
Total Population                                               8.0 million
Population Growth Rate                                         3.5 percent
Health, Population and Nutrition Indicators
Infant mortality rate (1990)                                   148 per 1,000
Survival to age 5 (1990)                                       245 per 1,000
Survival to age 5 for female (1990)                            248 per 1,000
Maternal mortality (1988)                                      250 per 10,000
Crude death rate  (1990)                                       20 per 1,000
Crude bitth rate  (1990)                                       54 per 1,000
Total fertility rate (1990)                                    7.8
Life expectancy at birth (1988)                                48 (female)
47 (male)
Population per physician (1988)                                60,000
Population per nursing staff (1988)                            3,110
Birth attended by health staff (1985)                          59 percent
Babies with low birth weight (1985)                            10 percent
Daily caloric supply per capita                                2,310
Public Expenditure on Population, Health and Nutrition
Percent
MOH share of total Government budget                            7.7
MOH share of GDP                                                2.7
MOH share of development budget                                11.6
MOH share of recurrent budget                                   6.3



- ii -
MALAWI
POPULATION HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR CREDIT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower                Republic of Malawi
Beneficiaries:          Ministries of Health and Community Services
Credit Amounts          SDR 38.6 million (US$ 55.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA Terms
Project Oblectives: The project's objectives are to improve quality, access,
efficiency, and effectiveness in the sector through: (a) strengthening of
basic programs, focussing on primary health care, maternal and child health
care, child spacing (family planning), malaria control, AIDS program,
nutrition interventions, and women in development activities; (b)
strenathening of support services, focussing on staffing issues,
pharmaceuticals, and IEC; (c) efficiency improvements, focussing on management
strengthening, hospital decongestion, cost shaiing, and budget reform; and (d)
support to the Goveranent's social dimeraions of adjustment initiative.
Proiect Description. In line witb these objectives, the project's component
on strenathening of basic programs will include: (a) for primary health care
and maternal and child health care, development and expansion of the Health
Surveillance Assistants into outreach-oriented and village-based PHN promotera
and service providers; rehabilitation and/or construction of rural health
centers; provision of rural housing where needed to attract essential
personnel; and provision of some vehicles to improve the effectiveness of
district level services; (b) for malaria, improvements in logistical support,
in the supply of anti-malarial drugs, and in support for drug resistance
monitoring; (c) for AIDS, acceleration of efforts in education and prevention
campaigns and in acquisition of blood screening equipment; (d) for child
spacing, launching of a Family Welfare Council to promote family planning and
expansion of the MOH's program; (e) for women in development, institutional
strengthening, upgrading of training activities, and testing of small scale
demonstration projects on appropriate technology dissemination and credit
provision; and (f) for nutrition, extension of a community-level food security
approach developed and tested by UNICEF, and a micronutrient deficiency
program. The component on strenathenina of support servieas will include: (a)
for staffing issues, upgrading of training programs and facilities for health
cadres currently in critically short supply, and evhancement of personnel
management information and planning capabilities; (b) for the IEC program,
expanded activities for training health workers, and provision of resources
for conveying population, health, and nutrition messages to communities; and
(c) for pharmaceuticals, technical assistance and training on drug
procurement, distribution and production, and improvement of facilities and
equipment. The component on efficiency improvements will include (a)
rehabilitation of three urban health centers and construction of two others to



- iii -
shift more outpatient care away from the more costly and overcrowded
hospitale, (b) rehabilitation of one district hospital, construction of
another, and replacement of worn-out equipment in selected other hospitals;
(c) introduction of reforms in patient fees; and (d) budget reforms involving
increases in the MOH budget and the share of it devoted to outreach and
peripheral health serices. The component on the social dimensions of
ad1ustment initiative will  l.;_lude support for a "social support program fund"
to assist small scale pilot interventions derived from felt needs of
communities and expressed through Government or NOO channels.
Justification and Riskas The proposed credit is designed to support the
Government's population, health and nutrition programs and the key adjustment
measures stressed in the Policy Framework Paper, including especially improved
internal efficiency and increased cost recovery. The credit would fund a
major strengthening of district health services, provide support for priority
programs, reduce the incidence of malaria and malnutrition, finan^e an
accelerated program of manpower development and continue the institution
building activities initiated under the Second Family Health Project. There
are three main risks. First, the fiscal difGiculties and constrained
Government expenditures pose the risk that the health budget may not increase
fast enough to permit timely completion of the investment plan and adequate
funding of the system. This risk is being minimized by the Government's
commitment as stated in the Statement of Development Policies (Devpol) to
allocate more resources to MOH and by the requirement that MOH submit its
forward budget estimates after approval by the Ministry of Finance for IDA
review. A second risk concerns the introduction of cost sharing mesures and
their effect on demand for health services in the rural areas. This risk is
being minimized by the gradual pace proposed. A final risk concerns the
consolidation of peripheral services, since there may not be enough doctors to
have one in each district as the District Health Officer (DHO) responsible for
district health management team. This risk is being minimized by the
provision in the credit for the training of district health administrators.
Furthermore, the credit provides for the system to be evaluated two years
after its inception and adjusted if necessary.



- iv -
REPUBL:S OF MALAWI
POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financina Plan a/
Local       Foreign      Total
---------(TuS$ Million)------
Estimated Cost
Proiect Component
Strengthening of Basic Program                9.3          12.9       27.2
Strengthening of Support Services             6.4          12.8       19.2
Efficiency Improvement                        4.7          11.5       16.2
Social Programs Support                       0.25          0.25       0.5
Total Basic Cost                             20.7          42.5       63.2
Contingencies   .                             3.6           7.5       11.1
Total Prolect Cost                           24.3          50.0       74.3
Financing Plan
IDA                                          16.7          38.8       55.5
EC                                            3.9           7.2       11.1
Netherlands/WHO                                             1.4        1.4
Government                                    6.3                      6.3
TOTAL                                        26.9          47.4       74.3
Estimated IDA Disbursement
1991     1992     1993      1994     1995    1996
Annual                    2.5      11.4     13.3      12.6      9.0     6.7
Cumulative                2.5     13.9      27.2     39.8      48.8    55.5
a/  Excludes taxes and duties of US$2.3 million.



MALAWI
POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTOR CREDIT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Economic and Policy Environment 1/
1.01      Over the last ten years, Malawi has been confrornted with a
series of external shocks: falling world prices for exports; rapid
escalation in import prices, paLticularly for fuel, intermediate and
capital goods; an escalation in regional political tensions, which
disrupted external transport routes and led to rapid increases in transport
costs and a large, continuing flow of Mozambican refugees to Malawi; and
poor weather and an infestation of the cassava crop which undermined food
production and security. In the early 1980's severe foreign exchange
shortages caused a build-up of arrears on import payments, stringent
rationing of foreign exchange, and import bottlenecks. The ba ance of
payments came under severe strain, the Government budget deficit rose to
unsustainable levels, and inflation increased.
1.02      The Government has responded to these major economic problems
through a program of adjustment measures aimed at restoring macroeconomic
stability and growth. This has included price adjustments and decontrol,
improved public sector resource management and strict control of Government
expenditures, exchange rate adjustmen.s, export promotion and
diversification programs, strengthening of public sector policy and
planning capacity, and parastatal reform. Since 1981 these efforts have
been supported by three structural adjustment loans, successive IMF stand-
by operations, an IMF extended facility, and, in 1988, a large Industrial
and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit and an IMF Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility. Despite periodic setbacks, Malawi has made good
progress in implementing its adjustment program. Real GDP fell by 6
percent in 1980-1981, but then recovered to grow at an annual average rate
of 3.1 percent through 1986. It declined by about 1.5 percent in 1987, but
growth in 1988 at 3.6 percent exceeded expectations and is projected to
accelerate to between 4 and 5 percent in the siort-term, making possible a
gradual recovery in real per capita incomes.
1.03      The country's macroeconomic difficulties and the consequent need
for adjustment have resulted in severe constraints on the Government's
budgetary allocations for sectoral expenditures. The large and increasing
external debt burden crowded out public expenditure and restrained the
scope for new investments and increased recurrent expenditures. Interest
payments claimed an average of more than 17 percent of total Government
expenditures each year from 1982 to 1988. However, interest payments are
projected to remain at their 1988/89 level in kwacha terms through 1991/92,
implying that they will claim a decreasing share of total expenditure and
leave room for some recovery in discretionary public spending. A higher
rate of economic growth is also being projected, which will be ^f
additional help in easing resource constraints.
11 See also: Malawi Public Expenditure Review, Report No. 7281-MAI, 1990, and
Malawi Growth Through Poverty Reduction, Report No. 8140-MAI, 1990.



- 2 -
B. Government's Commitment to the Social Sectors
1.04      The Government is strongly committed to supporting progress in
the social sectors, including population, health and nutrition measures in
particular. The country's development strategy, as summarinied in the
Statement of Development Policies (Devpol), recognizes the vital role of
the social sectors in overall development.   For example, on health, Devpol
stresses the need "to raise the level of health of all Malawians through
reduction in the incidence of illness and occurrence of death in the
population by de!eloping a sour.d service delivery system capable of
promoting health, preventing, reducing and curing disease, protecting life,
and fostering the general well being, and increased productivity'.
Government support for the social sectors has become more pronounced in
recent years, after earlier periods of emphasis on other sectors engaged in
production of goods and services. Recent budget allocation decisions have
effectively increased the social sectors' share of public resou-ces
relative to other sectors.
1.05      A first "Health Plan" (1965-1969), launched shortly after
independence, concentrated primarily on the development of curative
services and nursing manpower. An evaluation of this plan indicated that
these interventions by themselves were unlikely to improve the health
status of the people. A new 15-year Health Plan (1973-1988) was
subsequently prepared, and the major priorities identified were the
development of basic health services, control of communicable diseases,
expansion of curative services, manpower development and improvement in the
organization of the Ministry of Health (MOH). This plan was amended in
1975 and again in 1978, with a slight shift of emphasis to expansion of
maternal and child health (MCH) services and introduction of a pilot
primary health care (PHC) program. Implementation of the 15-year plan was
hampered by inadequate financial resources and scarcity of trained manpower
and experienced administrators.
1.06      In the mid-1980's a comprehensive National Health Plan was
prepared for the period 1986-1995. Among its goals are the achievement of
a 33 percent drop in early childhood mortality and a major improvement in
maternal health. Specifically, the plan aims at a reduction of the infant
mortality rate from 151 to 100 per 1,000 live births and of the under-five
mortality rate from 330 to 200 per 1,000 live births during the five-year
period. Its main objectives are to extend peripheral and especially
community-based services, along with modest strengthening of hospital
services; to accelerate manpower development and improve personnel
management; to strengthen the management of service delivery; to improve
child survival; to improve the implementation and effectiveness of key
programs; and to improve the nutritional status especially of mothers and
children. Child spacing (CS) activities are also included. Some
significant achievements were made during the first three years of the
Plan, but progress was again constrained by lack of financial and human
resources. In addition, a number of important policy issues, particularly
concerning the management of the sector, became more clearly identified.
The currently proposed project was designed within the broad parameters of



- 3 -
the National Health Plan, but incorporating an updated Investment program
and also addressing the newly identified pol:cy issues (Chapter III).
1.07      The Government recognizes the importance of: improved
population, health, and nutrition services for enhanced labor productivity;
the links between better social Indicators and reduced fertility levels;
and the need to reduce morbidity and mortality rates as a social goal in
itself. In view of the Government's sustained efforts to deal with its
macroeconomic problems, its clear policy statements emphasizing the need to
maintain fiscal restraint but also givo increased priority to the social
sectors, its recognition of the inter-relationships between economic growth
and achievements in the social sectors, and the continuing poverty and
extremely low socio-economic status of most of the people, it is
appropriate that additional efforts now be made to strengthen, accelerate
and support the country0s ongoing programs and activities in the
population, health and nutrition sectors.



- 4 -
II. THE POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION SECTORS
2.01      The principal features and issues facing the population, health
and nutrition sector are described in this chapter under the following
headingst
A.   Basic Characteristics of the Sector
Population, Health and Nutrition Status
Organization of Health Services and Facilities
Programs and Policies
Manpower and Training
Support Systems
Management of Health Services
Financing and Resource Allocation
B.   Issues and Constraints
Coverage of Basic Services
Program Effectiveness
Health Manpower
Support Systems
Management and Decentralization
Resource Mobilization and Efficiency
C.   Bank Group Experience and Lessons Learned
D.   Role of Other mencies and Organizations
A. Basic Characteristics of the Sector
Population, Health and Nutrition Status
2.02      The primary indicators of PHN status underscore the extensive
poverty and difficult circumstances that the country faces. 2/ Under-
five mortality is about 25 percent and life expectancy is approximately 48
years. Maternal mortality is now about 250 per 100,000 live births. Total
fertility is 7.8 births per woman and the crude birth rate is 54 per 1000
population. Over half of Malawian children are about two standard
deviations below expected height for age. The leading diseases in Malawi
are malaria, respiratory infections, symptoms related to the abdomen and
gasttointestinal tract, skin conditions and accidents. Schistosomiasis and
a variety of helminths are endemic. Acute infections (such as pneumonia
and measles), cholera and diarrhoea, and chronic infections (especially
2/   For a more extended discussion of the material in this section, see
Malawi: Human Resource Development Study, Report No.7854-MAI, 1989.
Also seet Malawi: Population Sector Study, Report No. 8513-MAI, 1990
and Malawi: Food Security Report, Report No. 8151-MAI, 1990.



tuberculosis) are also serious problems. Sexually transmitted diseases are
common, Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is spreading rapidly.
The major causes of mortality as reported to the MOH during 1989 are
presented in Annex Ti, while Annex T2 contains the leading causes of
hospital admissions. This disease pattern stems particularly from
malnutrition and infections related to environmental and social factors.
Crude death rate is about 20 per thousand. Mortality levels are higher
than in neighboring coun:ries, principally because of the high prevalence
of under-nutrition and the high incidence of malaria. Reducing under-five
mortality would dramatically improve overall the life expectancy of the
people.
2.03      Malaria infection rates in Malawian children are generally
considered to be greater than 50 percent. This is a hyperendemic
situation. Most symptomatic infections are in children younger than five
years of age and are due to Plasmodium falciparum, the most malignant of
the human malarial species. Malaria is the major cause of admission to
facilities by children below the age of 5, and accounts for 29 percent of
all hospital admissions and 12 percent of the reported deaths. Malawi also
has a considerable amount of anemia, which is generally considered to be
related to malaria (see Annex T2).  Of particular concern is the fact that
there has been a significant increase over the past several years in
childhood morbidity and mortality caused by malaria.  A comparison of 1985
MOH data with the most recent (1988) data shows a 43 percent increase in
hospital admissions, an 85 percent increase in hospital deaths, and a 30
percent increase in the case fatality rate for the disease.
2.04      AIDS, though so far reaching a much smaller fraction of the
population than many other diseases, is growing by epidemic proportions.
Although there are as yet no reliable estimates for the extent of the Human
Immuno-deficiency Virus (HIV) prevalence, the range cited by experts is
from 15 percent to 23 percenc of all adults. Testing of blood donors,
antenatal mothers, and bar girls indicate that the HIV infection is
spreading at an alarming rate, and the high risk group are men and women
between the ages of 25-45. The actual number of AIDS cases (i.e., where
HIV infection has led to illness) has been reported as 8,083, as of March,
1990. In other countries in the region, it is estimated that the known
cases represent about 40 percent of the total number of cases; if this is
the case in Malawi, there would now be approximately 20,000 cases of AIDS
in the country.
2.05      Maternal mortality in Malawi is high (170 per 100,000 live
births), even though Malawian women on average each have more than three
ante-natal visits during the period of pregnancy. Probeble reasons for the
high mortality rate are poor maternal nutrition, lack of referral (due to
transport constraints) for high risk cases, and an inadequate ualarm" and
follow-up system for obstetrical emergencies. For a large number of
Malawian women, an additional pregnancy carries a high risk of serious
complications or death.
2.06      Malnutrition plays an important part in infant and child
mortality in Malawi. A large proportion of deaths among children is
attributed to diseases that usually are not fatal in adequately nourished



- 6 -
persons. The 1981/82 National Sample Survey of Agriculture revealed a high
prevalence of chronic malnutrition distributed fairly evenly throughout the
country. The overall rate was 56.5 percent. This compares with 37 percent
and 28 percent for Kenya and Zimbabwe respectively. A survey carried out
in Lower Shire in 1983 also revealed an overall prevalence of severe
Vitamin A deficiency of about 4 percent. In combination with measles,
Vitamin A deficiency accounts for 15 percent of blindness in the country.
In addition iodine deficiency disorders (IDDs) in Malawi are both more
severe and more widespread than in most other parts of Africa. Unlike many
other countries where IDDs are limited to small mountain regions, the
problem in Malawi affects the entire country. Roughly one-third of the
population lives in areas of severe endemicity (in which up to 65 percent
suffer from goiter and up to 1.5 percent from cretinism), while the
remainder of the country is characterized by intermediate or moderate
iodine deficiency.
Organization of Health Services and Facilities
2.07      The MOH has the primary responsibility for the development of
policies, strategies and programs for health care in Malawi. MOH services
are provided at five lrvels: community, rural health facilities, district
hospitals, central hospitals, and special hospitals. Services at the
community level consist of a reasonably extensive network of outreach
activities through mobile clinics and the PHC program. Community level
services stress activities and interventions associated with under-five
care (health education, environmental sanitation, diarrheal disease
control, immunization and growth monitoring). Much of the work carried out
at the community level is the responsibility of health surveillance
assistants (HSAs), who are supervised by health assistants at the nearest
fixed facility. Most of the 550 HSAs presently deployed are men. For the
future, it is intended that the role of HSAs should be widened from one of
communicable disease control and environmental health work to one of multi-
purpose community health work.
2.08      The MOH also runs 20 rural hospitals, 113 dispensary/maternity
centers, 9 maternity units, 93 dispensaries and 15 health posts (Annex T3)
which offer similar services: curative care; pre-natal, natal and post-
natal care for mothers; infant and child care; and community health
services. Several health centers also run nutrition clinics focussing on
nutrition education, food preparation demonstration, and free food
supplements. The peripheral health facilities are well used, with the
daily patient loads usually ranging between 100 and 200. There are,
however, many areas of the country still not served by health facilities,
and also some considerable regional variations with regard to the
distribution and coverage of health facilities (Annex T4).
2.09      The MOH has 21 district hospitals which serve as referral
hospitals for their respective districts and which offer all the health
services available at health centers. The two central hospitals function
as referral facilities for the district hospitals, and they are also used
for various training activities. There is only one general hospital.
Special hospitals offer specialized services, including mental health
services and in-patient care for leprosy and tuberculosis cases. There is



- 7 -
a total of 13,192 beds in the country of which 6,815 are in MOH facilities
(Annex T5). Utilization of hospital services, both inpatient and
outpatient, is very high. The three central hospitals, Kamuzu Central
Hospital (KCH) at Lilongwe, Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital (QECH) at
Blantyre and the Zomba General Hospital, are all overcrowded. QECH has an
in-patient capacity of 892 beds, but in-patient numbers vary between 1,200
and 1,500 daily. Out-patients average about 1,000 daily and about 700
children are also immunized daily. At KCH, the situation is slightly
worse. A recently commissioned study by Bennett 3/ showed that most of
the users of these hospitals originate from the cities where the hospitals
are situated, only a small percentage come from the surrouniing districts,
and only a very small minority are referred from other districts.
2.10      The Private Hospital Association of Malawi (PHAM), made up of
religious and other private volunteer agencies, operates hospitals, rural
hospitals and health centers in the country. PHAM hospitals account for
just over one third of all admissions and for nearly half of the other
health services in the country. PHAM facilities see about 1.3 million
total out-patients annually (Annex T6). The services offered by PHAM are
similar to those of the MOH, but at PHAM facilities fees are charged for
curative services (although preventive services are available free of
charge). Despite efforts by the MOH and the PHAM secretariat, the quality
of services provided at individual PHAM facilities varies enormously. PHAM
training institutions also produce nearly 70 percent of the country's
enrolled nurses. PHAM receives an annual subsidy from the MOH, but
financial constraints have caused a number of PHAM units to ask the
Government to take over their operations. However, the Government has been
unwilling to do this.
2.11      Local government authorities under the Ministry of Local
Government (MOLG) also play a major role in the delivery of health care.
The district councils operate 102 units--19 dispensaries, 76 maternity
units and 9 health centers in 22 of the 24 districts of the country (Annex
T7). Forty five of these health units are adjacent to MOH facilities. The
cities of Blantyre, Lilongwe, Mzuzu and the municipality of Zomba also
operate health services. Local authorities charge fees for their services.
Other agencies, such as the army, police, estates and industries, provide
curative and preventive services for their employees, and there is a small
number of private doctors, paramedicals and nurses in the country. The
work of the Government is complemented by a variety of Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs). About 1,000 traditional birth attendants (TBAs) are
scattered mainly throughout the rural areas (Annex T8), but they are not
formally linked with MOH. There are about 18,000 traditional practitioners
with no link to the Ministry of Health.
3/   F. J. Bennett: Report on Urban Primary Health Care for the Ministry
of Health, Malawi, June 1989.



-8-
Proarams and Policies
2.12      Primary Health Care.  Malawi formally adopted a PHC approach in
1978. The program now consists of training district and health center
staff in PHC concepts and in community sensitization, and in the
establishment of Village Health Committees (VHCs) which are responsible for
initiating PHC activities at the community level. The VHCs work closely
with the HSAs. The program was first introduced in three districts and was
then expanded to a further six. The program was evaluated in October 1985
by the MOH, and it was co,icluded that the quality of supervision by the
health workers was good, that the participation of communities was very
encouraging, and that the general understanding and acceptance of the
concept of self reliance was developing well. The evaluation also
concluded that the intensive education approach adopted by Malawi provided
a solid base for nationwide expansion of the program. The PHC concept has
now been introduced in all the 24 districts.
2.13      Maternal and Child Health.  The objectives of the Maternal and
Child Health (MCH) program which was initiated in 1973 are to strengthen
and expand MCH services throughout the country, to strengthen the training
of health workers, to increase immunization coverage of all children, to
improve the nutritional status of children, and to decrease the incidence
of underweight children through growth monitoring, nutrition education and
food supplementation where necessary. In addition to the services provided
at the health facilities, use is also made of Traditional Birth Attendants
(TBAs) in service delivery. Despite an impressive beginning, however,
shortages of equipment and supplies, weaknesses in the cold chain, and
poorly trained staff resulted in only about 40 percent of children being
immunized by 1988. Since then an expansion of the immunization program has
been launched with major grant funding from the Italian Government through
UNICEF, and it is hoped that by the end of the program period about 90
percent of children will be covered.
2.14      Malaria.  To support and extend the work carried out at its
health facilities, the MOH has a major program to combat malaria. At
present, the Government strategy for malaria control has been based solely
on the use of anti-parasitic drugs, mostly because of the availability of
an inexpensive and effective drug, chloroquine. This strategy was modified
in 1984 with the discovery of the presence of a chloroquine-resistant
strain. In order to reduce the resistance, selective pressure on the
parasite, routine chloroquine prophylaxis in young children was
discontinued. Because pregnant women were considered particularly
susceptible to malaria infection, prophylaxis coverage of this group, and
other high-risk groups was continued. In addition, alternative drugs were
introduced to treat those cases not responsive to chloroquine.  The current
methods available to control malaria, although imperfect, would be
effective provided that they were properly selected and applied on a
persistent, or even continuous, basis.  However, the program at present is
severely constrained by a lack of sufficient equipment and vehicles.
2.15      AIDS.  The Government recognizes that the AIDS epidemic poses a
major health and socio-economic threat. In 1986 it established a technical
committee to study the situation and provide advice. As a result, a multi-



- 9 -
sectoral Information, Education and Communications (IEC) committee has been
established to assist in the preparation and dissemination of AIDS and
other related information. In 1987, the Malawi AIDS Control Program was
established within an initial framework of the Short-Term Plan financed
through the World Health Organization (WHO). Preparation then started on a
Medium-Term Program, and in June 1989 a resource mobilization meeting was
held to solicit funds for the program. A national AIDS secretariat has
been formed within the MOH to plan, coordinate and monitor all AIDS control
activities in the country. An AIDS Committee composed of politicians,
church and community leaders as well as public servants was appointed in
1989. The MOH is being assisted in this program by other agencies and the
PHAM in particular has also introduced a program to try to prevent the
spread of HIV infection and cases of AIDS.
2.16      Child Spacina.  Child Spacing (CS) activities in Malawi are an
integral part of the MCH program. The overall management of the program is
the responsibility of the Controller of Preventive Health Services, but the
Chief Public Health Nurse is responsible for its day-to-day implementation.
2.17      CS activities began in 1983, when they were provided at the
three big hospitals. Initially, they were only provided by doctors, but
the number of providers increased due to the training of more Enrolled
Nurse Midwives (ENMs) and Community Health Nurses (CHNs) in CS. Services
(including information, education, consultations, supplies and referral
where necessary) are now available at hospitals, at clinics and at the
community level. At the central and district hospitals, services are
available on all workdays, whereas at the health centers they are available
twice a week. There are now 168 CS units in health centers and district
hospitals, and 15 in PHAM facilities. By the end of 1988, about 27,630 new
clients were being served, compared to only 3,205 in a84. The range of
services offered include temporary, long-term and permanent methods, with
the pill being the most popular method. Forty percent of all new clients
use the pill, while the remaining 60 percent are distributed among Depo
Provera (15 percent), Intra Uterine Device (IUD) (10 percent), surgical
contraception (3 percent), and other barrier methods (32 percent).
2.18      No accurate estimate of the current contraceptive prevalence
rate is available, but rough indications from available data suggest that
the prevalence level for the country as a whole may be about 3 percent.
There is a growing demand for condoms, which is partly attributable ,   he
AIDS program.  Knowledge among women of modern methods of contracept;   -%
estimated in 1984 from the Family Formation Survey then to be about f.
percent, but it is probably slightly higher now. Furthermore, it is clear
that there is unmet demand for more CS services, as the 1988 Family
Formation Survey found that 70 percent of urban women and 60 percent of
rural women desired either to space or to stop child bearing.
2.19      In order to expand the CS program, commodities are to be
distributed at the community level by HSAs assisted by community leaders.
The Government is piloting the program in three villages in three
districts, and it is also mobilizing agriculture extension workers and
Community Development Assistants (CDAs) as motivators. Consideration is
now being given to using TBAs as service providers as well. The Government



- 10 -
has also decided to introduce population education into the schooling
system; and there has already been a trial run of social marketing of
contraceptives, with condoms and foam tablets being made available to
retail shops at a subsidized price.
2.20      To supplement the efforts of the MOH, as well as to coordinate
all CS activities in the country, the Government has recently established a
parastatal, the Family Welfare Council. The Council will be a major
channel for IEC activities. In addition, the Government intends to
encourage the formation of an NGO to promote the expansion of service
delivery.
2.21      Although the Government does not have an explicit population
policy, there are a nuriber of related measures that the Government has
recently taken. For example, there has been a concerted effort to us-e
various informational and educational programs to popularize CS, including
mobilization of civic, community and political leaders to disseminate the
benefits of smaller family size and safe motherhood. To date, about 1,000
opinion leaders in 17 districts have been sensitized, and articles on the
importance of CS appear regularly in the newspaper. A large number of
extension workers have also been trained to motivate and educate the
public, while over 400 niurses, abvut 250 support staff and 20 trainers have
been trained as service providers. Other important steps have been taken
and these provide indirect evidence of the Government's commitment to
addressing the population issue. These include: (a) the creation of a
Population Planning Unit at the Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC)
with responsibility for assessing the need for a population policy; (b)
coordination of population issues and integration of population in the
development process; (c) the establishment of a Demographic Unit at
Chancellor College; and (d) measures to improve the coordination of Women
In Development (WID) activities which can play a central role in motivating
women to space their children.
2.22      Women in Development. 4/ Reaching, organizing and improving
the lot of women have become integral to Malawi's development goals. The
Government has created a National Commission on Women and also a special
department, Chitukuko Cha Amayi M'Malawi (CCAM), within the Office of the
President and Cabinet to coordinate women's affairs. In addition, the
Ministries of Community Services (MOCS) and Agriculture (MOA) have active
women's programs. Recently, the MOA has shifted its emphasis from a home
economics bias (designed for farmers' wives) to recognizing women as
farmers and organizing women's groups to increrse their access to technical
information and credit. This shift in emphasis is needed in the MOCS,
particularly in the type of service provided by Community Development
Workers (CDWs) and Community Development Assistants (CDAs) who are trained
in Magomero. The MOLG also employs Home Craft Workers (HCWs), who conduct
weekly courses for rural women and who carry out educational activities at
MCH clinics.
4/   For further discussion of the WID activities see Malawi: Women in
Development Sector Report, Report No. 8612-MAI.



- 11 -
2.23      Nutrition.  Until recently, nutrition services in the rural
areas were provided only at health centers and hospitals. The services
provided at these facilities included growth monitoring, nutrition
education and some food provision under the World Food Program (WFP)
assisted vulnerable group feeding program for children experiencing growth
faltering. Nutrition rehabilitation centers have been established at 25
health centers, but attendance at these centers is spotty and follow- up
by their staff is impossible. In 1987 MOH began the training of Community
Health Volunteers (CHVs) as providers of nutrition services at the
community level. About 1,500 CHVs have been trained at Government and PHAM
facilities. The CHVs work with other community-level personnel, and are
responsible for growth monitoring, identification of children at risk,
provision of nutrition education, follow-up home visits, and in a few areas
the provision of WFP food to at-risk mothers and children. During their
training (a one-week session repeated at periodic intervals) these
volunteers are also taught about the simple treatment of diarrheal and
respiratory infections, and about the distribution of chloroquine.
2.24      It has increasingly become recognized by the Government that
malnutrition in Malawi should be seen as a problem of household food
insecurity: small and dwindling land holdings, food stocks depleted as much
as seven months before the next harvest, often negligible cash reserves,
and overworked mothers with neither the time nor the resources to provide
adequate child care and feeding. To augment the work of the MOH,
therefore, the Government and PHAM also established nutrition-related
programs in the MOA, the MOCS and the Department of Economic Planning and
Development (DEPD) of OPC. For example, pilot area-based integrated
programs geared to enhancing the food security of the lowest income
households have been introduced in Ntchisi, Mzimba, Nkhata Bay, and
Mangochi Districts. The central element of this approach is the provision
of a package of hybrid maize and soyabean seed, fertilizer and food to
dangerously food-insecure households (characterized by malnourished
children, small holdings and early depletion of food stocks) to permit
these families to (a) cultivate their own land; (b) increase agricultural
yields; and (c) become exposed to extension and credit systems. The
nutrition-related work of the different ministries is now being coordinated
by an Interministerial Food Security and Nutrition Advisory Committee.
2.25      At present the possibility of salt iodination is inhibited
primarily by the high cost of salt at the consumer level in rural areas.
The consumption of salt by low-income rural families is at present too low
to make salt a viable carrier of iodine. Salt in Malawi is imported mostly
from South Africa, repackaged and then distributed through numerous
intermediaries. At present, retail salt prices in rural areas are between
two and three times the import price.
Manpower and Training
2.26      There is a severe lack of health manpower in Malawi: the ratio
of 1 doctor for more than 60,000 population is the lowest anywhere in
Africa. In many respects, medical assistants and clinical officers
function as physician substitutes, but the ratio of 1 per 11,330 population
still makes them more th.nly distributed than doctors in most countries.



- 12 -
There is a ratio of 1 registered nurse per 129000 population, 1 enrolled
nurse per 4,000, 1 health inspector per 75,000, and 1 HSA per 25,000. Due
to these sow numbers and also low salary levels, spending on personnel
currently accounts for only approximately 30 percent of the annual
recurrent expenditures of the MOH in Malawi, as compared to figures of
between 50-80 percent in other countries in the region. In order to review
the manpower needs of the sector, in 1988 the Department of Personnel
Management and Training (DPMT) set up an interministerial co=nittee to
examine all the staff positions in MOH and to prepare a report on total
manpower requirements for the sector. The resulting Complement and Grading
Review Report, which recommends the creation of 2,925 new professional
posts to cover the immediate needs, has now been accepted by the
Government.
2.27      Responsibility for manpower planning, training and deployment is
divided among: (a) the MOH Planning Division, which ia responsible for
projecting manpower requirements; (b) the Clinical, Nursing and Preventive
Health Services Divisions, which liaise with the relevant professional
councils and training institutions with respect to basic (pre-service)
training for their respective cadres of staff, and with hospital
superintendents and DHOs to identify in-service training needs; (c) the
Training Division, which is responsible for administrative arrangements
for training; and (d) the Personnel Division, which is responsible for
administering the placement, conditions of service and deployment of staff.
In addition, responsibility for coordinating the intakes of higher level
staff lies with the DPMT and the Public Service Commission, while the
Appointments and Disciplinary Committee of the MOH has responsibility for
the lower cadres.
2.28      The basic health training courses offered in Malawi, together
with the official student capacities, are listed in Annex Tll. Malawi does
not have a medical school, but implementation has started on a project for
final year clinical training of medical students to be done within the
country. Recent MOH projections of health manpower requirements (Annex T9)
indicate that an additional 8,500 staff would be required by 1995 to staff
existing developments and improve staffing standards to those recommended
by the Complement and Grading Review. However, at current rates of
training intake and student drop-out, only 54 percent of total staff
requirements could be achieved by 1995, with the achievement dropping to 43
percent by the year 2000 (Annex T10 and Tll).
Support Systems
2.29      Pharmaceuticals for the health sector are supplied by the
Central Medical Stores (CMS), which in 1984 was made a self-financing and
self-accounting body. In 1989-90, its annual turnover was around MK18.0
million. Pricing of drugs is currently fixed at their CIF value plus 12.5
percent to cover all operating costs. The CMS is responsible for the
procurement, inventory control, store keeping, repackaging and distribution
of pharmaceuticals, and for the manufacture of simple products. The MOH
has been attempting to address the problems of pharmaceutical ordering,
supply and distribution for several years, but the implementation of the
improvements has run into major difficulties due to (a) structural



- 13 -
difficulties in the design of the new CMS; (b) lack of trained manpower;
and.(c) lack of proper procedures for stock control, storage of goods,
processing of requests, assembling and distribution of goods. Also,
although the CMS is expected to be self-financing, it is chronically short
of cash because its major client, the Government, has not been able to
reimburse it for the drugs provided to the MOH.
2.30      Contraceptive commodities for use in the CS program are obtained
from donor agencies, mainly the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities
(UNFPA). Quantities needed are determined and ordered by MOH in Lilongwe
only on the basis of past shipments, with the quantities shipped over the
past nine months being doubled to give the total for the following nine
months. The commodity distribution system is operated from the CMS, which
also handles customs clearance and storage of the ordered commodities.
District hospitals make requisitions to the CMS, which distributes the
commodities to them, and the district hospitals then redistribute supplies
to lower-level health facilities.
2.31      Information. Education and Communication (IEC).  The key unit in
the MOH responsible for IEC and materials production is the Health
Education Unit (HEU). It is severely under-staffed and under-equipped, and
is unable to coordinate a cohesive health education and promotion program.
However, the unit is presently being strengthened through the Promoting
Health Interventions for Child Survival (PHICS) project, which was recently
signed with USAID. Under this project there will be support for 31
additional professional staff over a period of 8 years and improvements in
physical facilities and equipment. At the district level, IEC work will be
coordinated by the district health education officers.
2.32      In Malawi, mass media channels are limited: although the radio's
coverage is about 80 percent of the land mass, it reaches only 20 percent
of the population. Health programs are broadcast two hours a week, but the
programs are not timed to reach the maximum audience. Although there is no
television in Malawi, the Departments of Agricultural Extension Services,
Forestry and Information have film projectors in each district. The major
constraint to production of audio visual and for visual materials appears
to be the high cost.
Management of PHN Services
2.33      The Principal Secretary, as the senior manager In the MOH, is
responsible for both its technical and administrative 'branches (see Chart
1). The Chief of Health Services (CHS) has overall responsibility for the
technical services. On the administrative side, the Deputy Secretary is
responsible for the administrative units such as finance, personnel,
administration and internal audit. Below the MOH headquarters, the health
care delivery system has three levels: regional, district and peripheral.
Each of the three regions has a Regional Health Team (RHT) comprised of a
Regional Health Officer (RHO), Regional Public Health Inspector (RPHI) and
a Regional Maternal and Child Health (RMCH) Coordinator and a Regional
Nursing Officer (RNO), each reporting directly to the RHO. The District
Health Officer (DHO) is responsible for all the health services in the



- 14 -
district. Peripheral health services are the responsibility of medical
assistants in charge of health centers, and together with health assistants
and in some districts, Community Health Nurses (CHN), they are responsible
for village level health activities.
2.34      A comprehensive study of the MOH organizational and management
structure was undertaken in 1984. Following this, a major review of the
MOH was also undertaken as part of the Civil Service Review, and its report
highlighted some of the major managerial problems facing the Ministry:
unclear reporting rel&tionships and authority lines; undefined individual
roles and lack of job descriptions; too many layers of authority; over-
centralized decision making process; inadequate management support system;
and lack of control over expenditures. As a result, the new structure was
put in place in 1987. Chart 2 shows the managerial relationships outside
the headquarters, and Chart 3 gives the structure at the district level.
Financing and Resource Allocation
2.35      Malawi is a poor country and, historically, the Government has
only been able to allocate a very small budget in absolute terms to the
MOH. However, the proportion of the budget allocated to the MOH was also
relatively low for many years, even by the standards of the African Region.
From 1970/71-1974/75 the proportion of the total budget going to the health
sector averaged 5.0 percent, and from 1975/76-1979/80 it remained at a
similar average 51. More recently the situation has begun to improve.
In the first half of the 1980s, the proportion rose slightly to 5.6
percent, and in the period 1985/86-1988/89 it rose further to an average of
6.9 percent.
2.36      The estimates for 1990/91 show a recurrent provision for the MOH
of MK66.8 million. This is equivalent to 6.3 percent of the total of
MK1,056 million including all statutory expenditures, or 7.1 percent of the
total of MK945 million if debt service provision is excluded.  This amount
is inadequate even to cover the full operating costs of existing services,
let alone to pay for the recurrent costs of new projects. In 1989/90, for
example, actual recurrent expenditures of the MOH were MK72.9 million,
compared to an original vote of only MK57.3 million.  Covering the
incremental recurrent costs of investment activities already underway would
require an addition of about MK13 million.
2.37      On the development side, the budget has historically been
dominated by external support; and with funding thus heavily influenced by
the timing of project approvals and the details of project design, the
historical trend has been erratic. Under the development program for
5/   The precise figures depend on whether estimates or actual
expenditures are used; on whether the recurrent and development
budgets are combined or analyzed individually; on the particular sub-
periods chosen; and particularly on whether the total expenditure
figure is defined to include debt service charges, etc. In this
case, it is assumed that all statutory expenditures are included.



- 15 -
1990/91, it will receive MK42.4 million, which is 11.6 percent of the total
Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) of MK365 million.
2.38      Malawi has consistently devoted a large proportion of its health
expenditures to the provision of curative care. In recent years, a major
effort has been made to construct more lower-level health facilities, but
resources have been inadequate to enable all the needs to be met.
Recurrent expenditures also reflect the emphasis on curative care, with an
average of 82 percent of MOH recurrent expenditures between 1983/84 and
1986/87 devoted to curative care, 12 percent to administration and
training, and only 6 percent to preventive care. In particular, a large
proportion of the MOH budget has been spent on the central and general
hospitals. In 1989, 75 percent of all service delivery staff (in
established posts) were hospital-based; 50 percent were deployed at the
referral and special hospitals, and 25 percent at the district hospitals.
2.39      The MOH has a history of cost overruns of budget estimates.
While this problem has been considerably reduced at the aggregate level,
there is still a serious lack of financial control in many facilities.
Detailed work has been carried out by the MOH to identify ways in which
expenditures could be reduced without reducing the quality of services
provided, and each of the studies done has concluded that substantial
savings could be made. It is believed that these could amount to
approximately MK4-5 million annually.
2.40      All public health services, except in the paying wards of the
central hospitals, are provided free. The revenue from private patient
fees amounts to about MRO.75 million, or roughly 1 percent of the MOH
budget. Private patients in MOH facilities do pay fees, but they are
subsidized to the extent that their fees do not fully cover the cost of
services provided to them.
B. Issues and Constraints
Coverage of Basic Services
2.41      Malawi cannot lessen its high disease burden without expanding
the coverage of its basic health services. Community health workers are
the key to effective implementation of PHC and much greater attention,
therefore, needs to be paid to the development and extension of programs
emphasizing the use of village-based workers, and especially the HSAs.  It
is the intention of the Government to greatly expand the numbers of HSAs
over the next few years (paras 3.12, 4.06). For this program to be
effective, the new role of the HSA as a multi-purpose health worker (para
3.12) needs to be clearly defined and endorsed, and monthly and annual work
programs prepared. It will also be critical for the role of the HSAs to be
clarified vis-a-vis other community-level workers such as CHVs, CDAs and
CDWs, and HCWs. CHVs are presently involved primarily in nutrition-related
activities, and their work clearly complements that of the HSAs (para
3.19). Under the responsibility of the MOCS, the role of the CDAs and CDWs
is to be reoriented more towards the needs of rural women. Similarly, the
HCWs employed by the MOLG could play a larger role in health and CS



- 16 -
activities. Consideration is also being given to ways in which more use
could be made of TBAs.
2.42      For these outreach workers to be effective, it will be necessary
for them to be supported through a wider network of fixed health facilities
in presently underserved areas, and through better logistical and
supervisory support, Additional housing will also be needed in some areas.
The quality of services now provided by local authorities will need to be
improved (para 4.06). At present, these services are of variable quality,
but they are mainly substandard due to lack of trained staff, poor
maintenance, medical supplies and equipment, and the absence of systematic
and regular technical supervision. The MOH and MCLG have already been
discussing ways of improving the situation, and a joint MOH/MOLG committee
has made major recommendations on improvements through management changes
(see par". 3.24 et seq).
Proaram Strenathenina
2.43      Primary Health Care.  The country's disease pattern has to be
addressed through a multi-sectoral approach rather than the health sector
working in isolation. Malawi has therefore chosen PHC as the strategy to
enable it to achieve an improved health status for its people. Although
the PHC program is proceeding well, there are several problems that have
been identified: scarce transport, lack of adequate supervision of
peripheral and community-based staff due to the pressure of work facing the
existing higher-level health personnel, and need for continued PHC
education efforts. Because of lack of transport, VHCs and area teams are
not adequately supervised from the district level (paras 3.12, 4.06). In
addition to improving the mobility of the dis*rict teams, there is also
need to increase the mobility of area and village workers and to intensify
education programs to facilitate further implementation of PHC activities.
2.44      Maternal and Child Health.   Despite the ongoing expansion of
the MCH program with Italian Government ard4 UNICEF support, MCH services
are still constrained by lack of transport, drugs and IEC materials.
Mothers with young babies under two use the services less than mothers with
older children, partly because many people still live a long way from
clinics. Also, despite a high rate of antenatal attendance, use of the
facilities for postnatal care is extremely low. In viaw of the weaknesses
of the program, the poor nutritional status of much of the population, and
continuing high fertility levels and largely unregulated pregnancies (which
often result in short birth intervals and the early weaning of children),
it is understandable that infant and child mortality rates have remained
inordinately high (paras 2.47 et seq and 3.14, 4.08).
2.45      Malaria.  In view of the massive health problems caused by
malaria and the constraints presently facing the existing control program,
the MOH wants to give high priority to strengthening the program. In the
short term, this will require additional vehicles and equipment. For the
longer term, however, there is need for more planning of ways to bring the
disease under control within the available financial and human resources of
the country. Given the continued evolution by the paras%te to develop
higher degrees of chloroquine resistance, the MOH has to consider the use



- 17 -
of additional methods, including anti-vector measures, as supplements to
the current antiparasitic strategy (paras 3.15, 4.07). However, anti-
vector methods at present cannot be used cost effectively, because baseline
data on mosquito ecology, bionomics and behavior are not available.
2.46      AIDS.  After a slow start, the AIDS program has become
increasingly successful in promoting health education about AIDS. However,
funding for the program has been inconsistent and inadequate. This has
partly been due to an earlier lack of agreement between the Government and
the donors about proposed supplementation of national staff salaries and
standardization of rates of allowances. There is also need for the medium-
term plan to be extended into specific action programs to be carried out by
the district and regional health teams, which should be involved in the
planning process. Also, the AIDS program needs to be integrated with the
activities of the other relevant MOH departments, particularly including
the CMS and the various sections of the Department of Preventive Services.
In addition, linkages should be established between the program and other
relevant Government departments and NGOs (paras 3.16, 4.07).
2.47      Child SDacinf.  In view of the evidence that a high proportion
of women want to space their children, the challenge for the CS program is
to extend the provision of services and to broaden the knowledge of people
about them. There are still facilities where CS services are not provided,
and in many others services are not fully integrated with the other PHC
services. If services were fully integrated and offered daily, and if they
were made available at all existing health centers, whether operated by the
MOH, PHAM or MOLG, then substantially more clients could be served.
2.43      For the expansion of CS services within health facilities to
take place, however, it will be necessary for several constraints to be
overcome. Concerning training, constraints include the following: (a) in
the past there was a reluctance on the part of the School of Nursing to
integrate CS training fully into the pre-service training of registered
nurses (RNs), but the situation is changing; (b) the very low intake levels
of enrolled nurse midwives for both pre-service and in-service CS training;
(c) the general reluctance of Catholic missions to offer modttrn CS methods
in their health facilities or to provide comprehensive CS training in their
training centers; (d) the inadequate number of training personnel, due to
lack of an established overall MOH strategy for training or an attractive
career structure for trainers; (e) the inadequacies in the design of
training courses, which are generally too lengthy and seldom differentiated
according to cadre of staff being trained; and (f) the lack of a built-in
mechanism for supervision, guidance and follow-up of trainees after
completion of their training courses.
2.49      Improvements are also needed to the CS logistics system, which
has functioned poorly for several reasons. MIich of the record keeping in
the CS program is inadequate, making it difficult to monitor and forecast
demand for commodities. The MOH and the CMS have not coordinated well, and
adaptations have not been made sufficiently to changes in patterns of
demand or program priorities. As a result, although also partly because
demand in the early years of the CS program grew far faster than
envisioned, donor supplies of contraceptives have been erratic. Periodic



- 18 -
shortages of commodities at all levels have plagued the program throughout
its history and severely affected its effectiveness and impact. The MOH is
aware of these logistical weaknesses and is trying to get a contraceptive
logistics monitoring system in place.
2.50      Women in Development.   The MOCS already has an extensive
institutional extension network available for the promotion of WID
activities and is capable of having a substantial impact on rural women's
lives. However, the focus of the present MOCS program is still largely on
home economics, since most of the staff are primarily trained in this
subject. Initiating new activities to emphasize income-generating skills
will require a different skill mix among the staff of the 7'nistry. The
MOCS is aware of the need for staff who are able to organize women's groups
for activities other than home economics and advise on credit facilities,
and has already requested assistance from the Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) of The United Kingdom (UK) for senior staff training
in new skills (paras 3.18 and 4.09).
2.51      However, there is a complementary need to reorient the role of
Magomero Community Development College, which is the principal institution
for the local training and retraining of CDAs and HCWs. Magomero lacks
proper orientation of its curriculum and professional staff, and it has
highly inadequate facilities. Many of the existing extension staff were
not trained appropriately to address the current needs of women in Malawi,
and they cannot be expected to change the attitudes and ideas of women
without retraining. Unless major changes are made at Magomero, the planned
changes in the orientation of the extension staff will not come about. For
the MOCS to implement its new policies, steps will also need to be taken to
obtain additional administrative support, expertise and resources to carry
out its plans. In particular, resources will be needed to promote new WID
activities on a pilot basis at the local level (para 3.18 and 4.09).
2.52      Nutrition.  The early results of the ongoing CHV program have
been encouraging, and the Government is planning to expand it. This will
require further development of the CHV identification and training program,
and specific guidelines need to be developed for educational and home
visits, for follow-up of children experiencing growth faltering, for
responses to associated diseases (malaria, diarrhoea and respiratory
infection), and on the relationship of the volunteers and the HSAs. More
extensively trained HSAs are necessary to support CHVs and provide linkage
to the health system. This chain of responsibility and support is sound,
but it must be articulated more explicitly.
2.53      While child feeding and related practices often can be improved,
little progress can be expected in reducing malnutrition and associated
diseases through educational efforts unless food insecurity at the
household level is also reduced. The Government has therefore recognized
that its efforts to promote nutrition and growth monitoring through the use
of CHVs need to be supplemented with other measures to address household
food insecurity (paras 3.19 and 4.10). These include activities to
increase the incomes of poor rural women and the introduction of
appropriate labor-saving technology.



- 19 -
2.54      While iodized oil capsules presently are being distributed in
the highest risk areas, the only viable long-term solution to iodine
deficiency disorders is salt iodination. The Government needs to undertake
a systematic study of the salt distribution system to examine the extent of
competition, the ease of entry and the cost breakdown at each stage, in
order to identify ways of lowering costs to rural families and enabling
salt iodization to be a practical strategy (para 3.20).
Health Manpower
2.55      Increases in training capacity are urgently required to improve
the supply of health manpower, particularly at the community and first line
referral levels. There is clearly an urgent need to increase training
outputs, particularly for the medical assistant and ENM cadres who form the
backbone of the peripheral health services (para 3.21). These increases in
outputs will require not only additions to existing training structures,
but also improvements in the utilization of their capacity.
2.56      Unfortunately, the existing structures and procedures do not
include adequate mechanisms for ensuring the coordination of manpower
planning with overall service plans, or with decision-making on training
and staff deployment/utilization. Targets for health manpower supply are
not clearly linked to health needs or based on forecasts of available
financial resources, and insufficient preparation is made for the deploy-
ment of graduates following training. Requests for increases in the number
of authorized posts for the MOH are not coordinated between the different
divisions nor sufficiently related to planning priorities. Coordination of
basic and in-service training is weak, and there is a lack of information
on the numbers, skills and distribution of existing staff to guide manpower
decision-making. In addition to expanding its output of manpower,
therefore, the MOH needs to improve its capacity for the development,
periodic review, and updating of long-term projections of manpower
requirements (paras 3.24, 4.12).
2.57      Given the prevailing financial constraints, the recurrent cost
implications of incremental training outputs will require careful
prioritization in the deployment of the additional staff. Based on current
projections of the recurrent health budget, improvements to the staffing
standards of primary health services will only be achieved to the extent
that expansions to hospital services are carefully controlled.
Weaknesses in Support Systems
2.58      Pharmaceuticals.   Although the program to upgrade its operating
procedures has been underway in recent years and the CMS has been able to
realize some considerable savings by bulk purchasing, additional savings
could be achieved by improved efficiency through efforts to address the
structural problems of the CMS, the lack of adequate manpower, still
inappropriate procedures, and the need for standard treatment guidelines.
There is also an urgent need for the Government to address the financial
problems facing the CMS, including the cash flow constraints caused by late
payments by the Government itself. To deal with these issues, the
Government has recently prepared a national pharmaceutical program for the



- 20 -
period up to 1995 (paras 3.22 and 4.14). Some steps are already being
taken to implement it. For example, to ensure an adequate supply of
essential drugs, the Government is undertaking a drug utilization study
which will be completed in 1991. In order to improve drug utilizat4on, the
Government is preparing draft treatment guidelines and a training program
to ensure that the guidelines are used. The CMS is also developing a
computerized standard stock, inventory cmntrol and procurement system in
order to improve efficiency and is recruiting and training additional
staff.
2.59      Information, Education and Communications.  The Government has
recognized and emphasized the important role which IEC should play in
bringing about a transformation of Malawi's health profile. The PHC
approach pursued in Malawi, with emphasis on building local support and
initiatives through VHCs, has created a supportive environment and base for
IEC. At present, however, health education efforts are severely
constrained by lack of health manpower at the periphery, by the weak
structure and staffing of the HEU, and by limited mass media channels.
2.60      The lack of manpower at the peripheral units and an insufficient
number of community health workers clearly undermine the health workers'
ability to establish personal rapport, which is essential for influencing
behavioral change or adoption of desired practices. Also, the lack of
female HSAs particularly limits interaction with women in the community.
At the central level, the HEU presently lacks a clear conceptual vision and
overall framework for a health education effort which reflects planned
priorities, strategies, themes, target groups, selected media mix, channels
and projected material needs. In the absence of the ability to plan in
advance and provide strong coordination, IEC initiatives are being
undertaken by compartmentalized programs that treat the HEU only as a
materials production supplier. Finally, while mass media have an important
role to play in building an enabling environment and in creative awareness,
there is lack of exposure of messages to the people. The major constraint
to production of audio-visual and other materials appears to be the high
cost, and the HEU needs additional resources in order to extend its mass
media work (paras 3.23, 4.13).
Mana2ement and Decentralization
2.61      The Civil Service Review Report and the Complement and Grading
Review Report argued for some fundamental changes in management in the MOH,
and in particular for improved communication and coordination within the
ministry, clarification of functional responsibilities between
administrative and technical departments, and between the different
technical areas, and strengthening of management functions such as
planning, personnel and training, and accounting. In particular, personnel
management in the MOH is currently overly centralized and poorly staffed.
Because of the persisting managerial problems in the MOH, and especially in
view of the overlap of responsibilities between the administrative and
technical wings, the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM) has been
commissioned to organize training programs in management intended to
improve communication and team spirit at all levels of MOH.



- 21 -
2.62      The management problems of the NOH are particularly felt at the
district level, where there is a lack of coordination between the various
health activities and programs: PHC, preventive health, curative services
and IEC . Although these programs are all directed to the same set of
people and even though the underlying principles of the PHC approach imply
an integration of all such programs, peripheral workers are given separate
training on health, child-spacing, diarrhoea and malaria control, etc. The
Civil Service Review Report and the Complements and Grading Report
recommended some fundamental changes, including decentralization of
administrative and financial authority for health services to the regions
and districts, and strengthening of the district health teams (Annex A
Attachment A and Annex B).
2.63      Besides the managerial problems of the MOH, severe difficulties
are also caused by the fragmentation of health services at the district
level and the associated problem of insufficient coordination between the
facilities operated by the MOH and the local authorities. Their respective
health services are not well coordinated or integrated, with many instances
of duplication of service. The difficulties are compounded by the
different financing arrangements. In contrast to the MOH, local government
facilities depend on fees to meet their recurrent expenses, as the general
purpose grant received from the MOLG is inadequate. However, the fees
collected are insufficient to meet the cost of providing an acceptable,
high level of service, and anyway the revenue from fees goes into the
general p.ol and is not directly used for health services. The differing
fee systems between the MOH and the local authorities also create a
distortion in health service utilization patterns. Furthermore, the local
authorities do not have the technical and professional expertise and
capacity to operate health services independently, and the supervisory
capacity of the MOH is not formally available to them as the MOH regional
and district health te-ms view the local authority units as parallel
systems for which they are not responsible (Annex A Attachment A and Annex
B for specific policies to deal with this).
2.64      Management difficulties have also arisen due to poor
coordination between the MOH and the PHAM. Plans have, however, been
formulated to enable MOH to: (a) establish peripheral health staff
positions in PHAM facilities; (b) utilize the training capacity of PHAM for
its training needs; (c) integrate district level supervision and in-service
training for PHAM and MOH programs; (d) adopt standardized preventive and
curative interventions at PHAM and MOH health facilities; and (e)
standardize job descriptions and training for health staff (para 2.63 and
Annex A and B for specific actions).
Resource Mobilization and Efficiency
2.65      There is now clearly an urgent need to redress the past rather
low priority given to the development of population, health and nutrition
activities (and particularly inadequate health manpower development). The
Government has indicated its strong commitment to the sector, and the
existing allocation to the health budget will be increased slightly. This
will be particularly important for the MOH recurren; budget. At the same
time, however, with economic growth projected to be not more than



- 22 -
marginally above population growth, and with the Government committed to
containing the overall size of public expenditures, the budget of the MOH
will continue to be highly constrained.
2.66      There is evidence of significant inefficiency in the use of
resources in the health sector in Malawi, and it will be critically
important for the Government to ensure that best possible use is made of
all existing resources. First, there is an inappropriate allocation of
resources towards hospitals. The bulk of the ministry's budget is still
inappropriately taken up in curative care, and especially on the three
major hospitals in Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba. The health system now
faces a vicious circle of inappropriate resource allocation leading to
inappropriate demand patterns (with huge numbers of patients seeking care
at unnecessarily high levels of the system) and to operational inefficiency
due to the resulting congestion of high-level facilities and overwork of
high-level staff. But efforts to reduce the proportion of the budget going
to the hospitals need to be accompanied by policy changes and investments
to improve the community and peripheral health services, and to encourage
patients to seek care at appropriate levels. Government need to consider
introduction of user charges, particularly for drugs as well as fees for
services (para 3.27).
2.67      In contrast, at present it is calculated that approximately 33.6
percent of the total MOH recurrent budget is spent on district health
services. From analyses of spending in selected districts, it has been
calculated that about 20.2 percent of the total budget is being used by the
district hospitals and about 13.5 percent by the outreach and peripheral
services. In order to improve the quality and coverage of health services
in the rural areas, the proportion of the overa'll budget allocated to
outreach and peripheral services in particular will need to increase.
2.68      Operational inefficiency, however, also arises from other
factors. The relatively low level of spending on personnel due to
insufficient numbers of trained staff has clearly led to significant
inefficiency, and this needs to be corrected urgently through the manpower
development program. There is the issue of waste and unauthorized
expenditures. The MOH has already begun to implement some measures to
reduce costs (for example, at the CMS), but much more remains to be done
part'Lrlarly in the major hospitals.  This will require some developmental
expenditure and an upgrading of the accounting skills of financial staff.
Finally, due to the differing fees charged by PHAM hospitals and local
authorities, patients seeking health care often do not go to the nearest
facility. Referral patterns are also distorted since an MOH facility may
be reluctant to send a patient to another facility where he/she would face
a charge.
2.69      The MOH needs to be very selective in deciding upon new items of
expenditure, as there are already many competing pressures for additional
resources. About MK14 million would be needed to bring staffing levels up
to the levels recommended in the Complement and Grading Review Report, even
without allowing for the additional workload caused by population growth at
existing health facilities. In addition, the incremental recurrent costs
arising from investments now being implemented are estimated to amount to



- 23 -
about MK13 million, of which the planned new medical school would account
for half. In terms of new items of expenditure, priority should be given
to programs aimed at the country's largest disease problems.
C. Bank Group Experience and Lessons Learned
2.70      The International Development Association (IDA) has been
involved in the health sector in Malawi since 1971, when a health component
was included in the Karonga Rural Development Project. All the
agricultural projects since then have included health components with a
total investment of about US$4.5 million. Inputs have ranged from
enlarging and modernizing the Karonga Hospitals, to bilharzia control
programs and the development of sub-centers and health posts. A Health
Sector Review was undertaken by IDA in 1980, and Population Sector Reviews
in 1984 and in July 1989. In 1988 the Bank also undertook a Human Resource
Study, which takes a longer-term perspective of sectoral issues.
2.71      Bank lending in the population, health arnd nutrition sector has
focused on support for PHC and on improving the management and delivery of
health services. The First Family Health Project (Credit 1351 MAI, signed
May 20, 1983) provided SDR 6.3 million for a comprehensive national health
plan; an improved planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity; improved
system of financial accounting and health service statistics; an
epidemiological survey capacity; an efficient, cost-effective system of
pharmaceutical procurement and distribution; the first phase of the
national PHC program; and introduction of CS activities. The project
closed on 9 December 31, 1988. The ongoing Second Family Health Project
(Credit 1767 MAI signed May 7, 1987) provides SDR 8.7 million equivalent in
support of the Ten Year National Health Plan (1985-1996). The objectives
of the project are to: (a) improve the health status of families through
expansion and strengthening of PHC programs; (b) increase the availability
and accessibility of CS services within the MCH program; (c) strengthen the
MOH capacity to plan, manage and evaluate health services in the framework
of a decentralized system; and (d) design and implement a multi-sectoral
family health program through other Government agencies. Implementation of
the project is proceeding very well and the project is expected to close by
its original closing date.
2.72      Evaluation of the completed project indicates that, with minor
exceptions, the project objectives were met. It also identified major
weaknesses in the Government's accounting procedures. Lessons learned from
this project included the need for a competent project coordinator to be
appointed as soon as the project became effective; the need for Bank
supervision missions to visit all the project facilities and/or activities
once a year; and the need for the supervision team to include all the
relevant specialties. The project completion report also made a strong
case for a more realistic implementation period. The present project has
addressed the issues raised in the completion report.
D. Role of Other Agencies and Organizations
2.73      A number of multilateral and bilateral donors have been involved
In the health sector in Halawi. The African Development Bank (AfDB)



- 24 -
through its First Rural Health Project has provided funds for
extension/replacement of health centers and a district hospital, and for
ambulances and staff housing. USAID has been involved in funding
improvements to rural water supply systems for the control of communicable
diseases, for epidemiological studies and for manpower development, and
through its PHICS project is now funding the training of HSAs and their
deployment in seven districts. In addition, the PHICS project focuses
support on building up HEU capacity at the headquarters by strengthening
management skills, staffing levels, training, production resources,
delivery systems and evaluation capability. The ODA has funded fellowships
for medical students and has provided supplementary salaries for British
doctors working in Malawi. The Dutch, Egyptian and other governments are
supporting the MOH through technical assistance. The Dutch Government has
also supported the development of the Central Medical Stores. The European
Community (EC) has funded the replacement of Karonga District Hospital, the
building of Mulanje Hospital and construction of health centers in the
Mulanje district. In addition, the EC has provided funds for IEC
activities in relation to AIDS. The West Germany aid agency, Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), has funded the construction of Machinga Hospital
and is also funding the rehabilitation of 14 health centers. It is also
providing commodity aid to cover the cost of drugs, and it may support the
rehabilitation of Zomba Hospital. The United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) is supporting the strengthening of the Community Health Department
of the medical school. WHO is at present supporting the PHC program
through provision of clean water, drugs, in-service training and technical
assistance. UNICEF is assisting in the training of TBAs, in the diarrhoeal
disease control, in related IEC activities, and in the training of
community-level health personnel. It is also supporting the MCH program,
with funding from the Italian Government. The Japanese International
Cooperation Agency's (JICA) assistance is in the form of experts, vehicles,
equipment and drugs. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
has supported rural health by providing funds for bore holes for health
centers. UNFPA has funded a long-term technical advisor at the HEU, a
variety of materials production and training activities related to CS, and
training of TBAs. UNFPA is planning to develop a follow-up project which
will focus primarily on providing support to HEU staff. UNFPA has also
supported family life education for the Malawi Young Pioneers and is
working with the Department of Information to introduce family life
education into its activities. UNFPA also supports CS activities and
health education in schools. A number of external voluntary agencies are
also involved in health care delivery and training through assistance to
PHAM hospitals and training centers. This project complements and
reinforces the activities of other donors in the sector. The Bank's
resident representative in Malawi is the co-chairman of the donors'
subcommittee on health.



- 25 -
III.  GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY
3.01      To work towards its objectives for PHN as outlined in Chapter I
and to address the issues outlined in Chapter II, the Government has
adopted a strategy for the 1990's that involves two crucial initiatives: a
reform program to improve policies, programs and services in PHN; and a
revised public expenditure plan to guide the allocation and use of
resources in the PHN sectors. These two initiatives are introduced briefly
in sections A and B below; further details, by program area, are then
discussed in section C.
A. The Reform Program
The main priorities of the reform program are:
-    strengthening of basic services, especially in PHC, MCH,
malaria, AIDS, child spacing, WID and nutrition;
-    upgrading of support services, especially in manpower
development, IEC and pharmaceuticals supply;
-    improvement of efficiency in PHN facilities and programs, with
particular attention to reducing costs at hospitals, shifting
more patient care from hospitals to less costly "filter
clinics", and strengthening capacity building of PHN institution
and staff.
-    improvement of policies determining how PHN services are
financed, with particular attention to patient fees (and cost-
sharing, more generally) and the PHN sectors' share of total
Government expenditure.
-    strengthening, as part of all the above, the decentralization of
responsibilities in PHN service delivery, and role of local
groups and communities, non-governmental authorities below the
central level.
3.02      The reform program was developed through an iterative
consultation process, taking into account (a) the objectives set out in the
National Health Plan; (b) the Government's stated intention to increase the
priority to be given to the sector within the anticipated continuing
overall resource limitations; (c) i:plementation constraints; (d) ongoing
activities including projects already funded by other donors; and (e) the
feasibility of policy change and the need to ensure full consensus over
sensitive issues. The specific actions to be undertaken are summarized in
the Government's Letter of Health Development Policy, which has attached to
it a Policy Action Program in the form of a matrix of specific objectives
and measures (Annex A and para 6.01). The reform program constitutes a
comprehensive attempt by the Government to address the main issues facing
the PHN sector, and has been thoroughly discussed within MOH and with other
parts of the Government in order to ensure that there is strong commitment



- 26 -
to all elements of the program. The Government is setting up a monitoring
and evaluation committee to ensure that the reforms are implemented and
adhered to. As shown in Annex A, the Government has already begun to
implement some of the most significant measures, such as the establishment
of the Manpower Development Unit and the increases in private patient fees.
3.03      The program when fully implemented would improve the quality and
coverage of peripheral and community services through the deployment of
more trained staff, and through improvements in logistical and supervisory
support; improve equity through wider access to health facilities and
through the expansion of community-based population, health and nutrition
services; increase the effectiveness and efficiency of resource use by
ensuring that peripheral services receive a larger proportion of budgetary
funds and by efficiency improvements in the major hospitals; improve the
administration and management of the health care services by rationalizing
and decentralizing their management and administration at the periphery,
and by improving personnel and training management; improve the workings of
the CMS; and strengthen education and motivation efforts through the
adoption of an integrated and coordinated plan for IEC programs.
B. The Revised Public Expenditure Plan
3.05      The revised public expenditure plan covers both the development
(i.e., investment) and the recurrent ("revenue') budgets of the MOH for the
period up to 1995/96. These budgets are interdependent, with the recurrent
budget having to allow for the incremental costs of ongoing development
projects, and with the components and phasing of the new development
program being determined by the likely availability of recurrent funds.
The incremental recurrent costs of the additional community-based staff to
be trained are included in the development plan. The revised expenditure
plan and the associated policy reform plan are intertwined, with each
depending for its success on the other.
3.06      The design of the expenditure plan has been based on the need to
reorient substantially the MOH budget, and especially the proportion of it
allocated to the central hospitals. The revised plan will give priority to
increased spending on the periphery and to steps to induce greater
efficiency. This will be done through measures to: (a) build up peripheral
and outreach services and programs, especially through the accelerated
program of manpower development; (b) build more filter facilities to enable
patients to seek care at lower-cost delivery points; (c) increase budgetary
provision for priority services, and strengthen management and accounting
systems to ensure that such budgets are actually used for these purposes;
(d) begin to use the pricing system to affect patient demand patterns; and
(e) improve the efficiency of the central hospitals. Specifically,
priority in the allocation of new resources will be given to the salary and
operating costs of additional outreach and peripheral workers. In the
health development program, particular emphasis will be placed on such
activities as PHC and the MCH programs, malaria control, AIDS prevention
and control, the CS program, nutrition, WID activities, health education
and information, training activities, the provision of transport at the
community level, and improved communications between the district level and



- 27 -
the periphery. Regarding new construct4.on, prioraty will be given to the
expansion, rehabilitation and consolidation of selected low-level rural and
urban facilities.
3.07       Development Expenditures for 1991192-1995196.  The investment
portion of the revised expenditure plan Is summar:zed in Table 3.1, and the
details are shown in Annex T12A. While the investment plan reflects the
Government's stated policy to give increased priority to the sector, there
still had to be considerable selectivity in the choice of new projects and
programs to be included and careful phasing particularly of large projects
with significant recurrent cost implications.   The first few years of the
revised investment plan are dominated by continuation of activities already
underway, since development projects usually take several years Zo
implement. Although the program is based on the period 1991/92-1995/96,
allowance has also been made for some initial expenditures to take place in
the present fiscal year, 1990191.
TABLE 8.1: Investment ProDrm 5Su  ry)
(MK mlIlon)In constant prIcoo
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__-----------
1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96    Total
1. Onnolna ProJ-ct S/
Donor Fundod       40.1      87.3      22.7    12.4       0.7      118.8
Gov't Funded         6.0      5.9       4.9       4.6      0.2       20.8
Sub-total           46.1     48.2      27.6      17.2      0.9      184.1
2. UnbudgPt d Pro3cet
PH- CSUMD            0.6       1.2      0         0        0          1.7
Malarl               2.0      1.5       1.8       1.8      0          6.6
Diarrhoe             1.4      1.4       1.4       1.6      0          6.8
EPI                  1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       5.0
Tuberculosis         1.0      1.0       0         0        0          2.0
Leprosy              1.0      0.8       0         0        0          1.8
Bllbarz              1.0      0         0         0        0          1.0
F. Health            0        2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0        8.0
EnvIronment          1.2      1.0       0.8       0        0          8.0
Nutrition            a        0         2.8       4.0      8.0        9.8
Other Aid            0        0        25.7      25.7      0         51.4
Sub-total            9.1      9.9      85.5      85.6      6.9       96.1
TOTAL hI                64.2    65.1       68.1      62.8       6.9      280.2
8. Proposed New Sector Credit Funding
Mum                 23.2     84.8      84.8      84.4     88.5      165.2
MOCS                 8.4      8.8       2.9       2.8      1.5       18.9
EPO                  2.9      2.7       1.7       1.9      1.8       11.0
Sub-total           29.5     40.8      89.4      88.6     41.8      190.1
TOTAL (MOH)             77.4      87.4      97.9     87.4      46.4      896.4
/ See Annex T12A for dta ils.
Includes unbudgeted projoets but excludes PHN Sector Credit.
3.08       The MOH development budget is based on the assumption that the
sector will continue to receive at least its present proportion of the
PSIP. If economic growth rises to about 4.5 percent per year, and if the
total PSIP accounts for about 6.4 percent of GDP (in line with the
Government's projections, and broadly consistent with those of the Bank),
then the MOH development budget would rise from MK52.6 million in 1990/91



- 28 -
at about MK97.9 million in 1993194 and fall thereafter to MK45.4 million at
the end of the five year period (for details see Annex T12A). The revised
investment plan has been identified within this financial framework,
although the phasing of implementation requires a profile of expenditure
somewhat above the trend in 1991/92 and 1992/93. This is necessary, in
particular, to accommodate the manpower development program and to ensure
an accelerated supply of health workers to staff the upgraded facilities
and expanded outreach and peripheral programs.
3.09      Recurrent Expenditures for 1991192-1995/96.  As noted earlier,
the MOH recurrent budget is presently inadequate even to cover the full
operating costs of existing services, let alone to pay for the recurrent
costs of new projects, for additional staff at existing facilities, and for
increased workloads due to population growth. To cover these costs, it
will be necessary for the MOH recurrent budget to rise to about MR106-110
million (in constant 1990/91 prices) by 1995/96. Assuming, again, that
annual economic growth is about 4.5 percent, and that the proportion of the
recurrent budget allocated to the MOH increases from 7.1 percent to 9.1
percent over the period, this would be possible. However, in order for the
existing budget to catch up with actual existing expenditures and for the
estimates to become more realistic as soon as possible, the proportion of
the recurrent budget allocated to the MOH should increase particularly
quickly in the early years of the program. The expenditure plan is
therefore based on an annual growth rate of 0.5 percent in the sectoral
allocation of the overall recurrent budget up to 9.1 percent in 1994/95 and
on a constant proportion thereafter.
3.10      The MOH plan is also based on targets for the gradual
restructuring and reorientation of the recurrent budget In order to give
increased priority to peripheral and outreach services, the MOH has
prepared an indicative five-year recurrent budget plan that is consistent
both with the ongoing investment program (allowing for the required
incremental recurrent costs of projects under implementation) and also with
the accelerated health manpower development plan (through making adequate
provision for the salary and associated non-salary costs of the additional
personnel who will be working in the districts). According to this plan,
the proportion of the total MOH recurrent budget devoted to the districts
would rise from 34 percent to 46 percent in 1995/96. The proportion
allocated to the peripheral health services would increase dramatically
from 14 percent to 23 percent (while the provision for the district
hospitals would increase marginally from 20 percent to 24 percent). To do
this would require an adjustment in the budgeting and expenditure control
system to provide each district with separate accounts for the hospital and
peripheral sevices; and would also require successful implementation of
the planned hospital efficiency improvement program. With the total
recurrent budget of the MOH increasing in real terms, the central
hospitals' recurrent budgets would still increase somewhat over the five-
year period, but at a slower pace than the district health service items.
The indicative five-year recurrent budget is summarized in Table 3.2 below,
and the details are shown in Annex T12B.



- 29 -
Table 3.2
for 1990t I*nd 19V /96
In conatant prices
1990 / 9n         1995 / 96
14      of Total  P4(   tio TateI
1. Adminiabraton *nd General
11 PI AM             4 620 000   6.9    7 892 078   7.4
1.2  lither         5o829,084    8.0  56178.916     4.9
Sub Tota I9,949,084             14.9   13,0X0,994  12.8
2.  Heolth Ilntitutions
i.1  KCF             9 188,761  18.8   10,OSS,904   9.4
2.2  QECH           10,884,992  16.0   12,56,S851  11.8
2.8  Zoeba           8,756856    S.6    4,020,418   3.8
Siub Total          29,882,109  85.7   28,627,898  25.0
2.4     R  iT and Mental Hospit  S.468,065  9.7  10,126,376  9.8
2.8  Distr ;t Hospitals  13.481,767  20.2  24,975,802  2S.5
2.6  Peripneral Services  8,987,845  18.5  24.101,168  22.6
2.7  Rural Hoapita   1,077.069   1.6    1,749,278   1.6
2.8  Lilongee Hoepitel  989,400  1.4    1,457,732   1.4
Sub Total           54,766,275  62.1   89,038.249  83.6
S.  Training            2,0s6,e22   3.1   4,S73,195    4.1
Total                  66,792,181  100.1  106,482,438  100.0
Source: Bank staff calculations
C. Priorities for Programs and Services
Coveraae of Basic Services
3.11     A major thrust of the reform program and expenditure plan is the
expansion of peripheral units to increase the proportion of the population
within 8 kms of a health facility, plus an increase in the number of
peripheral staff. New peripheral facilities will be added only in areas
where currently none exist; existing dilapidated health centers, maternity
homes and rural dispensaries currently under the administration of local
authorities will be upgraded. Recognizing that housing is a major
constraint to the posting of staff to remote areas, the Government's
strategy also includes provision for construction of some staff housing
(para 2.42). As a result of financial constraints and in line with its
emphasis on peripheral services, the MOH is reconsidering its targets for
the planned expansion of curative institutions and will restrict the
expansion of hospitals to the two districts where the need is greatest.
Proaram Strengthening
3.12     Primary Health Care.  The priorities for the PHC program are
closely connected to the planned extension of basic service coverage to all
24 districts of the country. The number of HSAs will be increased
substantially so as to reach a ratio of 1 HSA to 250 households by the year
2000. The revised plan for the period up to 1995/96 includes provision for
a total of 3,500 HSAs, of which about two-thirds will be women. The HSAs
will provide a somewhat broader range of community health services than at
present, but they will continue primarily to be health communicators and



- 30 -
enablers rather than service providers. They will also continue to work
closely with the CHVs. The MOH is presently developing the detailed
strategy for the phased implementation of this program, covering the
training, placement, support and supervision of the HSAs (para 2.41, 2.42)^
This program will have a significant impact on the health status of
communities.
3.13      To improve the supervisory and logistical support for the
community-based workers, there will be (a) continuation of outreach
activities from the nearest health facility, based on the principle of a
fixed day per week/fortnight; (b) continuing education and supportive
supervision of the HSAs and peripheral field workers through fixed,
prearranged schedules; (c) regular interaction of all peripheral health
workers, including the HSAs, with the district management team on a fixed
date each month; and (d) a continuous flow of IEC materials to reinforce
their training and to provide for dissemination in the field.
3.14      Maternal and Child Health.  The Government's strategy for MCH is
to build on activities already underway, but also to move further to
community-based programs to improve the health status particularly of rural
women and children. The increase in the number of community-based workers
will improve access to MCH services. The strengthening of a variety of
media and communication campaigns, together with training activiiies, will
raise the consciousness of women about the importance of post- as well as
ante-natal care, and of good nutritional and child care practices (paras
2.44, 4.08). By placing the availability of MCH services at closer range,
the Government hopes to ensure greater utilization of them and to
strengthen maternity referral services. The strategy is to focus attention
on women's health needs through communication campaigns and training
efforts, and to raise women's consciousness about child timing and spacing,
nutrition and energy conservation, and ways to promote safe motherhood.
3.15      Malaria.  Both to strengthen the ongoing USAID supported program
and also to plan for the future, the MOH will introduce various changes in
its malaria program. These will include: (a) extension of the availability
of chloroquine to the community level through the use of HSAs; (b)
replacement of chloroquine as the primary drug for under-five children by
other drugs, wherever there are high rates of chloroquine resistance; (c)
redeployment of the drug resistance monitoring teams to update the
Ministry's knowledge about the current status of the disease and
particularly the prevalence of resistant strains; and (d) development of a
system for the continuous monitoring of drug resistance and the prevalence
of both symptomatic and asymptomatic malaria (para 2.45). This program is
already receiving some financial support from USAID and WHO.
3.16      AIDS.  To overcome the fragmentation of related programs, the
Government's strategy in the AIDS control program is to make a concerted
effort to integrate it with the activities of other relevant departments of
the MOH and other ministries (para 2.46). The new progr&m which is
supported by USAID and other bilateral donors will focus on trying to halt
the spread of HIV infection due to sexual contact, the use of contaminated
blood and perinatal transmission, and to expand education activities and
home-based care for the sick.



- 31 -
3.17      Child Spacing.  The Government's overall goal was to expand and
strengthen CS services in order to achieve a contraceptive prevalence rate
of 10 percent by 1992. In designing this project, however, it was felt
that it would be more realistic to aim to achieve this target by 1995\96,
with an interim target of six percent by 1992. To that end, the Government
plans to increase the awareness, access, acceptance and use of CS services
through widening the range of contraceptive methods, strengthening the
management of CS services, expanding service delivery points, extending the
pilot community-based contraceptive distribution program to all districts,
and increasing awareness of child spacing through the newly created Family
Welfare Council. The training curricula of all health workers will be
revised as necessary to ensure that CS is included. Also, in order to
monitor progress towards its contraceptive target, the Government will
undertake another family formation survey (para 2.47 et seq. and para
4.08).
3.18      Women In Development.  Recognizing the important role of women
in Malawi, and to address the issues raised in para 2.50-2.51, the
Government's strategy for WID are: (a) within the health sector, to
strengthen the MCH program and particularly to increase substantially the
number of HSAs, ENMs and CHNs in the rural areas to promote more woman-to-
woman contact; (b) outside of the health sector, to increase female access
to education especially at the secondary level, and (c) improve the quality
of the work carried out by the MOCS. The WID program of the MOCS already
has an important extension network, and it could have a substantial impact
on the lives of rural women. To do this, however, it will be necessary to
strengthen considerably the WID division's institutional capacity to
develop programs to increase women's access to economic opportunities,
credit and appropriate technologies. The strategy also requires that the
training capacity of the Magomero Community Development College be upgraded
to focus on practical training and the development and demonstration of
appropriate technology. In addition, demonstration programs will be
supported to assess, and increase awareness of, the economic opportunities
available to womenx (para 2.51 and 4.09).
3.19      Nutrition.  Recognizing the critical importance of addressing
malnutrition problems at the community level (paras 2.52-2.53), the
Government plans to implement a nation-wide program of community-based
growth monitoring and nutrition education by 1995. This program will build
on the ongoing experience of the 1,500 CHVs already trained and deployed,
and will involve the training of an additional 5,500 CHVs. To complement
this activity and to address the underlying problem of severe household
food insecurity, the Government's nutrition strategy also includes support
for three models of additional inputs to be provided and evaluated in areas
where CHVs are operating. A national nutrition strategy will be drafted by
1995, based on a continuous evaluation of the work of the CHVs and of the
three food security intervention models. The models are as follows:
(a) An ongoing community-level food supplementation program for the
provision of food packages to at-risk children and mothers will be
extended in certain areas (para 4.10).



- 32 -
(b) The MOCS will undertake a program in selected villages of three dis-
tricts to expand income generation opportunities for women through a
revolving credit scheme, and to reduce the caloric expenditure of
these women through bio-gas production (to reduce the need for wood
hauling) and the provision of hand-operated maize grinders (to reduce
the need for hand-pounding) (para 4.10).
(c) The ongoing pilot area-based integrated programs will be expanded by
the MOLG. This will involve the provision of a package of hybrid
maize and soybean seed, fertilizer and food to particularly food-
insecure households (para 4.10).
3.20      Iodine deficiency disorders are most efficiently addressed
through salt iodination. As indicated in para 2.54, iodination is
presently inhibited by the high retail price of salt in rural areas. The
Government's medium-term strategy is to carry out a systematic study to
identify means of reducing these prices, implement necessary measures and,
when prices have been substantially reduced, initiate salt iodination. As
an interim strategy to deal with IDDs and other micro nutrient deficiencies
the MOH has developed a five-year project for micronutrient supplementation
(para 4.10).
Manpower Development
3.21      The shortage of health manpower continues to represent one of
the major constraints to the development of health services in Malawi (para
2.55). Of particular concern to the MOH is the limited supply of those
cadres essential to the delivery of front-line health services, namely:
medical assistants, ENMs and health assistants. An immediate priority for
the Government is to increase the supply of these cadres through an
expansion of basic training capacity and through an improved utilization of
the existing health training institutions. By 1993/94, the expanded
training capacity will result in incremental annual intakes of 215 medical
assistants, 150 additional ENMs, 15 health assistants, and 65 registered
nurses, in addition to small increased numbers of trainee technicians and
technical assistants for the pharmacy, dental and laboratory services.
However, the impact of the increased training throughput will only begin to
be felt during the mid-1990's, due both to construction time and to the
two-four year durations of training. By 1996, based on the proposed
expansion of training capacity, the supply of manpower within the
categories listed above will still only have reached less than 60 percent
of the total projected requirements (Annex Tll) (para 4.11). The
Government's strategy recognizes that the phasing of its development
program must take into account these continued manpower constraints. In
deploying the additional manpower, the MOH will give priority to the
provision of staff for existing health centers which remain inoperative due
to lack of manpower, and to bringing the staffing levels of clinics
currently managed by local authorities up to the minimum standards
operative in MOH facilities. Together with the need to staff facility
developments already underway, these priorities will fully absorb the
increases in manpower supply over the next few years. By 1995/96, however,
the supply of manpower will be sufficient to staff some limited, priority
development of hospital services.



- 33 -
Pharmaceuticals
3.22      The Government's national pharmaceutical program for the period
up to 1995 provides a sound basis for addressing its pharmaceutical
problems (see para 2.58). Data from the drug utilization study will be
used to improve the rational use of drugs, and the new computerized stock,
inventory control and procurement system will improve efficiency. In order
to decentralize the pharmaceutical supply system, however, there is also
need for additional training activities and for some improvements to be
made to the existing CMS buildings in Lilongwe and Blantyre; these will be
carried out during the next two years. A quality control mechanism for all
imported drugs will also be put in place. Additionally, there will be a
review of the production unit in Lilongwe and a rationalization of the
product range in Blantyre.   The Government is also taking steps to reduce
its debt to the CMS and to improve its financial management so that it can
once again become self-financing. The result of these measures would be
major improvements in the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the
pharmaceutical system. During the next five years, the decentralized
distribution system will become operational, the required manpower for the
pharmaceutical sector would be trained, and a quality control laboratory
and a more efficient local production unit would become operational (para
4.14). As a first step in obtaining additional external support for the
national pharmaceutical program, a request has been submitted to the
Government of the Netherlands for funding activities to rationalize drug
use and thereby optimize resource utilization, short-term consultants to
prepare a plan of operations for the implementation of the decentralized
distribution system, and the provision of a new computerized inventory
control system for the central and regional stores.
Information, Education and Communications
3.23      The crucial role of IEC has already been recognized by the
Government, and the strategy of the MOH is now to emphasize both
interpersonal communication and the use of the mass media in the promotion
of health, disease control and CS (paras 2.59-2.60). This strategy is an
essential part of the PHC approach adopted by the Government, and it is
based on the existing institutional system. In order to create an overall
framework for the entire health education effort, the Government has
already started to develop a coordinated communication plan with clear
priorities and a detailed implementation timetable. The strategy would be
to assist the MOH to decentralize HEU/IEC activities to the community level
by using a two-pronged approach aimed at targeting IEC meseages and
materials towards: (i) clients attending health facilities and (ii) women
and children in villages. DHEOs and HSAs, along with other key community
level workers, would be used to provide strong interpersonal communication
outreach at the local level. This approach requires the strengthening of
the role of all health workers as educators, through the use of clinic and
community oriented IEC activities as set out in annual and monthly work
programs (para 3.13). In addition, the MOH plans to build up the
competence of the HEU to increase its capacity to formulate information and
education programs, as well as to carry out motivational training
activities for all health workers. The HEU would thus be strengthened to
operate as the principal agency responsible for all IEC programs.   The



- 34 -
Government's IEC plan also includes measures to widen the access and
exposure of critical target groups to audio-visual materials, and to
improve coordination mechanisms between the various responsible Government
ministries involved in media work (para 4.13).
Management and Decentralization
3.24      The MOH has started to address its internal management problems
in a variety of ways, and external assistance is already being provided by
USAID to support the Ministry's efforts to strengthen capabilities in the
planning and development of health manpower. Also, to strengthen the
coordination of manpower planning, training, personnel administration and
the in-service training activities of the different PHC programs (paras
2.61-2.64), the MOH has decided to establish a Manpower Planning and
Development unit within its administrative branch (para 6.01(f)). This
unit will have responsibility for developing, periodically reviewing and
updating long-term projections of staffing requirements, phased according
to the development program and affordable within estimates of future
financial resources. From these staffing targets, long-term training
strategies and plans will be developed. The MOH will also develop a
manpower information system to support manpower planning and personnel
management decisions at all levels (para 4.12). This system will
complement a system presently being developed by the DPMT, but will also
link manpower, service and financial data for each health facility and each
management level. In addition, it will include PHAM as well as Government
health staff. The design of the MOH system will take into account the
plans for the decentralization of personnel functions and will be used at
district, regional and central levels of the MOH.
3.25      To strengthen personnel management, a review of personnel
functions will be undertaken during 1991 to determine those
responsibilities that should be decentralized from the headquarters to the
regional and district health offices. Based on these recommendations, an
Implementation strategy and plan will be developed in coordination with
similar plans for the decentralization of planning and financial
responsibilities, and covering the future roles and responsibilities of
each level, together with staffing, equipment and training needs. A
personnel procedures manual will be developed as a guide for health
managers and personnel officers at each level.
3.26      The Government's policy is to decentralize all health services
below hospitals to the district level and to reduce the inefficiencies
associated both with the current parallel systems of the MOH and the local
authorities, and with the lack of coordination within the MOH. Although
the Government plans eventually for the local authorities to play a greater
role in the management of health service delivery, it also recognizes that
they need first to strengthen the financial and human resource base of the
local authorities (paras 2.63, 4.12). Therefore, recognizing that the
local authorities do not have the expertise to manage health activities,
the Government intends: (a) to give responsibility for all MOH and local
authority health services below the hospital level to be managed and
administered by strengthened district management teams under the DHOs (the
teams would, therefore, each have responsibility for the administration,



- 35 -
management and technical supervision of all health peripheral workers
within their respective district); (b) to provide the MOLG with the
resources to meet directly the salary of health workers of Local
Authorities; and (c) to provide a line item within the MOH budget to meet
the non-salary recurrent cost of running the Local Authorities' health
facilities.
Resource Mobilization and Efficiency
3.27      The congestion at the main hospitals largely stems from lack of
accessible and/or acceptable periphe.al facilities providing good quality
care from well trained staff with adequate drugs and diagnostic facilities.
To deal with this problem, the Government has now decided in the rural
areas to decentralize health services and increase the quality of outreach
work and the number of peripheral facilities. At the district level, the
Government will also rationalize the referral procedures between MOH and
PHAM operated facilities (para 2.64). In the urban areas served by the
central hospitals, the Government will set up satellite health centers
properly staffed and with adequate drug and diagnostic facilities.
Investments will also be made to increase the operational efficiency of the
major hospitals. In addition, to encourage patients to seek care at
appropriate levels, the Government intends to introduce some cost sharing
measures, once the satellite system is in place (para 2.66). The
decongestion of the central hospitals will lead to considerable
improvements in the efficiency of the entire health system, by permitting
the higher level facilities to deal with the patients most in need (paras
2.66 and 4.15). The Government intends to increase the fees for private
patients annually so as to keep pace with inflation, as well as selectively
introduce charges for drugs.



- 36 -
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Obiectives, Rationale, and Summary Description
4.01      The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to
implement the public expenditure and policy reform programs for the sector,
as outlined in Chapter III, and thereby address the issues discussed in
Chapter II. Specifically, the project's objectives are to improve the
juality, access, efficiency and effectiveness of the sector through: (a)
strengthening of basic programs, focussing on PHC, MHC, malaria control,
the AIDS program, CS, nutrition interventions, and WID activities; (b)
strengthening of support services, focussing on manpower development
issues, pharmaceuticals and IEC; (c) efficiency improvements, focussing on
management strengthening, hospital decongestion, cost sharing and budgetary
reforms; and (d) support to the Government's social dimensions of
adjustment initiative.
4.02      The project would assist the Government to proceed with the
second phase of its current ten-year (1986/87-95/96) plan for the sector,
building upon and extending the progress achieved in the first phase, and
strengthening and intensifying the reform process in selected areas.   The
project would provide financial assistance for specific investments
constituting a time slice of the public expenditure plan for the sector.
Funding for the various project components would become available as
successive steps of the reform process are achieved. There would be no
fast-disbursing element of funds against an import list or otherwise
unrelated to specific expenditures within the sector. Thus, the project
would be a sector investment credit, rooted in specified components, but
with a strong policy-based orientation and content.
4.03      The relationship of this project to the broader public
expenditure plan for the period 1990191-95/96 is summarized ir. Table 4.1.
The total investment required for this period under the revised plan
adopted by the Government in consultation with IDA is MK420.20 million.
This requirement would be met from the sources shown in the table.
Financing commitments for the period total 54.7 percent, and it is
anticipated that other donors (EC and possibly the Dutch Govt through WHO)
will provide an additional MK31.9 million.  To complete the program, an
additional MR158.21 million is required.  The Government would provide an
additional MK16.1 million out of national budgetary rosources, and to close
the gap an IDA Credit of MK142.1 million (US$55.5 million) is proposed.  In
addition, the Government has agreed to provide, from its own resources, an
increas, in the annual health recurrent budget, so that the health share of
the national budget would reach at least 9.1 percent by the end of the plan
period (Annex A).



- 37 -
Table 4.1s Health Investment Financing Plan i
(Millions of Kwacha, in current prices)
Donor                                           1990/91  1991-1996
Family Health I & II                              6.90       6.50
AfDB                                             19.14 ki  53.53 EL
FRG                                               4.81      29.28
EC                                                5.66      10.04
Netherlands                                                  0.25
USAID                                             7.79      31.94
UNFPA                                                        7.50
WHO                                                         21.80
WHO/USAID                                                    3.00
WHO/WFP                                                      9.75
UNDP                                                         5.15
UNICEF                                            1.00      26.80
IUATLD                                            1.60       2.00
LEPRA/UK                                          1.00       1.75
Government                                        4.70      20.80
Financing Gap                                              190.10
of which
(Proposed IDA Project)                                    (142.08)c/
(Government)                                               (16.13)
EC proposed                                                (28.31)d/
WHO/Netherlands                                             (3.58)
Total                                           52.61      420.20
aI   Consistent with agreed disbursement schedules of IDA and AfDB
projects. For details of program see Annex T12D.
b/   Includes medical school (MK10.35 million).
c;   Includes medical school (MK38.8 million).
d/   Includes the WID component budget (MK13.9 million) and the Social
Support Fund and activities managed by other ministries (NK11.0
million) and excludes taxes and duties.
e/   Exact amount may be more than stated.
SOURCEs World Bank staff calculations.
4.04      The policy reform content of the project is summarized in the
Letter of Health Policy and associated policy matrix in Annex A. In order
to ensure effective and expeditious implementation of the reform package,
there will be an annual review of the reform program. These reviews will
have the following objectives: (a) to monitor the implementation of the
program; (b) to ensure adherence to the program objectives; and (c) to
review adherence to disbursement conditions and performance targets. The
annual review and mid-term review conditions are provided in Annex B. In
addition, there will be a mid-term review in 1993 to review program
implementation and to take stock of progress (para 4.39).
4.05      The activities and expenditures the project will support are in
line with the objectives stated in para 4.01, and can be briefly summarized



- 38 -
as follows (see next section for further details). The projects' component
on strengthening of basic programs will include: (a) for primary health
care and maternal and child health care, development and expansion of the
Health Surveillance Assistants into outreach-oriented and village-based PHN
promoters and service providers; rehabilitation and/or construction of
rural health centers; provision of rural housing where needed to attract
essential personnel; and provision of some vehicles to improve the
effectiveness of district level services; (b) for malaria, improvements in
logistical support, in the supply of anti-malarial drugs, and in support
for drug resistance monitoring; (c) for AIDS, acceleration of efforts in
education and prevention campaigns and in acquisition of blood screening
equipment; (d) for child spacing, launching of a National Family Welfare
Council of Malawi to promote family planning and expansion of the MOH's
program; (e) for women in development, institutional strengthening,
upgrading of training activities, and testing of small scale demonstration
projects on appropriate technology dissemination and credit provision; and
(f) for nutrition, extension of a community-level food security approach
developed and tested by UNICEF, and a micronutrient deficiency program.
The component on strengthening of support services will includes (a) for
staffing issues, upgrading of training programs and facilities for health
cadres currently in critically short supply, and enhancement of personnel
management information and planning capabilities; (b) for the IEC program,
expanded activities for training health workers, and provision of resources
for conveying population, health, and nutrition messages to communities;
and 5c) for pharmaceuticals, technical assistance and training on drug
procurement, distribution and production, and improvement of facilities and
equipment. The component on efficiency improvements will include (a)
rehabilitation of three urban health centers and construction of two others
to shift more outpatient care away from the more costly and overcrowded
hospitals, (b) rehabilitation of one district hospital, construction of
another, and replacement of worn-out equipment in selected other hospitals;
Cc) introduction of reforms in patient fees; and (d) budget reforms
involving increases in the MOH budget and the share of it devoted to
outreach and peripheral health services. The component on the social
dimensions of adiustment initiative will include support for "social
support program fund' to assist small scale pilot interventions derived
from felt needs of communities and expressed through Government or NGO
channels.
B. Detailed Description
Strengthening of Basic Programs
4.06      To support the improvement of PHC/MCH services at the periphery
(para 3.12), the project would provide assistance in three main areas.
First, it would support the salaries (i.e. incremental personnel
compensation costs, on a declining basis) and equipment costs (bicycles and
kits) of 3,550 additional HSAs. The training of the additional HSAs,
together with the training of supervisors drawn from the health center
teams, is to be supported by USAID. Second, the project would fund the
rehabilitation and/or construction and equipment of about 30 rural health
centers (para 3.11). Third, the project would finance improvements in
other critical aspects of infrastructure needed to support rural PHN/MCH



- 39 -
services. Specifically, because housing is a key constraint to service
expansion at the periphery (para 2.42), the project would fund the
construction of about 462 new rural houses and rehabilitation of about 50
existing ones (para 3.1). Also, because transport is another major
constraint, 24 four wheel drive vehicles would be provided for the district
services.
4.07      To support efforts on malaria and AIDS, the project would assist
collaborative efforts with other donors including especially the
substantial initiatives being aided by USAID. On malaria (paras 2.45,
3.15), the project would fund about 15 vehicles, with two at the national
level, three at the regional level, and ten at the district level. On AIDS
(paras 2.46, 3.16), the project would fund activities presently not fully
supported by other donors (para 2.73), including some laboratory equipment
and supplies, patient counselling and home-care, and the production and
distribution of educational materials for schools and colleges.
4.08      To support expansion and improvement of the CS program (paras
2.41, 3.17), the project would, with a similar goal of collaboratively
assisting initiatives being aided by USAID and others, provide funds for
the establishment of the Family Welfare Council through the const-uction,
furnishing and equipping of a modest office, provision of about three four-
wheel drive vehicles, and funds for the training of community-based workers
and preparation of IEC materials. The project would also fund the salaries
of 3 senior MOH staff at headquarters, and the construction, furnishing,
and equipping of 12 fixed facilities for CS in existing health centers.
4.09      To support enhancement of WID actions the project would
strengthen the MOCS by refocusing its work from the current "welfare
approach" to an integrated development approach (paras 2.50-2.51, 3.18).
Inputs would be provided for three main activities. First, the project
would strengthen the institutional capacity of the MOCS WID program through
technical assistance (two long-term advisors for a total of 72 person-
months, 36 person-months of short-term technical assistance and 18 person-
months of low-cost consultants for technical skill development); through
technical training (50 person-months of overseas technical training in 5
village industries and bio-gas construction and management, overseas study
tours for 7 officers, and regular in-service training and workshops) for
staff and for rural women and leaders; and also through support for the
administration of the program within the MOCS (including financing on a
declining basis of some of the incremental salary costs of about 3 new
staff, training activities and the purchase and running costs of 6
vehicles, 25 motorcycles and 55 bicycles). This part of the project
complements the proposed ODA assistance to MOCS to develop project
preparation capacity. Second, the project would support the improvement
and reorganization of Magomero Community Development College, through
upgrading of the physical infrastructure, provision of equipment and
working capital for five village industries to be taught, training
activities and courses, and curriculum revision. Third, the project would
support small demonstration projects in three districts, through
mobilization of women's groups and the provision of small amounts of credit
for income generating activities linked with other basic needs services.
As a condition of disbursement, the Government will present to IDA an



- 40 -
acceptable proposal for the administration of the provision of credit (para
6.04). The demonstration projects would emphasize the application of
appropriate, low-cost technologies, including bio-gas and maize mills.
4.10      To support nutrition and food security at the community level
(paras 3.19-3.20), the project would help finance the training and
equipping of 5,500 CHVs. Support also would be provided to expand and
carefully evaluate the following three experimental models of community-
based nutrition innovationst (a) provision of food supplements through the
WFP; (b) income generation activities and the introduction of labor-saving
technologies for women to reduce their caloric expenditure, this sub-
component is linked to the demonstration projects supported by the WID
component, (para 4.08); and (c) area-based, integrated programs including
packages of agricultural inputs and foo'k for lowest income women. Funds
would be provided for ongoing evaluaticns and review meetings. The project
would finance a nutrition module in the 1991 National Sample Survey of
Agriculture. With respect to micronutrionts, the project would complement
the ongoing support from UNICEF by financing the purchase of iodized oil
capsules, ferrous sulfate and folic acid tablets, materials and evaluation
activities. The project also would finance a study of the Malawi salt
distribution system to identify means by which the Government could reduce
salt prices, and to assess the feasibility of salt iodization.
Strenatheninx of Support Services
4.11      To increase the supply of manpower essential for the delivery of
PHC services and to strengthen the management of human resources (para
3.21), the project would expand training capacity for medical assistants,
health assistants, ENMs and registered nurses at the Lilongwe School of
Health Sciences, the Blantyre Medical Assistant School, the Zomba School of
Nursing and the Blantyre and Lilongwe campus of the Kamuzu College of
Nursing through the construction and rehabilitation of student hostels. In
addition, a new school for the training of ENMs would be built in Lilongwe,
along with additional student hostels at the district hospitals. The
supply of nurse tutors would be expanded through the training of 80 nurse
tutors at Kamuzu College of Nursing, and the ability to deploy these tutors
would be supported through the provision of staff housing at both MOH and
PHAM nursing schools.
4.12      To complement the ongoing efforts of the MOH to strengthen its
internal management, the project would provide assistance for the
decentralization of the personnel management functions to the regional and
district levels by providing technical assistance, equipment and training
to develop a personnel and management information system. In addition, to
support he district peripheral health service administration being set up
by the Government, the project would fund the training and incremental
salary costs of 24 district peripheral health administrators and 30
district accountants (para 3.24 - 3.25).
4.13      To improve the IEC activities and capabilities of the PHN
sectors, the project would finance: materials development for print, radio
and audiolvisual use; community IEC outreach activities; research and
evaluation activities; and short-term technical assistance (para 3.23).



- 41 -
The activities supported would ha-e a national focus: the critical target
audiences would be the rural needy and particularly women and children.
Furthermore, the assistance would complement and build on the activities
and resources provided by other donor support programs (in particular, the
USAID-funded PHICS project and the IDA-funded Second Family Health
Project).
4.14      To improve further the effectiveness and efficiency of the
pharmaceutical system (paras 2.58, 3.22), the project would support those
activities in the national pharmaceutical program not covered by the
proposal being submitted to the Netherlands Government. It would provide
funds for: (a) interregional training of pharmacists; (b) technical
assistance in stores management, central administration and training of
pharmaceutical personne'; (c) rehabilitation and adjustments to the
existing stores in Lilongwe and Blantyre; and (d) additional trucks for
interregional transport of supplies. WHO would be the technical agency
responsible for supervision of the implementation of external support to
the pharmaceutical program.
Efficiency Improvements
4.15      For the last several years, the MOH has been concerned to improve
the efficiency of its hospital services, particularly in relation to the
major hospitals located in Lilongwe (Kamuzu Central Hospital), Blantyre
(Queen Elizabeth Hospital) and Zomba (General Hospital). These hospitals
currently consume over a third of the revenue/recurrent budget of the MOH,
have regularly had budget. over-expenditures, and are believed to operate
extremely inefficiently. To improve their efficiency, it will be necessary
for the MOH to undertake a comprehensive program of investment and reform,
not only in the hospitals themselves, but also through improving the
quality of peripheral services and by encouraging patients to make greater
use of these peripheral services. The project supports actions within the
hospitals to reduce costs, and across the whole health care system to
reduce congestion in the major hospitals and encourage patients to seek
care at the lowest appropriate tier of the system.
4.16      Reducing Costs within the Major Hospitals.  MOH has reviewed the
main items of non-salary expenditures - vehicle operation and maintenance,
boiler and electrical systems, water, telephones, and food consumption - to
find ways to reduce these expenditures. (Expenditures on pharmaceutical
and medical supplies were co;isidered separately, and the proposed
pharmaceutical component of this project includes a number of measures to
improve prescribing practices.)
4.17      MOH has submitted to IDA five-year efficiency improvement plans
for the three major hospitals. Detailed implementation plans for 1991/92
have also been submitted, and will be submitted annually for later years
for IDA approval. The proposals for cost reductions tall into four broad
categories: (a) transport; (b) utility systems; (c) other expenditure
items; and (d) improved accounting and expenditure control capacity.
Specific proposed actions include: training drivers and equipment
operators in proper use and preventive maintenance and servicing of
vehicles and equipment; instituting systems for more efficient use and



- 42 -
control of transport and telephones; i& talling water meters and checking
and repairing leaks; replacement of old boilers and kitchen and laundry
equipment where breakdowns are frequent, and significant savings would be
realised on high repair and running costs; security improvements (lights,
fencing) to reduce theft; improvements to food storage and preparation
facilities to reduce wastage; on-the-job training in hospital financial
management; and selected studies of costs and savings of ideas for other
proposals for later years.
4.18      System-wide Efficiency-improving Measures.  Efficiency will also
be improved through investments at various levels of the health care system
that will reduce congestion at the three major hospitals and will encourage
patients to seek care at appropriate, lower tiers of the system. In order
to reduce congestion, the project will fund the construction of two new
urban health centers in Blantyre and Lilongwe, rehabilitation of six
existing ones in the three cities (para 3.27), construction of a new
district hosp4tal for Lilongwe District and the replacement of the existing
dilapidated hospital at Chiradzulu.
4.19      Efforts to strengthen preventive and community health care
actions and rural health centers will assist in reducing hospital
congestion and promoting efficient use of all levels of the health care
system. In addition to the activities already described, the project will
support MOH's efforts to explore ways to encourage stronger community PHC
activities through financing the establishment of a PHC fund (details are
set out in Annex D). Procedures for communities to make proposals to the
fund and clear guidelines for the sort of activities that will be eligible,
will be established before project effectiveness. The fund would (a)
provide low-cost support to communities to carry out PHC activities at the
local level; (b) provide resources to encourage innovative health financing
schemes within communities; (c) finance rewards of various kinds to
communities which are judged to have been particularly successful in PHC
activities; and (d) provide support to enable PHC activities to be
monitored by health workers. The scheme will be monitored carefully and
evaluated to determine whether and hor it should continue (para 3.27).
4.20      The project will also fund studies to (a) define options for
increasing cost sharing, and (b) to evaluate the impact of the cost sharing
measures as they are introduced, and (c) to evaluate progress under the
decentralisation program.
Social Program Support Fund
4.21      To support the Government's initiative on the social dimensions
of adjustment, the project would contribute to the financing of a "social
program support fund", which would assist small-scale pilot interventions
derived from the felt needs of communities and expressed through existing
Government or NGO channels. In all cases these would be based on full and
early consultation with the communities concerned, ir. order to encourage a
participatory approach. In most cases there would be some contributions
from the communities themselves through self-help, especially through their
own labor. The social program support fund would be administered by the
Social Support Task Force, chaired by DEPD and consisting of



- 43 -
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Education and
Culture, Ministry of Labor, MOA, MOLG, MOCS and MOH. This task force which
has been established with its Social Support Program Coordinator, would be
responsible for the identification and monitoring of the pilot
interventions and would transmit the experiences to the Special Studies
Unit of the DEPD. The pilot activities would enable the Government to
decide on instruments, programs, and policies which could be implemented
nationally to promote community and social welfare development. The
project would also support the carrying out of a number of studies ana
evaluations in areas of high priority (Annex E). The pilot activities
would be supported by this credit and funds from other donors. In
addition, for its efficient implementation, the project would fund ttree
staff years of technical assistance for a project manager, three person-
years for a procurement specialist, and three person-years for a local
architect, as well as related operating expenses.
C. Project Cost
4.22      Summary of Proiect Costs.  The total cost of the proposed
project, including Government's contribution, is estimated at about US$74.3
million equivalent, excluding customs duties and taxes equivalent to US$2.3
million. The estimated costs and local and foreign exchange shares are
given by component and category of expenditure in Tables 4.2 and 4.3 and
are further elaborated in Annex T13.



- 44 -
Allocation of the Prolect Proceeds
Table 4.2t  Sumary of Prolect Cost by Comonent
l4 Thouennd                    i . * Thouennd            S           S
---------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------Tot----   l---
ToteI
Locel   Foreign    Total       Locel    Foreign  Total         Foreln      Be"
lxchange      coat
Strengtheningl of 8uole Programs
PHC/HCH
HCMCH HS8,0,8S.4    1,097.4   7,740.0  2,262.6   741.2  J,02S.8                                                          82.1         4.0
11,. Rural Hoc   %:nter-                              2,182.0    8,784.6    a 017.?   041.0  1.470.0  2,11.6 S.                      8 3.7
iil   Rurel Hesith Support Infreatructure             7,58.0  24,008.4  81,560.2  2,951.9  9,876.4 12,J826.             76.1        19.5
Malnr aand Aide,                                           512.0    1 708.8    2,217.8   200.0   666.2    i66.2           76.9         1.4
Child Spacing                                            1,926.0   2,292.6    4,220.6    788.1   648.6  1 648.7           76.1         2.6
WID                                                      8 228.8    6180.2    0 ,8.8i 1,261 1  2,S94  8,688.7             68.6         .6.
Nutrition                                                2 490.0    ,106l. 0       69.6   9726  2,868.8 o ,886.1          71.0         5.8
Sub-Tot l                                               28,711.4   48,900.7  69,612.1  9,262.4 179,90.0 27,192.4
_____________________________________________________________________ ___________________________________________________________________ -_
Strengthening of Support Services
Manpower Developmnt                                     12,28S.8  19,168.9  29,868.2  4,780.0  7,486.7 12,266.7           61.0        19.4
MHnagement\Tralning\Permonnel                              787.4    1,830.9   ,8,186.     807.6    898.0   900.6          t6.0         1.4
lES                                                      1,209.9    1,877.0   2,886.9   472.6   887.9  1,010.8            88.2         1.6
Phoraeceuticals/C0S                                        781.0   8,817.8    9,848.8   268.6  8,444.4  8,780.0           92.8         8.9
PIU                                                      1,472.0   1,986.4   8,480.4   878.0   786.0  1,840.0  ..7.2                  2.1
Sub-Total                                               16,487.1  82,850.0  47,247.6  6,420.8 12,828.0 19,252.8           68.6
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Efficiency Improvemnts
Efficiency in eentral hoepitals                          2,916.0    2,916.0   S,632.0  1,189.1  1,189.1  2,278.2          68.6         8.7
Urban Hasith Centers                                     182.6   8,276.2    S 109.0    716.0  1,279.6  1 995.6            64.1         8.2
Li lone D0  opital                                       1 069.1  12,719.8   18,806.4   428.4  4.968.  5 ,89.9            92.1         .8S
Chiradwulu 0 Hoepital                                    8,169.4    9,844.4   14,818.6  2,019.8  8,S60.2  8,6,9.8         64.4         9.0
PHC Fund                                                   640.0      640.0    1,260.0    260.0   250.0   500.0           80.0         0.6
Studies and Evaluetion                                     454.4      484.4      906.8   177.8   177.8   888.0            80.0         0.5
Sub-Tot- l                                              12,101.7  29,650.8  41,452.0  4,727.8 11,468.1 16,192.4           70.8
Social Program Support Fund                                840.0      640.0    1,280.0   260.0   250.0   800.0            80.0         0.6
Total BSea coat                                         52,690.2  108,741.0  161t,I1.2 20,660.8 42,4t8.1 8,187.6          67.8       100.0
Physical contingenciee                                   2,198.7    4,077.7    6,278.4   857 7  1 ,92.9  2,480             8 .0 3S
Prie Continqvneiae                                       7 112.8   18,099.1  22 211.4  2,77.8 8,6898 1 8 676 4            68.0        18.7
Taxee and Dutie.                                         6,670.0               6,670.0 2,800.0             2,800.0
Total Project. Cost.                                    68,868.2  127,917.8  196,788.0 26,896.5 49.959.1 76,864.8
Source: Bank staff calculation



- 45 -
Table 4.3: Suimary of Proiect Const by Cateaorv
K.mche thou.                   USti tihou.
CutGgor)P                          LOCAL                           LOCAL      FOR          TOTAL   S F. ch i   b. -oet
1. Civil works                     21,986.8   1,628.8  78,58.6   8,876.9  20,1167.5  28,744.4    70.2    48.5
2, Ooodc
Ei EiuBpmnt and Furniture       2,511.1   8,850.8   8,861.4       9809    2,26.8   8,266.2    70.0         8.2
(ii  Vehiclea                        0.0  14,448.6  14,448.6         0.0   ,6 44.0   8,644.0   100.0        8.9
(ii   Drug.                           0.0   8.804.7   8.804.7         0.0   2 267.8   2.2t7,6   100.0        8.6
met ri.l/uili..             1719.4   8,08.0    4772 .4        671.6   1,192.6   1I,64.2    64.0       3.0
(v  Funds                       6:953.0   8,8t8.0  12,486i.0   2,716.0   2,161.8   4,677.8    44.0         7.7
sub total                             11,168.8  84,689.6  48,878.1   4,t68.8  18,850.7  17,919.2    78.6    28.4
8. S rvIc..
(i  Proflonal services         2,400.4   8,600.6   6,001.0       987.7   1,408.6   2,344.1    60.0        8.7
fii  Technie"l AItnc            186m1.6   9,702.4  11,264.0       610.0   8,790.0   4,400.0    66.1        7.0
II  T..ining/workhhop*/&tudi*a  8,602.6   4,989.4   8,792.2   1,488i.8   1,949.0   8,434.8    88.7         8.4
S!ub t.ot.1                             ,764.8  18,292.4  26,087.2   8,038.2   7,146.5  10,178.6    70.2    16.1
4. Recurrent Codc.
Ci)  Sen e                      7,884.8        0.0   7,M4.8   8 068.8          0.0     , 068.8    0.0      4.9
.,f)  Opereting and mintenence   4,130.2   4,130.2   8,260.4   1,618.4   1,618.4   89226.8    80.0          6.1
Sub trtl                             11,988.0   4,130.2  16,118.2   4,681.7   1,618.4   6,298.1    28.6    10.0
Tot.l be.. cost                      82 890,1  108,741.0  161,68.l1  20,660.8  42,477.1  68 187.8    67.8   100.0
Ph-liaI contingenclc                 2,195.7   4,077.7   6,278.4       857.7   1,892.8   2,480 .8    68.0       3.9
Pr.c- contingencies                   7,112.8  15,099.1  22,211.4   2,778.8   8,898.1   8,678.4        6.0    18.7
T..es *nd duties                      6,670.0               6,670.0    2,800.0              2,300.0     0.0      3.6
Total Project Cost                   68,868.1  127,917.8  196,768.9  26,596.8  40,968.0  76,864.2
Sourcs Sank *t.ff calculiations
4.23            Basis of Cost Estimates.  Construction costs are based on reviews
of recently awarded contracts for similar facilities being built under on-
going IDA projects. Furniture costs for new facilities are based on
existing priced furniture lists and amount to 5 percent of the cost of new
construction. Drugs costs are at CIF value. Equipment Ai1d vehicle costs
have been calculated on the besis of existing equipmenc lists and recent
procurement under on-going projects. External terlinical assistance and
fellowship costs--US$100,000 per staff year of specialist assistance and
US$20,000 for external training--have been estimated on the basis of recent
prices for comparable technical assistance in Credit 1768-MAI. Local
consultants costs are based on the prevailing rates in the country.
Technical assistance costs include housing, travel, relocation costs,
subsistence, office services, fees and recruitment costs. Overheads are
separately costed. The cost of MK7,000 per student-year for training at
the local polytechnic is based on recurrent student costs. Local salaries



- 46 -
are based on civil service rates. Base cost estimates reflect prices as
projected for the time of negotiation.
4.24      Customs Duties and Taxes.  In line with Malawian policies and
practices, items imported especially for the proposed investment program
would be exempted from customs duties and taxes. Certain items are
expected to be purchased locally on the open market and reimbursement
percentages have been calculated to exclude duties and taxes estimated at
US$2.3 million equivalent on such items as imported building materials
under construction contracts, and local purchase of supplies and materials,
etc.
4.25      Contingency Allowances.  Physical contingencies of 10 percent
have been added to the base costs of civil works and 5 percent to the base
costs of furniture and equipment. Price contingencies were calculated
based on Bank staff estimates of international and domestic inflation; and
have been applied in :zcordance w'th the agreed timetable for activities to
begin; (Table T18) on the assumption of the following annual rates of
increase:
Table 4.4s Assumed Inflation Rates
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994       1995
Foreign        -0.4      4.9     4.9      4.9     4.9     4.9       4.9
Local           15.8     9.0     5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      4.0
Source:  Bank Staff (Country Operations) Calculations.
4.26      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component,
estimated at US$50 million equivalent or 65 percent of the total Project
investment cost net of taxes, has been calculated as follows: (a) civil
works, 65 percent; (b) professional services at 60 percent; (c) furniture
made by local craftsmen, 30 percent, and other furniture, 100 percent; (d)
equipment and vehicles, 100 percent; (f) drugs, 100 percent; (g) technical
assistance and overseas fellowships, 100 percent; and (h) local training
and workshops, 50 percent. The foreign exchange estimates take into
account that the bulk of the equipment and a considerable part of the
building materials would be imported.
4.27      Recurrent Costs.  Under the proposed project additional recurrent
costs would be generated by (a) recruitment of staff to fill the additional
posts in the Project implementation Unit, and salaries of additional staff
for the regional and district health offices, and (b) operation and
maintenance of new buildings, vehicles and equipment. The total additional
recurrent costs generated by these items would be US$6.3 million over the
project life. Consistent with the Bank's strategy for Malawi as discussed
in the Public Expenditure Review (Report 7281-MAI), the project would
finance a substantial portion of these costs (90 percent) on a delivery
basis. Local salaries would be financed on a sliding scale, with the
project paying all of the increment initially, and the Government absorbing
these gradually over five years (para 4.32(e)). At project completion, the
additional annual recurrent costs would amount to 15 percent of the 1990/91



- 47 -
MOH recurrent budget, however, 92.2 percent of this is for salaries of the
additional 3050 HSAs to be deployed. The long-term recurrent cost
implications of the project are minimized by (a) the very limited capacity
expansion through construction of new facilities and (b) the agreed
efficiency enhancing measures, which would reduce the cest of managing the
central hospitals in Blantyre, Lilongwe and Zomba.
D. Financing Plan
4.28      The IDA Project of US$55.50 million would finance 74.7 percent of
the total project cost net of taxes, or 81.9 percent of the foreign
exchange component and 62.1 percent of local costs net of taxes.
Government would finance 8.5 percent of total project costs or 10.2X of the
total cost exclusive of EC and WHO financing. EC has tentatively agreed to
parallel financing 231 new rural houses, rehabilitating 24 rural houses and
the construction of Chiradzulu District Hospital, amounting to US$11.1
million. The Dutch Government through WHO has been approached to parallel
finance part of the pharmaceutical components. The financing plan is
summarized in Table 4.5.
Table 4.5t Financnta Plan by Comaonent
US$ Million
Local             Foreign            Total
IDA             16.7               38.8              55.5
EC*              3.9                7.2              11.1
WHO/Netherlands*                    1.4                1.4
Government**     6.3                                  6.3**
26.9              47.4               74.3
*Proposed Financing
**Excludes taxes in the amount of US$2.3 Million



- 48 -
E. Procurement
4.29            Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.6.
Table 4.6: Procurement Methods and Disbursements a/
Procurement Method bi
ICS        LCD      IS/1I 1/    Othee            Total
Inveetment Coat.
1. Civil Works                               24.0           1.5                      10.0 S       35.5
___________                              (21.5)        (1 0)                                 (22.5)
2. Oood-
(i)  Equip.nt/Furniture/Vehicle       10.2          0.9                                    10.1
11i) Druge/Hrteriale/Supplile         (9 2)        (0.9)                                  (10.1)
es.7                            0.55.
(4.5)                     (0.5)                     (652)
(iii)  Funds                                                                    5.5           5.5)
(5.6)        (5.5)
Sub-Tot-l                                 14.9          0.9          0 .5          .6         21.8
(13.7)        (0.9)        (0.5)        (5.5)       (20.8)
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__--------------------
8. Services
(i)  Profeefional Service-.
Technlecl Aslsitanc-/
Traini ng/orkehop/Studi e                                                 9.4 **       9.4
(6.4)        (6.4)
Sub-Totl                                                                          9.l.
-. 4)        (6 4)
4. Incremntal Recurrent Cost
;)  Salarie.                                                                 3.5 2/        8.5
(38.1)      (8.1)
tt)  Operating Coatt                                                            3.7        (3 7
(2.7)        (2.7)
Sub-Total                                                                         76           7.6
(5.6)        (5.8)
Orand Total                                   8d8.9         2.4          05            2.5        74.8
(3S62)        (1.9)        (0.5)       (17.7)       (55.5)
a/ Excludes to%*& and duties of US82.3 million
b/ Figure. In parenthesis show funds financed fro  IDA credit
1/ Include. item  to be procured by prudent oheoping
/ Activities ubJect to procurement aerrngemnt of  aC nd WHO/Netherlands
ee/ Include. U5126 million subject to procurement arrangemnt. of EEC and WHO/Netherlands



- 49 -
(a)  Civil works valued at US$21 million would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Civil works aggregated at $1.0 million would
be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) since these
would consist of a large number of small value contracts which
are scattered all over the country and are spread over time. The
average value of each contract is about US$150,000. LCB
procedures have been reviewed and are generally acceptable.
These LCB procedures will include loca1 advertising, public bid
opening, disclosure of evaluation criteria, and award to the
lowest evaluated bidder; the first set of dociunents will be
subject to IDA review.;
(b)  Goods required for the project include equipment, vehicles,
furniture, drugs;
(i) Equipment and vehicles, valued at US$10.3 million would be
procured through ICB in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Materials/supplies such as paper and seeds
required in small lots and quantities during the lifetime of
the project, valued at US$0.5 million would be most
appropriately procured through international or local
shopping with quotations from a minimum of three bidders.
The average value of each of these contracts is expected to
be lower than US$2,000;
(ii) Furniture valued at US$0.9 million would be procured through
LCB since these are simple items locally available. Drugs
and other materials valued at US$4.7 million would be
procured through ICB, in accordance with the Bank Group
guidelines; and
(iii) Funds. This activity is not subject to procurement and will
be utilized as per the details given in Annex D and E. IDA
will, however, monitor this activity annually as per details
in Annex B.
(c)  Services.  Technical assistance would be recruited under the Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, 1981. Professional
services for civil works would be selected in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. All fellowships and training workshops
and studies financed by the project would be carried out under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA 6/; and
(d)  Recurrent costs consisting of local salaries US$3.5 million and
operating costs US$3.7 million would follow regular Government
procedures and would be reimbursed on the basis of actual
expenditures. The operating costs include fuel, maintenance of
vehicles and equipment including data processing facilities.
6/Annex G for details of Technical Assistance, Fellowship and Studies.



- 50 -
4.30      The threshold for prior review by IDA would be US$100,000.  More
than 75 percent of procurement contracts would be subjected to prior
review. The first LCB documents for goods and works would be reviewed by
IDA before its release for bidding.
F. Disbursement
4.31      Disbursement from the Special Account would be against agreed
expenditures. Disbursement would be on the basis of:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for civil works and professional services;
(b) 100 percent of foreign and local expenditures for furniture,
equipment, vehicles and transportation of furniture and
equipment to health centers and hospital sites;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for drugs;
id) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for technical assistance, fellowships and
training;
(e) 100 percent of salaries of local staff (excluding salaries
of staff of Project Unit) for the first two years. 65
percent for third and fourth year of project life and
thereafter at 30 percent; and 100 percent of the workshops;
(f) 80 percent of operational expenditures for project
administration; and
(g) 100 percent of funds including pilot program funds.
Simplified disbursement procedures on the basis of statements of
expenditures would be allowed for the following items: (a) civil works
contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent and other contracts of less
than US$50,000 equivalent; and (b) in-service training costs and
operational expenditures of the Project Unit and the Planning Section of
the MOH. An indicative schedule of disbursement is shown In Annex T15.
4.32      Special Account.  A special account of the equivalent of the
amount US$2.0 million covering 6 months expenditures would be kept in a
commercial bank account on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, to meet
eligible expenditures for goods and services. Replenishment applications
would be accompanied by monthly statements from the commercial bank,
suitably cross referenced by the PIU to the related applications. Amounts
to be replenished would take into account the limits for each part of the
project.



- 51 -
G. Implementation
4.33      The implementation of the reform program is to be carried out by
the Planning Section of MOH through the Committee on Monitoring and
Evaluation which will be set up under this Project. This Committee, which
is chaired by the Principal Secretary, MOH, would be responsible for
ensuring that the objectives of the program are met. The Committee is to
provide support to the Planning Section in the following areas: (a)
coordination among various sections of MOH, MOCS, MOLG and DEPD; (b)
preparation of the relevant reports for the annual reviews with the Bank
Group; and (c) monitoring and reporting on progress made in implementing
various policies. In addition, the Committee would supervise MOH's budget
requests (development and recurrent budgets) for consistency with
programmed activities, staff and policy action objectives. In order to
help ensure that the reform program is implemented smoothly and on
schedule, the Government is currently taking steps to strengthen the
planning function of the MOH so that it would be in a position to implement
the reform. In addition, the responsibility for the reform would be
directly with the Principal Secretary of MOH. In order to ensure that
funds are disbursed rapidly, the Project is supporting the recruitment of a
well qualified financial analyst to be based in the project implementation
unit to take care of forward planning of MOH as well as all procurement
issues. Physical implementation will be carried out by the project unit
established under the Second Family Health Project (Credit 1768-MAI). See
Annex T-16 for Physical Implementation and Annex A Attachment 1 for Policy
Implementation.
4.34      Project implementation is expected to take five years beginning
April 1991. The Project would be completed by December 31, 1996 and will
close by June 30, 1997.
4.35      Status of Prolect Preparation.  An identification mission took
place in October 1988 and a preparation mission in October 1989 and again
in February 1990 at which time the different elements of the reform package
were discussed with the Government. At each stage of the preparation
process, the Ministry of Health was actively involved. Additionally, the
Government undertook the review and reformulation of the policies embodied
in the reform.
4.36      Impact on the Environment.  The Project has no adverse impact on
the environment.
4.37      Impact on Women.  The main beneficiaries of this project will be
women (a) as the main users of health institutions; and (b) as the main
beneficiaries from the CS, nutrition and WID programs.
H. Reporting and Monitoring
4.38      Auditing, Monitoring and Reporting.  All project accounts,
including the special account, would be audited annually by an independent
auditor satisfactory to IDA. While MOH has as of September 30, 1990
submitted all due audited accounts, these accounts have not always been on



- 52 -
:ime. The audit statement would include a separate paragraph with an
)pinion with respect to amounts withdrawn on the basis of statements of
axpenditure. With respect to this project, the audit statement would be
tubmitted nine months after the end of the fiscal year. Continuous
!onitoring of the progress of the reforms would be the responsibility of
:he strengthened planning section of MOH while day-to-day responsibility
Eor ensuring that available Project funds are disbursed in time would be
:he responsibility of the Project Unit. At each designated annual review
.eriod, there would be a review by the Government and IDA of the
achievement of the reform objectives, in order to ensure that conditions
Eor release of IDA funds are met. At the same time, the MOH forward
.udgets would be reviewed. A joint interim mid-term review will be held
;ot later than September 30, 1993 to review in detail the progress made in
Implementing the policy action program (Annex A Attachment A and B) and the
-roject. The Government would submit to IDA semi-annual progress reports
ind within six months of Project closing, it would submit a report on
.roject implementation and achievements. The schedule and composition of
IDA supervision missions are presented in Annex F.



- 53 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01      The proposed credit is designed to support the Government's
health program and key adjustment measures in the form of improved public
expenditure budgeting, increased expenditure on PHC, improved internal
efficiency and increased cost recovery. The credit would fund a major
strengthening of district health services; provide support for priority
programs to promote PHC, CS and WID activities, and to reduce the incidence
of malaria, AIDS and malnutrition; finance an accelerated program of
manpower development; and continue the institution building activities
initiated through the Second Family Health Project. Especially through
strengthening the management and efficiency of the health care system at
headquarters, district and peripheral levels, and by encouraging better
cooperation between the Government and other service providers
(particularly PHAM and the local authorities), the credit would improve the
rationalization and utilization of existing facilities, services and
resources.
5.02      While the Government's highly ambitious quantitative objectives
for the period, and especially the planned substantial reduction in infant
and child mortality, are not likely to be achieved by the mid-1990's, the
approach being supported with assistance from this credit should produce
significant results and all segments of the Malawian population would
benefit from the credit. In particular, the target of an increase in the
contraceptive prevalence to six percent by 1992 and to about 10 percent by
1995/96 activities should be attainable. The expansion of the CS program
would, in the long run, slow down the population growth rate, leading to
savings in public and private expenditures for social services--health,
education and social welfare. It would also mitigate the negative effects
of population on the environment due to excessive cultivation and over-
utilization of fuel wood.
5.03      Morbidity and mortality due to the six immunizable diseases
should be significantly reduced as a result of the project, and the
community-based program should substantially increase the use by mothers of
anti-malarial prophylaxis and oral rehydration therapy in treating
diarrhoeal diseases of their children. Children would benefit especially
from reduced morbidity and mortality as a result of both the health and the
nutrition interventions. Improved health status of children would increase
net enrollment ratios at primary schools, reduce drop-out rates and improve
their mental capacity to benefit from the teaching. Women,in particular,
would benefit from the project, through the expanded CS activities and from
the strengthening of the WID activities of the MOCS. Rural women would
also benefit from the proposed income generating activities to be funded by
the credit. The malaria and AIDS control programs would benefit the
entire population. Rural families would benefit from the expanded access
to peripheral facilities through the strengthened community-based and
outreach work, the expansion and upgrading of health infrastructure, and
the provision of logistical support for service providers. Furthermore,



- 54 -
the Government and other employers would benefit from increased
productivity by a healthier labor force.
5.04      The wide range of institution-building activities under the
project would also have major capacity-building benefits. Through a
combination of organizational changes, training of health care providers,
technical assistance and improvement of management systems, the MOH staff
would become more effective in the delivery of health services.
B. Risks
5.05      There are several potential risks involved in the successful
implementation of this project. First, Malawi's fiscal difficulties and
the constrained Government expenditures pose the risk that health
development and recurrent expenditures may not increase fast enough to
permit timely completion of the investment plan and adequate funding of the
expanded system. An associated risk is that the cost savings from
efficiency measures in the hospitals and from improved pharmaceutical
management may not be recycled into improving the quality of health
delivery, but might be diverted to other uses. The above risks are
minimized by the Government's commitment, stated in the Devpol, to allocate
more resources to health, and by the requirement that MOH submit its
forward budget estimates, after approval by the Ministry of Finance, for
IDA review.
5.06      Another risk concerns the introduction of cost sharing measures
and their effect on the demand for health services, especially in the rural
areas. Unless sensitively presented to the public, there might be strong
opposition to their introduction. This risk is minimized by the gradual
pace proposed, and that people are already being made aware of their
likelihood.
5.07    A final risk is that the staffing requirements for the
consolidation of peripheral services might prove difficult for Government
to meet. This risk is being minimized by the provision in the credit for
the training of district health administrators. Furthermore, the credit
provides for the system to be evaluated two years after its inception and
adjusted if necessary.



- 55 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Prior to nexotiation, the Government sent to the Bank:
(a) the Statement of Health Policy and the related Policy Action
Program (para 4.01 and Annex A) in line with the schedule agreed
with the Bank, the principal actions to be carried out include:
increase financial resources for the health sector,increase
budgetary and staff for the peripheral health services,
efficiency improvements in the central hospital system,
introduction of cost sharing, decentralization and
rationalization of district health services, strengthening of
manpower planning capacity;
(b) 5 year plan for each major hospital to improve efficiency and
reduce recurrent expenditures (paras 3.27, 4.15);
(c) a detailed plan for rationalization and management of the health
services of Local Authorities and MOH at the district level
(paras 2.63, 4.12 and Annex B);
(d) plan for the decentralization of management authority to the
district, including the establishment of the District Health
Management Teams and the District Health Planning and
Coordinating Committees (para 3.26 and Annex B);
(e) terms of reference and composition of the District Health
Management Teams and the District Health Planning and
Coordinating committees (Annex B);
(f) evidence that the proposed health Manpower Planning and
Development Unit will be established in the MOH (para 3.24);
(g) approved list from DPMT showing all the approved posts for each
of the individual health facilities at the district level (Local
Authority, PHAM and MOHS) (Annex B);
(h) a plan for deployment of all 91/92 graduates to individual health
facilities showing an increase in numbers of peripheral
facilities staff equal to the numbers of graduates (Annex B);
(i) evidence that Government has introduced a revised fee schedule
for private patients and has an implementation plan to cover full
cost of service by April 1992 and an assurance that the fees will
be reviewed and increased every year subsequently (Annex B); and
(j) plan for the introduction of cost sharing measures (paras 2.66,
3.27 and Annex B).



- 56 -
6.02      During Negotiation, the Government and the Bank agreed on all the
documents above, including in particular, the year the Borrower will
implement the cost sharing measures.  It was also agreed that:
(a)  The Borrower shall, for each of its fiscal years, 1991/92 through
1994/95, adopt a revenue and development budget in which
appropriations for peripheral health services shall be at least 2
percent higher than the appropriations for such services in the
budget for its immediately preceding fiscal year (para 6.01 (a));
(b)  The Borrower shall include a line item in the budget of MOH to
cover non-salary items of Local Authorities' health facilities;
(c)  The Borrower shall carry out
(i)     an analysis of actual expenditures for peripheral health
services for the immediately preceding fiscal year (para
6.01 (a));
(ii)    detailed work program for the subsequent fiscal year to
improve efficiency at each central hospital (paras 3.27,
4.14 and para 6.01 (b));
(iii)   analysis of training outputs compared with plan for the
preceding fiscal year; and
(iv)    analysis of current staff in-post, and vacancies at each
health facility compared with targets identified for the
preceding fiscal year (para 6.01 (b)).
(d) The Borrower shall, by January 31, 1992
(i)     carry out the rationalization and management of
peripheral health services of local government in
accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Association
(para 6.01 (b));
(ii)    establish management health teams for all districts; and
(iii)   furnish a plan to improve the coordination of MOH, local
government and PHAM health services, satisfactory to the
Association (para 6.01 (c)).
(e) The Borrower shall, during 1993, carry out an evaluation of the
management health teams, and cost-sharing measures adopted by it.
6.03      Conditions of credit effectiveness will include receipt by IDA of
the following documents:
(a) proposed revenue and development budgets for 1991/92 showing
allocation for the peripheral health services of at least 2
percent or more than comparable allocation for PY 1990191 (para
6.01 (a));



- 57 -
(b) detailed work program for 1991/92 to improve efficiency at each
of the central hospitals (para 6.01 (b)); and
(c) a plan for steps to implement the decentralization of health
services (para 6.01 (d)).
Additionally, the Borrower should have begun to implement the first phase
of the plan to rationalize and manage the local authorities health
services.
6.04      Disbursement for the women in development component will be
conditioned on receipt and agreement by IDA of a plan for administration of
funds for income generating activities in the 24 villages and receipt of a
plan for the restructuring of Magomero Training Program. Disbursement for
Lilongwe District Hospital will be conditioned on introduction of the new
cost sharing measures at the two central hospitals (which Government
intends to do once the urban health centers are completed and operational)
and adoption of a revenue and development budget satisfactory to the
Association.
6.05      Recommendation.  Subject to the agreements and conditions set
forth in paras. 6.01 to 6.04 above, the project is suitable as a basis for
an IDA credit of US$55.5 million equivalent to the Republic of Malawi.



- 58 -                      ANhW. A
Atu"                      Page 1 of 7
TIpuaa: F wm. Liwss                                       IMJIE OF FINANCE
Thkpbon: LJlog n 7311                                       P.O.  ox309
TZm: 4440.O?OX304
1 ~~~~~~~LLoNGws3
25th January, 1991
Ref. C32/1/23
Mr. E. V. K. Jaycox,
Vice President,
Africa Region,
The World Bank,
WASHINGTON D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Vice President,
LETTER OF HEALTH DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I am writing to you in connection with the proposed
Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Investment Credit,
and especially to inform you about policy decisions and
measures that the Government has already taken, or is about
to take, to improve the health status of Malawians.
2.      As  you are aware, the Ministry of Health has already
benefited from two projects financed by the International
Development Association (IDA), which, inter alia, helped to
strengthen   the  Ministry's   institutional   and   planning
capacity.    As  a result, a Ten-Year National Health Plan for
the  perind  1986-1995 was prepared,  and  the Government's
objectives for the health sector were later reconfirmed in
the Statement of Development Policy. The increased priority
to be given to the health sector was also a major feature of
the Government's prosentation at the 1990 Consultative Group
meeting  for Malawi.   These  documents  and other official
statements   emphasize  the Government's  commitment  to  the
health. sector, and our belief that improving the health
status of the people will make a major contribution to
Malawi's economic and social development. To achieve this
the Government is now planning to embark on a major and
comprehensive   development   of  the   sector, based  on  a
combination of policy changes and investments.



- 59 -
ANNEX A
Page 2 of 7
-2-
At the core of the programme will be an *nhanced development
effort   and   also   changes  in resource mobilization  and
utilization.   In particular, the Government will increase the
proportion   of the budget allocated to the health sector, and
will also take steps to use the available resources as
efficiently, effectively and equitably as possible. Another
key feature will be the rationalization of health services
especially at the district level.
ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE HEALTH SECTOR
3.       Despite  the  lack  of  adequate  financial and human
resources,    considerable  progress  has already been made in
addressing   the  country's    high mortality  and  morbidity
rates.    With  approximately 750 health facilities, about 80%
of the population now lives within 8 km of a service delivery
point.   The  available health services are heavily uitilized,
reflecting bzth the commitment of the health staff to serve
their patients and also the confidence of the communities in
them.    A programme has already been commenced to expand and
upgrade   the   infrastructure   further,  including  selected
district hospitals.   In  addition efforts are being made to
integrate    the   services   provided  by   non-governmental
organizations (especially the missions) and local authorities
with those of the Ministry of Health.
4.       Important   advances are  also being  made  in  the
development of primary health care, particularly through the
expanded programme on immunization which has achieved high
rates of vaccination of children. A start has alao been made
with the use of village-level volunteers to assist with
nutrition and other activities. And, finally, although the
child-spacing programme only started in the early 1980's the
number of mothers now spacing their children has increased
significantly.  At present, there are about 60,000 acceptors,
equivalent to about 3% of women in the reproductive age
group.   We  expect  this figure to rise significantly by the
mid 1990s.
PROPOSED REFORM 1991 - 1996
5.       The Government's  objective"  for the health sector
are  set  out  in  the Ten-Year  National   Health Plan.   In
particular, priority will be given to:
(a) increased coverage of peripheral and district
health services;
(b) manpower development;



-60-                   ANNEX A
Page 3 of 7
-3-
(c) management and support systems;
(d) family health care;
(e) disease prevention;and
(f) nutrition activities.
In accordance with this overall framework, and building on
activities   already   underway,   the   Government's  present
strategy encompasses three main features: providing increased
support   to   the   key   health  care  delivery  programmes;
strengthening service support systems; and improving and
upgrading management capacities.
6.       Although  the  objective of the present initiative is
to improve the health status of the people of Malawi, the
vast majority of whom live in rural areas, this requires
actions  at  all  levels  of  the  system:  central, regional,
district and local. In particular, progress in strengthening
the  key  programmes  and  support  system  will  require  an
enhanced management capacity. I am attaching to this letter
as  annexes  A  and  B    copies  of a Matrix showing the main
policy changes to be carried out by the Government. The
following paragraphs summarize the main features of this
policy action plan.
A. MANAGEMENT
(i) Financial Resources
7.      Adjustments will  be made to increase the proportion
of  the  revenue budget  allocated  to the Ministry of Health
from about 7.1% in Financial Year 1990/91 to at least 9.1% in
Financial  Year  1994/95.    The proportion of the Ministry of
Health budget allocated to peripheral services will also be
increased significantly to ensure that these services receive
more   priority   and  particularly  to cover  the  costs  of
peripheral and community-level health care workers. Although
the major hospitals' budgets are expected to increase in real
terms, as a proportion of the total Ministry of Health
budget, they will receive a steadily decreasing share as
peripheral  services  are  strengthened.      A  programme  to
improve the operational efficiency of the major hospitals
will be implemented, and additional steps will also be taken
to improve the accounting and expenditure control capacities
in these facilitie2



-61-                  ANNEX A
Page 4 of 7
-4-
S.       Where  donors  are supporting the recurrent budget of
the Ministry of Health, this support will in future be
accounted for under the revenue budget. On the development
side, the allocation to the Ministry will rise substantially
to at least K60 million in Financial Year 1991/92 and to NK70
million in Financial Year 1992/93 to accommodate the major
investments  planned.    The allocations will be necessary, in
particular,   for  the  expansion  of  the  manpower  training
infrastructure.    The Government will also try to ensure that
all health development activities presently supported by
donors will be included in the development budget, although
this may require a further increase in the development budget
of  the  Ministry  of  Health.     Annual meetings with donors
will    be  held  to  review  and  revise,  as  necessary, the
proposed budget for the forthcoming year.
9.       The  Government  is conscious of the need to increase
fees  for  private  patients.    A  revised  fee  schedule has
already been agreed, and was implemented in July, 1990. A
further revision will be introduced by April, 1992. To
improve   the   efficiency  of  service  utilization,  and  to
mobilize   additional   funds   for  the  health  sector,  the
Government plans to introduce some cost sharing measures
after a reasonable period of preparation. The preparatory
activities will include iL1jrovements in the infrastructure,
especially the upgrading of urban health centres which is
expected to result in the decongestion of the three Major
Hospitals in Blantyre, Zomba and Lilongwe.
(ii) Health Planning and System Rationalization
10.      The  Government  will rationalize the health services
at the district level in order to reduce some of the major
discrepancies  presently  existing.    All  peripheral  health
services at district level currently operated and managed by
the Ministry of Health and local authorities vwll be operated
and managed by District Health Management Teams. To ensure
that peripheral health services receiva additional resources
and improved management, the activities of District Health
Management Teams will focus on peripheral health services
with   sub-comittees   of  the   Teams   managing   district
hospitals.      District   Health  Planning  and  Coordinating
Committees will also be established in each district. Now
steps   will   also  be  taken  to  improve  coordination  and
collaboration between Ministry of Health and non-governmental
health services, especially mission health services.



- 62 -
ANNEX A
5                   Page 5 of 7
(iii) Staff
11.     With   the   planned   rapid  expansion  of  training
activities, improved management of staff also needs to be a
central feature of the GoverNment's strategy. Steps will,
therefore,   be   taken  to  establish  an  adequate  manpower
planning capacity within the Ministry of Health, and to
improve   coordination   between decisions  on  training  and
overall service development plans. The personnel management
function   within   the  Ministry  of  Health  will  also be
strengthened, and an efficient manpower information system
will  be  designed  and  set up.    Actions  will be taken to
improve the retention of health workers in the Civil Service,
both through improved management to reduce student drop-out
rates and through improved career prospects.
B. SERVICE SUPPORT
(i)  Peripheral Health Workers
12.     As  noted  earlier, Malawi has an extreme shortage of
health  personnel.    It  is  therefore  planned  to  increase
siqnificantly the training capacity, especially for cadres
essential      for the delivery  of primary  healthy  care.
Priority  will be given to staffing peripheral health services
rather  thais hospitals.   To expand community-based services,
the   namber   of  health  surveillance  assistants  will  be
increased considerably, up to a total of about 4,000 by
1995/96.     The  implementation  of  the  new,  comprehensive
strategy for the recruitment, training and deployment of
these workers will be monitored and evaluated carefully to
eisure that they have maximum impact on the communities
served.
(ii) Pharmaceuticals and Medical SupDlies
13.     While  many  improvements  have  already been made to
the pharmaceutical and medical supplies system, additional
steps will be taken to strengthen further this critical
support  system.   The  information  base will be augmented
through a survey of drug availability and usage at the
peripheral level, and management of stock levels and facility
requirements   will  then be  improved.    A  review  of the
financial management of the Central Medical Stores will also
be carried out, and a strategy will be designed to deal with
its existing debt problen and improve operational efficiency
and financial prospects in the future.



- 63 -
ANNEX A
Page 6 of 7
(iii) Buildings
14.      In   view    of   the   accelerated   infrastructure
development   programme  which   will  be  carried  out,  the
Government  plans   to  review the  appropriateness  of the
standard designs of several key health institutions. This
will be done for district hospitals, health centres and staff
houses, to ensure that they meet with current health care
delivery systems and improved procedures for the filtering
and referral of patients. The Government is also conscious
of the need to improve the maintenance of buildings and
medical  equipment,  and  a  strategy  (including    financial
requirements,   staffing   implications   and  demarcation  of
institutional responsibilities) will be prepared.
C. PROGRAMME SUPPORT
(i)  Information, Education and Commnication Proarame
15.     Although  health  education is a critical part of any
strategy to improve the health status of the people, the
impact of the ongoing health education programe has been
reduced through inadequate coordination,insufficient numbers
of trained personnel, and an inadequate core budget. A
comprehensive Information, Bducation and Communication (IEC)
plan will be prepared, including related activities of other
Ministries as well as the Ministry of Health. Particularly
important, will be the inclusion of messages about different
health care delivery programmes (such as malaria, child
spacing and AIDS) into the coordinated overall programme.
The    Health    Education    Unit    will  be   strengthened
institutionally with the formation of a steering committee
and  a programe planning  and  operations  committee.  The
training   curricula   of  key   workers   (such   as health
surveillance assistants) will include INC activities, and
training will be given to newly appointed health education
officrs.
(ii) Nutrition Programs
16.         Despite  the  Government'   ongoing  efforts,  the
problem of malnutrition remains serious. The Government has
reviewed its existing policies and has decided to develop
further its strategy for community-based nutrition and food
security.   This will  involve  institutional strengthening,
increased monitoring  and  evaluation activities, and further
study and analysis of the feasibility of targeting food
subsidies to the most vulnerable groups.. Government policy
towards dealing with iodine deficiency disease will also be
reviewed,  particularly  to  assess  the  viability  of salt
iodination.



- 64 -
ANNEX A
7                   Page 7 of 7
(iii) Child Spacina
17.        For  the  child  spacing programme, I would like to
highlight   the   Government's  intention  to  expand  service
delivery both within fixed facilities and also through a
pilot community-based programme. Efforts are also being made
to   ensure  full  integration with  other  health  education
activities.     However,  the  Government  recognizes  that  a
multi-sectoral approach to population issues is needed and a
population  coordinating  unit  has    been established in the
Office of the President and Cabinet to plan the integration
of  population factors into the development strategiess.     A
Family Welfare Council will be established outside Government
to  complement  our programmes.    This  Council  will assist
Government   in   its population  activity  coordination  and
advocacy work.
18.     Although    the    portfolio    responsibility    for
women-in-development activities falls under the Ministry of
Community Services, which has already prepared a project
component also proposed for IDA financing, I would like to
add that the implementation of this and associated policy
changes will also directly support our child spacing efforts.
(iv) AIDS Prouramme
19.     The main  policy change concerning the national AIDS
programme  will  be the  introduction  of a  strategy  for
home-based  health  care  for AIDS  patients.    In addition,
however, the Ministry of Health will ensure that AIDS-related
IEC activities are fully integrated into the comprehensive
IEC programme discussed earlier, and that education on AIDS
which has started in schools is strengthened.
Yours sincerely,
L. J  Ch ango
MINISTER OF FINANCE



- 65 -
Annex A A
PO I of 1Z 
ISSUES/OBJECTIVES            STATUS                               ACTIONS TO BE COiLPTED 1,U-196S
L. MAIGEMENT
L. To Inerase Funding of the Health Sector
;. Financial Managemet
-) Government revenue        The MOH Is presently receiving       The MOH will receivo at l-eat 7?.X (not
budgot                       an inadequate share (7.13) of        counttng any provision for recurrent cost of
the total revenue budget.           ths *dcal *chool) of the total revenue
budget (excluding debt amortization) in
FY91/92. Thil %ill be raised to at least
8.1X In FY92/US, S.51 In fY9/94, and 9.13 In
FYU4/96 *nd In later years.
^; Covernmnt                 The MM development budget for        The MOH will receive at ltast MKS* million
lovelopment budget           FYS9/99 was 1M26 million. For        (in addition to any provision for the medical
FY9t/91 It is 1K4t million,          school and any provision for the Inclusion of
However, for tho new progrm          externally funded preventive program
propoed for support to be            proeontly not accounted for In the
*ccomodated, the development         development budget for FY91/92), and at lo et
budget of the MMH should be         MK79 million for FY92/9U. Sufficient funds
increaod further,                   for the Implementation of the sector
invostment crediti and other donor funded
programs will also tx Included In fY91/94,
FY94/96 and FY96/9S.
The Increased external support       An annual review will be held with relevant
to the health sector, coupled        donors In January of each year to review the
with the need for tho MMO to         proposed development pr.ram and budgt of
abide by Its financial               the MIlO for the forthcoming tfical yer.
ceillng, has complicated the
proes of preparing the
developmnt budget.
Not oll *xternally supported         The MONi will try to ensure that all health
health projects are reflected       developmnt activities are lncluded In Its
at prnt In the MIlO                  development budget. To the extent that thes
development budget.                  cover ongoing program  and activities, a
corresponding and further lncrese In the MOH
developmnt budget will be allowed.
I. To Improve Effecttvenes  and Efficiency of Financial Resoure Use
a) Budgetary                 At peent about 13t of the            The proportion of the MON revenue budget
Provlsion for                MOH recurrent budgt Is               *lloeoted to peripheral health services will
Peripheral services          stimated to be allocated to          be checked and then Increased by at least 23
peripheral health services,         extra per year (i.e., 153 In fY91/92; 17% In
FY92/N8; 193 In FP93/94; 213 In FY94/96; and
283 In FY95/9S). In January 1960 and in
each subequent January, there wilt be an
analysis of the actual expenditures incurred
In the previous ftial yer, and a review of
thes expenditures against the original
estimatod budget for that year, especially
for the peripheral health service.
b) Efficieney                At presnt about 1C3 of the           The proportion of the kW  recurrent budget
Improvements In mjor         MOM recurrent budget Is              allocated to the three mjor hespitell will
hospitals                    allocated to the three mjor          be reduced to 2bX by fY65/#S.  This will be
hospitals,                          done through the implementation of a plan to
increase operational efficlenc at the major
hospitals. A five-yer plan will be prepared
by February 1991 for each of the thre  mjor
hospitals to Improve efficioncy and reduce
recurrent expenditures. A detailed annual
work program for euch of theo hospitals will
be prepared by January each year for proposed
funding by IDA.



- 66 -
ISSUES/OBJECTIVES            STATUS                               ACTIONS TO K COMPLEID 1N9L1S
c) Financial                 while ame additional                 The MO" WIlI post six additienal  cceatu
management capacity          accounting staff have recently       assisttnte to the sojor hoepitals by December
been appointed to poeltions In       199. Each dlitrict should have at least
hospitals, the number still          three aceounting staff by April ION. Twe
n_e  to be further Increasd,        additlonal accunting Staff should aleo be
added to *och reglonal health tew by April
19g.
d) Accounting                The Governmnt Is encouraging         External support for recurrent ectivitleh
proe dures                   donors to start financing            will be Sacounted for under the Governoet'o
recurrent activities,                rvevnue budget.
*) Cost sharing              Private patienta are presntly        The new scehdule of fea  for private ptients
subeldized by the Government,        was Introduced In July IM9. A further
as the fee schedule was not          revision to the fee schedule to move tosard
revised for 6 y ea.                 full cost ot s*rvice delivery for private
patients sill be Introduced by April INS.
Hospitals especially at the S        The HOH prepared a plan In January 19K for
mjor heopitals are ever              the expansion of cost-sharing to cover
croewd<  partly beause               genral patients. This plan will be
patients have no Incetive to         discussed and agreed *Ith IDA, and sill be
uae lowr level facilities.           Icplemonted as part o  the s*ectr prorm.
. Management and
Planning
1. To rationalize
Health Services
a) Central and Local
Government at District
Level
(i)  Management of           At presnt, health *rvlce             In February 19K, Governmet presented a plan
Peripheral Facilities        delivery at the district level       to rationalize peripheral health servies
Is fragmnted. There is              operated by the OHN and local authorities.
Insufficient coordination
betom VON, local authorities
*nd PHAM health trrvice.
(ii) Inadequate              At preset, "any district             In April 1N1, the Ministry of Local
funding for local            council hoeath workers are           Governmnt sill pay directly the salaries of
authority services,          paid irreularly  lack baic          district council health workers. The MI
*up piae and equp  t and             will met non-salary expnditure. Funding
their oersl- so threfore low.        for health *ervim    llI be Incre



- 67 -
Annex A A
Page S or1 
ISSUES/OBJECTZV!S             STATUS                                ACTIONS TO K  COWLETED 1990-1996
(lit) Peripheral              At present, It Is impossible          In February 1091, the Government Issued a
mnagement and                 to Identify seperately the            policy statment for the decentrallzation of
structure.                    reources allocated to, or            m_nageent authority to the district level,
consumed by  the peripheral           including tho establishment of District
services; all are *ubeumd            Helth Managment Tams and District Helth
under the district hospital.         Planning and Coordinating Comlttee.  In
As a consequnce , peripheral          February 1991, the MON also prepared and
activities are not properly           submitted to IDA the coposition and the
funded. Furthermore, many MW         terms of reference for the District Health
servies are administered              Mange:   m  t Teams and the District Health
vertleally at that level with        Planning and Coordinating Comittee. By
no proper Integration.  In the       April 1991, the MON will disaggregate the
major urban areas, this               budget and the staff estabilshment for the
separation of peripheral from         pe ripheral focilities In "ech district from
central hospital                      that of each district hospital.
administration has been
carrid out.
b) PHAM and                   At presont theroe is  nadequate       By January 1992, the Government sill submit a
Covrr _et                     coordination betwen PHAM and          plan to IDA, for It. review, for the
coordination                  MOl services at the district          rationallistion of referral procedures
level,                               betwen PHAH and the MON at the district
level. The plan will be fully Implemented by
June 196 subject to the Introduction of cost
saying meosures at health center level.
c)  Decentralization          At present decision-making            By April 1991, the MOH will prepare a plan
of decision mking'            within the MOF Is centralized         for submission to IDA of the stole to be
free rgion to                 at the MOH headquarter..  As o        taken to implemnt the decentralization of
district level                reult,  anagers at the                manage    t authority to the District Health
central levol have little time       Manage mnt Teams.
to devote to pe olicy
formulotion or to overall             By January 199, the MON will prpare
policy formulation for the           detalled operating procedures for planning,
health sector.  While a              financial and personnel manage m  t, and other
personnel and account.               administrative functlons under the
functions heve been delegated         decentr lized arrangements.
to the Regions, there is scope
for further dae ntra Izatlon.
C. Staff Management
1. To establish an            The MON Is In tho procese of          In February 1991, the Government confirmed
adequote mnpower              establishing a Manpower               that a Manpower Planning and Developeent Unit
planning function             Planning and Developmet Unit          was eso ablished in the MOH.
within the MON.               *Ith rponsibility for both
m_npower planning and                 By Deember 1901, a deta led implementation
training.                            plan for the establishment of the Unit
(Including terms of refrence, how the
functions of the Unit will relate to those of
the Planning and Personnel Department., job
descriptlons for each required position, and
a recruitment ochedule) will be developed.
Sy July 1991 the mnpoeer development and
planning offi er will be appointed, *nd a
leng-term mnpowr adviser will be In place.
By Decmber 1991, all approved posts within
the Manpower Planning and Dvelopment Unit
will be filled.



- 68 -
Annex A A
Pges 4 or f-
ISSUES/OBJECTIVES             STATUS                                ACTIONS TO BE COWPLETED 1998-1998
At the present til  there to          By January 1992, the Health Manpower Planning
ltttle coordination between          and Developmnt Unit will develop * 6-year
d etisons on training (both In       manpower development plan (1992-199J),
relation to bolic Incountry          opecifying the target intakes to In-country,
programs and overoeas tralning        basic training progroam and prioritized
scholarships) and overall             *nnuol requirements for basie and post-basic
service developmnt priorities         f  llowships.  The plan will also provide a
and plans.                            strategy for the coordination of basic and
In-service training and for the lntegrotion
of In-scrvice training for the various PKC
programs. By Jonuary of each year, the kW
will prepare a report of training activities
conducted during the previous 12 months,
comared agoinst the plan targept.
2. To strengthen the          At the present time the               By June 1991  a personnel managemont
personnel managemont          Personnel function in the MOH         eonoultant will be employed to assist the MOH
function within the           Is poorly-staffed, the                to develop a plan for the decentrolization of
Om.                           responsibilitie  are highly           appropriate personnel management
centralized, and existing             responsibilities to the regional and district
staff lack training and               levelo.
support.
By Jonuary 1 M , the plan for the
decentralization of personnel management
functions will be finalized and agreed by the
MOH and OPUT, covering the role of each
level, staffing and training rqutrements,
and the phasing of imple mntation.
There to a lack of easily             By June 1991, a manpower consultant w*il be
accessible information on the        employed to assist the MON to determine
avallability and the                  manpower Informatlon noeds at each level
distribution of established           (based on the plan for decentralization of
posts and existing staff to          mnagemnt responsibilities), and to dsoIgn
enable the monitoring of              appropriate data collection, analysis and
staffing levels and to guide          reporting *yste   to support effective
decisions on recrultmnt,              mnpower plnning, personnel planning,
deployment, training and              personnel mnag me nt and monitoring of the
career advancemnt.                    health manpower situation.
By June 1991, a computerized manpower
Information system will be operational at the
central MOM. By September 1998 the system
will also be operatlonal In ech of the
regional office.
S. To Improve                 Student drop-out rates from           By October 1 M  , responsibility for
retention of health           helth training institutions           adv-rtl_ement, student screening and
manpoer In the                have ben unaeccptably high            selection will be fully decentralized from
governmnt he lth              (ranging troem 11-ht) over the        DPMT to the individual training schools.
* rvices,                     last 10 yers. This
exacerbates the manpower
supply situation and mitigates
against effective utilization
of training capacity and
resource.
The carer s tructure for many        By June 1991, DPMT will approve an Improved
health personnel of technical        career structure for health personnel In the
a*oisctnt grate (TA) Is very         TA grade which will provide for advancement
limited as thby can move up          Into the technical officer (TO) grade.
only to thet amior technical
*oaset nt (STA) grade. This          By Septeber 1991, the kOm WIll have
situation discoureso high            developed a plan for absorbing existing
performance, reduces morale          helth staff Into the revised career
and contributes to high              structuro. 
attrition rate.



- 69 -
Annex A
Page * e 12 F
ISSUES/O JECTIVES            STAWUS                                ATIONS TO KE COUPLETED 1099W1996
I. SERVICE SUPPORT
A. Manpower
1. To improve                There to   critical shortage          By April 1991, the MOH WIll agree an
*taffing lovels in the        of health staff in Malawi.  to       establishont with DP?T for ach Individual
peripheral health             Improve the supply of                health facility (Including MOH, PHAM and all
servIces,                     m npower, signifi cnt                local authoritles' facilities). By April
inreases in training capacity       1991, and by the subequent April o  each
for those cares essntial for         year, the MON will develop a Staff deployment
the delivery of primery health       plan to effoet an Inerease In the nubere of
care are planned. However, to        priphnral staff equal to the numbers of
realize Improvemwets In health       graduates (mdical assistant, enrolled
status, priority must be given       nurse/midwife and health assistant)
to the staffing of peripheral        anticipated during the following 12 months,
health servies.                      but allowing for reple_met of hospital
staff who havo loft during the previous year.
By January 19M (and by each following
January), the MON will prepre an analysls of
existing staff employed at each helth
feeility, compared with the targets
Identif ed In the deployment plan prepared In
the previous April.
2. To Expand
Comaunityyased Health
Services
a) Health                    At present, the MONH eploys           By April 1991, the MOH will develop a
SurvilIlance                  approximately 79 HSAe.  In           comprehensive strategy and plan for the
Assistants (NSA)              order to expand community-           phased recruitment, training and deployment
based services, the number of        of an additional SW  HSA,. This plan to
HSA. noeds to be greatly             Include  detal I of the gradi ng strture,
expanded.  The MOH plans to           elary  phasing of the training (of trainers,
provide one HSA for every 2806       supervisore and HSAs), arrangements for the
population to a total of 4           training materials, venue, and method) and
by 1996/96. Every 2C villasoo        clear specifications for their supervision
to a toetl eof 4U  HSAs by           and support.
1995/6.
by July 1991, the first phase of the HSA
training program will have coemenced,
according to the previously-developed
strateWy and pln.
By April 1992, the MOH will submit to IDA a
plan for an evaluation of the HSA progrm to
be carreld out before September, 1992. The
evaluation will revlew the offectiveness of
the training progrm, the adequacy of
supervision arrangements, and the impact of
the NSA on the delivery of health education
and services mongst the comeunities In which
they have been deployed. The results of the
evaluation will be usd to mke appropriate
adjustmots to the progrm. A report of the
evaluation reults and a plan for future
satlon will be submitted to IDA prior to
December, 192.



- 70 -
Anzx AA
ISSUES/OBJECTinES            STATUS                                ACTIONS TO U COWLETED 19990111
b)  Community Helth          Roughly 190 CHW's responsible         By July 1991, the MON wIll develop o
Volunteers (COVe)             for oreoth mnitoring8                copreheniv. plan for tbe delivery of
nutrltln education, *imple           nutrition and health servies at the
treatment of diarhebal and           comunity level throueh CHV  In 200 villaoge
respiratory Infection and for        by 199C. The plan IT I Include (a) saplpg
the distibutilon of                  of viIlaoge  to be covered; (b) annual
chleroqulno, will receive            training end retraining projection  to perelt
tralning at Government and           an average of S CHV'o In each viIIage; (C)
PHAM tfcilIitle                      guidlIne for supervision by HSAo; (d) mere
*pecific and deta led de linetion of CHf
responsibilitles; and (e) annual budgets for
support kits (including scales, growtb carts
end drugs).
By January 199W, the MOM WIl bove provided
training and retraining for 000 CHV wbo are
providing services In 2M villages, that
thorough evaluations have ben carried out,
and that policy dcleeons hove bee  made for
expansion to a nationide progrm.
B. Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies
1. To ensure adequate        At presnt many peripheral             By June 1991, VON will have carried out a
supply of essential           facilities are working at            survey of drug availability and rationol ue
druga and supplies at         suboptimel  lovel because of         of drugs and submitted It to IDA.
peripheral facilities,        lcek of minor equipmet and
supplies.                            Based on the above survey, MOH will develop
and submit to IDA by January 193 a proper
inforation system on etock levels and future
requirements for . I health istitutlon.
2. To improve overall         The financial situation of CMS       By November 1991, MOH will carry out and
financial mnage    t          Is still troubleome.                 submt to IDA for review a financial audit of
of CMS oporations and         Substantial amounte of bill          CMS, along with a strategy for long-term
reduco CBS debt              due to supplierso ai unpaid by        solutions to the financiel problem .
leverage.                    CMS beause CMS ie *addled
with a considerable debt due
to lote payments (minly by
MHN). The main resoen being
Insufficient provision for
drug expenditure In hespital
budg t .
S. To coplete                 With the construction of r
decentralization of           central and regional stores
the drug supply systm         storag  capacity has boen
and comence regional          gretTy laproevd. Howevr,
stores' operations.           the Southern Region atores
needs refurbishlagn  nd tor
In Lilongpe need improvements.
Regional Operations have not
ye commenced.
Plan of operation for the            By November 1991 regional distribution will
decentralization which we            have commsnced at the Northern Region Store.
prepared In 193 has not been         In addition MOH will have submtted to IDA
use  and needs to be updated.        details of the refurbilhe nt required In
Although ativities t th              Blantyre and the Improv emnt needed In
regional ator   wtill be under       Llleng-e
the direct *upervLet n of
pharmacists, overall financal        By November 1991  based on the phormceutical
and adeianitrative controls          program, a nam pion of oprations will be
lIll beunder the maemont             submitted to IDA. The plan will bea  deon
of the offlear In-charge at          use of the existing storee (with some
the Control  "edical Stores.         structural modifications).  Lilonge *ill
become the central adeinistrative office, but
Blantyre will continue to be ued for most of
the bulk storage.



- 71 -
Page 7 o 12 -
hSS/uJECTs mES               STATUS                                ACTIONS TO U  COMPLETD 1009-109o
4. To esure that             Lack of mnpwer to run the             By NovemWer l99l, MHH will couplet a I at of
personnel required for       atore' operatione Is a mjor           personnel required ond ovallable for
op r tlon of I gtoOOl        constraint and has bn ono  of         decentralization of the Store  (including
and C ntr  I dic l           th     or reasone for the             those for quality control and production).
Stores, Including            d lay in lmplemntation of
production and quallty       doe-ntrallsation.                     By December 1099  MOH illI recrult required
control, will bo mad                                               poreonnol according to the tim  tram  of the
availablo.                                                         now plan of ^pertion.
C. BuliIdlng
1. Appropriateness of        At present various type               The Steering Coemittee, will  e et regulorly
standard deIgns for          d  igne are being used,uhich          to formulat planning end delgn critorls, to
health cernte  ond           to soo  extent de not met the         prere brlefo and to supervise the deign
district hepitale.            caurr nt requirements. Chanogo       proces. By March 1992, consultations at
In the heath ervice delivery         dltriet level will be completed.
system lo not reflected In the
de gne. A Steoring Committo          By Aprll 1992, tho planning and deign
has bee  estblished at IIOH,         criteria  at the health facilitic, baoed on
wIth reprecentatvee f trem the        informat on frem the district and PHAM
various user categories at           Institutions will be preented, agred upon
health eonters and hoopitale.        and submitted to IDA for review.
By May 1992 the brief for tho various heoath
facilities will be preented and architoct.
and enginrs engaged for preliminary
By July 1092 preliminary designs will be
presented, agred upon and submitted to IDA
for revlew.
Final ds igns will be presented by October
1992 *hen tender documents will be submitted.
Ii. PIOM  SUPPORT
A. Intorfttion, Eduaetion and Communication (IEC)
i  To develop an             Government has daloped a              By June 1091 the  i will devlop * a time-
approved ti_e-bound           strateg  for tho H   entitled        bound phoaed plan for strengthening IEC. In
plan for H"lth        *        Strengthening of the IEC and        line with tho decentrallzd organization
Educotion (U)                Social Mobillzatlon Unit', but        chart and staft patterns so laid out In tho
strengthing and              this stratey has yet to be            NEU document entitled *Strengthening of tho
intogration.                 fully approevd snd acted en.          IEC and Social Mobilization Unit'. This plan
Theo nd  Is for Government to        will Include total staffing and roeource
finalize this strategy by            needs of tho HEU; and prioritized strategeso
developing * c_mpreh_eIwve,          fort a) Focused proorm coordination and
time-bound phad plan  or             integration at th  various levols; (b)
strengthening H1EU/IEC.              absorbing new personnel Into the annual and
recurrent budget after donor support ends;
(c) dovotailing the IEC mnpo r training and
work patterne with overall health delivery
planning; (d) timing for each phase. The
plan will be submitted to IDA for review.
By January 10N Govorment wil l coplete
Implementation ot tho phased plan in
aeuotiance with agreed phes".
By April 11 the MON will establish an NEU
steerlng comittee and an NEU Program
Plannin and Operations Comittoe.



- 72 -
Annex AA
ZSSUES/OBJECTIVES             STATUS                                ACrtl S TO B COIPLETED 1990-190W
2. To ensure that             government has saod NSA. will         By April 1001 Governrest will revise the NSA
HSAo recive adequate          be the primary work-re at the         training curricula to Include  enhaned health
health education              comeunity level to provide            education and HE/EEC training In key
tralning,                    hbalth education on all tho            communication technique  Including Inter-
prioritj diselse In the              personal cormunicetion skills.
co munity yet the currlculum
for NSA* training does not
adequately reflect tho amount
of the HE training needed to
adequately do the job.
S. To recruit 24              At proent there are no NEO*.          By January 1902 all new DHEO. will be
District Hoelth               Govornment In planning to             recruited and given a preliminary 6-week
Education Officers            recruit 24 NEW for the                training.
(DHtOs) In a timely           districts. They will ned to
mnner and have thm            be rerulted and trained
tralned.                      I_mdiotely.
S. Nutrlilon
1. Strategy Development
a) Comu_nity-based            At present mall scale,                By 1006l  Covernment will develop a nation-
nutrition and food            Independent activities are            wide strategy for the improvemet of
security                      proceeding with little active         nutrition and food security at the comeunity
c1ordin tlon or evaluation,           level.  Beyond the training of comaunity
health volunteers (CHs) ("a Section 11 A 2b
above) this will require:
(a) By April 1001. development of a plan for
tho expanslon and careful teeting of three
models of additional Inputs;
(b) By Apell 1991; devolopmnt by VON, EPPD
and Ounds Colloge of agriculture of a
detailed and budge'sd plan for the proposed
continuous evaluation of CIV and thre models
of additional Inputsl
(c) By April 1001, establishment of a
subommittee on community-based prograu of
the Interminleterial Food Security and
Subcomitte. meetings to revise evaluation
reports end made decisions on progra
refinement; and
(d) In order to determine the role of
targeted consumer food subsidies; (1) by
January 1991, redo the study on food
subsidies coemissioned by EnPD; and (11) by
June 20, the Government will revioe  the
policy implications of the study and make
decisions on the appropriatenoe and
operation of such subsidies.
b)  Iodino oticlncy          Deplte the sevority of DO, In         By June 102M  EPD will complet a study on
disorders (ZOO)               Malawi, and the potential for         the Malawi walt distribution system to
low cost eradleation of IDD          identify meane of reducing rural retail
through salt lodination, such         price.
a proram cannot proceed
because of the In-country            By January 1008  Govornment will ass*es the
dealer and distribution cost          policy ;Iplications of tho study and Initiate
which mase It Impossible at           policy action to review rural selt pries.
present for low ncome rural
familIes to conume  adequate         By January 1994, Governoent will review the
malt.                                affect of these steps on rural salt prices,
and Initiate a salt lodination progrea when
the   prices have fallen subst ntially.



- 73 -
Ann_x  AA
Page 9o  1
ISSUES/OBJECTIVES             STATUS                                ACTIONS TO BE COYPLETD l996-99OS
C. Child Spacing
1. To Improve the             Th- only notionwide  urvoy            By Aprll 1M2, a follow-up survqy on child
intoration base for           Into family health we                 *palag will havo  been conducted.  A second
child spacing                 conductOd In 1a6I (the Fatly          foll ow-up survey w*1I  be conducted by April
Formation Survey). No other           1995, to measure progress.
eomprehensve data *exist to
guide family health program
delgno or to form a baselin
against ehich to measure
program impact.
2. Dovelop a                  At present Govornment has             By April 1992, devolop and submit to IDA a
comprehensive multi-          dsveloped a strategy which            time-bound action plon with a multl-sctoral
sectoral five year            fecuse excluosvely on tee             strategy for expansion of child spacing
strategy for child            devolopment of govornment             activities.  The stretogy should Incorporate
spacing                       provided child *paelng                actlons and strategioe  by other sectors, as
services and Inforation   Nowell as heaIth, and  OOs to ensure wide
national etrategy, covering           acces, acceptance and use of child spacing.
the privato sector, NMO and
Government roleo and                  By April 1998, lmplemnt first phno  of
contributions, has beon               agred plan.
developed.
By April 1994, Implement next phase of tho
strategy.
S. Establishment of           Govoernnt hoo approved that a         By April 1991, govern_mnt will present to IDA
Family Welfare Council        National Family Welfare               and donore tho objective, function and
Council o0 Malawi (NFWCM) be          rolationship of the NFWCU to ON.
eptpblisied, and to this
ptefJt logislation hao been
passqd and the Bill enacted.
Th  Councils mo in objectives
and functions include:
OBJECTIVES:
To improve the stndard of
living and quality of life of
Malawian families.
FUITONS:
To promote and encurage the
piloting of alternativ  fmily
welfere service delivery
The Council's relationship to
T rogs $ and activitieo of HON
clarifled.



- 74 -
Annex AA
hSs /CJECrIS                  STATUS                                 ACTIONS TO K  COWLET 9D 19-1991S
0. AIDS
1.  ro obtin *                There Is some evidenc  that            By July 1991 Govern_ent *ill _ske a policy
nOtional policy with          the incidenc  of AIDS cass   In       statemet on hom -based he lth care for IDS
upporting progr_m              blewl will Incrose                    petint.  It wIll also set out a clear
stratogy on Home-based        significantly In the short-            helth care progrm with *trategy for
hbelth cars for AIDS          term  mening a further                 resource alloction for hoe  baed  care for
caes.                         overurdening of primary *nd            AIDS case.
tertiary level hbelth
service.  Immediate actien            Government wiII bogln lmplementing *ctleoi
needs to be taken to cushlon          relating to this policy by January 1M.
the health system and aseo the
burden that the epidemic will
cause. Specifically the need
Is for petient/hom based
helth care treatment, I.e.
drugs, counseling and helth
education en AID. and ARC
diseases so as to provent
spread of the virus.
2. HEU to coordinate          At preent, th  ACP ic the              By July 1991 the HEU will coordinate all NC
and Intgrat  AIDS             big_et HE/EC progrm                    activities Including AIDS education. In
Control  rrm                  conduct d natinlly. Yet the            add,tion, the NEU will be Informed about the
(ACP)/IEC progra              ACP IEC budget for program             ACP/IEC budget for planning purpo se.
resource     a over,ll  I      activities are not m_nao  or
program,                      yet fully Integrated  into the
HEU.
E. Malaria                    A flve-yer plan for the ne             By April 1991, GovCernmnt will complet the
Malaria Control Program was           fIr   training of microecopiste.
completed In February 19O
with USAID support.                   By December 1992 Governmet will complete
implementatton of Phas I of the Malaria
control Proyar  In M&ngochi and Lilongu.
By June 1992 Governent will evaluate the
impact of the Phase I Malaria Control Prgram
and *ubmit the vevluation rneort to IDA for
review.
By June 1993 Governmnt will launch Phae  DD
of the Malaria Control Prrogra.



- 75 -
Page IAW 
hIS1II/ECTIME                STATUS                                ACTIONS TO K COMLTE   1_U-19U
P. W_men Ia
O.el.p.st
1. To chsnag Om              A key respeonbility for               O  July    1 M DCM *111 develop and "uboIt to
ov*rall thrust of the        wenns i"sses res  upon the            IA a eompresensive plan of the newt five
souse's prorm                ministry of Corunity Servies         ysre. This will include the overall
(MOCM). WID proram Is the            resourcs avai lable to th, VID prngar,
mjer oerationml resore  for          Including funds frm donor projects s well
= I's work *t both pelIey            an proj et ceitmnts. It WI-II speiical ly
and fil-d levels. However,           outline areas and _schenl_m to facilitate
MOCS Is severely handicapped         cooperation with other ministrieos with
at pret due to (a)                   extension neworks: In particular MOH and
inadsuats m_npower leols;            Ministry of Agriculture (IOA).
(b) critical dyfunctionalAty
of Ite maJor training                By Aprll 1,         MOCS will pre_et to MA a
institutIon; ard (e) lack of         note outlining mechanisms for technical
applicable skills *nd proper         suppor f rom MOA to the agrilivostoeck
erlentation of Its graroots          activities being proposed at CDC to reerient
cedres. Other probl   are            the tralning progrm, and aIse proposed
the multifarious calls en @he        extension activities r evlving around
WID prgrm for Its                    agril/livestock; the creation of a m_chanl_
premotional and eordinating         for Joint review of MOCS extension activities
roel.  At the sam  time, lack        wIth wemen's groupe.  Inter alia, MDCI will
of eordlnation In donor             pursue with MOA the liberalization of credit
fundin for WI  resulting In          term for women *mllbolding farmers and
duplication of~ resores,             inferm IDA of the progress in this regard.
uneven attention and a further
strain on MCOM" limited              By October 1, 19M  IDA will receTve an
manpwe r in meeting divrgont         aceeptable propeosal for the adeinistration et
demands. Although MDCI has           the credit  echanism and bloges fund proposd
mm developed a balonced              to be set up by MOCS as pert of the
oppreacd and strategy for            Inteneification of i10 extension activities
Integrated developm_t                with inteogrted perspectivo.
ez?ension activities, this has
yet to be detailed Into a
proper ection plan, and the
manpower situation does not
inepire confidence wIth regard
to MCSC' Implementation
capebility.
:. T o enur adqute           At presnt HOCS has one                By July 1, 1091, Govenment will have ensured
manpower support at           relotively s*  or officer (PS)       that (a) all existing poes at headquarters
all managment lovels         for WID who Is supported by 5         are operational; and (b) all posts propoe d
ACDOs. DtblT ha recently             for the Wit progra  have been estabilched and
reviewed the MDCS'                   reruitment takes place as a top priority.
etakbisIm t a *nd nadicated
ou brt for the requirements          By October 1, 1991 In addition to upg rading
f the %wi progrm. The                te post of the principal at MCDC, at least
rport has ae baes approved           the  bhadquarters, distriP. and training
by Pc *and the ast step Ic           Institutions poets will be filled.
for MOCS to agree with DPWT on
em lopb eetation *shodule.           By April, 19O1 the remainig poets will be
H  owevr, the creation of WED        fi I ld.
poeO aed to be *xp dit d.
Sp  April 1, 19N the reminin  district poets
will be established and operational.
q3



- 76 -
Annex LA
Page ia'r1F-
iS            STATUS                                ACTIONS TO K  CCWLETED 1999-199
Maosero Community Development         By October 1991, review and revision ef the
Collar (MCDC), MOCS'n major           curriculum w111 be   pletd*nd refreehr
f of          traninng Institute, Is                courses dlepgnd for the two categorite of
Ing           vIetuelly depleted In strengOth       field workers, woen leaders end policy
and skills.  It has a total          m kers.  This will be done through a series
staff of 9, of which only 4           of workshops.
are Program Officer level.
The head of the Institution           In Novembr 1999, MOCS has r eeived f tr   OPUT
he: been changing/absnt on           the clearance to expand the training peried
tralning over .he lost two            for CDAs to 13 months.
yers. The teaching at the
Institution Is theoretical           By October 31, 1991 IDA will receive the
with a three month placement          detalled leyout and building dsigns, with a
In the field to take care of         time-bound Implementation plan for the
practical aspect. For the             construction of pasture and animal
lost few yers a crash                development.
training program has ben
taking place, reulttng In the         By July 1, 1991 IDA will  pceive a detailed
COLe course being condensed           plan for the oversea  technical training and
Into half the earlier period,        also STCs in Malawi.
The foedback from the field Is
neative. Recogniaing this            By July 1, 199Q tho revled currliulum will
MOCS has prepared a proposal          begin for both basic and refresher course.
to Improve and extend the             Course lol_emntation will be a continuous
training and submitted this to        process through FY96/9O.
DPMT, who hae now agreed that
the treainng be extended to 1        By April 1, 1993 all technical training
months.  MOCS Is proposing to         co pleted and Malawians trained In the
radically restructure the            village Industries will impiemnt the
trainin  program to make              training to the cadre.
cmpus life part of the
treinin  rocmes by developing
a live laberatory for rursl
technologesl. Thes preposed
stps noed to be *exmined and
their Implementation set In
motlon as son as possible.



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 7
NLAVI - PHN SECTOR CREDIT
ANNUAL R Wl ACTIONS
Atles for
Actions for         Credit                  Actions by        Actions by          Actions by         Actions by
ArM n              H. tiontlo           Effcivn s               Jaausrv 1992     Januar 1993         Jnnuary Ng4         JanuMtI 9I
1. Fm
a) Ineroe  the    Receipt by IDA of                            Recelpt by IDA    Ree ipt by MDA of   Receipt by IDA of  Ree ipt by IDA of proposed
financial          Gevernrast pl liey                          of proposed       proposed  HOH       proposed HOH        NON revenue budget for
r eso ree for the   statement                                  UlOH renc         revenu budget for  revenue budget for FY95/9O, showing UOH budget
health sector.      indicating that                             budget for       FY93/94, showing    FY94/9C, showing   (not counting any provision
th  HOH *1                                  FY9219/9S,        MOH budget (not     MOH budcget (not   for recurrent costs of the
recive ot leas                              show ing UOH     counting any         counting any       modical school r eeiving at
7.te  (rot c entin                          budget (not       provision for       provision for       least 9.1X of the total ON
any prevslto for                            counting any     recurrent costs of  recurrent costs of recurrent budget (excluding
tho recernet                                provision for     the medicl school  the medical school provision for debt
cot  of the                                the rcurrent      receiving at least  receiving at least amortization).
medical shool) of                           costs of the      6.63 of the total   9.13 of the total
the propoed torl                            medical school    GOM recurrent       COM recurrent
Government revem"                           receiving at      budget (excluding   budget (excluding
budget (excluding                           least *.1X of    provision for debt  provision for debt
provision for debt                          the total GCO     _ortization).       aortization).
amortilation) end                           recurrent
that this                                   budget
proportlon will                             (excluding
increa_  to at                             provision for
least _ .13 in                             debt
FY92/O9, 9.6x in                           amortization).
FY91/94, and 9.11
In FY94/9b and In
Ilter years.
Reco'pt by IDA of                           Receipt and       R eeipt and
accp\able UGH                               aceptance by    acceptance by IDA
Ind7eilave                                 IDA of            of propoe d
dewelop.u_t budg t                          proposed          developmet budget
for FP91312-                                developmnt        for FY93/94,
FP95/9S, and                                budget for        showing MON
propoed                                     P2FY/9N,          receiving           Receipt and        Recelpt and acceptance by IDA
development udgtO                           shweing MGH       suttlef ent funds    acceptance by IDA  of proposed development
for FY91/U,                                 receiving at      for the             of proposed        budget for P195/96, showing
shewing HON                                 loeat  CK7b       implementation of   developmnt budget MON receiving sufficient
receiviug at beat                           (in ddition      the sector          for FY94/96,        fund. for the implemntation
nUb0 (in addition                           to any            investment credit   showing LIH        of the sector inveatmnt
to any prvisiem                             provision for    and other donor-   recieivng            credit and other dhnor-tunded
for the mdical                              the mndicl        funded programe.    sufficient funds   prograMs.
sch  l and or for                           schools and                           for the
the Ineloion of                             sny provision                         Implementation of
any externally-                             for the                               the *etor
to 
0
%i



Page 2 of 7
funded preventive                            Inclusion of                          investment credit
program that are                            *ny                                    and other donor-
presently not                               *xternally-                            funded progrms.
accounted for In                            funded
tho MD"i                                    preventive
developmet                                  progroi
budgt.                                      presently not
occounted for
in the
developomnt
budget.
Goverument to     Goverment to havo
have _et with    met with the
the relevant      relevant donora to
donors to         revisw  the
revisw the        propod
propose           development
developmet        progrm and budget                       Government to have met with
progrm and        of the Mdo  for     Government to have the relevant donors to review
budget of the     FY9/4.              met with the        the propoeed development
MOH for                               relevant donors to program end budget of the HOH
FY92/9O.                              review the          for FY96/9S.
propoeed
develop_mt
progroa aed budget                                _
of the MOH for                                     o
FY94/".                             r
0Io



Page 3 of 7
b) Incresroe  the    Reoipt of IDA of:  Receipt by IDA of:     Rece pt by IDA   Recoipt by IDA of:  Reo ipt by IDA of:
budgetary                                                      of:
Provision Aer te   (1) analysis of      (1) Propoed MON         (1) Propoed       (1) Proposed MOe    (1) Proposed MON   (1) Proposed MON rovenuo
peripheral AnIlth   tYI0/91 MO"         revenu  budget for     MO" revenue       revonue budget for  rovenue budget for budget for FP96/96 showing an
services.          revenue budget by   FY91/92 showing an      budget for        FY93/94 showIng an  FY94/96 showing an allocation for peripheral
progrm and co"t    allocatlon for           FY92/98          allocation for      allocation for      health services of at least
center, including    peripheral health      shoelng an        peripheral health   peripheral health  23X of the total.
eporatiton of       *ervicee of at          allocation for   aervices of at       services of at
individual          loost 2X more than     peripheral         least 23 mor then  loeat 2X more than
dietrict and        the c_mparable          health           the comparable      the coe proble
peripheral          allocation In           aervien of at    allocation In        allocation In
budgets.           FP"A/I.                  lest 2 more    FY92/93.               FY93/94.
then the
comparbl-
allocation In
FY91/92.
(M  Indicative MO                           2) An            (2) An analysis of  (2) An analysi, of (2) An analysis I t  the actual
re     budgete                              analysle of      the actual          the actual          expenitures incurred In
for iFYI 91/-g/9,                           the actual       expenditure          expenditures       FY93/94, and a review of
skwing a                                    expenditures      incurred In        incurred in         thes  expenditure  aginct
breakdon by                                 Incurred in       FY91/92, and a      FY92/tS, and a     the origalml *etilated budoet
pprn  a  c t                                FY94/91           review ef these     rview of thes      for that yer especially for
caer  including                            especiallut for   expenditures         expediture.        tho peripheral health
9ee 108 of                                  the peripheral   ogaint the           aginst the         services.
Individual                                  helth            original stimated  original estimted
district aNd                                servieo           budget for that     budgpt for that
peripoherl                                                   yer, especially    year especially
budg"e   aNd                                                  for the peripheral  for W6 peripheral
sbhoing a pe poI                                              health seiee.    heath serviee.
ollocaio lof
budget for
peripheral health
servicoes rising
annully to
FP94/96 b at
lest 23 Of the
total, and te at
lent 233 of the
total by F19/N.
c) Effic eey      Receipt by IDA of   Recelpt by IDA of       Receipt by IDA    Recelpt by IDA of   Recelpt by IDA of  R eipt by IDA of detai led
lmprovements  n    S-year plan for      detailed work          Of deta led       detailed work       detailed work       work progrm for FY96/95 to
central hospitals,  each major          prrm f   for           work program      program for         progra  for         lmprove efficioney at e*eh
he"pltal to         FY91/92 to Improve      for FY92/93 to  FP98/94 to lmprovo  FY94t96 to Improve central hospital.
improve efficiency  efficiency  t *ech      Improve          efficiency at each  effet ncy at each
a" rede                _ibe4 hspital.       efficlncy at    central hospital.  central hoepital.
recurrnt                  *                ea  central
_spendlteree.                               hospital.
'F'
0



Page 4 of 7
d) Private patlent Recoipt by IDA of                              Recelpt by IDA    Receipt by IDA of   Rece pt by IDA of
fee                 cot  _ rtlo that                              of propoed         proposed fee         proposed fee
the Government has                            foe schedule      schedule for         schedule for
Introduced a                                 for private        private patients    private patients
reviewd tfo                                   patients for      for implementation  for lplementation
scd-Ile for                                   Implementation    in April 1998.        in April 1994.
private patients,                             In April 1992.
an top bemntatien
pl" to lnrease
privae patient
*ee to nve
towards full Ieet
of *rvice
provisien by April
1996, and
aseuran       free
covernmant that
private patlent
to" eill be
reviewed and
revise  anually
to ensure that
they centinue to
evewr the full
seot of service
provision.
e) Cost shering     Recoipt by IDA of                             By may 1998                                                                                 
a plan for the                                carry out
lntroduction of                              evaluation of
esos cost sharing.                            cost sharing.
2. flTZ CT AZIEMJU                                                                   Rceiptp by IDA of   Confirmation from
uAUYMuI                                                                              a plan for           Government that
Improving th        the plan to
a) Rattonalization                                                                   coordination of      improve the
of helth  ervice                                                                     governeont and       coordination of
PHAM hn 1th          Government and
services, covering  PFtM  hea th
ervice planning    sorvicee has been
and delIvery,        Implemented.
staff deployment
and training, etc.
0W~~~~~~~~~O
0



Page 5 of 7
b)                  R eeipt by IDA of:                            Receipt by IDA    By May 1993 carry
Decentraliaotion                                                  of:                out  wevluation of
of management       (1) Policy                                    (1) Ddt iled       the functioning of
authority to th-    statement by                                  operational        the
District, lewl       vornmant for                                procedures for    rationalization
devcntralization                              planning          and management of
of m_nagamsnt                                 financial and     peripheral health
authority to the                              personnel         services.
district,                                     mngemnt,
Including the                                and other
"ablilshme_t Of                               wdinistrative
District Health                               functions
uanagement Ter                                under tho
and Dist.lct                                  de ntralized
Health Planing                                arrangements.
and Coordinating
ceitta.
(2) Terms of
referene and t;w
compesitlon 47 the
District Halth
*ad District
Heath planning
and Coordinating
Committee.
(8) Roelept by IDA
of a plan for
step  to implemnt
the
decetralization
of mesgment
authority to the
District Hbmith
Meagement TeWNS.
0
0W                .3~~~
U'
w



Page 6 of 7
a. mii
(a) Strangthen     Receipt by DA of                             Recelpt by IDA    Receipt by IDA of   Receipt by IDA of  Receipt by IDA of an analyst.
capecity for the    cent Ireatlea that                          of a 6-year       an analysis of       analysis of         of training actlvitls,
planning of health the propoed                                  manpwer           training             training            covering Intakes, fellowships
*nnpower.           Health Mdn>gmnt                             deelopmet         actvitile* activities,                   and grduate, In the previous
Planning and                                plan              covering Intakes,   covering intakes,  year, together with revisions
Development Unit                            (0992/90)         fllowships and       fellowships and    to the *anpower dvelopment
will be                                      tpecifying the    gradates In the    graduates In the    plon for the forthcoming
establisehd In th                           tagt intakes    previwus year,         previous year,      yer.
MOH.                                        to In-ountry,    together with         together with
basic training    revisions to the    revisions to the
progrm  and     m*npwe r              manpowr
prioritt d       deelopment plan    development plan
ensual           for the              for the
requiremntso     forthcoming          forthcoming yer.
for basic *ad     year.cording to
pest-bosic        the
felloships,       d entralization
Th plan Will    plan.
also privide a
stnategy for
theceordinatio
a of basic and
In-eervice
training, and
for the                                                                                 co
integratien of
in-service                                                                              I
training for
the various
PH4C progress.
at



Page 7 of 7
b)  Improv          Receipt by IDA of                             Receipt by IDA    Receipt by IDA of   ReceIpt by IDA of  Receipt by IDA of an analypis
stafting loevlo In  Ocvernwent                                    of an analysis    an analysis of        an analysis of      of current staff In-post and
peripheral hoeath   confirm tion that                             of current         current staff In-   curront staff ln-  tho vacanelos at each health
service             sufficient poest                              staff in-post      post and th          post and the        facility (101, PHAM end Local
will be crted at                              and the           vacancioe  at each   vacancios at oach  Authority), compared with the
the peripheral                                vacancelo  at     health facility      hea1th facility      torgets Identified In the
lovel to absorb                              each health        (MOH, PAM *and       (MOH, PHAM and      deployment plan prepared the
the lncreas  l.                               facility (lON     Local Authority),   Local Authority),  previous April.
staff from the                                PHAN and Local    eompard with the   compared with the
expnaded trauning                             Authoritios),     targetn Identifies  target  Identified
prgr .                                       comWpred with      In tho deployment   In tho deployment
the taroet        plan prepared tho   plan prepared the
R eeipt by IDA of:                            Identifies In     previous April.      previous April.
the deployment
(1)  a tool/12                               plan prepared
estblishm_nt                                  the previous
approvd by Shff,                              April.
skewing Ipseta for
each individual
autherity h"lth
facil ities.
(2)      list of
posts aproved for
lmlesice IN th
P1MM great for
each individual
P1MM facility.
()a plea for
Is  t       f all
oil" graduates to
indivtdal  ealth
failities (M,
PM" aNW Local
increase In the
number of
equal to the
NNuMar of
graduates bet
allowig  e
replacmn.o
heaptal swtaf h
have loft durtng
the previos year.
o_e).~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 84 -
MALAWI                    ANNEX C
PHN SECTOR CREDIT               Page 1 of 5
Hospital Efficiency Improvement Component
1.   Backgrous.d.
For the last several years, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has been
concerned to improve the efficiency of its hospital services, particularly
in relation to the major hospitals located in Lilongwe (Kamuzu Central
Hospital), Blantyre (Queen Elizabeth Hospital) and Zomba (General
Hospital). These hospitals currently consume over a third of the
revenue/recurrent budget of the MOH, have regularly had budget over-
expenditures, and are believed to operate extremely inefficiently. To
improve their efficiency, it will be necessary for the MOH to undertake a
comprehensive program of investment and reform, not only in the hospitals
themselves, but also through improving the quality of peripheral services
and by encouraging patients to make greater use of these peripheral
services.
2.    Financial Context.
As described elsewhere, the project will provide considerable support
for the strengthening of peripheral services. In addition, the need to
undertake improvements within the hospitals themselves has become
increasingly urgent in view of the objective of the MOH to reorient its
revenue budget towards the periphery, and the consequent aim to reduce the
proportion of the budget allocated to the three major hospitals from 35
percent of the total in FY 1990/91 to 25 percent of the total in FY
1995/96. However, although there will be severe pressure on these
hospitals to reduce their operating costs due to the proportional decrease
in their budgetary allocation, their operating budgets would still be
increasing in real terms over the five year period of the project due to
the real growth of the overall budget, but at a much slower rate of growth
than the other, higher-priority services. Against this background, it will
be necessary for each of the hospitals to revise and update their plans for
efficiency improvements, with particular attention to ensuring their speedy
implementation.
3.    Detailed Description of Component.
A review has already been made by the MOH (and the administrative
staff of the three major hospital) of the main items of non-salary
expenditures - vehicle operation and maintenance, boiler and electrical
systems, water, telephones, and food consumption - and ways in which these
expenditures could be reduced. (Expenditureo on pharmaceutical and medical
supplies were considered separately, and the proposed pharmaceutical
component of this project includes a number of measures to improve
prescribing practices). The proposals for cost reductions fall into four
broad categories: (i) transport; (ii) utility systems; (iii) other
expenditure items; and (iv) improved accounting and expenditure control
capacity.



- 85 -
3.1   Transport                                                ANNEX C
Page 2 of 5
Background studies have been carried out in reviewing the transport
needs of the major hospitals. These studies have highlighted the need for
the replacement of old and uneconomic vehicles in poor working order, and
the need for suitable vehicles for bulk transport. The studies also
concluded that the improvement of the vehicle fleets would reduce, if not
eliminate, the need to hire vehicles at high cost for essential services.
Some additional vehicles have already been purchased and hospital services
have improved. However, so far there has only been a marginal reduction in
costs. There is a particular need to monitor, on a continuous basis,
expenditures on fuel, vehicle maintenance and repair, and vehicle hire.
The program to improve transport efficiency, therefore, needs to include
the following actions:
(i)   regular testing of vehicles to determine fuel consumption, and
introduction of random checks thereafter on fuel consumption
levels;
(ii) regular training of drivers to improve discipline and reduce
accidents;
(iii) introduction of a driver/mechanic grade to improve transport
management at major hospitals and, possibly, regional health
offices;
(iv) review of incentives for good performance by drivers;
(v)   acquisition of motor cycles for despatch work at major
institutions;
(vi) improved carrying out of supervision of transport maintenance;
(vii) review of transport fleet, elimination of uneconomic vehicles,
and cost-effective purchase of appropriate replacement
vehicles; and
(viii) improved stock of vehicle spares to reduce rate of vehicles
off-the-road.
3.2   Utilities.
(i)   Boiler and electrical systems
At QEH there are 'whree coal-fired boilers used for steam generation
at the hospital for the operation of equipment in the kitchen, laundry,
CSSD and other units. The boilers and the reticulation system are over 30
years old, inefficient and need replacement. An engineering report on the
system has been carried out and various options were put forward to the MOH
for correcting the problems. One option was costed at MK 1.3 million and
another at MK 1.9 million. Some particularly urgent work has already
started to replace the boiler feed pumps with ball valves and the steam
heating coils in the feed tanks. However, a decision on a detailed plan of
action for a more comprehensive program of efficiency improvement has
awaited a signal that funds could be made available. It is now necessary,
therefore, for a plan to be finalized to correct these major utility
problems at the QEH. Suclh a plan should include:
(a)   an assessment of laundry machinery and equipment, and
development of a scheme for improvement;



- 86 -
ANNEX C
Page 3 of 5
(b)   organization of a scheme for replacement of the existing coal-
fired boiler system with an electrical reticulation system and
appropriate equipment for the laundry, kitchen and CSSD;
(c)   arrangements for all housing units presently supplied with
electricity from the hospital system to be metered separately
with bills to be paid by the occupants; and
(d)   measures to ensure that units not belonging to the hospital are
made responsible for electricity payments.
At QEH, apart from the boiler and associated reticulation problem,
there has also been concern that the electri"al distribution system needs
to be upgraded.  A consultancy report has recommended that remedial work
estimated at MK 60,000 be carried out, and that additional improvements
(costing MK 1.8 million) should also be undertaken to upgrade the
switchgear and to provide standby diesel generators for the hospital.
At KCH, on the other hand, an engineering consultancy report on the
electrical services recommended that the existing diesel boiler system
should not be replaced with the installation of an electrical system.
However, some urgent measures were recommended to improve the efficiency of
the kitchen and laundry services, and this work is already underway. While
no major plan of action, therefore, needs to be developed for the boiler or
electrical system at KCH at present, the situation may need to be reviewed
further in due course.
At other major hospitals and institutions a review should be carried
out to analyze the cost of electricity and to identify possible savings.
Measures should also be taken to ensure that private consumers are billed
separately and directly.
(ii) Water consumption
There has been a long history to the problem of excessive water
consumption at QEH, but some improvements have recently been made through
corrective measures taken following a report by the Ministry of Works.
Nevertheleas, some further steps are still requireds
(a)   arrangement for all units, including private consumers and
other MOH units besides the hospital, to pay their water bills
separately and directly;
(b)   arrangement for the fire hydrant to be metered separately and
for water consumption to be paid by the City Council; and
(c)   monitoring of water consumption and any necessary
rationalization then to be carried out.
At all health institutions, measures need to be taken to conserve
water use and eliminate waste. This will require improved general
maintenance of hospital buildings and emphasis on the elimination of leaks
etc.



- 87 -
3.3   Other Expenditure Items.                         ANNEX C
Page 4 of 5
(i)   Telephone usa-e
Some action has already been taken to ensure that individuals pay for
their own private calls. This has been facilitated by the decentralized
control of institutional budgets. However, some further steps are needed
tot
(a)   arrange for payments to be made for private calls by
responsible officers;
(b)   ensure maintenance of proper records for all calls made on
official phones; and
(c)   arrange for periodic monitoring of phone expenditures and
payments.
(ii) Food
In 1984 a comparative study of food expenditures at the central
hospitals showed large discrepancies in unit amounts. Several measures
were suggested to improve efficiency and reduce c.osts, and since then
purchasing procedures for food items have improved. The number of
registered suppliers has been increased, and there is now stricter control
exercised over the receipt, usage and storage of food in the hospital
kitchens. There is now a need for a review of food expenditures over the
last two years at the major health institutions, and also a review of
procedures for estimating, procuring, receiving and utilizing food. The
feasibility of organizing hospital food supplies on a contract basis could
be studied too.
3.4   Accounting and Expenditure Control Capacity
Many of the proposed improvements in hospital efficiency will require
physical investment expenditures, but many improvements will depend more on
strengthened procedures and management. Key to this will be further
development of the MOH0a accounting and expenditure control capacity.
There is already a senior accountant posted to each of the central
hospitals, and each district hospital has an approved post for a senior
accountant (and 11 of them are already in post). In each central hospital
a computer has also recently been Installed. However, the accounting
capacity In the hospitals (and also in the regional offices) needs to be
upgraded further, and the MOH Chief Accountant has proposed that another 50
assistant accountant posts be established. Local training for these staff
could be provided, on a day release basis, through the Malawi College of
Accountancy, to provide them with the basic skills needs to carry out their
jobs offectively.
4.    Funding and Avoroval Process.
The cost of the infrastructure items proposed amount to about MK 3.2
million (approximately US 1.1 million), most of which is proposed to be
spent at Blantyre. These items have been reviewed and supported in



- 88 -
ANNEX C
Page 5 of 5
principle by a Committee on Efficiency Improvements, which has been
established in the MOH and which is chaired by the Ministry's Deputy
Secretary.
Under the health sector investment credit, it is proposed to include
a fund of MK 5 million to support measures to improve the efficiency of the
three major hospitals. This would be for infrastructure as well as other
types of investment. The procedures to be adopted would encompass two
steps. First, by the time of credit negotiations, each of the hospitals
would propose a 5-year plan (to be reviewed and approved by the MOH
Committee on Efficiency Improvements) for efficiency improvements through
cost reductions. (To the extent that the revenue generated from private
patient fees would be expected to be greater than any additional
expenditures incurred, then some modest rehabilitation of private patient
facilities could also be considered). The hospital plans would show the
investments needed to secure the zav4ngs, and particular attention should
be given to training activities and improved management and expenditure
control systems. The plans should link these investments to projections of
the overall hospital operating budgets, consistent with the MOH budgetary
framework. They should also explain how the efficiency improvement program
would be monitored to ensure that savings are achieved and that new areas
of undue expenditures do not arise. Second, after review at project
negotiations with IDA of the individual hospital 5-year plans, specific
annual work programs would be prepared. The first of these (i.e. for FY
1991/92) would be a condition of credit effectiveness. For any proposed
infrastructure investment costing over US$ 100,000, a separate technical
report would need to be prepared. Annual work programs for each of the
subsequent years of the project would be prepared by the January of each
year, and then submitted for the review and approval of IDA. With effect
from January 1992, the annual work programs should each include a progress
report on work already undertaken and an analysis of the cost savings
estimated to be accruing. Approval of work programs for FY 1992/93 - FY
1995/96 would be contingent upon evidence of satisfactory progress on
previous schemes.



- 89 -
NALAWI PHRN SECTOR CREDIT          ANNEX D
Page 1 of 2
Primary Health Care Fund
The MOH faces a major challenge to improve the health status of the
people of Malawi, but there is already evidence that services are well
utilized when made available. The average number of outpatient visits per
year is two, and children under five years of age each have almost four
contacts with the health system annually. The high rates of coverage of
the expanded program on immunization and of the antenatal care program also
indicate that access to some key services is already good. At the same
time, however, tignificant further progress will depend on two critical
strategies - increasing the number of peripheral health workers and
strengthening community participation in the primary health care system.
The former will be supported through the manpower development strategy of
the health sector credit, while complementary measures will be used to
promote increased community involvement in health. One of these measures
will be the establishment of a primary health care fund.
In 1986 the use of paid community health care workers was
discontinued, because that approach had not engendered sufficient community
participation or sense of responsibility by individuals for their own
health. In addition, the paid community health workers had been overloaded
with too many tasks. At that time then the Government decided instead to
rely on village level volunteers for major activities such as nucrition and
family planning. More recently the Government has decided also to
introduce the cadre of health surveillance assistants, who will assist
health assistants in promoting the provision of safe water supplies, In
establishing village health committees, and generally in Implementing child
survival activities. They will also work closely with the other frontline
health workers, such as the enrolled community health nurses, the enrolled
nurses/midwives and the medical assistants. All of these cadres, however,
need to be strengthened and provided with support to facilitate their
motivational work in the local communities.
It is in this context that the MOH has decided to explore ways of
encouraging stronger community PHC activities. To do this, a PHC fund
would be established and financed through the health sector credit. The
fund would: (i) provide low-cost support to communities to carry out PHC
activities at the local level; (ii) provide resources to encourage
innovative health financing schemes within communities; (iii) finance
rewards of various kinds to communities which are judged to have been
particularly successful in PHC activities; and (iv) provide support for PHC
activities to be monitored and accessed more efficiently by health workers.
The specific criteria for each of these categories are still being
developed and reviewed by the MOH. However, a budget of about USS 4,000
per district per year (or about US$ 0.5 million in total) would be made
available through the project. In order to administer the scheme, each
district would constitute a committee to evaluate proposals for financing



- 90 -
ANNEX D
Page 2 of 2
from the PHC fund, and each committee's recommendations would be sent to
the regional level for final approval. After the first year of operation
of the scheme, a progress report on ongoing activities would need to
accompany any recommendations sent to the regional level for further
funding approvals. An annual report on implementation of projects would be
compiled by each region for submission to the MOH.



- 91 -
MALAWI               ANNEX E
PHN SECTOR CREDIT         Page 1 of 7
Social Program Suoport Fund
The Social Program Support Fund consists of two principal components:
studies (US$ 300,000) and pilot interventions (US$ 2.0 million). This
annex provides a guide to implemencation.
The studies are intended to provide a basis for improving policies and
interventions to address poverty. The Special Studies Unit of EP&D will
coordinate the studies. The Task Force will agree on those selected for
funding. They will be carried out by government and other institutes and
agencies. Studies could be inter-disciplinary and should involve, when
possible, a range of methodologies: sociological, anthropological, etc.
Priority areas already identified by EP&D and the CSR include: food
security and nutrition of vulnerable groups; women in development (access
to credit, fertilizer and income generating activities); land constrained
households; and welfare in the estate sector. Other areas might include:
access to literacy, primary health care, population, rural water supplies.
The major objective cf the Social Support Program (SSP) is to enable
the Government of Malawi to fund pilot interventions that aim at improving
the situation of vulnerable groups within the framework the Government's
overall strategy for poverty alleviation and growth. Successful and cost-
effective pilot interventions can be considered for wide replication. They
will help to encourage and empower vulnerable groups including the poor
actively to participate in social and economic development. The project
will finance pilot projects and the operating costs of coordination. The
IDA funds are supplemented by grant funds from other Donors; an SDA project
document contains details.
A. Institutional Arrangements
A Social Support Task Force (SSTF) has been set up, chaired by EP&D
and including also the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture, Community
Services, Local Government, Labor, Health, and Education, the NSO, and the
CSR. The Council for Social Welfare Services has observer status.
The SSTP will be responsible for providing guidance and oversight to the
SDA activities, including (a) deciding on priorities tor studies; (b)
defining the target groups that will be the primary beneficiaries of the
pilot interventions; (c) cetting procedures and criteria for the selection,
monitoring, and evaluation of pilot interventions; (d) making
recommendations to Government about implementation on a wider scale of
pilot projects that are tested and found to be effective, workable and cost
effective.
The SSP will be coordinated by the Special Studies Unit of the EP&D.
A coordinator will be hired to assist the Head of the Unit. Resources
(office equipment, a vehicle, training as necessary) will be provided to
the Special Studies Unit and the Evaluation & Monitoring Unit of the EP&D



- 92 -
ANNEX E
Page 2 of 7
to enhance their capacity to implement the SDA project component. The
responsibilities of Head of the Special Studies Unit are as follows
Social Program Support Fund
(a) Managing the SPSF in accordance with GOM/IBRD financial management
procedures;
(b) Ensuring that accounting information is up to date.
Studies
(a) Overseeing the implementation of the Social policy studies carried out
by the Spocial Studies Unit.
(b) Subcontracting social policy studies to the Center for Social Research
and other relevant organizations or individuals.
(c) Evaluating the final reports with the assistance of the Special
Studies Unit and the CSR and making appropriate recommendations to the
SSTP and the UTF concerning their timely utilization for the purpose
of social policy formulation within macroeconomic framework.
(d) Liaising with the National Research Council in the process of social
policy studies approval.
Pilot Prolects
(a) Appraising project proposals in accordance with the agreed criteria
with the assistance of the Special Studies Unit and the CSR.
(b) Presenting the proposals with comments and recommndations to the SSTF
for review and final approval.
(c) Carrying out a final evaluation of the project with the assistance of
the CSR and make recommendations to the SSTF concerning future
widespread replicability.
(d) Maintaining contact and regular flow of information between the
Special Studies Unit, line Ministries and the NGOs.
Workshops
Overseeing the organization of local training workshops. The aim of
these workshops will be to clarify and discuss the SDA project
objectives and to assist implementing agencies in putting appropriate
monitoring and evaluation systems in place. The workshops will be
organized by the CSR and will involve all potential implementing
agencies.
B. Target Groups
The following groups have been identified as being in need of
immediate assistance, and are the target of the SDA activitiest
(a) households with malnourished children;
(b) land constrained households (those with less than .5 hectares) who are
likely to deplete their food stocks before the next harvest;
(c) female-headed households with less than .5 hectare, with particular
attention to those who do not receive significant remittances or



- 93 -
ANNEX E
Page 3 of 7
transfers. These households are likely to have little or no formal
education, little contact with agricultural extension, may be labor
short and own few items of farm equipment and make little use of
fertilizer;
(d) families in the estate sector, particularly those with only seasonal
or irregular work with very low incomes;
(e) very low income urban families.
C. Criteria for Pilot Schemes Selection
Funding priority will be given to pilot projects that meet the
criteria set out below, especially those with employment and income-
generating potential. There are already a number of ideas being considered
by GOM and othera in Malawi that would be consistent with these guidelines.
These include: targeted food subsidi2s, food for work schemes, credit
schemes targeted to the poor, pilot nutrition interventions, literacy, and
provision of clean water. These broad guidelines are intended to help in
the selection of pilot schemes, but should not be seen as a check list to
be rigidly adhered to.
(a) The pilots should be of direct benefit to the vulnerable groups
identified above.
(b) They should be small-scale pilot interventions which should derive
from the felt needs of the community (expressed through existing
government channels or NGOs). In all cases there should be evidence
of full and early consultation with the communities concerned in order
to encourage a participatory approach. It is expected that in most
cases there will be some contributions from the community through
self-help.
(c) As the pilot scheme fund is small (2 million dollars) project costs
should be no larger than MK200,OOO. No minimum project cost is
proposed, even very modest proposals would be considered.
(d) Proposals should have the potential for being implemented on a larger
scale if they prove successful, which makes it imports:.t that they be
affordable and cost-effective.
(e) The life of the project should not exceed th:ee years. This criteria
should be modified and adjusted as experience is gained through the
implementation of pilot interventions.
(f)  They should be consistent with Government's sector strategies and
investment programs.



- 94 -
ANNEX E
Page 4 of 7
(g) Projects should have low managerial complexity and executing agencies
should possess t.ae management and staffing capability needed to carry
out proposed interventions.
(h) Projects should not involve large start-up costs or heavy capital
expenditure.
(i) Proposals that would encourage off farm income-generating activities
especially for women would need to ensure adequate returns for time
and money invested i.e. they should not be resource intensive or
require large capital inputs.
D. Guidelines and Information Needed in Project Proposals
Oblectives should be stated, clearly setting out (i) the reasons for
undertaking the project; (ii) who is likely to benefit; and (iii) the
outcome hoped for and the specific results aimed at. The activities to be
undertaken should be clearly described. The proposal should explain how
the project will be monitored by the implementing agency. The duration of
the pilot project should be stated. Viability: the proposal should give
reasons for believing that the project will be sustainable and replicable.
It should al.so include consideration of factors which might affect the
success of the project:
- naturallenvironmental conditions;
- dependence upon non-project personnel in implementing the project;
- factors such as transportation, variable prices, storage capacity, market
demand (where relevant)
- the receptivity of the community to new ideas and methods and proposed
measures to take this into account;
- cultural and social factors which might affect project implementation;
- attention to the needs of women (timing, location, demands on labor and
time);
- availability of required skills for carrying out the project activiites.
Details of the implementing agency should be given, stating (i) the
agency's previous experience in executing similar projects; and (ii) the
agency's capability to start, execute and complete a project on time and
within an established budget.
Prolect Cost (Budget) A detailed breakdown should be given of the
amount of money requested on a year by year basis, showing all items to be
funded. The cost breakdown should include salaries, any equipment, office
space, furniture, transport needs (including fuel).



- 95 -
ANNEY E
Page 5 of 7
E. Pilot Proiect Monitoring
Monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness and impact of the
pilots is an extremely important part of the project. It will enable
decisions and planning for replication of successful approaches. EP&D,
specifically the coordinator, will ensure that adequate monitoring and
evaluation is carried out. Periodic reports on each pilot should be
prepared, and the coordinator should visit each p oject at least each
quarter. The CSR would be hired to prepare final project impact
evaluations.
The Special Studies Unit, assisted by the CSR and the Council for
Social Welfare Services, will also be responsible for helping implementing
agents (i.e. NGOs and line Ministries) to carry out simple monitoring
procedures to i) collect baseline data (a simple profile of the community
could suffice for small projects), ii) apply simple measures of project
achievements, e.g. increased income, improved autrition, attendance at
health centers, increased community self-confidence in taking decisions.
F. Procedures for the Pilots Funds
Review of Applications to the Pilots Fund
GOM agencies, communities, NGOs, and District Development Committees
may submit proposals at any time to the coordinator. Incomplete proposals
will be returned to the submitting agency with comments and suggestions as
well as a request that the agency make improvements and resubmit the
proposal. By the end of each month, the coordinator will forward all
proposals with comments and recommendations to the SSTF for review and
approval at a meeting to be held within the first 2 weeks of the month.
Following its review, the SSTF will return the proposals to the
coordinator, indicating which have been approved and which have not, making
additional comments when necessary. By the 28th of the month, the Unit
will notify concerned the agencies or group which has submitted the
proposal whether or not it was approved for funding.
Contracting Procedures
Within two weeks of a proposal being approved, a contract will be
drawn up in duplicate, to be signed by the coordinator and the
NGO/PVOIDDC/GOM agency. The signatory NGO will be solely responsible to
the coordinator for proper implementation of the project covered by the
contract.
The signatory GOM agency/DDCIPVO/NGO will be responsible for procuring
all the human and material resources necessary for the implementation of
the project covered by the contract. All physical assets procured through



- 96 -
ANNEX E
Page t of 7
the project will become the property of the project's beneficiaries or the
implementing agency once the project is completed.
Under no circumstances will the funding level agreed upon be increased
once a contract has been signed.
Contract termination: The coordinator has the right to terminate a
contract if the implementing agency does not comply with the terms of the
contract. In these cases, the coordinator may demand partial or total
repayment of funds already disbursed. Should the GOM Agency/NGO/PVO/DDC
cancel the contract, the coordinator may demand partial or total repayment
of funds already disbursed. Repayment of funds must be made within one
month of contract cancellation.
Disbursement Procedures
Funding for approved pilot projects shall be paid in both foreign
exchange and Maluwi Kwacha in one or more installments, as specified in the
contract. The method of disbursement shall be periodic advances.
The first disbursement shall not be roleased until the NGO makes a
request to the coordinator indicating the date on which project
implementatior. is to begin. At the saLte time, the NGO must be able to
demonstrate that adequate financial/accounting procedures are in place (see
section C below). The first disbursement of funds shall cover a period of
three months. Subsequent disbursements will be made at the request of the
Implementing agency. Requests should be supported by a written progress
report which also documents (with invoices, receipts etc) how the previous
disbursement of funds have been spent, and indicates how the next
disbursement will be used.
Unless agreed otherwise in the contract, the initial request for funds
must normally be made within one month of project approval, with pr'ject
implementation beginning in the following month. Should this condition not
be met, the coordinator has the unilateral right to terminate the contract.
Financial and Accounting Procedures
Project implementing agencies must keep a separate account for each
contract. This includes a separate bank account and/or account book which
lists income and expenditures by date and conforms with generally accepted
accounting procedures. When appropriate, both local and foreign currency
accounts must be maintained.
The accounts book and related documentation must be made available to
IDA for review upon request. The book and documentation must be retained
by the agency for a period of three years following project completion.



- 97 -
ANNEX E
Page 7 of 7
Supporting documentation shall includes
-    original bank statements
-    invoices/receipts for purchases
-    accounting documents
-    statements of expenses
ReDorting Reauirements
The Implementing agency must notify the coordinator Lmmediately should
problems arise which might significantly delay project implementation as
described in the contract. The agency shall notify the coordinator in
writing of any significant modification in the nature of tho project
activities which necessitace significant budget line changes, and request
coordinator's approval of the modifications.
Interim reports on the progress of the project activities shall be
submitted with each request for disbursement of funds. Theoe reports shall
include a section describing how the project progress is proceeding and a
financial section indicating (i) how previous disbursements have been used
and (ii) how the next disbursement of funds will be spent.
Within 2 months of project completion, the Implementing agency should
submit a final report to the coordinator which gives a full description of
project activities and accomplishments; a description of problems
encountered and how they were resolved; and an analysis, if possible, of
the impact of the project on the target group. This final report must
include a detailed financial statement.



- 98 -
ANNEX F
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI: PHN SECTOR CREDIT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.   Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities.  The staff input in
the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs for the
review of progress reports, procurement actions, correpondence, *tc,
(estimated for this project to require four staff weeks per year during
the first two project years, and three staff-weeks per year thereafter).
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Sugervision:
(a) Progress Reports are to be submitted at the end of March
and September each year by the Project Unit within  OH.
(b) Project monitoring and coordination wili be the
responsibility of the Committee to be set up within MOH
responsible for the monitoring of the activities within the
project. Review meetings with the participation of the
various ministries will be normally held in mid December and
mid August of each year. The meetings will be chaired by
the Principal Secretary, Ministry of Health.
(c)   The Project Unit of the Ministry of Health will be
responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
supervision missions and for providing information required
by missions   Missions will normally be accompanied by an
officer from the Ministry of Health and the Project Unit
officer responsible for the day to day operation of the
project.
(d) Mission briefing meetings on arrival will normally be
chaired by the Principal Secretary Mininstry of Health who
will also arrange appropriate wrap-up meetings.



- 99 -
ANNEX F
Page 2 of 3
Sank Supervision Input irto Key Activities
Approximate
Dates                                   Expected Skill    Staff Input
(month/year)       Activity                Requirements     (staff-weeks)
2/91        Annual Review for              Economist
Credit Effectiveness           Public Health Specialist
Project Officer
5/91        Supervision mission            Econcmist                  10.0
(Project Launch Workshop)     Procurement Specialist
Disbursement Specialist
Public Health Specialist
Project Officer
9j91        Review of the WID and          WID Specialist              8.0
nutrition components          Nutrition Specialist
Economist
Implementation Specialist
1/92        Annual Review                  Economist                   8.0
Public Health Specialist
WID Specialist
Implementation Specialist
9/92        Review of the                  Health Management Sp.      6.0
decentralization process,     Economist
the health management         Pharmaceutical Specialist
system and cost sharing
issues, the pharmaceutical
component
1193        Annual Review of the           Economist                  6.0
conditionalitios              Specialist in WID,
Nutrition, Public
Health & Population
9/93        Detailed mid-term review       IEC Specialist            12.0
of program and project        Population Adviser
components                    Economist
Project Officer
Management Specialist



- 100 -
ANNEX F
Page 3 of 3
Approximate
Dates                                    Expected Skill    Staff Input
(month/year)       Activity                 Requirements      (staff-weeks)
1/94        Annual review                   Economist                 12.0
Public Health Specialist
Pharmaceutical Specialist
Nutrition Adviser
Architect
WID Specialist
9/94        Review of the hospital          Economist                   6.0
efficiency measures,           Architect
the decentralization           Public Health Specialist
and cost-sharing offorts
1/95        Annual review of all            Pharmaceutical Specialist  8.0
project components             IEC Specialist
Economist
Population & Management
Specialists
9/95        Supervision of the WID          WID Adviser                8.0
and Nutrition components       Public Health Specialist
Nutrition Specialist
Economist
1/96        Annual Review                   Economist                  8.0
Public Health Specialist
Architect
Management Specialist
9/96        Supervision mission             Nutrition Advisor         10.0
Public Health Specialist
Population and IEC Specialist
Implementation Specialist
WID Specialist
1/97        Project Completion Mission    Financial Analyst           24.0
/Economist
Nutrition Specialist
WID Specialist
IEC Specialist
Pharmaceutical Specialist
Implementation Specialist



- 101 -
MALAWI                          Annex G
Page 1 of 1
PHN Sector Credit
A. Studle and EvaluatLon
1.   Decetralization study
2.   Rationalization of health services of PRAM and Ministry of Health
3.   Evaluation of hospital efftciency
4.   Continuous monitoring and evaluation of cost sharing
5.   Family formation survey
6.   Preparation of follow up project
B. Toehnical Assistance
Staff Ygar
Couaunication Specialist                        4
Local Architect - Ccnoultant                    5
Technical Advlsor                               5
Qaantity Surveyor (Local)                       5
'roject Coordinator (Local)                     5
Phamceologlit (Expatriate)                      6
Prescription Trainer                            3
Central Admlniatrator                           3
Local Consultants (Nutrition)                  30
Personnel Information Designer                  4
WID Advisor - Headquarters                      3
WID Advisor - Magomero                          3
Specialists in paper, o~il,
fiber leaf cup/bamboo/spinning,
weaving, and pottery                         3
Total                                          79
C. Fellowships
Staff Years
12 Pharmacists                                 36
FYam Manager                                1/2
Biogas Engineer                             112
7 Offlers - short term training              112
Principal (Magomero)                        114
24 Accountant                                  120
24 District Health Administrators              24
Total                                          181-3/4



- 102 -                              Annex Ti
Page 1 of 1
WMAA6
no SWCT CIT
To  LEDU CUMES OF DEAU
#.4 vIm
DISEASE                                              CAM            3        DATS            s
1. Avitam3no.is, Other Nutritle  0S.le1a               1m             1is       14U            IS
2.  Pneumoi                                            NMin6          1          111I          1l
.  Anulas                                             1NM             1i         1             1t
4. Other Malaria                                       moo15                      5            1iS
S. Meales                                               am             6         "6              a
6.  Cause  of Perinstal Morbldity                       1676           63         on            Is
7.  Cerebral Malaria                                    445           e6          m              a
S.  Enterities  Other Dlrrh.el                          717T           3         5             73
0.  Disase  of Nervou  Sytem                            115           26         21             43
19. All Oter Ifet Slv  Dlseeee 7_5                                     13         135          23
TOTAL                                                   647l         1_*         7m           Wm
SURCE: MON CoWmNIT  HALTN  STATISCS UNIT
TEN LEADINS CAUSES OF DEUTH
5-14 YEARS
DISEASE                                               CASES         3         DEATHS         x
1. Avitaminosis. Other Nutrition Deficiaey              1264           6          222          24X
2.  Other Malorei                                       4622          so3         114          12X
S.  Cerebral Malaria                                   t1s2            6          1e?          12X
4. Pn_monil                                             2128          183          95          1a
6. Anaemlas                                             12U5           ex          19          1o
6. Measles                                              2422         1i            a             1s
7. Dimsm  of Nervus ystem                               720           43          so           ox
S. Euteritie, other Oiaree.l                            1t o                       a            713
9.  TI-sllw  Sls. a_1                                                              8            43
1. All DOther Infectlive  lesse                          26            23          U            53
TOTAL                                                  10611         low          *0          1 S
SOUCEt MOM CONmNITY HEALMH STATICS UlT



Annex T2
- 103 -                              Page I-of I
MALAWI
PHN SECTOt CREDIT
TEN LEADDIN CAUSES OF ADMISSION
AMONG CHIL.DREN UIDER FIVE
suAm#                                               CASES          X        DEATHS          X
Othe.   Malaria                                      2t16            2913       ol1           113
3. Paumea                                              1is6           153        I119          153
.Asamles                                             iUm             1s       to"            153
4. Avttamholtm    Other Nutriteon Dtlolzoney            758          1in         1483          23
S. EatrlIlot  Omer Dlarrho.l                            6717           ON         527           ?S
6. Meoloe                                               666            ox         6T            o1
7.  Cerebl Malaria                                      4465           as         026           Os
3. Causo  of Perinatel Morbidity                        1676           23         66            ox
e. Dio . of Nervous System                              1251           2X         259           4X
19. Iroachitl., Emhyse                  1X2                            13          46           1X
TAL                                                    767"          16          7286         1061
SOUSCE   MON CoWNMN     HEALTH STATISTICS UNIT



- 104 -
Annex T3
Page 1 of 1
MALAVI
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
NUMBER OF HEALTH INSTITUTIONS UNDER MINISTRY OF HEALTH
1989
Region/                        Leprosaria &                                                 Health
District           Hospitals  Mental Hosptl. PHC   Dispensary/ Maternity  Dispensary   Post
(N) Chitipa            1          0            0         4            0          2           0
(N) Karonga            1          0            2         5            1          2           2
(N) Nkhata Bay         1          0            1         5            0          5           1
(N) Rumphi             1          0            3         3            0          1           0
(N) Mzimba             1          0            1        12            7          6           0
Sub-Total              5          0            7        29            8         16           3
(C) Kasungu            1          0            1         7            0          1           0
(C) Nkhotakota         1          0            1         3            0          1           0
(C) Ntchisi            1          0            0         1            0          3           0
(C) Dowa               1          0            1         7            1          0           0
(C) Salima             1          0            0         5            0          0           0
(C) Lilongwe           1          0            2         8            0          6           2
(C) Mchinji            1          1            1         4            0          3           0
(C) Dedza              1          0            1         2            0          8           1
(C) Ntcheu             1          0            0         6            0          4           0
Sub-Total               9         1             7       43            1         27           3
(S) Mangochi           1          0            0         7            0          3           0
(S) Machinga           1          0            1         3            0          4           0
(S) Zomba              1          1            1         1            0          7           0
(S) Chiradzulu         1          0            1         2            0          2           0
(S) Blantyre           1          0            0         8            0          8           1
(S) Mwanza             1          0            0         4            0          1           0
(S) Thyolo             1          0            1         5            0          4           0
(S) Mulanje            1          0            0         0            0         15           3
(S) Chikwawa           1          0            1         6            0          5           3
(S) Nsanje             1          0            1         5            0          2           2
Sub-Total             10          1            6        41            0         51           9
Grand Total MOH       24           2          20       113            9         94          15



-105 -                           Annexc T4
Page 1 of I
MALAWI
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
Health Centers and Dispensaries/Maternity ver ioiulation:
230/8496214 x 100,000 - 2.7 health centers per 100,000
1989t 230 health centers
1989 estimated populations 8,496,214
Health Centers and Disiensaries/Maternnit per vooulation by Retions
80/950269 x 100,000 -
8.42 health centers and disponsaries/maternity por 100,000 for
Northern.
48/3325795 x 100,000 -
1.44 health centers and dispensaries/maternity per 100,000 for
Central.
102/4220150 x 100,000 -
2.41 health centers and dispensaries/maternity per 100,000 for
Southern.
Hosiltals and PHCs per Population:
8918496214 x 100,000 - 1.0 hospital/PHC per 100,000
Hospitals and PHCs per oPulation by Ration:
31/950269 x 100,000 - 3.2 hospital/PUC per 100,000 for Northern.
20/3325795 x 100,000 * 0.6 hospital/PHC per 100,000 for Central.
38/4220150 x 100,000 - 0.9 hospital/PRC per 100,000 for Southern.
SOURCEs MOB Com^mity Health Statistics Unit
(based on 1989 (latest) data)



- 106 -
ANNEX TS
MALAWI                          P         1 of i
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
HEALTH FACILITIES
NUMEER OF BEDS BY CONTROLLINO AGENCY
REGION/
DISTRICT            MON       PHAM        OL4       OTHER      TOTAL    EST. POP. POP./BED
(N) CHITIPA           119 -6                   9 -                 173      9897 -        566
(N) KARONGA           277         86           1          S        aSl     160628         481
NKHATA BAY        216          77          6         28        J22      138617        483
N RUMPHI             249         179         82          0        461       97656        217
(N) UZIMBA            878        C75          47         48      1in8      444167         428
(N) KASUNGU           228         57           6         8         828     886126        is"
(N) NKHOTAKOTA        198        lee          6          1S        829     163077         618
(N) NTCHISI           56          0           29          8        189     128616         889
(N) DOWA              247        170          21          0        446     828469         736
SUB-TOTAL            1956        181i        147        115       86JU    168S681         58t
(C) SALIMA            218         Uo           3          a        266     198245         721
(C) LILONOWE          744        695         66          76       1091    1311886         682
CC) UCHINJI           241        183           9          6        88s     26C458         676
C) DEDZA             226        246          64          2         S80    4297S3         762
(C) NTCHEU            288        211          24         12        488     872688         775
SUB-TOTAL            1662        1882        168.        g6       8267    22863902        69e
(S) MANCOCHI          888        488           6          2        776     514247         668
S) MACHINGA          111        898           9         10        626      63086W       1304
) ZOIBA              7n6         160          26        169      lo1      446827         412
S) CHIRADZULW        158         174         21          2        86O    218575          610
BS) BLANTYRE          827        221         56         126       1281     604002         491
S) UWANZA            270          76          8         11        865      1260974       846
(S) THYOLO            246        802         00          84        666     443764         648
(5S) MULANJE          212        859        182           6        739     652266         920
(S) CHIKWAWA          206         98          16         16        a8s     881699         996
(5S) NSANJE           137        228          0           1        886     213566         627
SUB-TOTAL            8195       2484         U 8        420       6895    4068879        O68
GRAND TOTAL          6615       5376         668        688      18192    8209894         622
SOURCE: MCH COMMUNITY HEALTH STATISTICS UNIT (1989 DATA)
hep
MALBEDS.WK1



- 107 -
ANNEX TO
MAAWI                                ----
------                               Pae. 1 of 1
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
OUT-PATIENT RETURNS
BY DISTRICT AND CONTROLLING AGENCY
DISTRICT             MOH    X        PAMU     X      L.GOV.   X        OTHER    X       TOTAL
CHITIPA             121168  94X        7062    6X          0    eX          0    ex     128218
KARONGA             147777   SOX      21495   12X       J011    2X          e    ex     172198
NKHATA-3AY          274966   77X      16876    6X          0    eX      68966  18X      865817
RUMPHI              179J48  84X       26112   lSX          0    eX       6661    SX     214121
MZIMBA              84S8   s8X        96653   16X      41876    eX      32416   1SX     626M9
KASUNGU             876490   76X      84645    7X     J8927    7X       56824   11X     Sl688S
NKHOTAKOTA          186512  49X       18212    7X          a    eX     122787  44X      276511
NTCHISI             1J6528   76X      21299   12X          0    eX      22966  18X      174886
DOWA                294086   77X      64169   17X       8562   2X       14786   4X      881845
SALIMA              22a886   75X      49286   17X          a    eX      26469   9X      298129
LILONGWE           1624962   79X      94181    7X       6447    OX     170796  18X    1296460
UCHINJI             2008  7SX        67629   21X          0    eX      1639    SX      274141
DEDZA               J06959   70X      98704  22X           6    ex      84626    eX     488669
NTCHEU              294696   8W       683958   17X         6    eX       9729    aX     868582
MANGOCHI            555946   82X      67170  18X       11694   2X       21280    aX     675996
MACHINGA            282009  65X       94242   22X       2176    1X      62822   12X    481248
ZOMBA                215609  7WX      63662    SX          0    OX     288672   21X    1120148
CHIRDZULU           25629  89X        28212    OX       4688    2X       60656   2X     289284
BLANTYRE            665889  S8X       79299   1OX        468   OX      177590   22X     668196
UWANZA              187979   87X      10210    SX          6   ex       19109    9X     217298
THYOLO              510047  58X      124466  18WX          0    eX      28446   84X     962959
MULANJE             485628  s6x       62719  11X           0    eX     197647  26X      765889
CHIKWAWA            802532  64X       16180   2X           0    eX     163O85  J4X      473847
NSANJE              287629  72X       99408  27X           6   eX        S881   1X      871169
6288747          1887628           111990          1882122         11516882
hcp
MALOP.VK1



- 108 -
Annex T7
Page 1 of 1
MALAWI
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
NUMBER OF HEALTH INSTITUTIONS UNDER LOCAL GOVERNMENT
1989
Region/                        Leprosaria &                                                 Health
District           Hospitals  Mental Hosptl. PHC   Dispensary/ Maternity  Dispensary   Post
(N) Chitipa            0          0            0         0            3          0           0
(N) Karonga            0          0            0         0            0          2           0
(N) Nkhata Bay         0          0            0         0            1          1           0
(It) Rumphi            0          0            0         0            3          0           0
(N) Mzimba             0          0            0         0            4         10           0
Sub-Total               0          0            0        0           11         13            0
(C) Kasungu            0          0            0         1            0          3           0
(C) Nkhotakota         0          0            0         0            1          0           0
(C) Ntchisi            0          0            0         0            3          0           0
(C) Dowa               0          0            0         2            0          1           0
(C) Salima             0          0            0         0            0          0           0
(C) Lilongwe           0          0            0         1            7          0           0
(C) Mchinji            0          0            0         0            2          0           0
(C) Dedza              0          0            0         0            8          0           0
(C) Ntcheu             0          0            0         0            5          0           0
Sub-Total               0         0             0        4           26          4           0
(S) Mangochi           0          0            0         1            0          0           0
(S) Machinga           0          0            0         1            0          0           0
(S) Zomba              0          0            0         0            2          0           0
(S) Chiradzulu         0          0            0         0            2          1           0
(S) Blantyre           0          0            0         0            5          1           0
(S) Mwanza             0          0            0         0            1          0           0
(S) Thyolo             0          0            0         0            6          0           0
(S) Mulanje            0          0            0         0           15          0           0
(S) Chikwawa           0          0            0         1            1          0           0
(S) Nsanje             0          0            0         0            0          0           0
Sub-Total               0          0            0        3           32          2           0
Grand Total MOLG        0          0            0         7          69         19            0



- 109 -
ANNEX TO
Page 1 of 1
MALAWI
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
NUMBER OF TRADITIONAL BIRTH ATTENDANTS
BY DISTRICT
DISTRICT                   NO.
CHITIPA                     U4
KARONGA                     26
NKHATA-BAY                  40
RUWPHI                      U4
UZIMBA                      so
TOTAL NORTHERN             184
KASUNtN                     76
NKHOTAKOTA                  89
NTOCISI                     52
DOWA                        so
SAULIA                      so
LILONGWE                    48
UMCINJI                     41
DEDZA                       89
NTCHEU                      44
TOTAL CENTRAL              489
MANGOCHI                    So
MACHINGA                    42
ZOMBA                       88
CHIRADZULW                  28
BLANTYRE                    48
WANZA                       40
THYOLO                      62
MULANJE                     15
CHNIKWAWA                   84
NSANJE                      40
TOTAL SOMTHERN             882
GRAND TOTAL               iNS
hcp
MALTBA.WK1



- 110 -
M"E Te
MALAWI
______                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Peg 1  of 1
PHN SE;tR CRDIT
SIWARY OF 1995 STAFF REJUIRINIS AT MINIDU STANA00S A CA  REOW6ED STAM S (MOH,PHNA A LO)
1969 IN-POST        I A00'AL STAFF REIRE FOR                I                I IAdd'l ?-rj
--------------------  ------ I-      -----------------------------                    I  Pop-Inc.   I
STAFF      I                          IOpen Euieti Current IMin.Standl COO    I TOTAL          I 1 9f-2000 x
CATBUA      I  MOi PHtAN  LO TOTAL  IClInic*   I Dowt. I  LO    I Race  IA.8C.O.E  S INC I      (+201) 
(88) (89)  (89)   (A)   I  ()    I  (C)   I(CD)   I  (E)   I  (F)                         (a)    I
N.d.Off.    1   70   ;S    0    1031 O                  4 O               6         173 ; I OI             s lI
Clin.Off.      166   26   0    2121           01       251       0       201        448 A   11011        69 1
S MHd.Ast.        448  122  20    6t0           J0       72|      271    97t1        1697   1M6I 1        0S9 1
R Other Prof.       7    3   0       101         0 |        I       0       18is       26    1801I1         6I
E Tech.            62   17   0       791         0C        SI       01       271       109      1111        221
V Req.Nur-   1 9e8  126     0     S261           0        31      0       344w       901    71U|         1 6O1
I En. N/M        1216 675  08   19791           601      1621     196     1156 i       m4     7951  1      709 1
C 80          I   8S    0   0         Ss1        0         01       O 1      711       124   134S1  1       25 1
E Hlth.Ast.  I  169    0   0    1691            8o        5        27t      88O1       609   2601I 1       1221
OthierA At.    157   65   0    2              0        12U        01     212U       44t    1011I         89 1
Atendant    I 1286 2006  1I9   0448          s 6  I    148 I    216 I    7  I       480      ill  I     696 I
Serv.Total I 4002 0077 807   7866 I         1t0 I     494       470 I 85 IXS      1168    S751  1    2S14 1
A S-rade            9    0   0        91         01        01       01        01         9      ol I         01
D Prof.            75    0   0       751         0I        01       01       41        116    Sl 11         2S1
H Tech.Off.   I  115    0   0    1181            0         0|        01     -471        68   -41111         141 
1 Tcch.Aest.       62    0   0       62 1        0 1      0 1       01      -87 1       28    -6OSJ I        a 1
N Exec.Off.        7S   18   0       9S          01        01       01      1491       242   160I 1         491
Clor/Attd.I   684  106   0    6201            01        6         0     6811      1807    S4a11         S011
Admin.Totel   1020  1I4   0    11741          01        SI       01      7871      1967       1 SI      5911
N .iSA            720    0   0    7201           0           |U 0            O |    4270   490111         684 1
Other Serv.   1979    0   0    19791          01        01       01        0       1979      11  I      a 36i
E Admin       I  297    0   0    2971            01        01       01        01       297    011I         8 91
TN-Eat.Totalri 2996f    0   C   29e6             C  i SOOI 801    0         01      6848    11611|    1X91i
I                                    I        I         II I                                     I
-----------~ ~-    -----  -        --- - -------------               ------- I----*-
TOTAL       I tO18 0251 807  l1185  I       180 I   4050 I    470 1   SW22 1   20078    74S1  1    4014 1
INaeRBTAL i                   22,500 i      878 I  4,795       918   12,296 I  40,606          I I   7.747 I
SALMY COSTI                   (exc.Ui)l         I         I         I        I                 I I )
(KOOO)     I                         I          I         I        I         I                 II           I
In-Post Data: I.PHAM Medical Officers in-poet based on 1984 (5 PHIAH NHO are included in 1989 MOM grant)
2.PHAt 5184 In-post bem-d on 1984 (34 PHUM SMs are included in 1969 MOH grant)
0.Of the total 720 HSAs. S20 *re paid by tNHCR * 400 by NO"
Ex.ClI nics:  1.Cl I nics cetructed but not opened a S0
2.Staff requiremnt. based on minimum standards for Dimp+14eternities (1 MA. 2 EN/, S attd)
Devets.      1.Cower: .110 bedo/Ntchiai, .68 boda/Muimba, +S6 beds/Mulanje. .186 bede/ftchinga, +80 now RhC.,
.69 beds KCH/Peedistric (+41 on existing CH beds)
.36 clinic upgradings (adding Maternity or Dispensary). 3500 HSAu (SOW/MA. SO/UBAID)
2.Stuff requirements based on existing standards for Dietrict Hmpitels
CMi Req'.:   1.I1proved staffing eta flarde baud on Coeiieant A Grading Review 1968 applied to MOH. Pi A  LA



I N~~~~  ~~~ I i                       .          .                                    I                       % '      
----        ------8 ---.i---                                       ---lsS----i----           | 
9 A~ ~ ~ 3
-   I   -   -   -   -                                              I   I -               - - - - - - - -             
-    -   --                        -                    - -            ' -   -   -
!  -~                 :--       -   -                               -   -  -    -   -   -  -  -   -
'16I---a-IT2.                                  I-..--- --  sg 
iI l_   i|g   Ig d_  ' 3__f I} _                                              a-  '          I       _j*_@_
*I-a                                                                   *     8T -   --- - -  - - --0
-o
I                    II
.0 -- 3-3                                                                . e  -  - -  - -  7 - - - - -
ITi | -  | g |     - '                - - - - -    - - -     I                                a
a       I   a~~ -            an---       
*                                                                             a-~~~~1
Ia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~  !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  6~~~~~~~~~A
- - - - - - - - - -    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



- 112 -
HALAVI FM.9 SECTOR 03202                                     Al#1EX 711
WMAIfdU PROJECI`Z0 1989-2000 64A20 ON PROPOSED TRAINING INTAKES A RWUC20 SThOD(T 0ROPVJ RATES
1989 I    1990 PROJECrION'               I   1991 PROJEnoIN                  I   1992 PROJWTIGNi
STAFF       I ZN-  I INTAJ(   0-0       VAST            INTAKE   0-0        WAST            I INTAKE   0-0      WASTI
CATeS03     I POT IY!AR  *  RATE GRAD.RATE L0SS STOC(IYEAR  * RATE QRAD.RATe LMIS STOCK IYSAR  * RATE QRA0.RATE LOSS STOOKI
Ned.Off.    1103 1         0    ox30    ox301081                0    03 0    ox  03.1s 11991 20    8319    8   6 116I
Clin.04f.      2 12 18O/8  41   28X381    83  12  231 11987  23   253  17   53  12 238 11988  81   283  28    83  18  248 1
N.d.A.as.   I 890 11987  SO   153  48    6 382  606 11988  59   18%360    5%388  623 11989  47   183  40   83  88  630 I
Reg.Nuare    I 82  I1986  60   536  89    83  26  537 11967  60   381359   83  29  847 11948  68   835  42    8S  29  560 I
Fn.N/M      I 1979 11987 151   1736 128    83 108 1999 11968 181   1731 128   83 106 2016 11989 181   173 128    83 107 2086 
Hith.A.48.  1169 1191626   11328    83  10  16411969  26   113 28    83  10  199 11990  40   10 386    83 12 223
PA*re.Toch.I    11I1986   0    ox   0    03g  0    1 11989   0    ON   0    Os   0    1 11990   0    Os   0    03   0    11
Phore.A4.4  I   4 JI9M    6   183   8    SS   8   56 11969   6   163   8    8 SX     66 11990  -0   123  16    33   4   72 
I.b. Ass%.          119 66 183  7    SS30    7 11989613ISO4    53                       10 11990 20 103 16          8 1   271
Oent.Ase.I         I119?16 21312    831I11 119   6662134                        8%1114 11989  6  21 8               831 161i
Rediog.At.13.      119861013n19            83 0    611969 0    030    83 0    611990  41838                         831%    itl
Ophth.Aaat.I1      11989921    03 21    83 120 11990                 03 0    ax3119o11991                03 0    SS3116s
I  I    1998 FROETIoN                   I   1994 PROJWT13N                 1        1996 PROJETIWN4
STAFF       I      I IffAK(E  0-0       VAST            I INrAKE   0-0      VAST            I INTAK!  0-0       VAST            I
CAT DWOR    I      IYVAR  *  RATLE ORAD.RATE LOS  STOOKIYEIAR  * RATE 0RA0.RAME LOSS STOO(IYIAR  * RATE  RAtD.RATE LOSS STOO(I
--'-----I                               -  -             ----------------  ---------------------------------- -  -  -
".d.04f.    I      11992  20    83  19    83   7  126 11992 20    SS  19    63   7  140 11993  2'#   83  19    SC   6  181 I
clin.off.   I      11989  42   25X382    83  14  263 11990  80   203  40   83  18 268 11991  80   183  43    8X  17  814 
N.d.Anst.   I      11990 140   123I 128       3 8   718 11991 140   103 126    83  42  799 11992 260   103 284    SS  82  a62n
Re.g.#Aro.         11969  67   885  44    5 380  On 11990  60   253  45    SS381  WY711991  60   203  48    8 382  603 
En.N/M             J199  181   161 227   SO 106 2055 11991 260   183 226    63 114 2167 11492 260  lOX 284    SS 120 2261 
NIShi.Amst.  I     1199   40   101134 66   8   18 248 11992  40   10 386    83  14 26611993  40   10 34    Os8  15 269 
FIherm.Toeh.l      I1991 0    030          03 0    1119920    03 0    03 0    1 11993  20 10316    SS311i1
Phevu.A..4.I       11991 201IOX16          5 8 461992IM20 103 16                83898 11998 0    03 0               8 89 31
Leb,.Asat.  I    11991 20 103 16   82 4311IM220103N16   838861199380   03 0   83 3581
D.nt.A.4b.I        11990 20183517    W   283311991 20 12316                    S  3S49 11992 20   103 16    89386351
Radloo.Aset.1      I1991   0    OX   0    03   0   11 11992   0    039  0    OS  0   11 11993   0    03   0    OX   0   11 I
0,hth.A.ss. I      1199          030       831I   171I1993          1260    831I   16 11994                   0    83  11is1
I      I    19916 PR0JWrIWN                I   1997 PRJETION                   I 1996 PROJWTIGN                     I
STAFF       I      IINTAIE   0-0        VAST            I INAKE   0-0       VAST            I INAK    D0-       WAST 
CATU9Y             IYEAR  *  RATE GRAD.RATE, LOSS STOOIYEAR  3 RATS G3A0.RATE LOSS STOO(IYEAR  #  RATE GRAD.RATE. LOSS STOO(I
Ked.Off.    I      11998  20    8X  19    8t   6  161 1199' 20    83  19    83   9  171 11998  20   83  19    83  10  161 I
Clin.O4f.   I      11992  80   103  45   83  16 841 11998  60   103  48    83  19 367 1199   80   103  48    83  21  5911
Hed.Azat.   I      11993 260   103 284    8X  61 1168 11994 260   103 234    5S  69 1819 11998 260   103 284    83  78 1476 
ReG.t*irge   I     11992 120   153 102    SS  38  670 11993 120   10N IC$    813  89  739 11994 120   103 108   83  42  605 I
EA.NJN             1199  260   103 236    SS IN6 269 11994 260   103 264    -  131 2492 11998 260   103 284   83 138 2590 
Nlth.Aast.         1 1941, 40   103  36    83  15 308 1199  40   103  36    83  17 327 11996  40   10 386    SS  16  845 
Phorn.Tech.I    11994 20103X16   828341199650   03 0   83 288311996 0   030   SS32831
Phesr.A.ss.I       11994   0    03   0    83X     6  911995   0    03   0   -81  4   64 11996   0    OS   0    83   4   601
L.b.Asst.  I       119940  03 0   8X3852 11998 0   03 0   838 49119960   03 0   8352471
0.nt.A..b.  I      11993   0    OX   0    8538   60 11994   0    03   0    8X3          ST8711998   0    03   0    5X3 8    41
Rediog.Aast.I      11994   0    OX   0    83   1   101I1998   0    ON   0    83   I   10 11996   0    03   0    8X   0    91
O9hth.Aes. I       11998                   ax           11996                  SS           11997                  83 
I I   1999 PROJETZW4N                     2000 FROJETION
I  ------------------------------- ----                --- ---
STAFF       I      IINAKE,  0-0         VAST            IINTAK(E  0-0       WASTI
CATEORY            IYVAR  3 RATE GRAD.RATE LOSS STVO(l'YEAR  3 RATE CRA0.RATS LOSS STOO(I
-    -    I                                     -     --.-----------------~                 I
14.d.Off.    I     121996  20    83  19    SS  10  190 11997  20    as  19    as  10  196 I
CUnf.off.   I      11998  50   103 48    83  22  418 11996  60   103  48    53  23  4371
Ned.AA.   I        11996 260   103 234    83  68 1624 11997 260   103 234    SS  93 1768 
Reg.Nur.in         11995 120   103 106    8X  48  M67I11998 120   103 108    8   49  927I
En.NIN             11996 260   103 234   831 141 26681 11997 260   103 234   83 148 2771 
HIAA.Amet.  I       11997  40   10r. 88    83  19  862 1198 40   103  86    83 20  3768
Phmrm.T*gh.I       11997   0    OX   0    63   2   291199    0    03   0    83   1  261
PharAm.Ae. I       11997   0    03   0    83   4   76 11996   0    OX   0    83   4   72 
Leb.Aseb.          It1199    0    OX   0    SS   2   48 11998   0    03   0    SS   2   421
C.M.Ae.4.  I       11996   0    03   0    8N3 8    1 11997   0    OS   0    8538   491
Radlog.Amet.1      1 197   0    on   0    83   0    9 11996i  0    03   0    as  0    a1
Ophth.Amat.6        to9"                   65           1199                   83 
NGTES
(l) Increaseed training intake. from:   -Improved utlilleetlon of *xiaietng training capacIty
-renovatIon., to SientWre PATS5
-additIon. to LS*z
-eteff housing A tutorial aft"f for Zoaba and PNA*4 nursing UchOOlo
-now nursing school attached to proposed Liltongwe Noepital
-Increase to CNO campus
(2) Reductlone In student 4rop-out rates due to Improved "faection procodure.
(8) Waste"e rots from #0H, LO0 and PHAN (i.e. due, to e.tIrements, transfer. to prIvet. health sector & loss, from health weetor



MALAWI PHN SECTOR CREDIT                                         - 113 -                                                      ANNEX T12A
1m4 om 0 mmNDINO                           NeV UT      NV UT      D&  ST    OEV my    oa&           O NVEfr      -v -f    DO W   Page  1
W,mm         e 90/91    91/92       92/98      96/94      e4/98       9/96      F /92         96/97     of  3
P198/96
PATI #G4IN/of  
1 sE MC        4DF     18,o00    460,689    806,468            0          0           0      767,=
2 seR          IA       80,000    69o 8o12          0          0           0                 696,61
8 PHICS PH   USAID      27,000    11,3697       6,o000    24,000      20,000      7,000      202,e97
(53B TM              612,000  1,278,346      44,483     24,000      20,000      7,000   1,666,6             0
2 DIS PREV    1   P EAIDP                             0          0          0           0          0            0
18P       wMCEP            0    0           0           0          0                0           0
(SL TOT)                   0          0           0          0          0           0           0           0
2 C9 DI$       4WP     620,786          0           0          0           0          0
3 PHICS =IE   13A      179,000    676,348    2U8,000    224.000    218,000       91,000   1,464,648
4 P10CS U    t3AED     92,400    888,140    885,000    804,000    242,000    146,00o   1892,140
a FP40 Wm  IAID        2 8000    419,800    319,'Ao    820,000    296,000       144,000   1,496,800
6 PHI  HIS  1*D1      66,000    188,648      84,000     54,000      So,000     24,000      818,648
7 PIaI88P  USAID       400,000  1,421,460    44,000    898,000    251,000    200,0O0   2,715,480
6 P110 Cs   UUI        204.000  1,811,16      822,000    20.000 c    2,000    l,s000   2,28,16
9 "P W/        We      422,420    818,900    196,290                                         814,190
m TO)              2,489,00   4,64,15  1,98200   1,568,000  l,287,0    722,000  10,182,45                   0
8 OW.rlVE    I NTsz         ADS 36,10,000  1,780,000             0          0           0          0   1,710,000
2 9*-CUlT      PF   2.147,644   1,88,988   1,688,985          0           0          0   3,811,670
3 Z0Nr of                    0          0           0          0           0          0           0
4  a4INJI      AD            0          0           0          0           0          0           0 
5SALDEA        ADO0                     0           0                0                0           0
DRUM6          lS            0          0           0          0           0 O        0           0
7 MC'S          Kw   2,61.670  8,684,488   8,113,006           0           0          0   6,7441
6 K41A        Se             0          0           0          0           0          0           0
9 WEALTH       IDA           0          0           0          0          0           0           0
0o HIM          IMA   1.138,594  2,064,497    645,296           0          0           0   2,709,7e8
11 RCI'S       IDA   1,708,000    2866168            0          0          0           0     286,186
12 RHC'S        EEr     810940  1,386,35       560,60    192,255           0           0   2,269,s00
1S IAANJE       EE    4,688,242  8,362,672   1 168,6O6  8,276,240          0           0   7,604.9
14 ZOMBA M     KF             0          0           0          0          0           00
17 CS/KCH PE    IDA     260,000    690,000           0          0          0           0      690,00
16 KAOZNOA     KP       800,000  4,78,e000  6,100,000  7,80s,000  1,12S,600                19,11,600
ffYKAS.60                  0          0           0          0           0
NB tOZA                    0          0           0          0           0
NOI NTCH                   0          0           0          0           0
(SUs T70)         17,844,290 19,767,279  18,840,768  10,818,25   1,126,60           0  47,078.867           0
4 TPININ     I LIL SH                     0           0          0          0           0          0            0          0
S ELAN NtS    ADF   2,100,000  8,946,706  4,456,062            0           0          0   6,402,768
aRTCIS         IDA           0          0           0          0           0          0           0
4 ZM    s N    m        866,752         0           0          0          0           0           0
5 MED SCH  VARItI   10,84,978  6,640,000  10,060,879 10,080,679  10,080,879           0  66,791e,17
WNDP             0    464,000  4,62,100            0          0           0   8,146,100
(so TOT) 10,848,97   9,14,000  14,712,479  10,080,879  10,080,679          0  48,987.2t7           0
(SW* TOT)         13,7,725  18,070,706  19,166,841 10,080,879 10,080,879            0  52,840,008           0
1M          I & 11mm       DA       292,000          0          0          0           0          0            0
2 Ds0           D      126m,492    116,809     76,99W0                     0          0 o    196,29
a 16440E       mA      807,072    198,90o           0          0          0           0      196,60
4 PLAN         m         1,995    11,666            0          0          0           0      118,666
a Km C  4      IDA      60,000      60,000     11,960          0          0           0       71,96
(5W TOT)             987,s59    494,187      86,970          0          0           0       6S8,107         0
6 NUTRrTION   IULin         IDA           0           0          0          0           0          0            0
(A TOT)                    0          0           0          0          0           0           0           0
7 FIN PUN    1 SE FW        MA       180,000    140.000    160,329    1848              0          0      48s,177
(61 TOT)             150,000    140.00      160,829    182,846          0           0      48,m177          0
8 ORUOS      1 SEr FH       m,U      250,686          0          0          0           0          0            0
(VA TOT)             250,686          0           0          0          0           0           0           0
9 REC DNT    1 SE FP        IDA      4,760    167,400        7,640          0           0          0      178,240
(SUB TOT)            46s,760    167,400       7,840          0          0           0      175290           0
10 RNCI Lrr  I SE R1P        mA      466,760    167,400       7,640          0           0          0      178,240
(SUB Tar)            488,760    167,400       7,640          0          0           0      178,240          0
11 YMIH PR   1 SEC  UP MA            1e0601    868,514    200,000 1o     8 ,1            0          0      716,710
(MA TV)              106,061    368.514    200,000    18,19s6           0           0      716710           0
(SW  0)                         38.27.S   40,106,989  87,264,076 22,748,946  12,484,179    729,000  118,816,142          0



- 114 -                                                       ANM\   T12A
"ON mmo                      P.6D        coi Mr7    NVl 16    coi Mr    Wv or    ow Mr    OWv or           SE Mr    ISw 1    Pag   2
801       90/91      91"/93   o9s/9       91/94      94/96      96/96   ;P19/3 *               of  3
PAT2
so n RC                 1O4.m     101,i    148.00            0          0         0      14.6
$ Om  re        UC ,100            06.4     310.178     1,so.ou         0         0      46,9177
(*A TOM             398.000    su1.866    mai1s       o,in           0          0     hIOWE           0
2 DW MM   IlsP                          0          0          0          0         0          0           0
63 CDP                  44.000      8.710    6O,618          0          0          0     LOA8 O
el RC'                a lst UX   R"SiU    *n8,97           o                               4
R  m  MM                   0          0          0          0          0         0           0
as PAD    )             44,000         0        0            0          0         0  O3O.O9O             0
M r   sr PC              .18    0                 00002700 s0 I =                
61 C'S                 O1.8       O6,1       11,1            0          0         0           O4.9
PmeAW                       0          0          0          0          0         0           0
17                          0          0          00                    0         0           0
11C'                        0          0A0W       0                               00
70 SC IC's             178.8      W.000 U   .140,000         O          0         0      90.000
78 aLo                  o06.000                   0 0        0          0         0 
74 NOW                 U0,000    180,00           0          0          0         0      780.000
20104340                  0         a          a          0          0          0          0
MIAWJI               80.000      2.000         0          0          0          0       3.000
(OM TOT)          2.0617.10  1.11"71s    81.918    I9.=        319.t    au,to4   4.00.106             0
4 1843O4
O0DM N s         2     00.0 0   1 ,as        M10i  0         0                    *      Mus"
61 255 N a             3.S7o    100,000           0          0          0         0 o     O0.000
9338U                       0          0          0          0          0         0           0
o No                 1,7,D00   1.0.        4.oo.180  4.,1.8u7 4J.1.               0 U8,o.8J4
(VA Tor)          2;4.00   1,741.6"   4.9U,391  4. 6.14   4.7.1                0  1$,841.0            0
7 FIN PUI  O0 4e 1                      0          0          0         0          0          0           0
(VA   )                  0          0          0          0          0         0           0          0
9mm          40mo                       0          0          0         0          0          0           0
(VaTgr)                  0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
10 RIOT L?t O0  SC                 9".S0o    100.000          0          0          0          0     100.000
(VA   T)             6SO0    100.000          0          0          0          0     100,000         0
11 YTIom   * 0    VW                 9.000     24,000         0          0          0          0      34,000
(58 TOr)              *.000     24.000         0          0          0         0       34,000         0
(A tO)                         4.606710  5.014,86  5.9001.04  4.86.6    4.606.17    241,34  *0.61.7"               0
TOTAL  E1711D PROJ0S                  40.94.10  45.121,   48.161.110 3.610.81  17.60.96    9r ,14 1U4,1.91                0
UDOOT     MJWS
51CS MD   ULAID   2.0N.W0    511,0  1..000                0          0          0   1.1o9.1o0
1AtIA    UAR   23.TD0.000  2.000,000  1.800,000  1.70.000  1.800.000            0   6.0.000
DIAL0M    WAID   2.100.000  1.400.000  1.400.000  1.400.000  1.600.000          0 o.1o0.000
E8        Uwoo 1.000.000  1.000.000  1.000.000  1.000.000  1.000.000  1.000.000  5s000.000  1.000.00o
11U       fUTLO   1,600.000  1,000,000  1.000.000        0          0          0   2.000.000
LW"  LWA           1.000C000  1.000.000    180.000        0          0          0   1180.000
SvoA        0en    10s0ooo  1ZOO.=0            0          0          0          0   1o000000
MM    W/       D  '        O  0  1.0.000  1000.80 0   0.OQO          0          0 oa.oooooo
mmT     w/WDq             0         0          0  2,780.800   4.000.0e0 o .000.000   9,0.000  3.000.000
ISL ED   UNOW             0         0          0          0          0          0          0
H4A   LOW/Wc              0         0          0          0          0          0          0
mw PM.
F 2*If   tL AR            0         0  2.000.000  2.000.000  3.000.000  2.00.00D   6.000.000  3.0.000
aSeTOAL                       11.06.000 9o111.10  9.6,o000  9,70.000  9*,000,000  6.000.000  44.,9S.0  8.000.000
TOTAL (12402. iO,O,M                             ,,T3,  606.100 84.1,    S8,O U, 80 W,0.St  0S.110,N   6,90.1    I17O.M.  8.000.000
ar OM  5T0 Crnii



- 115 -                                                          AN1X T12A
NMem                       A=               wo  e   w ew of ew Mr ew     of Mr V   p 3
s" ^ 40          "in   4"M    "I"    I9 ""    m                                   'm  PaSe3
/96      /94        I          I       PE9~~~~~FM04           of  3
A. 16 P94 UNC0
wai1m  OD raw mO41,66.1   9040,566 10.490.140  1.10,.055  1,191.754  U,a4,m#
CA.wWOM  ow MtAZNDS                         s18,68    eSWIS        070.3      464,1?    800.911   g,0.614s
$ALARM                                     1.1.6s  1,14.419  1.08,910  1.116.840  140,80   I6S4,174
4.2 T1O1  P llW 0 KITS NM6,960    48.918    446,700    a1.454                             01.404   2.66.47
8,09.0D 6PAMt1  c                            11.490       ,5s"   1,66.0    1,119,e      0942.746   689  *w 
COULD SPACVI034H                             14.m      M6" 1..7 *079          =.18   #     116,1    1.42.9
T.WARA N  AIDS                             i.09.       I59.164     0,6       969.445    26.27    2.8616*,
&.M      mW                                2.39.414  3.006.100  1 ,74.874   ,1U1,976  1.646,014   *,6,99
Wl- ,D 034                                 M9A04  2,0"06   1.09".064   .* 11.3          .248.,U    10.89J2 0 i 7
0.Rw PUG0                                   0,1,0    0m.l         3. 9         = ,u 606,31  8,4"7   , 447.
t.FIC V14                                 CO,MM7  2.02,66    3,494,709  3.723.060   2.976,700M  12.42.87
is 15D3                                    1.970, 96   ,0.242  6417,        4.465.18   2,816.10  9690,00"6
I.UOw   ei NsViO                             tIamo     I7S.m       =Su        *2U.877  S3l.128   1.02.ole
VA TOTAL                                  34.77.0 "6.140.7  "0.8,630?  1,981.041  1 ,0    110.77w.00
0. Kw FM Oe.IVMY   VcS
I.4il0l j3I3/P1                             7.060    00711n   870,141   U.l              104.16    2.4711.8
S.D#/FACAMM                                 06.001    104,717      M.0        00."       4019.411   2,921,746
J.WWL   WICAL CT                          *3.102.66   2,763.094  2.1919.70  12.904.2    1.789,    10.0.t70
4.OU. VVICIRCT D311                                   4.,66045  1,64046  1.727.1    1.606,1804   0.749.014
5.04taNOWLITATI4                                      1.845.507  1,760,966  9,140.317  l.10.01    7.475,89
6. C.lRANIW     DITRICT                                414.U,9    474,89  ,8.6079    834.767   1.631,397
7.uIN        4LTH    C.091   2.070.360    79".406                                         7O.44   0,84,797
O.PJT       3 D1.                           721,41     740.46    7U?".        0,7        041.607  J.67.40
go TOTAL                                   4.144.460  10.90,90  10.02,M   9,000.06  7,460.067  42.019.600
C. DIUSCr HIUO MS
1.LU DISticT HDOSPAL                                             1.2.188  5.46,U 16  10,097.A02  16.784,=2
2.S 13403W ODT HSTAL                              J,091,63   10.07816   1U.967U47
VA TOTAL                                          0          0  1,1    1,34,169  20,9S.t7  65.734,90
0. PLOT 345430 "M                      ,0S40  ,0S.04                                    1,.U4,144
TOTAL PROFt   US SWtl aiT P DDI                   29,666,0"  40,426,028   ,61,U 5 JS.07.007 41.62.901 190,118,902
104                              90.946.406 U,W64.006  U4.78,064 114.67.009 36,40,096  15.,172.648
mO0e              J,41.404  86,67,601  2,949107  2.3.966  1.44,96                            00T
No                                2,901.74  23095905  1,674.674  1.011.97    1,840614  10.976.442
mm obu.nmw _RISM
mI4OING P.1_S                  40.911.10  45121,9   43,101,110 27.10.576  17n290.60u    970,264 U4U1583U41           0
NIL PRO.                       11,619,000  9,117,20 WO*.000  9,710.000  9.900.000  6.000.000  44.699.O0  5,000,000
On TOTAL                       1.2.090.    84,266.07  160,110 87.150,574 0.190S,0      0,970,214 170,705, 11t 8.000,000
08OU60D 6.  aIDT PWDI       C 000         26,244.408 S4,994.SO   34,780.064 84,876,0"  16.498,.2  108,172.64
TOAL 0                                    77,404,908  07.7.913  72,070,160 6,1,765 46,460.09  84.925.604



- 116 -                                                 ANNEX T12B
Page 1 of 4
MALAWI
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
MOH BUDO                       FUO RMC CT   RB COST  RMC COSr   RE COST   mEC cOSr
SURCE MISDO    MI8INO        MISINO     ARISINO    ARISINO
91/92      92/98      98/94      94/95       95/98
PArT 1
1I ASC RC     ADF                                                   9,5000
2 SECBH        IDA                                                 146,000
8 PHICS PH   USAID                                                  56,000
(SUB TOT)                0           0          0          0    299,000
2 DIS PREV   I HESP       USAID
HESP      UNICEF
(SIU TOT)                0           0          0          0           0
2 COMM DIS     ADF     92.000
8 PHICS IC  USAID               4U,600       49.,00     52,800     48,500
4 PHICS Si   USAID
6 PHICS RU   USAID
S PHICS HIS  tSAI                135.7C0    165,750    15.750    135.750
7 PHICSMP  USAID                  41,060     41,060      41.0E0     41.00
8 HICS CS   USAID
9 HESP H/B    ADF
(SUB TOT)            92.000    228.3a0    226.360    229.,S0    220,880
3 COATIVE   I NtCHISI       ADB               590,000
2 SUB-CW       ADF    121,000    121,000    121.000    121,000
83 ZM MET
4 ICINJI       ADD
5 SALIDA       ADO
6C-  OS       KNF
7 FHC'S       KPW    144.000    144,000    144.000
OARNi         EEC
9 ELTH         IDA
10 #ZIMBA       MA
11 RHC'S       IDA    8,8000       74,000     74.000
12 RHC'S       EiC    168,000      84,000     84.000
18 I.ANJE      E6C
14 ZOMBA HOS    KFM
17 CS/KCH PE    mA    100,000    850,000
18 MACHINOA    KM                                        420.000
(SUB ToT)           869,000  1.586.000    428.000    541,000           0
4 TRAINING    I LIL SIB
2 BLAN NURS    ADF                           600.000    540.000
8 RTC'S        IDA
4 ZOHA S N    IDA                190,000
S MED S6H ADF       1.746.000  1.074,000  1.191,000  1,565.000  2.022,000
LP
(S&B TOT) 1.748,000  1,074,000  1.191.000  1,655.000  2,02,000
(SUB TOT)         1.748.000  1,264.000  1,791.000  2.105,000  2,022.000
6 MANAGE     1#4H           IDA
2 IFN         IDA
8 MANAGE       IDA               27.000
4 PLAN         IDA
a HINmCIc     IDA
(SUB TOT)                 0    267,000          0          0           0
6   MrrTION   I BOLD        IDA
(SU TOT)                  0          0          0                      0 
7 FIN PAN    1 SBC RHP      IDA
(SUS TOT)                0           0          0          0           0
a Rues       1 SW  Ph      IDA
(SUB TOT)                0           0          0          0           0
9 R.  INr    1 SEC HP       IDA                76,000
(Sus ToT)                 0     78,000          0          0           0
1O RNCr LT   1 SEC           IDA
(SU TOT)                 0           0          0          0           0
11 YWJTH PR   1 SW AH        IDA
(GM TOT)                 0           0          0          0           0
(Vs  TOT)                      2,707.000  8,898,880  2,440,880  2,875,880  2,541,880



-  117  -                                                   ANNEX  T12B
Page 2 of 4
MOH W0                        FUlNDINC R  CS    RE COST   RE COST   RE COST   RE COST
SOLCE ARISINO    ARESINJ    RISINO      RISDIN    ARISING
91/92      92/9       93/94      94/98      95/96
PART 2
1 ADM4IN/QM
60 SE RHC
$I SE pr
(SUB TOT)                0          0          0          0           0
2 DIS PREV  61 EUP
62 COP
WPIRA WAT
(SUB TOT)                0          0          0          0           0
S  PAATIVE  60 NTCHISI
S1 MC'S
62 ZWM MIN
es PADr MNOINJI
64 FADS SALDIA
eS PO-CA
as MC'S
67 KARONOA
es IW
59 MDIIIA
70 SEe f4C'S
72 FOD ST MC
78 CHID SP
74 KOH DINr
:'ACH
JULNJI
(DUATOT)                 0          0          0          a           0
4 TRAININ
SO BLAN N S
Se ZOMBA N S
62 RTC'S
3 NED H04
(SW TOT)                 0          0          0          0           0
7 FIN PLAN  e0 SEC FHP
(US TOT)                 0          0          0          0           0
9 FIN PLAN  eo REO INT
(SUSTOT)                 0          0          0          a           a
10 RICT LIT 60 SE  HP
(SW TOT)                 0          0          0          0           0
11 YOUTH    60 SEC RIP
(SW TOT)                 0          0          0          0           0
(SL TaT)                              0          0          0          0          0
TOTAL (UDoerrE PROJETS)                2.707,000  S,898.8S0  2.440,680  2,678,880  2,541,380
_BOErtED PROJES FOR WDOET INCILSION
PHICS MD   UAD
MALARIA   LUAID
DIARROEA   USAID
E4ICEI
TUwER    IUMTLD
LEPROS  LEWIRx
SILHARZ    aG2
HSA     WCP/14Co
F HEALTH USAID
ESIR   WH0/USAID
NIJRlTION HO/WIFP
I    ED
SUBTOTAL                              0          0          0          0           0
TOrAL (ICL UNSfWEITED PROJETS.         2.707.000  8.898,380  2,440,30  2875,180  2,841,880
MT EXCL SETOR CEDIT)



- 118 -                                                     ANNEX T12B
Page 3 of 4
mm0                        F0DCD  REC CMT   ME COST   ME CUT   NW CS    R   COr
SOLUCE ASQ        miDIO    AMD4         AMIND       DRZISDI
91/92      eP/W       98/94       94/95      95/e
HOSPITALS
aIRDDZU PROF FEM
HOSITAL CIVIL WORKS
5I Tor
ULSlE PROP FEES
HOSPITAL CIVIL WORKS
FAE
SA TOT
MMt EFF
K04 NATY
TIAINDO
LIL SHB   O  FEES
CIVIL WOS
FiE
SUB TOT     740.000    440,000    210,000    140,000       90000
LIL 55  PROF FEES
CIVIL WORS
F&E
SL* TOT                840,000    340.000    340,000
ZaA NS PROF FES
CIVIL WO(
FAE
SUB TOT     20,0000    980,000
BLAN WAS PROF RF
CIVIL WO
FPE
SUB TOT     280,000    900.000
SLAN NS PROF FEs
CIVIL WORM
F&E
5* TOT                               9,000
KtN     PROP RE
SA  TOT      40,000    290.000    290,000    210,000    210.000
o0sr H0O6 ROF S
HOSTS.S CIVIL WOPR
FPE
an TOT                             1.O000
Pmm     PROF FEE
cnIVL WONG
FPE
SUB TOT                             2e,000
PSPIIW
MWM MC PROF FES
NW 2   CIVIL WOS
FPE
W TOT                               9,000
Wt1  HC PROP FM
R4HAS S CIIL WORKS
F&E
SU TOT                             9t6,000



- 119 -
ANNEX T12B
Page 4 of 4
IN Sm                        RIUONO REe COST   RE" COST c   E COS      E Cosr      RE CosT
SOURCE ARIIO      RSINO    ARISID       AISIN     AISINO
cUUL HC RKB
FM
fas          eNCIVIL 
06 ~~P5
SUD TOT                           88,OO   .000    82.000    524000
CIVIL Win
SD TOT                  5r,o00     55.000     55.000     55.000
-FMP
FE
CIVIL WPRSB
FME
S5 TOT                             19,00
PROF  F
Pn56
FAE
DA TOT                                         7.000
53l TOT                                       17,000
SUTOT                  1,240.000  1.582,000  1.655.000  1.126,000    6S.000
CHD SP
MALARIA
AMDS
WmI
eOs
rHc RhO
SIWIWS/EVAL
Pon
(SW TOT)            60,000          0          0          0           0
MAL SWR CFtREDIT               1,40.000  1.552.000  1.685.000  1.128.000    645.000
HEALTH                 1.840.000  1.582,000  1.655.000  1,111.000    6t.000
NMCS                          0          0          0      17.000         0
EPD                           0          0          0          0          0
TOTAL 1@4                              4,547.000  4.94.580  4,095,80  4,005,320  8.157,380



- 120 -
ANNEX T12C
MALAWI                                                      Page 1 of 4
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
mmgi amO                                        90/91 EST S TOT    98/96 ET S TOT
1 AOMIN/0EN
1 PHAM               4,620,000  6.9s   7.892,078  7.45
2 OTHEI              5,829,064  s.o0    5178,916  4.95
(tG  TOT)          9,949,084 14.95  13.070,994  12.85
2 HEALTH IN
CEN HOSP
I KaH
(SUB TOT)   9,186.761 18.85  10.038.904  9.45
2 q
(SVE TOT)  10,884,992 16.35  12,868,881 11.85
S ZoMB
('SU TOT)   8,760,886  3.6n   4,020,413  8.85
(VA TOT)          28,682,109 J6,7S  2e,s.sw,e  S.OS
4 DIST H08
(GUS TOT)
J 048 UN1T
(.eu TOT)   2.478,869  8.75   8,887,264  8.75
6 NI8 S
(SuB TOT)   1.508,779  2.S5   2.429,s43  2.8S
7 I*HT C
(SUa TOT)    764,868   1.15   1,166.186  1.15
8 RHr N
(su TOT)     6e0,6s8  0.e5     848,484  0.85
9 205 MEN
(sUs TOT)   1,160,889  1.75   1,797,869  1.75
(tSo TOT)          6,488.088  9.75  10.126,876  9.88
DIST Has
10 OirTIPA
HOSPITAL     429.744  0.65     774,442  0.75
PERIPHERY    286,496  0.45     774.442  0.75
(SUB TOT)    716,240  1.15   1,548,886  i.8S
11 KARDNOA
HOSPITAL     699.234  1.O0   1.260,091  1.23
PliRIPHSY    486,186  0.75   1,260,091  1.23
(scm TOT)   1,168.890  1.75   2.620.183  2.45
12 RW'HI
HOSPITAL     691,893  1.05   1,246.828  1.2S
PERIPHEY     441.068  0.75   1,246,$28  1.23
(SW TOT)   1.162,688  1.75   2,492.49  2.85
18 NA4TA
HOSPITAL     897,162  o.9    1,076,147  1.05
PSIPHUY       989,106  0.65   1,076.147   1.06
(SP TOT)     993.270  1.85   2.182.294  2.05



- 121 -
ANNEX T12C
Page 2 of 4
90/91 EST 3 TOT    95/96 EST 3 TOT
14 MZDIBA
HOSPITAL     7568.522  1.1    1.464,117  1.43
PRIPHRY      505,681  0.6s   1,8668,94  1.S3
(SUB TOT)   1,264.208  1.93   2,651.061  2.73
15 KASNOU
HOSPITAL    1,011,886  1.53   1,626,172  1.53
PSIPIHRY     674,226  1.0   1,628,172  1.53
(SUB TOT)   1,665,64  2.5X   3.256,348  8.13
16 NKHOTAK..
HOSPITAL     631.891  o.9s   1,137,611  1.13
PERIPIY      420,927  O.63   1.1.7,631  1.1S
(SUB TOT)   1.02,181  1.63S  2,275,668  2.13
17 NTCHISI
HOSPITAL     447,611  o.73   1.19,8369  1.13
PS-IPHIY     298,407  0.43    106,641  0.63
(SuA TOT)    746.013  1.13   2.002,010  1.91
16 SALNA
HOSPITAL     731,568  1.lS   1,816,352  1.2S
PERIPHERY    487,709  0.7s   1.181,352  1.23
(SUB TOT)   1.219,272  1.83   2,t68,704  2.53
19 OUWA
HOSPITAL     68.226  1.0S   1,146,548  1.13
PERIPIHRY    424,162  0.63   1,146,548  1.13
(SUB TOT)   1,060.380  1.63   2,298,095  2.2S
20 HCHINJI
HOSPITAL     667.805  1.03   1,185,482  1.13
PERIPHY      486,s57  0.7s   1,165,482  1.13
(SuW TOT)   1,096,842  1.63   2,870,664  2.23
21 D0ZA
HOSPITAL     649,489  1.o0   1,170,445  1.13
PERIPHY      482,992  0.63   1,170,445  1.13
(SUB TOT)   1,082,481  1.6S   2,840,690  2.23
22 NTrCHE
HOSPITAL     775,683  1.23   1,897,680  1.33
PSIPIO       517,055  0.63   1,397,660  1.S3
(SUB TOT)   1,292,686  1.93   2,795,880  2.63
28 MANOOCHI
HOSPITAL     80,0909  1.2S   1,407,384  1.43
PRIPIEY      553,940  o.ss   1,497,384  1.4S
(SUB TOT)   1,884,849  2.13   2,994,768  2.86
24 MACHINOA
HOSPITAL     507,276  0.63   1,205,709  1.13
PStIPISRY    886,164  O.SS    914,146   o.93
(SUB TOT)    845,480  1.83   2,119,672  2.03
25 C4HADZ..
HOSPITAL     897,601  0.63    716,518  0.73
PERIPHRY     265,067  0.43    716,518  0.73
(SW TOT)    662,668  1.03   1,488,086  1.3S
26 NLANJE
HOSPITAL     787,86  1.23   1,516,944  1.43
PEIFtEPY     525,224  0.63   1,419,762  1.83
(SUB TOT)   1,318,060  2.03   2,9.8705  2.63



- 122 -                                                  ANNEX T12C
Page 3 of 4
)a                              O90/91 ET S IW    95/96 BY I TOT
27 IdANZA
HOSPITAL      54,819  o.8s      999,641  o.es
PERIPIY       3e,s879  0.6      999.641  0.95
(SUB TOT)    924.698  1.4    1,99.681  1.91
28 CHIKWAWA
HOSPITAL       U7.7,  0.61   1,028.094  1.06
PERIPHERY     87s.482  0.1S   1,023.094   1.0O
(SUB TOT)    946,204  1.41   2.046.169   1.9"
29 TWKOLO
HOSPITAL      549,287  0.61     969,761  0.91
PEIPHRY        s66,188  0.65    969,781  o.es
(Csu TOT)    915.398  1.41   1.979.563  1."
30 NSANJE
HOSPITAL      569,102  O.91   1.01,5800  1.06
PERIPIHEY     379.402  O.61   1,025,80o  1.0S
(SUB TOT)    94s8,o4   1.41   2.051.161   1."1
(SUB TOT HOSPITAL)  18.481.767  20.21  24,975.602 98.81
(SUB TOT PERIPKRY   8.987,645 18.51  24,101.168 22.61
(SUB TOT)          22.469.612 33.61  49,07s,6s6  4S.11
RURAL HOS
31 4INTHE..
(SUB Tar)    260,450  0.4S
32 KOCuL..
(SUB TOT)    402.049  0.61
88 BALAKA
(M*  TOT)    226.170  0.31
34 MPONeA
(VSB TOT)    186,400  0.8S
(SUB TOT)           1,077,069  1.61   1,749,276  1.61
LILONGWE DISTRICT     989,400  1.41    1,457.782  1.4S
(SUM  TOT)                     54,786,278 62.06  69.086,24   88.618
8 1RADiIM
I AOMIN/=94
(SUB TOT)     147,712  0.21     2s5.468  0.25
2 LIL CHS
(SUB TOT)   1,889,451  2.01   2.185.400  2.01
8 ZmA
(SW TOT)     869.,68   0.91     900.171  0.91
4 BMAN MATS                                  1,094,186  1.0S
(SWD TOT)               2.056,622  3.1S   4.878.195  4.11



- 123 -
ANNEX T12C
Page 4 of 4
NOI4 W.30                                        90es/91r s U TO      " Eo fs  TOT
ICAL SCHOOL
AOTL (MO                                .792.U0          10648
LOAL WOV FACtLrMB
AND TOTAL
MMN PfOJWrT  WUD.r  RWIH (C.A.)        6S.7.181
HeH WMJWrw  WoEI.  MH  (is MAY Lur   S.M2.100
MM POJSC   KOEr 06l QC. LM             64.80.0           104,400,000
(c5 preop 4.58  *el)
NOH FRO.ImET  8UDO W'IH                6.79W2C100        S6.28S.109
(6.31 pro; 4.5 growth)
NM PNOJE rW aUOE   M                   ",72,.100         10e,8o0,000
(6.98-.91 Pro;  4.6S growth)               6.98              6.SS
aoU P eTIS wow GU6                          1.06?             1,817
(Ml I I ion)
PWItAL  WiP/TOTAL aUY eP                      0.91              1.8S
aov PROJM=  UDOET  tWH                        948             1.174
(Hi I IN")
MH   OJETI  SUD   dUYM                        7.1S              9.11
ProportImio
NM PROJECIIUDS aIH                     66.72.100         1011,462,43



- 124 -
MALAWI PHN SECTOR CREDIT
M UOO RmOm             "      "EV   V  5T   W      ESr T 0  U         V UT   oev U          0E r    Da  oE r                AnNMT1
SUIC        90/91       91/92        /         03/94      94/W        9/96      F19/92
r"w/W             PegeIof I
By swm    OF FNDS
lDS   8.1S0.OOO   1.780.000         0          0           0           0   1.750.000
AW    5,64.080    .379,360 o  .616.770         0           0           0  12,99.1150
E 5,64.162   4.749.227   1.626.546   3.466,85        0          0  10.044,2W
mA   6.911.124   5.078.948   1.110.7 n    26.044           0          0   6.470.264
KM    8.813.670   6.56,435  11,213.006  7r,50.000 1O,w.*00             0  2B.27,241
LWe           0     464,000   4.662,100         0           0           0   8.146.100
UNICEF          0          0           0          0           0          0           0
USAID   1,215.400   4.440.982   1.778.000   1.199.000   1.307.000  729.000   9.,40.982
UNKN04           0          0           0          0           0          0           0
VARMIOS  10,646,0    6,U60.000  10,050.879  10.060,679  10,060.379        0  38,791,137
Wov   4,694,710   5,014,556   5.907.0$4   4.866,62B   4.606.517  241,264  20.618.799
TOAL                            40.964.109  45.121,298  43,161.110  27.610.576  17.190,696  9.264 114,153.941
on    :0.TS Ai scr DUJXU4
PHIC6 MC           UWAD   2,069,000       817,260   1,2.000           0          0           0   1,739,280
MALRA               USA1    2,370.000   2.000.000   1.100.000   1.760.000   1.600.000        0   6.66o0O00
oIARHA              USAM    2.100.000   1.400,000   1.400.000   1.400.000   1.600.000        0   s,coo.000
soI                %MUW    1.000.000   1.000.000   1.000.000   1.000.000   1.000.000   1.000.000   8.000.000
fPlu              >IATLO   1.600.000   1.000.000   1.000.000          0          0           0   2.000,000
LEWROY           LWRA/LK   1.000.000   1.000,000     780.000          0          0           0   1.760.000
*Zo4                  0TZ   1.800.000   1.000.000         0           0          0           0   1.000.000
S4VIR            WAXAID            0   1.200.000   1.000.000    0oo.000          0           0   3.000,000
NW                WHO/N"           0           0          0   2.750.000   4.000.000   3.000.000   9.M76.000
HEAL U            LUN04            0           0          0           0          0           0           0
M6A               NDF/NHWP C       0           0          0           0          0           0           0
O PROJ.
f HALTH             UAID           0           0   2o000,000   2,00o.000   2.000,000   2,000.000   6.000.000
TOTAL                           11.639.000   9.117.250   9.e7.o0o  9.710,000    .900.000   6.000.000  44.ses.260
BY SOLRC OF FUDS
01Z   1.800.000   1.000,000         0          0           0           0   1.000.000
IITLO   1.6O0.000   1.000.000   1.000.000         0           0          0   2,000.000
LuWW    1.000.000   1.000.000      7.000            0          0           0   1,750.000
%W6CP/HC         0           0          0           0          0           0           0
1N141P   1,000.000   1.000.000   1.000.000   1,000,000   1.000,000   1.000.000   5.000.000
UP44NOWN0               0          0           0          0           0           0
5UD    6.539.000   0.917,.20   6,122,000   5.160,000   4.900.000   2,000,000  22,099260
WHO/UAM          0   1.200.000   1,000,000     600,000         0           0   S.000.000
WHOhrelp         0          0           0   2,7s0,000   4.000.000   S.000.000   9.780.000
ToTAL (UO0ETO AN                82,623.109  54,2U6.578  5,063.110  37,s20.s76  27.10,696   6.70,264  178,78.t221
LE.OOrrDw POC.                                                                                                                TOTAL
ew  am sGrL TOMIT)                                                                                                        P791/92-
011W AID    P795/96
By SOURCE OF fa&s
ADS   3.1SD.000   1,750O000         0          0           0           0   1,780,000              1,750.000
ODF   tU646,080   6s879s800  68.616770         0           0           0  12,9961,L0             12,996,110
8E ,e664,162   4,749e227   1626,648   3,466,S25            0           0  10,044.296             10,044,296
am2   1.800,000   1.000.000         0          0           0           0   1,000.000              1,000.000
IDA   6.911.124   5.078.945   1, 110275   26,044           0           0   6.470.264              6.470,264
ZUATLD   1.600.000   1.000000   1,000,000        0           0          0   2,000.000               2.000,000
V      .318.670   9,589.438  11,21o.006   7.360,000   1.126.600        0  2B.279,241             25,279.241
-UAS                                                                                         2S0.000    2E0.000
LEA(   1,000.000   1,000,000       70.000           0          0           0   1.750.000               1,750.Oco
WeP           0     484,000   4,062.100         0           0           0   8,146.100              3.146.100
WDAeU.C          0           0          0           0          0           0           0                      0
uN.PA                                                                                   7,100.000  7r,00.000
U11CE    1.000,00   1.000.000   1.000.000   1,000,000   1.000,000   1.000.000   6.000,000  21.400.000  26.900.000
UWD   7.792,400   6,656.262   7,897,000   6.749,000   6,207,000   2.729.000  31.940.262            31,940.a2
UNOI            0           0           0          0           0          0           0                      0
VARiW   10,046.973   8,6u0.000  10.00,379  10.0o0.379  100,00,679         0 o ",791,137              36,791,117
VF                                                                                    21.600,000  21,600,000
WMO/USAIlD       0   1,200.000   1.000.000    600.000          0           0   3,000.000               3,000.000
o0         0           0   2.780.000   4,000o000   8,000,000   9.750,000             9.750.000
ony   4.696.710   8,014,386  58907.034   4,666,26   4,606,517    241,264  20.638,799             20.6BS.799
TOTAL (<OOErrED AND             82,62M.109   4,236.578  83.036,110  37.60,576  27.190.696   6.970.264 178.713.221  81.350,000 20,*103.221
WULOETTW PJETS.



Sumary Account by Project Couponont
KWAOHA
IAIDWER              HSA:TRANSPO
MAWOWER  DEV.-TRAINI     HSA:        RT &       CHILD       CHILD     MALARIA A                WOMEN IN
DEV.-REHAB.     No       SALARIES      KITS    SPACING:FWC SPACING:MOH     AIDS     NUTRITION  DEVELOPMENT
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                  20227490.0        0.0         0.0         0.0   1460000.0    405604.0         0.0         0.0   1217000.0
B. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES         1970996.8        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0     70106.0
C. EQUIP1ENT/FURNITURE
1. EQUIPMENT                         0.0         0.0         0.0    461S00.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    368900.0
2. FUNITURE:FOREIGN                  0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0   :
8. RRNMUflEsLOCAL                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0     30.0 
4. ECJ!PMENT AND FtRNITRE       2739600.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0     15000.0,
Sub-totel                       2739500.0         0.0         0.0    481600.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    413900.0
0. TRANSPORT
1. BICYCLES                          0.0         0.0         0.0   1242500.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    65763.8      21000.0   c
2. VEHICLES                          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   1162000.0    319480.0    685000.0  
Sub-total                             0.0         0.0         0.0   1242500.0         0.0         0.0   1162000.0    375244.8    606000.0   0 
E. TECHSICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL TECHICAL ASSIST                         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    639974.4    307200.0    a
2. FOREIGN TECHNICAL ASSIS           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   2227200.0  t7
Sub-total                             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    639974.4   2534400.0  's
F. DRUGS                              0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0     41472.0   2627226.6         0.0
0. TRNG/STUDIES/1ORKSHOPS
1. LOCAL TRAINING                    0.0    576000.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   1244160.0    612186.0
2. FOREIGN TRAINDNG                  0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    341836.0
8. STUDIES                           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   1164800.0    955610.0
4. TRAINING                          0.0    8448000          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
S. WORKSHOPS                         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   1024000.0    160000.0
Sub-total                             0.0   1420800.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   3432960.0   2069633.0
H. SUPPLIES                           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    364000.0        0.0   1024000.0   e68400.0    >
I. SALARIES                           0.0   1200000.0   5860000.0         0.0         0.0    422400.0         0.0         0.0     4877.4
J. FUND                               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   1460000.0         0.0   1024000.0        0.0   1620000.0 0IU
K. MATERIALS                          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    246760.0        0.0   X
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          24937986.8   2620900.0   5660000.0   1704000.0   2900000.0   1211904.0   2217472.0   8545164.8   9221315.4
II. RECURREN  COSTS
A. TRNASPORT 0*1
1. VEHICLE OM                       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    243712.0    137220.0
2. BICYCLE 0*L                       0.0         0.0         0.0    386760.0         0.0         0.0         0.0      7898.9         0.3
_- - - - - -- - -- - -- - -- - - - -- - -- __- -        __         __
Sub-total                             0.0         0.0         0.0    386750.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    216180.9    137220.0
B. BUILDINC 0AM                  3843897.0        0.0         0.0         0.0    108760.6         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
C. EQUIPMENT 0AM                      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
D. OPERATING COSTS                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0



Total RECWXREDT COSTS            3843897.0         0.0         0.0    388760.0    106750.6          0.0         0.0    251610.9    137220.0
Total BASELINE COSTS            28781883.8   2620800.0   6560000.0   2090760.0   3000750.5   1211904.0   2217472.0   8596776.7   9368535.4
Physical Contingencies          2022749.0        0.0         0.0          0.0    145000.0     40560.4         0.0          0.0    121700.0
Price Contingencles            2660003.3    311010.8    734174.3    277719.8    416468.4    175538.0    168133.8   1035522.2    917360.9
Total PROJECT COSTS              3354086.2   2981810.8   6384174.3   2368469.8   3609208.9   1427992.4   238605.6   9632297.9  10397566.3
Taxes                                0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Forein Exchange                20925665.1   126180.1         0.0   2143266.8   2066903.7    683404.2   1807075.1   6827606.0   6709419.6
11/8/1990 16:86
0      :
0 X
co 



MALAWI
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
S_mry Acount by Project Component
KWACHA
CENTRAL      SUP.        RHC:
PHC       RURAL    STUDIES &  MOT/TRNG/PE INFO/EDUCA/   MEDICAL    EFFICIENCY REHABILITAT
PKC FUND    VEHICLES    HOUSING    EVALUATION   RSONNEL     COmm       STORES     IMPROVE.      ION
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                       0.0         0.0  161S000.0         0.0         0.0        0.0   1024000.0         0.0   S372926.0
B. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES             0.0         0.0    786450.0         0.0         0.0        0.0      4992.0         0.0         0.0
C. EQUIPMENT/FURNITURE
1. EQUIPMENT                        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0     92160.0        0.0    268000.0         0.0         0.0
2. FUNITUtE:FOREICN                  0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
3. FURNITUREsLOCAL                  0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
4. EqUIPUENT AND FURNITURE           0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Sub-total                             0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0     92100.0        0.0    256000.0         0.0         0.0
0. TRANSPORT
1. BICYCLES                         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
2. VEHICLES                          0.0   9600000.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    230400.0         0.0         0.0
Sub-total                            0.0   9600000.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    230400.0         0.0         0.0    ,_
E. TECOIICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSIST           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
2. FOREION TECHNICAL ASSIS           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   1226800.0    69600.0   4147200.0         0.0         0.0
Sub-total                            0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   1228600.0    69600.0   4147200.0         0.0         0.0
F. DRUGS                              0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   8186000.0        0.0         0.0
a. TRNO/STUDIES/fORKSHGPS
1. LOCAL TRAINING                    0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0    896600.0        0.0    460600.0         0.0         0.0
2. FOREICN TRAINING                  0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
8. STUDIES                          0.0         0.0         0.0    908600.0         0.0     12600.0    36400.0         0.0        0o0
4. TRAINING                          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
6. WORKSHOPS                         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0     51200.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
Sub-total                             0.0        0.0         0.0    906600.0 o   8900.0o    64000.0    499200.0         0.0         0.0
H. SUPLIES                            0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0    129260.0        0.0         0.0         0.0 F
I. SJLARISS                          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    577500.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0 ku a
J. F1ND                         1260000.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0   S882000.0         0.0  m
K. MATERIALS                          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0   2304000.0        0.0         0.0         0 0    x
Totel INVESTMENT COSTS          1230000.0   9600000.0  16948450.0    906600.0   2296260.0   2C56860.0   9342720.0  s532000.0  s372926.0 0  a-
II. REOJRRENT COSTS                                                                                                                    o
A. TRNASPORT o0M
1. VEHICLE 08W                       0.0   1440000.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
2. BICYCLE OM8                       0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Sub-total                            0.0   1440000.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
B. BUILDDIN 01                       0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    172803.0         0.0    6447SS.2
C. EqUIPME T 081                     0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0     23040.0        0.0      33290.0        0.0        0.0
0. OPERATING COSTS                    0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0



Total RECURRENT COSTS                 0.0   1440000.0         0.0         0.0     23040.0         0.0    206080.0         0.0    5447S5.2
Total BASELINE COSTS             1260000.0  11040000.0  18943460.0    908800.0   2318300.0   2S5880.0   9648800.0   6832000.0   6917683.2
Physical Contingenles               0.0         0.0   1816600.0         0.0         0.0         0.0    102400.0         0.0    637292.8
Price Contingencies             167348.0   1602877.4   2497074.5    120217.9    229423.1    334867.5   1139777.2    917013.7   1023422.6
Total PROJECT COSTS              1447348.0  12642877.4  23256024.5   1029017.9   2547723.1   2921747.6  10790977.2   6749013.7   7478398.5
Taxes                               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                724184.9  11703399.0  16084421.1    614864.3   1689168.8   1654680.0   9952688.0   3377234.3   4766929.5
11/6/1990 16:37
O D
I-
me
'4
6-3
0    1--
PhL



MALAWI
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
Summary Account by Projetc Component
KWACHA
URBAN      PROJECT                CHIRADZULU    PILOT
HEALTH    IMPLEMEN.  LL DISTRICT    DIST.    INTERVENTIO
CENTERS      UNIT       HOSPITAL    HOSPITAL    NS FUND
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                   4080000.0         0.0  10851840.0  10851840.0         0.0
B. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES          245785.0         0.0   1085184.0   1790553.6         0.0
C. EqUIPMENT/FURNITURE
1. EQUIPMENT                         0.0      38400.0        0.0         0.0          0.0
2. FURNITURE:FOREION                 0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
3. FURNITURE:LOCAL                   0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
4. EqUIPMENT AND FURNITURE       617200A         0.0   1871860.0   1871860.0          0.0
Sub-total                         617200.0     88400.0   1871860.0   187186O.0         0.0
0. TRANSPORT
1. BICYCLES                          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2. VEHICLES                          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Sub-tot l                             0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSIST            0.0   2176000.0          0.0        0.0          0.0
2. FOREIGN TECHNICAL ASSIS           0.0    448000.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Sub-total                             0.0   2624000.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
F. DRUGS                              0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
0. TRNG/STUDIES/WORKSHOPS
1. LOCAL TRAINING                    0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2. FOREIGN TRAINING                  0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
8. STUDIES                           0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
4. TRAINING                          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
S. WORKSHOPS                         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Sub-totaloooo 
Sub-total                   ~~~~0.0      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                       :
H. SUPPIES                            0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                    MD
I. SALARIES                           O.X         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                        x
J. FUND                               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0  l2eoOOo.0                                        t-3
K. MATERIALS                          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                    0 '-
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           489298S.0   2662400.0  1880884.0  14518765.6   1280000.0                                     O
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. TRNAPORT OAM
1. VEHICLE O*M                       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
2. BICYCLE DIM                        0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Sub-tote l                            0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
B. WUILDING 081                       0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
C. EQUIPmeIT 0o1                  216020.0        0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
0.                                    0.0    768000.0          0.0         0.0         0.0



Total RECURRENT COSTS             216020.0    768000.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS             5109006.0   3430400.0  13808384.0  14618763.6   1280000.0
Physical Contingencies           403000.0        0.0          0.0   1085184.0         0.0
Price Contngencies              622791.5    446445.8   2947848.4   3389738.5      64144.2
Total PROJECT COSTS              6184796.5   8875845.8  16756232.4  18968676.1   1844144.2
Taxes                                0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                8939414.9   2212670.7  15464346.0  12228836.0    672400.0
11/6/1990 16:37
aG
oQ :
tD >n
0 



M SECTOR CROET
Sumry Aleewt by Project Componeut
Physical              Price
Coutinpofties         Cortiognol..
Total     %            Amount        I     Awmnt
I. INVESTMT COST
A. CIL  RS                      7361502.0          6.6   6273076.2      16.0  11017424.1
S. PROFEUIOAL SERCES             0006094.4        0.0          0.0       9.3    556060.6
C. EQIPWNT/FURNITURE
1. E4JPVNT                      1216i60.0         0.0         0.0       9.8    113790.3
2. FURNITWE:l OREOION                 0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
S. RUNIYUREsLOCAL                 30000.0         0.0         0.0       2.5       739.6
4. EqlpN  iAND FUNIII           7114420.0         0.0         0.0      16.5   1173400.2
Sub-toal                         8"1360.0          0.0         0.0      16.6   1292937.9
D. TRANORT
1. BICYCLES                     2561756.8         0.0         0.0      13.6    347900.2
2. VEHCLES                     11169.0            0.0         0.0      11.6   1358724.6
Sub-totl                        14441644.3        0.0          0.0      12.0   1781624.7
E. TECNNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL TEOCNICAL ASSST        8123174.4         0.0         0.0      12.5    391348.3
2. FOREIGN TECHNICAL ASSIS      814000.0          0.0         0.0      10.7    9964.9
Sub-total                       112634.4          0.0          0.0      11.2   1261813.2
F. DROMS                         5697.6           0.0          0.0      11.6    665000.2
0.  N/STIJDIES/UORKS
1. LOCAL TRAINING               3299S45.0         0.0         0.0      12.2    400699.6
2. FUIN TRAINING                 84138.0          0.0         0.0       6.6     22726.6
*. SMIES                         060410.0        0.0         0.0       12.5   C86510.0
4. TRAININ                       84400.0          0.0         0.0      18.2    111124.1
5. WORKSHP                      1236200.0        0.0          0.0      18.7    16M94.3
Sub-total                        3792198.0         0.0         0.0      12.4   106315.0
H. SUPPLIES                      2222SS0.0         0.0         0.0       9.9    220264.9
I. SALARIES                      764m.4           0.0         0.0       12.6    998489.4                                      OQS
J. FUND                         12430000.0        0.0          0.0      18.7   1710975.5
K. AMTERIALS                     2549760.0         0.0         0.0      12.5    810090.9
TOtl IDNESTMENT COSTS          1587070.6           4.1   6278376.2      18.6  20904374.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                           co
A. TRNASPORT OhM
1. VEHICLE 0M                   1320982.0        0.0          0.0      16.5    801140.6
2. BICYCLE OM                   728396.9         0.0         0.0      17.8    126207.0
Sub-total                        25498a0.9         0.0        0.0       16.3    427347.6
D.  ILDING ohm                   4670202.7         0.0         0.0      15.7    758670.0
C. EQUDPWNT OhM                   272840.0         0.0        0.0       16.8     4648.3
D. PERATIN COSTS                  7M660.0          0.0         0.0      13.1    100406.8
__ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ __  _ -- - -- -



Total RECURRENT COSTS              8280373.6         0.0          0.0       16.8   1307074.7
Totsl BASELNE COSTS              161031077.2         8.9   6273376.2        13.7  22211449.2
Physical Contingencies           6273376.2
Prico Contingencies             22211449.2         3.5    787164.3
Total PROJECT COSTS              190115902.6         3.7   7060540.6        11.7  22211449.2
Taxes                                  0.0         0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange               127917882.7         3.6   4591847.2
11/8/1990 16:87
I-D
00
OQ  S
o -
OD 



Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
UsS
GOVERNMENT OF      MAL DRUG          MAL DRUG        WORLD HEALTH
IDA            MALAWI           PROGRAM I         PROGRAM II       ORGANIZATION
Amount    X      Amount    X       Amount    X       Amount    X       Amount    X
A. CIVIL WORKS-IDA          26107096.6   90.0  2789677.4   10.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
B. HO-DMRUGS                       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   407354.0  100.0
C. MIAP                           0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   248986.6  100.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
D. MDAPII                         0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   729842.6  100.0        0.0    0.0
E. OPERATION AND              609304.2   46.0   748756.0  65.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
F. 0 a U - IDA               1242578.7   95.0   65sa8.9    5.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
0. 0 A M - IDA A GO           147405.1   20.0   569620.4   80.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
H. STUDIES, TRAINING,        7788759.0  100.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
I. OPERATING EXPENSES         761050.9   85.8  1397065.7   64.7       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
J. CIVIL WORKS-EEC                0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
K. RN,EqUIP,VEHIC,SUP       11260410.4  100.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
L. DRUGS                     1149215.6.. 100.0      0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
M. TEONICAL ASSISTANCE       4810016.6  100.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
N. TECH.ASST.-_OVERNMENT          0.0    0.0   262678.9  100.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
O. fUM-OOU                        0.0    0.0    90409.2  100.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
P. LOCAALARIES                    19.1    0.9    2116.5   99.1        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0               w
Q. SAMAR IES-H                47664.4   90.0   52966.0   10.0         0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        o  zi
R. SA SALARIES               2412282.7   90.0   266025.9   10.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
Total Dlsbuors mnt           56C14768.8   74.8  6261708.8    6.6   248088.6   0.8   729642.6    1.0   407854.0   0.6 54
11U//1990 16:21
IN 
M 4-



MALAWI
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
USS
EUROPEAN ECON.
COMWAMITY            Total                     Local
For.      (Excl.     Duti-s
Amount    X       Amount    K         Exch.     Taxes)      A Tax.
A. CIVIL WORK-IDA                   0.0    0.0 27906775.9   87.0  19699069.0  8086904.9         0.0
0. U10-ORUGS                        0.0    0.0   407864.0    0.6   407864.0          0.0        0.0
C. WIAP                             0.0    0.0   246986.6    0.8   2469a8.0          0.0        0.0
0.  DAPIII                          0.0    0.0   729842.6    1.0   729642.6          0.0        0.0
E. OPERATION AND                    0.0    0.0  1858069.2    1.80   77004.7   076054.6          0.0
F. 0 A M - IDA                      0.0    0.0  1807977.6    1.6   654462.0   658495.7          0.0
0. O A M- IDAA                      0.0    0.0   787026.6    1.0   866797.7   866227.6          0.0
H. STUDIES, TRAINING,               0.0    0.0  7786769.0   10.4  4006412.2  878084.6           0.0
I. OPERATIN EXPENSES                0.0    0.0  2168116.0    2.9   761060.9  1897066.7          0.0
J. CIVIL WORS-EEC             11061867.2  100.0 11081897.2/.  14.9  7166067.2  3916880.0        0.0
K. fURN,Elp V,VEHIC,SUP             0.0    0.0 11200410.4   15.2  9US601.5  1574600.9           0.0
L. DRUGS                            0.0    0.0  1149215.6    1.5  1149215.6          0.0        0.0
V. TECINICAL ASSISTANCE             0.0    0.0  4010016.0    0.2  406809.1   544707.5           0.0
N. TECH.ASST._OVERNT                0.0    0.0   282678.9    0.4   141486.7   141287.1          0.0
0. FWUD-401                         0.0    0.0   90409.2    0.1    45241.2    4616.1            0.0
P. LOCAL SALMIES                    0.0    0.0      2185.6    0.0         0.0     2186.6        0.0
Q. SALARIES-ON                      0.0    0.0   529U60.5    0.7          0.0   529660.5        0.0
W. NSA SALAIES                      0.0    0.0  2660215.6    3.6          0.0  20256.6          0.0
ToOaI 9ibram_nX               11081897.2   14.9 74264024.5  100.0 49967022.9 242906101.5        0.0
li/slim9 16.21
59w



- 135 -                   Annex T15
Page I of 1
REPUBLIC OF KALAWI
PoAulation. Health and Nutrition Sector Credit
Disburement Schedule
Fiscal         Gurtcr          Dlsbursemnt   Cumulative              Percent
Test                                          Disbursement          Dlsbursed
1991             3                2.5             2.5                 4.5
1992             1                2.6             5.1                 9.2
2               2.6             1.7                12.8
3               2.5             ,.2                18.3
4               3.7            13.9   -            25.0
1993              1               3.1            17.0                30.6
2               3.7            20.7                37.2
3               3.1            23.8                42.8
4               3.4            27.2                48.6
1994             1                3.3            30.5                54.9
2               3.4            33.9                61.0
3               3.3            37.2                66.6
4               2.6            39.8                71.6
1995             1                2.1            41.9                75.4
2               2.1            44.6                79.1
3               2.5            46.5                83.6
4               2.3            48.8                87.8
1996             1                2.3            51.1                91.9
2               2.3            53.4                96.0
3               2.1            55.5               100.0
Estiasted date of *ffectlveness Is April 1, 1991
stimated cloeat" date Is June 30, 1996



199      1991           1              1993          1994           1996        1996
1 2 8  4      1 2 8  4       1 2 3  4    1  2 3  4    1 2 3  4    1 2
HSAS                                              X X  X X X  X  X X X    X X X X  X X X X   X X
Rural Housing                         PP   P P   x x    x x x x    x x x x    x x x x    x x x x    x x
PHC Vehicles                                     X X    X X              X X  X      X    X  X         X X X  X    X X
Rural Health Centers                              PP      P P X  X  X    X  X           X X  X         X X X  X    X X
Malaria/AIDS                                     X        X   XXX        X X  X X  X    X  X           X X  X X      X X
Nutrition                                   P P X X       X X  X        X    XXX X X X                 X X  X X      X X
lID                                   PP  P P X  X  X X X    X X X X    X X X  X  X X X   X X
Manpower D velopmnt                   PP   P P X  X  X    X X    X    X X X              X X X         XXXX          X X                      r
Majnagemnt/Traningn/Pfrronn                 P PP P        X X  X X X    X X X           X X XX         X X X X       X X                       1
IEC                                              X X   X X X X   X X  XX    X X X XX  X X X    X X                                            O
Pharmaceuticals/IEC                         PP X          X    XXX       X X  X X  X    XX X           X X X X       X X
PIU                                         X X X    X  XXX              X X  X   X X X X   X X XX   X X 
Effici7ncy lmprovewnt                                     X XX X         X X  X       X    X  X        X X  X X      X  X
Urban Health C.ntr                          P X X X       X X X  X    X X X    X    X X  X             X X  X X      X X
Lilong, District Hospital                   p P P P    P P P P    P P P P    X X   X X    X X X X    X X
PHC Fund                                          X  X  X X X X  X X X    X X X X   X X X X  X X
Pllot Interventions                                       X X X X    X X X X            X X X  X    X X  X X         X  X
I- 
o -



- 137 -                        Annex T17
Page 1 of 1
MALAWI
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    The Child Spacing Program of Malawi: An Assessment and Strategy
for Expansion by John Snow Inc.; April 30, 1990
2.    Project Submission: Proposed PHN Sector Credit: Manpower
Development Project 1991-1995; Ministry of Health. 1990
3.    Notes and comments on MOH Proposal for Expanding Child Spacing and
on Proposal for Creating a National Family Welfare Council
4.    Project proposal on Women in Development; Ministry of Community
Services. 1990
5.    Health Personnel Needs in Malawi by William A. Reinke
6.    Malawi Health Sector: Nutrition Plan 1990-1995, January 1990
7.    The Malawi Child Spacing Program - Costs and Resource Constraints
by Carl M. Stevens: August 1989
8.    Strategy Document on Collaboration between the Ministry of Health
and the Private Hospital Association of Malawi and other Non-MOH
Health Providers
9.    Ministry of Health: Survey of Health Facilities in Malawi -
Summary Report
10.   Ministry of Health: Complements and Grading Review Report: October
1988
11.   Republic of Malawi: The National Health Plan of Malawi 1986-1995.
12.   Report on the Consultancy on Urban Primary health Care: by F.J.
Bennett. June 1989
13.   The National Pharmaceutical Programme 1990-1995. April 1990
14.   Roles and Working Relations of Health Workers at the Health Center
Level
15.   Local Government Circular NO.18 of 1964
16.   UNDP Project Document:MLW\89\014 AIDS Prevention and Programme
17.   Strategy Paper on Collaboration between the Ministry of Health and
Local Government
18.   Brief Summary of AIDS Control Activities from January 1990 to June
29, 1990
19.   Action Area 5 Women's Development (CCAM)
20.   Annual Report for 1988 of the Health Facilities and Activities in
Rumphi District.
21.   Ministry of Health: Efficiency Improvement Programme: Action Plan
22.   Health Personnel: A Report by Jenny Huddart (Feb. 19 - March 10,
1990
23.   An Approach to the Setting up a Family Welfare Association in
Malawi, May 1990
24.   Proposal to Establish a Manpower Development Unit in the Ministry
of Health. Jan 22, 1990
25.   Malawi: National Malaria Control Program: Five Year Implementation
Plan.



- 138 -
Chart 1
Current MOH Organization Charts
M,WI                           Chart I
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF HI1TRY OF HEALTH HEAD QUARTER
Octobe 19I
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY
HEALTH SERVICES DEPARTMENT  |                                 ADMEISTRATION DEPARTEMENT|
Chid  Haft Swvb       |               *                 |      Depul       
Prevntl   Cinical    Health    Nursing   Heat        IEIA          epl        roie       Training    Accounts
HOW       Selvike    Technial   Srvis     PIsnnlng    AUDIT       Admin.     DlvIbn       Dvison     Divion
Servics   Division    Suppt    OWn        Don        OEPAATI      Divisin
Ohlvw                Sofoe           _               yIntrnr                      
Division ~     Osio
I communit1 FamilyPe
Heamth   H                                                               mu



- 139 -
Chart 2
MALAWI            Chanl2
PHN, SECTOR CREDIT
ORGANZATION CHART FOR MINISTRY OREALTH
REGIONAL AND DISTRICT ORGANWION
October 19869
RINCIPAL SECRETARY
CHIEF OF HEALTH -
SERVICES
KEGNL HEALTH OFFICER        REKIOALHELHOFFICERI I REGKIOALHELTHOFFICERI
SOUTH                     NORTH                      CENTRAL
>w , HB;:[H OFRCE]                   \ '   ~~~~~~~~DISTRICT
i                                    < _ FEALTH~~~~~~~~~~~~OFRICE
DISTRmSr
HELT                       HELT                                 RURA 1=11   21=11  2



- 140 -
Chart 3
MALAWI            Chart 3
PHN SECTOR CREDIT
FUNCTIONAL ORGANIZATION CHART
Malawi Ministry of Health
[Principal Secretary
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Chief of Health
National  level                     Service
Regional  level    ~ ~ ~~    Health
Regional lov-l                      Officer
District  Level                   District H-alth
Officer
Senior Clinca                     11         D
Matron              Officer
Health Center Level
iMedical Assistant
IEnrolled Nur-se                            H Fealth Assistant 
MidwAf-                       
G m*3i



18.0 226"
"     r. Da, E, St4m                   
MA LAW I
POPULATION, HEALTH, AND
-  sissog                               NUTRITION SECTOR CREDIT
h -  p h. bom p,p. ad b6 |
b. Wold Xa.,ks a(ofioa.oIo Ar                                                                          District Hospital
ho, 1. coono,.oco a01,
.1f,I1O. O  b. Wont 8.0k I
..a o.--,uboou-roho o.                            V           tLyiplaonis    A <                       Urban Health Centers
I.  o. b.o .dn,;o 5boI.o                   RUMPHI                         -\
_ oO.somp dooo. m Iro.O Uj                                                   VD
lCl*nalDDI Th. ^vr:orsO^zau 9Id    \owo fd  U1u                           f0                        Rurai Health Centers
mo l.dn,.-    qa
0r007 IqbOlo,y 0Vmr 1                                                                          All
6-do . oooebanO                                                         C                    Distri,ct  Rural Houses
0                   A                         O s T  Training Institutions
eyz Z ZJ ' Principal Roads
B 20  tp70   g ay prUnl   1  JAJS  Rivers
)  Malmba   ih  , / /.A  J   O  Towns
_ | .^2 O t hismulu I^ ,3 * District Capitals
ZAMBIA                                                                  Li                               National Capital
District Baundarles
/ ) [ 0                                                  Region Boundaries
International Boundaries
4.       Nichniakota             KOtattOMnRS o    20  n r0    0    0    'IO
MOZAMBIQUE
To tooako  Moh         N     GWin   /  Mkoy\
_4                                                                                                                                                5   0  \,
I J MACHIN5A
MOZAM BIQU E                                               O  n0
ZAI                                                                                                          ANI    IDN _,,%oIIs, 
_  t   .1  51_   \                   \   CHlt(W^}  LXUO   f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
IAt- *  k;T er
- <   <    <    M     $    m     o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Up..,90



