Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2220 MAI
         (Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Credit)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 31, 1991
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2220 MAI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Associa-
tion).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
January 25, 1991, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's population, health and nutrition sector (hereinafter
called the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program;
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibi-
lity and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
      (b)   "MOCS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Community
Services;
      (c)   "MOLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Govern-
ment;
      (d)   "EP&D" means the Department of Economic Planning and
Development in the Borrower's Office of the President and Cabinet;
      (e)   "NFWCM" means the National Family Welfare Council of
Malawi established by the National Family Welfare Council of Malawi
Act, 1990 (Act No. 20 of 1990);
      (f)   "PHAM" means the Private Hospital Association of Malawi;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 28, 1990, July 12,
1990 and July 23, 1990 between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-eight million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 38,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
Page  3
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannu-
al installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing
September 15, 2001 and ending March 15, 2031. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on March 15, 2011 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
Program and to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through MOH, MOCS, MOLG and EP&D with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public health practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out a cost-sharing
scheme for health services, including private patient fees and other
charges provided through MOH, in accordance with an implementation
plan, satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, for each of its fiscal
years, 1991/92 through 1994/95:
      (a)   adopt a revenue and development budget, satisfactory to
the Association, in which appropriations for peripheral health
services shall be at least 2 percent higher than the appropriations
for such services in the budget for its immediately preceding fiscal
year;
      (b)   include a line item in MOH's budget to cover non-salary
expenditures of local authorities' health facilities; and
      (c)   submit to the Association:
            (i)   an analysis of actual expenditures for peripheral
                  health services for the immediately preceding
                  fiscal year;
           (ii)   detailed work program for the subsequent fiscal
                  year to improve efficiency at each major hospi-
                  tal;
          (iii)   an analysis of training outputs compared with
                  plan for the preceding fiscal year; and
           (iv)   an analysis of current staff in-post, and vacan-
                  cies at each health facility compared with tar-
                  gets identified for the preceding fiscal year.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by January 31, 1992:
      (a)   carry out the rationalization and management of
peripheral health services of local authorities in accordance with
a plan satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)   establish management health teams for all districts; and
      (c)   furnish a plan to improve the coordination of MOH, local
Page  5
authorities and PHAM health services, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by May 31, 1993, carry out
an evaluation of the management health teams and cost-sharing
measures adopted by the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
                  ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
                  tors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
                  ation has received the audit for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Page  6
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
and
      (b)   (i)   Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph
                  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
                  ceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for the
                  financing of the Project shall have been
                  suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                  part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                  providing therefor;
           (ii)   Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Association that: (A) such suspen-
                  sion, cancellation or termination is not caused
                  by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
                  its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
                  adequate funds for the Project are available to
                  the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has adopted a revenue and development
budget for its FY 1991/92 in which, appropriations for peripheral
health services are at least 2 percent higher than the appropria-
tions for such services in the budget for its FY 1990/91;
      (b)   the Borrower has adopted a detailed plan, satisfactory
to the Association, to: (i) improve efficiency at each of the major
hospitals in Lilongwe, Blantyre and Zomba; and (ii) to implement the
decentralization of health services; and
      (c)   the Borrower has transferred responsibility for the
management and administration of all MOH and local authority health
services below the hospital level to district management teams,
under district health officers.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30049
            Lilongwe 3
            Malawi
            Cable address:                Telex:
Page  7
                  FINANCE                   44407 MI
                  Lilongwe
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                  By /s/ Robert B. Mbaya
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:                               100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
     (a) under Part A.4          297,000
         of the Project
     (b) under Part C (2)      2,800,000
         (i) of the Project
     (c) other                10,180,000
(2)  Furniture, equip-                          100%
     ment and vehicles:
     (a) under Part A.4          112,000
Page  8
         of the Project
     (b) under Part C (2)        508,000
         (i) of the Project
     (c) other                 5,347,000
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Drugs and supplies:       3,823,000        100%  of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Technical                                  100% of foreign
     assistance,                                expenditures and
     training and                               80% of local
     fellowships:                               expenditures
     (a) under Part A.4          670,000
         of the Project
     (b) other                 3,777,000
(5)  Salaries:
     (a) for Project             712,000        80%
         Unit staff
     (b) for staff             1,442,000        100% up to
         under Parts A.1                        December 31,
         A.3, A.4 and                           1992, 65% up
         B.1 (c) of the                         to December 31,
         Project                                1994 and 30%
                                                thereafter
(6)  Incremental               1,390,000        80%
     Recurrent
     Costs
(7)  Pilot Programs under        245,000        100%
     Part A.4 (c) of the
     Project
(8)  Primary Health Fund         347,000        100%
     under Part C. 6 of the
     Project
                           Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(9) Social Program               347,000        100%
    Support fund
(10) Refunding of                253,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(11) Unallocated               6,350,000
                               _________
    TOTAL                     38,600,000
                              ==========
Page  9
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental recurrent costs" means operating
costs, including fuel, vehicles and equipment maintenance, including
data processing facilities.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) in respect of
Categories (1) (a), (2) (a) and (4) (a) unless the Borrower submits:
(i) a proposal, satisfactory to the Association, for the administra-
tion of funds for income-generating activities for 24 villages; and
(ii) a plan, satisfactory to the Association, for restructuring the
Magomero training program, and in respect of Categories 1 (b) and 2
(b) unless the Borrower has, for the FY 1992/93: (i) implemented
cost-sharing measures upon the completion of rehabilitation of six
urban health centers and the construction of two new urban health
centers under Part C (1) of the Project; and (ii) adopted a revenue
and development budget, all satisfactory to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve quality, access,
efficiency, and effectiveness in the population, health and
nutrition sector through: (a) strengthening of basic population,
health and nutrition programs, primary health care, maternal and
child health care, child spacing, malaria control, an AIDS control
program, nutrition interventions, and women in development
activities; (b) strengthening of support services to the basic
programs, including staffing, pharmaceutical, and information,
education and communication issues; (c) efficiency improvements,
management strengthening, hospital decongestion, cost sharing, and
budget reforms; and (d) support to the Borrower's social dimensions
of adjustment initiatives.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Strengthening of Basic Services
1.    Primary Health Care
      (a)   Development of, and support for, about 3,600 health
surveillance assistants.
      (b)   Rehabilitation and construction of about 30 rural health
centers.
      (c)   Improvement of infrastructure and district level
services through: (i) construction of about 462 new rural houses;
(ii) rehabilitation of about 50 rural houses; and (iii) acquisition
of about 24 four-wheel drive vehicles.
2.    Malaria and AIDS
      (a)   Strengthening the malaria control program through the
acquisition of drugs and about 15 vehicles.
      (b)   Strengthening the AIDS control program through the
acquisition of laboratory equipment and supplies, counselling and
Page  10
homecare for patients, and the production and distribution of
educational materials for schools and colleges.
3.    Child Spacing
      Strengthening the Borrower's child-spacing program through the
establishment of NFWCM, including the construction, furnishing and
equipping of an office building for NFWCM and 12 fixed facilities in
existing health centers for use by MOH.
4.    Women-in-development
      (a)   Strengthening MOCS' institutional capacity in its Women-
in-development program through technical assistance, training and
acquisition of about 6 vehicles, 25 motorcycles and 55 bicycles.
      (b)   Improvement and reorganization in Magomero Community
Development College, through improvement of physical infra-
structure, training, curriculum revision and acquisition of
equipment.
      (c)   A pilot program in appropriate technology dissemination
for income generating activities, and credit.
5.    Nutrition and Food Security
      Extension of a community-level food security and a
micronutrient deficiency program through:
      (a)   training and equipping of about 5,500 community health
volunteers;
      (b)   preparation of a nutrition module;
      (c)   acquisition of iodized oil capsules, ferrous sulfate and
folic acid tablets and materials; and
      (d)   studies.
Part B:     Strengthening of Support Services
1.    Manpower Development
      Improvement of training programs and facilities for health
personnel through:
      (a)   construction and rehabilitation of student hostels,
construction of a training school for nurses and midwives in
Lilongwe, and additional student hostels at district hospitals;
      (b)   training of about 80 nurse tutors, and construction of
staff houses; and
      (c)   strengthening MOH's personnel management information and
planning capabilities through training, technical assistance and
acquisition of equipment.
2.    Information, Education and Communications
      Strengthening the information, education and communication
capabilities of the population, health and nutrition sector, through
technical assistance, development of materials for print, radio and
audio-visual use, community outreach activities and research and
evaluation.
3.    Pharmaceutical Program
      Strengthening the national pharmaceutical program through
technical assistance, training, rehabilitation and improvements of
stores and acquisition of vehicles.
Part C:     Management and Efficiency Improvements
Page  11
      Improvement of Health Centers and Hospitals through:
      (1)   Rehabilitation of about six urban health centers and
construction of two new urban health centers.
      (2)   Construction of: (i) a new hospital in Lilongwe; and
(ii) a hospital to replace an existing one at Chiradzulu.
      (3)   Replacement of equipment in selected hospitals.
      (4)   Introduction of cost-sharing reforms in fees charged to
patients.
      (5)   Increases in: (i) budgetary allocations to MOH; and (ii)
the share of outreach and health services in such budgetary
allocation.
      (6)   The establishment of a primary health care fund.
Part D:     Social Program Support Fund
      Strengthening of a social program support fund for community-
based small-scale pilot interventions, including technical assis-
tance, training, consultants' services and studies.
                           *   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Malawi may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$150,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding with public bid opening, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, provided, however, that the aggregate price of contracts so
awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.    Furniture, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Page  12
3.    Materials and supplies, including paper and seeds, estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $2,000 per contract, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.  The aggregate price of contracts so awarded shall not
exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Program and Project Coordination
1.    The Borrower shall establish a Committee on Monitoring and
Evaluation, within MOH, under the chairmanship of the Principal
Secretary, MOH. The Committee shall be responsible for the coordina-
tion of all activities related to the execution of the Program and
the Project and shall, in particular, assist the Planning sections
of MOH, MOCS, MOLG and EP&D in: (a) coordinating the various units
within MOH, MOCS, MOLG and EP&D; (b) preparing periodic reports
required for the timely preparation of annual progress reports; and
(c) monitoring, and reporting on, the implementation of policies
contained in the Program.
      MOH shall forward to the Association periodic progress reports
on the Program and the Project on a semi-annual basis, on April 30,
and October 31 in each year.
Page  13
2.    The Borrower shall make adequate annual budgetary allocations
for the implementation of the Program in the fiscal years 1992/93
through 1995/96. The Committee shall supervise MOH's budgetary
requests, to ensure that they are consistent with programmed
activities, and the objectives of the policies and staffing
envisaged in the Program.
3.    The Borrower and the Association shall jointly: (a) review
progress in the implementation of the Program not later than July 31
of each year; and (b) by not later than September 30, 1993 carry out
a mid-term review in the overall implementation of the Program and
the Project. The Borrower shall thereafter implement the recommenda-
tions of such reviews for the proper carrying out of the Program and
the Project.
4.    The unit established and existing within MOH to implement Part
A of the Second Family Health Project (Credit 1768-MAI) pursuant to
a development credit agreement dated May 7, 1987, shall be respon-
sible for the carrying out of the Project.
Part D of the Project
5.    The Social Support Task Force chaired by the Principal
Secretary, EP&D, and consisting of representatives of MOA, MOH,
MOCS, MOLG and of the Ministries of Finance, Labour and Education
and Culture shall be responsible for the implementation of Part D of
the Project. The Task Force, and its Program Coordinator shall, with
the assistance of a project manager, a procurement specialist and an
architect, be responsible for identifying and monitoring of pilot
interventions and transmitting its findings and recommendations to
the Special Studies Unit with EP&D.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Page  14
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Page  15
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
