Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rephwt No. 8175
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAM 2152-ZA)
NOVEMBER 6, 1989
Industry and Energy Division
Technical Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thdr official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



AUUVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGG      Compagnie General de Geophysique
GS       Geological Survey
KW       Kilowatts
MOM      Ministry of Mines
MK       Megawatts
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PU       Petroleum Unit
TNDP     Third National Development Plan
PIMCO    Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited
COUNTRY EXCNANGE RATES
Name of Currency:    Zambian Kwacha (ZK)
Appraisal Estimate: USS/Kvacha 1.2
Actuals
Year             end 1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
US$SZK               1.077  0.662  0.454  0.175  0.127  0.125



T* WOLLD BANK                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
W&shiton. DC. 2033
U.S A.
COke.d Ouctm.Guwei
November 6, 1989
MS WRANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Zambia
Petroleum Exploration Project (Loan 2152-ZA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled OProject
Completion Report on Zambia - Petroleum Exploration Project (Loan 2152-ZA)m
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document ha a retriW ditrbutio ad may be usW by mciplts only in do pefonmme
of thi offik  duties Its eownas ay not orwwe be dbiosed whbout Wod Bank au_tuion



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPU!LIC OF ZAMBIA
PETROLEUM EMPLOR&TION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN 2152-ZA
Table of Contents
Preface ....................................................... i
Basic Data Sheet .........     .     ................................ ii
Highlights                          ... iv
I. INTRODUCTION           . ........................ 1
A. Energy Resource Base ................................ l
B. Main Policy Objectives and Investment Priorities ....l
C. Institutional and Legal Framework ................... 2
D. Status of Exploration ........... 2
E. rroject Objectives .................................. 2
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .......3
A. Project Identification             .......... . .3
B. Project Preparation and Appraisal ................... 3
III. IMPLEMENTATION ..................... 5
A. Implementation Start-up and
Project Preparation Facility           .     .        5
B. Airmag Survey ........ ..              . ...... . ...... 5
C. Project Administration              ...  6
D. Exploration Consultants ............................. 6
E. Gravity Survey ............................ . .... 7
F. Training        ..........    .................................. 7
G. Legal Services .................... 7
H. Landsat Geological Mapping                  . .   7
I. Purchases       .     .  O... ...     .     .      .8... 
J. Acreage Promotion ................................... 8
K. PLocurement . ....................................... 8
L. Annual Audit Reports     ......      ............... .   9
M. Performance of Consultants and Contractors    ..  9
IV. PROJECT RESULTS        ....................# .................. 10
A. Technical Assistance          .      .. .... ... . .10
B. Institutional Performance ..........................  11
C. World Bank Performance ....................... ...... 12
V.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED . . ..................... 13
Annex 1: Map - Hydrocarbon Exploration Blocks
Annex 2: Comments from the Borrower and Executing Agency
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriziation.



- i -
POJ3C! COMPlUTION 1POR!
THe REPUBLIC OF Walk
PmR OLIW XxPLOIL!ION P10NTION PUOJECt
LOAN 2152-4k
PRWACI
Loan 2152-ZA (Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project) in the
amount of US$6.6 million was approved on May 5, 1982 to assist the Ministry
of Mines (MOM), the Government's entity responsible for all petroleum
matters in the country, in the promotion of acreage to oil companies for
petroleum exploration, to assist the Government to establish a Petroleum
Unit (PU) within the MOM and to strengthen the PU so that it could manage
the petroleum sector. These objectives were largely met. To assist in an
early start-up of the project, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was
granted. The project closed on December 31, 1986, during which time
approximately 74 percent of the Loan was disbursed. A total of
US$1,706,604.12 was cancelled effective July 13, 1987.
This Project Completion Report was prep-%red by the Africa
Technical Department, Industry and Rnergy Division based on reports, data
and documents in the project files.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Departmnet (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached
to the Report (Annex 2).



- ii -
PROJUTC OOMLNUTON UZPOR2
2= El IZUBC OF ZAUIA
PUTROLWIM ZZPLOIION PCMOTION PROJECT
LOAN 2152-LA
BASIC DATA SEW
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal           Actual at Proj.
IzPectation             closing
Total Project Cost (US$ million)          8.1                   N/A
Loan Amount (US$ million)                  6.6                   4.9
Loan Amount Disbursed                                            4.9
Physical Components completed            12186                   12/86
Financial Performance                     fair                  poor
Sconomic Rate of Return                  N/A                    N/A
Institutional Performance                fair                   poor
CUMLATIE DISBURSEMENTS
FY82     FY83     FY84      PY85     FY86
Mi)    Appraisal Estimate       0.46     4.37      5.60     6.55      6.60
(iL)   Actual                   1.66     2.26      3.97     4.71      4.90
(iii)  (ii) as 2 of (i)         360       52        71       72        74
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original           Actual
First Mention in Files                       07107181
Negotiations                                 02/rx/82           04/09182
Board Approval Date                          04/x1/82          05/20182
Signing Date                                                   06/14182
Effective Date                               08115/82           08/06/82
Loan Closing                                 12/31/86           12131/86



- iJ.i -
STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
(Reliable data unavailable)
MISSION DATA
Month/      No. of    No. of      man/         Date of
Year         Days    Persons    Weeks           Report
Identification      08181         5          2         2           10/16/81
Prep/Appraisal      12/81          6         3         3.6         01/21/2
Supervision    1.  04/82          2          2          .8         04/27/82
2.  05182          8         1         1.6
3.  08/82          2         1          .4         09/15/82
4.  09/82        15          1         3.0         10/01/82
5.  11/82          5         1         1.0         12/22/82
6.  03/83          7         1         1.4         0V131/83
7. 07/83          2          2          .8         07/26/83
8. 09/83           3         2         1.2         10/18/J3
9.  06/84         5          2         2.0         08/15/84
10.  08/84          3         2         1.2
11.  09/84          6         1         1.2         10/05/84
12.  10/84        10          1         2.0         11/16/84
13.  02/85          6         2         2.4         03/20/85
14.  06/85          5         3         3.0          06/25/85
15.  11/85          7         2         2.8         12/23/85
TOTAL      30.4
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                s          The Republic of Zambia
Executing Agency        s         Ministry of Mines
Fiscal Year of Borrower:          January 1 - December 31



- iv -
PROJICYf CWLKTON RUPOD!T
T,E RIPUBLIC OF WII&
PITROLnI ZPLOSATIOR PROtiMON PROSCT
LOAN 2152-IL
i.       The World Bank Loan under review, In the amount of US$6.6 million
financed a petroleum exploration promotion project for the prospective
areas In Zambia. The beneficiary of the loan and executing agency vas the
Ministry of Mines which is in charge of all mining and mineral activities,
including petroleum exploration and production.
ii.      Zambia has a relatively large energy resource potential consisting
of hydropower, coal, uranium and renewable energy such as fuelvood,
bagasse, molasses, wind, solar and geothermal. I3dropower generation
capacity is 1,608 NW with substantial potential for expazsion. Proven coal
reserves exceed 30 million tons of fair quality and satisfy 9Z of energy
demand. Fuelvood supplies the bulk (66Z) of the total energy needs of the
population. Potential exists for solar and wind energy development to be
used for crop drying and water pumping. Geothermal energy development of
small units (500KW) is being pursued by the Government in areas of local
need but outside of the national electrical grid.
iii.     At project appraisal, petroleum fuels met 142 of Zambia's energy
needs all of which needed to be imported. Firewood and charcoal met about
452 of the needs, however, supplies of wood were shrinking rapidly. At the
present time, petroleum accounts for 102 of total imports and satisfies 122
of energy demands. Hydroelectric power supplies the bulk of the industrial
demand as well as power re lrements along the national electrical grid.
Because of the large supply of hydropower, Zambia is a net exporter of
electrical power, and with interconaections to Zimbabwe and Zaire, until
recently approximately one-third of the capacity was exported. There had
been no petroleum exploration and production in Zambia at the time of
appraJ.sal, and the consumption and distribution pattern is completely
geared to imports. The project was designed to acquire sufficient
geological and geophysical data in order to upgrade the industry perception
of the petroleum potential of the country. In addition, it was recognized
that a suitable legal framework and model contract were necessary in order
attract serious oil companies to Zambia to agree to explore for oil and
gas.
iv.      Project implementation proceeded soon after project appraisal by
meacs of a PPP which allowed the aeromagnetic survey to start quickly in
order to take advantage of the dry season. The areas where the airmag



survey was to be flown were identified by surface geolo'ttcal information
and by searching the data on file with the Geological Survey. Additional
areas were flown which were covered by water and hence no geological data
were available. A gravity survey was planned to supplement the airmag data
to resolve any ambiguities in the interprecitions. Finally, a program of
geological mapping on the Landeat images was undertaken to assure that all
the interpretations and r*ew ideas on rifting would agree with and
complement the surface geology as observed on the images. Once it became
fairly obvious that areas existed which might be of interest to oil
companies, the legal consultants were set into motion designing a suitable
model contract and a legal framework which would be acceptable to the
Government and at the sam  time be attract've to oil companies.  A total of
four blocks were designated by the Government as being available and open
for oil industry bids; Blocks wA' through "DO.
vs       Once all of the geological and geophysical interpretationa were in
hand, a report, 'The Hydrocarbon Potential of Zambia,' was prepared by the
Government's geological consultant and was made available for purchase by
interested parties. At the same time a promotional seminar was presented
in London, which was attended by representatives of more than 40 oil
companies, during which tne geological and geophysical findings were
presented. Subsequent to the meeting in London, companies were given a set
time in which to interpret and evaluate the data and prepare a bid for
presentation to the Government. Two oil companies, Placid Oil Co. and
Mobil Oil Co., signed agreements on three of the four blocks and spent over
US$20 million on exploration efforts and drilling. Although the oil
companies have not made any discoveries as yet, the project has been
successful in that oil companies have been encouraged to come to Zambia and
risk funds to attempt to find oil and gas. Mobil has decided to withdraw
from Block B a- a result of its exploration efforts and Placid has
requested, and been granted, a period of time during which it can evaluate
the findings of ita two tests in the Luangwa Valley. Since then, Mobil has
been actively talking vith the Governmept concerning the Zambian portion of
the Kariba Basin near Lake Kariba.
vi.      The lessons learned from this project which can be applied to
similar lending operations by the Bank group are:
(a) There should be close project supervision by Bank technical staff
during implementation of the technical portion of the project to
ensure that good technical practices are observed (paragraph 41)
during tne project, and that the objectives of the project are
attained to the satisfaction of the borrower and of the Bank
supervisory staff.
(b) The borrower should be informed early on that the Bank attaches a
great deal of importance to training of nationals and should be
encouraged to assign nationals to all operations to work along-
side of the consultants and contractors in order to understand



- vi -
what is trying to be achieved. In the exploration contracts
signed by oil companles, the training fund has proven to be very
useful toward furthering training of nationals and purchase of
training and reference material even after the close of the
project.
(c)  Petroleum exploration is a very specialized field reqwiring inputs
from professional geologists and geophysicistc. It is important
to secure sufficient budgetary resources so that required skills
are brought into the project supervision throughout the project
life. This would help ensure that a dialogue is established with
the borrower and maintained so that all questions of the borrower
are sufficiently addreseoed. This vill avoid having the borrower
feel "left out' of the decision-making process (paragraph 40), or
that the Bank was non-responsive and provided a technically
inadequate input (paragraph 34).
(d) The appointment of consultants to advise the borrwier during the
early phase of the project, if deemed sufficiently importaut,
should be made a condition of effectiveness of the project rather
than left hanging to be delayed until the project is well underway
Cparagrayh 38).
(e) There should be a clearer understanding developed with the
implementing agency on the purposes of the loan and the potential
use of cost savings for purposes outside of the original project
description. This might avoid some of the ill-feeling surrounding
the cancellation of undisbursed funds in the loan.



PR JECT C4OPLSTION REPORT
TMi REPUBLIC or WSIA
PRTROLUIK IIPLORATIOR PROMOTION PROJECT
LCeN 2152-ZA
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Energy Resource Base
1.       The project under review was the first lending operation in the
petroleum sector of Zambia. While petroleum accounted for nearly 14Z of
the total energy consumption in 1980, the importation of petroleum products
cost the country US$191 million, equivalen.t to 142 of the total export
earnings. Apart from minor coal and coke imports, petroleum was the only
cnergy import. Below is the energy const'mption profile in 1981 at the time
of project identification:
Estimated Energy Consumption 1981
(in metric tons of' oil equivalent)
Petroleum Fuels        644,000         14
Hydroelectric Power   1390,000         31
Coal                   366,000          8
Charcoal/Pirewood     2000,000         45
Coke                    60,000          1
Bagasse                 32,000          1
100
At the time of project identification, petroleum imports were
becoming a growing burden on Zambia's economiy. Rising oil prices were
expected to boost the petroleum import bill at a time when exports were
decreasing. The country decided, therefore, to attempt to interest
international oil companies in coming to Zambia to explore for and develop
indigenous hydrocarbon resources. To accomplish this, Zambia needed to
upgrade the industry's perception of the hydrocarbon p:oapects in the
country. The Government, therefore, turned to the Bank for assistance in
promoting its prospective areas to the oil companies.
B. Main Policy Obiectives and Investment Priorities
2.       The energy sector objectives, as reflected in the Third National
Development Plan of 1979-1983 (TNDP), were to (i) reduce domestic
consumption and imports of petroleum products; (ii) promote a slift to the
use of electricity and coal; and (iii) consolidate supplies of traditional
fuels.  These priorities were refleck  'I the energy investment proposals



-2-
included in the TNDP. The bulk of the K145 million TNDP energy budget was
earmarked for electric power, followed by petroleum and wood fuels. There
was little or no allocation for coal, nuclear, and soft energies, such as
wind, geotherma:, and solar.
3.       The thrust of the TNDP, as mentioned above, was to ultimately
reduce the dependence on imported petroleum by increasing the consumption
of electricity, coal and other energy sources. The Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project was not yet identified at the time of preparation of
TNDP; however, following its identification, the Government added the
proposed project to its investment program.
C. Institutional and Legal Framework
4.       Because in Zambia, petroleum exploration and production are
considered as part of the mining sector, the Ministry of Mines (MOM) is in
charge of the petroleum sector as far as exploration is concerned, while
refining and distribution are being handled by the existing ZIHCO companies
under the supervision of the Ministry of Power. The Geological Survey
Department (GS), in MOM department established in 1951, monitors mining
operations, gathers geological data for resource evaluation and was in
charge of petroleum exploration.
5.       Because oil exploration and production had never been considered
in Zambia, petroleum legislation vas non-existent. Once attractive areas
for petroleum exploration would be identified, the project would undertake
to put into place a suitable legal framework within which petroleum
exploration, production and export could take place.
D. Status of Exploration
6.       At the time the project was appraised, there was no petroleum
exploration taking place in the country. Moreover, no oil companies seemed
to look at Zambia with an eye to exploration as the perception was that
Zambia was basically a mining country with only poor prospects, at best,
for petroleum. At the time of appraisal, there had never been any
exploration or drilling for petroleum in Zambia.
S. Proiect Obiectives
7.       The project's objective was to support the Government's efforts to
gather geological and geophysical information to promote hydrocarbon
exploration by attracting foreign companies tc undertake petroleum
exploration. Financing of the project was provided by an IBRD loan (Loan
2152-ZA) in tihe amount of US$6.6 million to cover the full foreign exchange
costs of the project. Estimated local costs amounting to US$1.45 million
equivalent were to be financed by the Government.



8.       This report is based on documents and reports existing in the
project files, interviews with Bank staff and discussions with some
consultants and Government officials. The borrower has submitted a project
completion report which has been used in compiling thia PCR.
II. P10J1C! IDOHIVICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Proiect Zdentification
9.       Although Zambia had never had any reason to contact oil companies
regarding exploration for petroleum, the Geological Survey, in the Spring
of 1981 approached the Bank in an attempt to obtain assistance to interest
oil companies to explore for petroleum in Zambia. A short paper,
"Hydrocarbon Potential of Zambia' had been prepared by the Geological
Survey which sumnarized the fairly sparse data available. However,
Zambia's attempts to interest companies into taking a position in Zambia
consistently met with failure due to the (i) general lack of knowledge of
the sedimentary basins as well as the stratigraphy therein and (ii) a
complete absence of relevant laws and regulations which would allow for the
exploration and development of hydrocarbons.
10.      In August of 1981, a World Bank identification mission found that
there wsq a need to acquire additional data in the form of airmag and
possibly gravity surveys and to compile the results of the-s surveys with
the known geology into an overall evaluation report of the country.
Moreover since no peiroleum legislation was in place, it would be necessary
to finance legal consultants to draft the proper legislation and draw up a
model exploration contract. To properly administe: the activities during
the project, and after when oil companies would be working in the country,
a Petroleum Unit (PU) would need to be set up within the Ministry of Mines.
Since the Ministry of Mines was the entity responsible for other mining
endeavors within the country, and probably all of the technical expertise
in the PU would be drawn from the Geological Survey (a part of the MOM),it
was reasonable that the petroleum exploration efforts should be managed by
the Ministry of Mines. The PU would need to be staffed with the proper
people to deal with the activities during the project implementation as
well as to negotiate with oil companies and to monitor their activities.
B. Project Preparation and Appraisal
11.      A World Bank mission prepared and appraised the project in
December 1981 in light of the project otjectives mentioned above. The
project was described fully in the President's Report and no Staff
Appraisal Report was prepared. Specifically the project would consist of
two major parts, (i) Geophysical Surveys and (ii) Technical Assistance and
are described as follows:



-4-
1.    Geophysical Surveys
(a) Airsma Survoes A aimag survey (estimated at about 90,000
line-km) would be flown over the prospective sedimentary
Karoo areas to establish their structural setting, the
thickness of the sediments above the basement and the
magnitude of possible volcanic intrusions in order to
appraise the prospectiveness of these areas and generate
interest in further petroleum exploration.
(b)   GravitZ Surveys A broad reconnaissance gravity survey of
about 1,500 stations would cover traverses to check the
airmag interpretations. The gravity survey would help tie
in the airmag results to make them more readily usable and
confirm structural trends in the basins and would only be
performed if the airmag survey yielded results which would
make further exploration appear worthwhile.
(c)  Airmaz Supervision and Quality Controls About 15 man-months
of consultants' services for supervision, quality control
and interpretation of the results of the airmag survey.
,d)   Reprocessing of Available Mineral Airmag Surveys:
Reprocessing and reinterpretation of relevant data collected
under 5 previous mineral airmag surveys covering about
50,000 line-km over part of the Katanga Group sediment
areas.
2.    Technical Assistance
(a)   Exploration Consultants: A geologist and a geophysicist (24
man-months) assisted by a photogeologist for about 6 months.
The consultants would (1) review all of the geological data
in sedimentary areas; (2) select rock samples for
paleontologic and maturation analysis; (3) monitor the
various geophysical surveys, including the reprocessing of
existing mineral oriented airmag data, and also the
laboratory analysis; (4) prepare a photogeologic map of
Zambia's sedimentary areas from conventional air photographs
and Landeat imagery; (5) interpret the results of the
surveys, reprocessed data and laboratory analyses and
integrate them with the new geologic information in a final
promotion report for sale to interested companies; (6)
prepare a strategy report for exploration blocks offering,
administer the bidding, negotiate the contrrcts; (7) assist
the legal consultants in the preparation of model
agreements; (8) help establish the Petroleum Unit, (9)
coordinate the various project components, in particular the
airmag and gravity surveys, and (10) provide training for
Zambians in the Petroleum Unit.



(b)   Legal Consultinis  Nine man-months of legal consultgnt
services by an experienced law firm to draft petroleum
exploration legislation, prepare model
exploration/production contracts which vould be both
attractive to potential Investors and protect Zambia's
interests, and assist the Government in negotiating with oil
companies.
(c)   Trainings  Overseas training of two GS geologists and two GS
geophysicists and the attendance of specialized short-term
courses abroad by senior GS staff.
(d)   Equipment,  Vehicles to be used in the field as well as some
office, lab, camping and training equipment.
12.      Loan negotiations were held in Washington in April, 1982 and the
loan was approved by the Board on June 14, 1982. There were no specLal
conditions of effectiveness and the loan was effective as' of August 6,
1982.
III.  IHPLUEKTlON
A. Imlementation Start-up and Project Prearation Facility
13.      In order to accelerate the implemertation of the project, a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the aziount of US$1,000,000 was
requested in February, 1982. The PPF was requested in order to finance the
following components before the loan became effectives exploration
consultants, mobilization and start-up of the ainmag survey, quality
control consultants for the airmag survey, and vehicles for the PU.
B. Airmat Survey
14.      The  MOH sent out bidding documents to a number of airmag
contractors and to a short-list of quality control and interpretation
consultants. Bids were received and evaluations made and an airmag
contractor was chosen to acquire the airmag data and a well-known firm was
chosen as the airmag quality control and interpretation consultants. Some
delays were experienced in the acquisition phase of the program due to the
attempted coup in Kenya (which seemed to have grounded aircraft in many
parts of Africa) and a serious lack of fuel. These delays at the time were
quite serious as there was the possibility that the flying might well
extend Into the rainy season, thereby causing an almost unacceptable delay
in the acquisition and hence in the overall implementation time of the
project. The airmag survey was completed in mid November, 1982 after a
total of 104,432 line-km were flown. Some delays were experienced in the
processing of the data and hence the eventual interpretation due to some
errors which were discovered on the original data tapes. These errors were
subsequently corrected but not without the attendant delays.



15.      Once the processing of the data was completed, the data were given
to airmag consultants who then proceeded to make att interpretation as to
the approximate thickness of the sediments overlying basement. At the same
time, the firm reprocessed and mapped the older airmag data which were
flown for minerals some years back. These data were upward continued so
that there would be no obvious change in character due to change of flying
height. This allowed for a smoother Interpretation of the magnetic datum.
16.      In the northwestern part of Zambia, the magnetic interpretation as
prepared by the airmag consultants was questioned by the PU, whose doubts
and questions were supported by the Bank. It was agreed that a second
interpretation be made of the magnetic data so that a decision could be
made regarding the advisability of additional geophysical work in the area.
For this reinterpretation the government chose an airmag interpretation
consulting firm to make another interpretation. This new interpretation
was in conflict with the previous interpretation, and both consultants were
requested to defend their interpretations. After listening to the
presentations by both consultants, it was agreed by all concerned that the
first interpretation would be considered as the more credible.
C. Project Administration
17.      Although one of the objectives of the project was to h4re
exploration consultants to a-sist in setting up the PU and to advise the PU
in its technical studies, the Government did not hire an exploration
consultant for this purpose but chose instead to staff the PU with an
expatriate Coordinator and an expatriate Chief Accountant. These two
people were assigned from the Geological Survey. In fact, while with the
PU the people maintained their positions with the Geological Survey. Very
early in the project, both the Project Coordinator and the Chief Accountant
were removed from the PU and returned to work solely for the Geological
Survey and were replaced by a Zambian Project Administrator, Geologist and
a Geophysicist. This caused only minor delays in implementation.
D. Exploration Consultants
18.      Although clearly spelled out in the project objectives, the
Government did not see its way clear to hire an exploration consulting firm
to undertake the objectives listed above. Only when it came time to
integrate the geological and geophysical data did the Government give this
responsibility in part to a well-known potential field consulting firm (for
the geophysical integration). Later in February, 1985, a geological
consultant was hired to assist in the integration of the geophysical and
geological data. In addition to field checking the geology at specific
locations identified by the airmag consultant, the geological consultant
was to prepare the promotion report and to present the technical side of
the program at the promotion meetings. It is felt that if exploration
consultants had been hired earlier in the project, the project may have
progressed more smoothly. Without a doubt the training aspect of the
project may have been addressed earlier and with more satisfactory results.



-7-
S. Gravity Survey
19.      Once the results of the airmag survey were known and areas of
possible interest were identified, it became obvious that a gravity survey
would be necessary in order to refine the interpretation and to remove some
of the ambiguities inherent in most magnetic surveys. It was decided that
a helicopter supported gravity crew would be used because of the rather
large separation of the gravity profiles and the impressive savings of time
by going to the helicopter supported mode. After requesting bids from a
number of companies who could do the work, the Government chose a
geophysical contracting firm to undertake the work. A total of 1092
gravity stations were occupied along a few profiles which were
strategically located in order to be of greatest value in refining the
magnetic interpretations. In most cases, the gravity survey accomplished
its purpose in that interpretations of the magnetic data were strengthened
and upheld by the gravity data.
F. TraininR
20.      Every attempt was made to assure that Zambian nationals were
assigned to all phases of the project. This included trainees on the
airmag and gravity acquisition crews as well as trainees assigned to the
groups processing and interpreting the airmag and gravity data in the USA
and the UK. As mentioned above, it is felt that training suffered somewhat
by not baving the exploration consultants on the job earlier so that a
meaningful training program including short courses and seminars could be
designed and implemented. As a part of each oil companies' contract, a
modest training fund has been established by which nationals can continue
to be trained and materials for training and reference can be purchased
even after oil companies have left the country. This fund has been used
recently to purchase a number of additions to the reference library and to
fund staff of the PU to attend seminars and conferences.
G. Legal Services
21.      The Government chose a legal firm in August of 1984 to draft the
petroleum legislation which was subsequently passed by parliament on March
20, 1965. In addition, the legal firm drafted the model production sharing
agreement which formed the basis of negotiations with oil companies.
During the time of negotiations with oil companies, representatives of the
legal firm, supplied negotiation expertise.
H. Landsat Geological Mapping
22.      A remote sensing processing and interpretation firm was chosen to
supply and interpret the Landsat images of the areas. In general, the
results of the Landsat Geological study confirmed the results of the airmag
and the gravity surveys.



I. Purchases
23.      The project purchased ten vehicles which included 2 station wagon
Landrovers, 2 Fiat cars. 2 Datsun (Kingcab) Vanettes, 1 Datsun Tracker and
1 Mitsubishi 3-ton truck. In addition a considerable amount of laboratory
equipment, instruments and filing cabinets were purchased.
J. Acreage Promotion
24.      On June 13, 1985, a promotion meeting was held at the Roy'l Garden
Hotel in London. The meeting was opened by an address by the Minister of
Mines, and was followed by presentations of the geology, the results of the
airmag and gravity surveys and the Landsat interpretation. This was
followed by a review of the legal framework and the model contract. Over
one hundred oil industry officials representing forty-four oil companies
attended the meeting. After the meeting, some five oil companies chose to
have private meetings with the Zambian Government officials. A deadline of
November 14, 1985 was established for the receipt of bids.
25.      The results of all of the geophysical surveys plus the integration
of the surveys with the field geology and the Landeat mapping, were made
available in the form of a report which was for sale to anyone for
US$10,000 per copy. A total of twelve copies of the report were sold.
K. Procurement
26.      The Petroleum Unit of the Ministry of Mines complied fully with
the Bank's procurement guidelines and adhered completely to the Bank's
procurement requirements. The technical assistance contracts, exploration
consulting, quality control and legal assistance were all awarded on the
basis of selections made upon techiical merits of proposals received from
Bank-approved shortlists of consultants. The Bank approved each of the
appointments.
27.      Procurement for the airmag and gravity acquisition contracts was
done through International Competitive Bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Procurement for the Landsat Interpretation was done on a sole
source basis in that the anticipated contract was rather small and there
were time constraints.
28.      The following tables (in US$) indicates the disbursements by
category, as compared with the corresponding amounts allocated in the Loan
Agreement and estimated local currency disbursement.



Foreign Currency
Initial                        Disbursement
Amouct                            Amount
CateRgoE                           (US$)                             (US$)
1. Airmag Survey                 1,750,000                         2,040,380
2. Gravity Survey                1,000,000                         1,094,806
3. Training                        150,000                              0
4. Equipment & Materials           150,000                           132,147
5. Consultant's Services &
Project Administration        1,250,000                         1,282,292
6. Refunding of PPF              1,000,000                           246,234
7. Fee                              97,537                            97,537
8. Unallocated                   1,202.463                              0
TOTAL        6,600,000                         4,893,396
Cancelled       1,706,604*
Local Currency
Initial                       Disbursement
Amount                           Mount
Category                           (US$)                            (US$)
1. Airmag Survey                  400,000                            MIA
2. Gravity Survey                 270.000                            N/A
3. Training                        50,000                            VIA
4. Equipment & Materials           70,000                            V/A
5. Consultant's Serives &
ProJect Administration        340,000                            N/A
6. Unallocated                    322.000                            VIA
TOTAL         1,452,000                            N/A
The zero amount indicated in the Training category, does not
reflect the funds devoted to training as all training was conducted by the
consultants and contractors. Therefore, the funds spent for training are
thus included under those disbursements.
L. Annual Audit Reports
29.      In accordece with the Loan Agreement, an international accounting
firm audited the project accounts. However, the final audit report for the
period Jauuary 1, 1986 - July 31, 1987 has yet to be released by the
Government.
M. Performance of Consultants and Contractors.
30.      Without exception, all consultants performed excellent work.  The
Government and the World Bank were quite pleased with the quality of the
* Despite the loan's closure, the Minister of Mines continues to ask that
the money be made available.



- 10 -
consultants' work which has led to oil companies' entering into exploration
agreements with the government. The contractors which were involved with
the airmag and gravity acquisition performed very well, although it can be
argued that the airmag contractor was somewhat remLss in planning for
availability of aircraft fuel.
IV. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Technical Assistance
31.      The results of petroleum promotion projects are often difficult to
assess especially in the short term. The object of the project was to
interest international oil companies in coming to Zambia and to enter into
contractual agreements with the Government to start petroleum exploration
on blocks within the country. It is, of course, hoped by all that the
quest for petroleum is successful, however, the success of the project is
not measured by the success or failure of the exploration venture, but
rather if oil companies were sufficiently interested by the results of the
project, to come into Zambia to risk exploration funds. By this yardstick,
therefore, the project was a success in that 75 percent of the blocks were
taken up by oil companies.
32.      The World Bank project finaiced the acquisition of geological and
geophysical data and the compilation of these data into a promotional
report which was offered for sale to the international petroleum
exploration conmmunity. Some twelve copies of the report were sold at a
cost of US$10,000 each. In addition, the results of the geological and
geophysical studies as well as the legal aspects, were presented to the
Industry at a promotional meeting held in London in June, 1985. As
mentioned above, the meetings were attended by representatives of some
forty-four oil companies as well as other representatives of she industry
press and other ncn-affiliated attendees.
33.      After the London meeting, telexes were sent to all oil companies
which attended the meeting to advise them that additional information could
be made available to them if they required it. In response to these
telexes a number of companies sent geologists and geophysicists to collect
samples or to examine the data more closely. As a result of the above, two
companies eventually entered into agreements with the Government of Zambia
for exploration acreage--these were Placid Oil Company and Mobil Oil
Company.
(a)   Placid Oil Company--As a result of the meetings, Placid signed
agreements on Blocks 'A' and IC* (see attached map). Placid
started seismic work in Block A from June 1986 to October, 1987
and produced 3 or 4 drillable prospects in the block. Using
their own drilling rig from Penrod Drilling Co., they drilled a
test, Luangwa No. 1, to a depth of 8P38 feet (2709 m) followed
by Chama No. 1 drilled to 10,727 feet (3270 m). Both wells
failed to encounter oil and or gas. Luangwa No. 1 was stopped



- 11 -
short of the programmed total depth, however, on the basis of
the results in the hole, Placid negotiated with the PU to stop
the well short. Since Karoo sediments, which were expected in
both wells were absent, Placid felt that the geological and
geophysical data should be studied much more carefully before
making a decision to extend the exploration agreement or to
withdraw. Therefore, Placid requested the Government for an
extension of their second contract year by one year during which
time the date could be carefully studied. The Government agreed
to the modification of the work program and budget to
accommodate a temporary suspension of petroleum operations in
Block A. Total expenditure at the time of suspension was
US$16,267,442 of which US$10,473,473 has been spent on the two
wells, exceeding minim=m expenditure obligations by
US$8,267,442.  Placid started operations in Block  C   in Hay,
1986, however preliminary exploration results were not
encouraging, hence Placid relinquished the acreage in October,
1987.
(b)   Mobil Oil Co.--Mobil signed a Production Sharing Agreement with
the Government in January, 1987 after which exploration
operations started. In Mobil's opinion, the results did not
justify drilling and they subsequently relinquished the block
from the end of July, 1988. Mobil spent a total of US$4,897,00
exceeding the expenditure obligation by US$2,397,000.
34.      Once it became clear that Block D, in the Western portion of
Zambia, would not be picked up by any company, the PU recommended that
further geophysical work be done in this area in the hope that the area
could be upgraded. The PU felt that this additional wozk was justified
since the airmag data were not entirely conclusive and the gravity data
suggested a *weak* basin indication. Therefore, as far as Block D was
concerned and according to the PU, the objectives of project iad yet to be
met. The additional geophysical work suggested initially by the PU was a
limited Magneto-Telluric (MT) program. Although Bank technical staff
recommended that the proposal by the PU be discussed with them, no
meaningful dialogue was undertaken. A second recommendation by the PU to
field a reflection seismic crew was turned down by the Bank on the basis it
was expensive and could very well be inconclusive. The Ministry of Mines
and the Geological Survey feel strongly that the recommendations for
additional work in Block D should have been followed by discussions between
the PU and World Bank Technical staff. This lack of follow up led them to
question the adequacy of the Bank's technical input and its understanding
of Zambian geology.
B. Institutional Performance
35.      Early in the project, the Project Coordinator and the Financial
Officer were suspended causing a great deal of confusion in the Petroleum



- 12 -
Unit until such time as they were replaced. Charges against the Project
Coordinator and the Financial Officer were later dropped. This was a
critical time in that the airmag survey vas being flown and numerous
invoices had to be approved and withdrswal application submitted to the
Bank for payment. Delays in payment to contractors and consultants
probably were responsible for same delays in the implementation of the
project.
36.      It is further felt that the Petroleum Unit could have profited
from the early appointment of an exploration consulting firm. The firm
could have identified where strengthening of the PU was reqaired and could
have made sure that the PU was supplied with the proper equipment,
documents and supplies as well as design and implement a training program
for the technical members of the PU.
37.      On balance, the Petroleum Unit was very useful during the
implementation phase in coor4inating the efforts of the MOP and the various
consultants and contractors. Duri-g the promotion, the PU favorably
impressed representatives of the petroleum industry as to its expertise and
its ability to get things done. At the end of the project, the PU was
quite effective in negotiating and signing with oil companies on
exploration blocks in the country. During the time the oil companies were
involved in their exploration effort, the PU assisted them them in many
ways to ensure that their operations went along smoothly with no unusual
delays or harassment.
38.      The PU has demonstrated that it is quite flexible in its dealings
with oil companies and seems to be cognizant of the oil companies'
problems. This is demonstrated by the PU's agreeing with Placid to stop
Luangwa No. 1 short of programed total depth and to suspend the
contractual obligations during the period Placid is studying the results of
the two wells.
C. World Bank's Performance
39.      The World Bank initially played a very efficient role in the
implementation of the work program providing advice and guidance especially
during the periods when goods and services were being procured. The early
phases of the project were well supervised by the Bank where tecbnical
expertise within the Bank was b.ought to bear on the project to good
advantage. Questions concerning airmag and gravity program,
interpretations and integration with the Landoat geological interpretations
were continuously monitored and advice given by the Bank technical staff.
The technical support supplied to the MOM during the promotion meeting in
London, no doubt contributed to a large extent, to its success. Some 15
supervision missions were made up to November, 1985 and the results of the
project demonstrate the effectiveness of frequent supervision especially
during the implementation phase.
40.      During the latter phases of the project it would appear that
comunication between the Petroleum Unit and the Bank was not as good as



- 13 -
one would hope. To requests by the Petroleum Unit that additional work in
the Western portion of Zambia (in Block D) be programed, little attempt at
establishing a dialogue with the PU was made. In fact the Petroleum Unit
felt "abandoned" by the Bank when the project closed and the remainder of
the loan was cancelled without any discussion, and blames the staff for
being unsympathetic. The PU believed that it could have used the remaining
funds ln the project for additional technical assistance in dealing with
oil companies' operations as well as additional work in areas of less thAn
unique results.  The Bank's attitude was that the objec,ives of the project
were met 100 percent with a net savings of VS$1.7 million in foreign
exchange. Basinal areas were identified and two oil companies had made
agreements on 75S of the blocks. Further exploration work in Block D was
not considered justified since the project description did not include any
geophysical work beyond gravity and magnetics. No doubt the PU thought the
project should have been amended to include additional geophysical methods
by which the presence of thick sediments in Block D could be further
evaluated. It would have been better if the Minister and PU had more fully
understood from the outvet the limitations on the use of surplus loan
funds. In the absence of such an undetstanding, the Bank's unwillingness
to modify the loan agreement for a wider range of related activity was not
appreciated, and was a source of friction.
V. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
41.      In a country such as Zambia where no thought had evar been given
to the possibility of accumulations of petroleum, the project can be
considered a success. Geophysical and geological data were acquired and
gathered into a readable and interesting report and presented to the
petroleum industry. Although there was no great clamor to acquire
exploration blocks, at least 75 percent of the blocks were acquired by
interested and competent oil companies. This exceeded the realistic
expectations of peop'a associated with the project. So far, no commercial
oil or gas has been found; however, the project has been instrumental in
bringing companies into Zambia to spend money, supply some employment, and
by contractual terms, leave a fund of money by which some training and
purchases of supplies and equipment can be accomplished. In spite of the
fact that the wells which were drilled were non-productive, they did
furnish information which may be invaluable in leading future exploration
efforts towards commercial production.
42.      It is felt that the Petroleum Unit could have benefited from the
presence of a resident consultant assigned to the PU early on in the
project. In future projects where such advice is deemed necessary, the
legal documents might reflect that the installation of consultants would be
a condition of effectiveness.
43.      This project further points out the value of frequent and
meaningful supervision missions by technical members of the Bank staff.
This was especially true during the implementation phase where techniques
and operational parameters were being established. Where technical
decisions are made on the basis of interpretive results of technical



-14-
information, these are best agreed to by qualified technical members of the
Bank staff. Moreover, where decisions must be made regarding changes or
additions to the planned program, these decisions are best made after
consultations and discussions between Bank staff and representatives of the
borrower's implementing agency. The lack of sufficient supervision
missions during the last year of the project, and the Bank's apparent
inability to send sufficiently specialized staff, probably is reflected by
the lack of cummmnications at that time.
44.      The PU and the operating oil companies, Placid and Mobil, should
be complimented on their efforts to avoid damaging the environment.
Although the companies' operations were in the Luangwa Valley Game Park, no
significant adverse effect on the environment has been reported. The Bank
technical staff were cognizant of environmental considerations during the
operations and have received complete cooperation from the PU and the MOM
in passing these concerns along to the operating companies.



- 15 -
HYDROCARBON                             Anex
EXPLORATION BLOCKS
no.to    le    no    a           a*    ao      no    i.    32*    W
O REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA                                        BALTa
* I'fl                 ZAME
ANGOL {                                                 MP gA                     no
'a0
_F6                              .                           HYDROCARBON   -t 6
\ ' St J ~~~~~~EXPLORATION BLOCKS
\  >  >      J    _lf      9          ~~~~~~BLOCK A ;t 33,000 Sq. Km.
, ,-.  r      J _t BLOCK S * 40.000 Sq. Km. -1
. LI   STONE ZIMBABWE    BLOCK 0  160.000 Sq. Km.
no    n*    w      w     IV    a             n     no           3o    no
Natlonal Parks 
O0l Pipeline  ---
Rivers
Malor Roads _
Malor Towns      U



- 16 -                          Aex 2
Pagel of 4
COIOINTS FROM4 TRE BORROWER AND EXECUTING AGENCY
IUB367
ON tNSJBK
UFTCCMAC 05-00194.01
NO: 0726     05.09.89      10:32
TO : ALEXANDER NOUICKI
CHIEF. POLICY-BASED LENDING
INDUSTRY, PUBLIC UTILITIES AND URBAN SECTORS DIVISION
OPERATIONS EVAIVATION DEPARTMENT.
AA.  UE ARE IN RECEIPT OR YR LETTER AND PROJECT COMPLETION
REPCRT ON PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT IN
ZAMBIA.
BB. OUR COMMENTS ARE RELATED TO THE ACCURACY OR THE FIGURES
ON ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR 1981. THE FIGURES ARE :
ESTIMATED TOTAL CONSUMPION = 4.447,000 TOE OF UHICH
PETROLEUM =         16.5 X
HYDROELECTRICITY =  30.4 %
COAL      =         6.1  X
UDODFUELS  =        44.6 X
COKE     =          1.3  Z
PLS REFER TO ESMAP REPORT ON ENERGY SECTOR REPORT NO 4110- ZA
FOR THE ENERGY DATA.
UE THEREFORE . SUGGEST THAT THE FIGURES  APPEARING IN THE
HIGHLIGHTS " AND  "  INTRODUCTION '" BE REVISED ACCORGINGLY.
REGARDS
B. H. HIBAJENE
ENGINEER
FOR / DIRECTOR
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
MINISTRY OF POUER. TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
LUSAKA.
OUR REF NO / DE / 71 / 38 / 1.
41680 MPTC ZA
=09050518



W4fLD(&.I' inMS                17                                 Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
ZCZC FSEP0666 1UB0941
AF4IE AF6CO
.TCP FCA
* AF6IE *
IWB941
QN INSUBK
.FTCCHAC 14-00177.01
TO : ERIC S DAFFERN
INDUSTRY AND ENERRY OPERATIONS SOUTHERN AFRICA DEPTM
INTBAFRAD
REFER TO YR TLX ON DRAFT PROJECT COMLETION REPORT. I UISH TO
CONFIRM TT LINE 7 OF TABLE 1.4 OF THE ESMAP REPORT 4110 ZA
SHOULD BE USED. THE P/CENTAGES SHOULD  CHANGE SLIGHTLY.
REGARDS
S.H.HIPAjENF
DEPT. OF ENJERGY
MINISTRY OF POWER, TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS
LUSA"A.
OlJR REF NO. BLE / 71 / 38 / 1
NO: 0803     14.09.89      10:23
41680 MPTC ZA
=09140550
NtNNN



- 18 -                    Annex 2
row>S ^.IP"T,wsa LUSAKAPage 3 of 4
Ref. No. MM/PS/118/SEC.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
OFACE OF nE  SIER OF MM
P.O. BOX 31E9
LUSAKA
7th September, 1989
Mr. Alexander Nowicki,
Chief,
Policy Based Lending, Industry, Public,
Utilities and Urban Sectors 'Jivision,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington DC 20433,
USA.
Dear Comrade,
RE: PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT (LOAN 2152 ZA)
DRAFT PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I wish to acknowledge with thanks receipt of your letter dated
7th August, 1989, on the above subject.
I have studied your draft project completion report referred to
above and wish to inform you that I agree with the observations stated
in Section V Page 13, paragraphs 41-44 of the report. However, I
wish to point out that Zambia did not utilise all the money that was
provided for this project. Approximately US 0 1.1 million remained
unused at the end of the project.
We request that this money be utilised in Zambia.
Yours in the National Service,
B. N. Fumbelo, MCC, NP
MINISTER OF MINES



cmwmIu-tiu dmm be j                              - 19 -                 to ry $w* qwoz
be O8 w                                                            GS/102/3/(3)/5/(2)3
Vd~~~~~~aa..' 212553 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No.
Annex 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA                      Page 4 of 4
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY DEPARTMENT
P.O. BOX 50135
RIDGEWAY
LUSAKA
14th September, 1989
Ur. Alexander Novicki,
Chief,
Policy Based Lending,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, NW,
Washington, DC 20433,
UNIrTD STATES OF AMERICA.
Dear Mr. Nowicki,
PETROLEUM E%PLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2152-ZA) DRAFT PROJECT COMPLETION
REPORT
Thank you for your letter of 7th August 1989 received on
26th and for the Report enclosed therewith.
The World Bank Report is reasonably objective and records the
history of the project in modest detail. Whereas the conclusions and
work performance are accurately reflected the role of the Bank itself
and its response to the demands of Zambian authorities are poorly
chronicled.
The failure of Zambia not utilising the full loan amount was
largely if not entirely due to the non responsive attitude of thoso at
the Bank responsible for administering the project. The return of
over one million dollars was as a result of non acceptance by the Bank's
personnel of the proposal to carry out a Magneto Telluric study of
Block D. I corsider the Bank's technical input inadequate and it failed
to recognise and undestand the Zambian geology. This coupled with
unsympathetic attitude of some senior Bank personnel who visited Zambia
in the capacity of Bank's project coordinator accounts for inadequate
utilisation of the fund.
Apart from this aspect the project was a major break through.
C
Nic J. Money
Director
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY DEPARTMENT
NJMdo



