Document of                  FILE  CC2Y
The World Bank
F1OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3206-9A
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
April 22, 1982
Thb document has a resticted distributin nd may be used by recm Ints only In the pefomAne of
their officld dutis. Its eontents may not othertwise be dbslosed withot W rd Eank authoratimn.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Kwacha (K)
K 1.00          =  US$1.20
US$1.0          =  K 0.83
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AGIP            =  Agencia Generale Italiana Petroli (Italy)
EFF             =  Extended Fund Facility
GDP            =  Gross Domestic Product
GRZ            =  Government of the Republic of Zambia
GS             =  Geological Survey Department
MOA             =  Ministry of Agriculture
MOM             =  Ministry of Mines
MPTC            =  Ministry of Power, Transportation &
Communications
NEC             =  National Energy Commission
PPF            =  Project Preparation Facility
TNDP            =  Third National Development Plan
UDI             =  Unilateral Declaration of Independence
ZESCO          =  Zambia Electricity Service Corporation
ZIMCO          =  Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
Limited
ZNEL            =  Zambia National Energy Limited
Weights and Measures
MW       =      Megawatt          =  1000 kilowatt
GWR      =      Gigawatt hour    =  1 million kilowatt hour
toe      =      ton of oil equivalent
tpy      =     tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Zambia
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Mines
Amount:            US$6.6 million, including a capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:              20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 11.6%   per annum.
Project Objective: The Project would support the Government's efforts to
attract oil companies to explore for hydrocarbons by
providing information on the country's sedimentary
basins through geophysical surveys and geological
interpretation.
Project             The Project would consist of the following
Description:        geophysical surveys and related work:  (a)  Airmag
survey totaling about 90,000 line-km of the
prospective sedimentary areas; (b) Gravity survey
to cover selected traverses in areas identified in
the airmag survey; (c) Reprocessing of mineral
airmag data totaling about 50,000 line-km; and (d)
Supervision and quality control (15 man-months) of
the airmag survey.
The Project would also provide the following
technical assistance: (a) Exploration consultants
(30 man-months) to help establish the Petroleum Unit,
coordinate the various project components, produce a
strategy and a promotion report on Zambia's
geological prospects, and provide training to Zambian
geologists; (b) Legal consultants (9 man-months),
to draft petroleum legislation, prepare model
exploration/production agreements, and assist the
Government in negotiating with oil companies;
(c) Training of Zambian staff in petroleum geology
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
and interpretation of geophysical surveys; and
(d) Equipment including vehicles, lab and office
equipment.
Project Benefits: The Project would assist Zambia in attracting oil
companies to take exploration permits in an area
where they have not shown much interest. If the
search for hydrocarbons is successful, the Project
would contribute to meeting part of Zambia's
petroleum needs from domestic sources.
Project Risks:      The major risk is that the geological data collected
would be insufficiently attractive to generate
industry interest in applying for exploration
permits. Given present indications, this risk is
acceptable.



- iii -
Estimated Cost                           Local           Foreign             Total
(US$ 000)
Airmag Survey                             400             2,450             2,850
Gravity Survey                            270             1,000             1,270
Mineral Airmag Data Reprocessing           10               350                360
Airmag Supervision and Quality
Control                                  30               250               280
Exploration Consultants and Project
Administration                       240                700               940
Legal Assistance                           60               150               210
Training                                   50               150               200
Equipment                                  70               250               320
Base Cost Estimate                 1,130              5,300             6,430
Physical Contingencies                    113               530               643
Price Contingencies                       209               670               879
Total Project Cost                 1,452             6,500              7,952
IBRD Front-end Fee                     -                100               100
Total Financing Required                1,452             6,600             8,052
Financing Plan:
Government                             1,452                  -             1,452
IBRD                                     -                6,600             6,600
Total                              1,452             6,600              8,052
Estimated
Disbursement: 1/    IBRD FY         1982      1983    1984    1985       1986
(US$ 000)
Annual          460      3,910   1,230       950        50
Cumulative      460      4,370   5,600   6,550    6,600
Rate of Return:                     N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:             None
Map:                                IBRD 16275
1/ By Quarter in Annex V.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Zambia for the equivalent of US$6.6 million,
including a capitalized front-end fee of 1.5%, to help finance the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project. The loan would be for 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 3007-ZA)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 17, 1981. This part
is based on the report's findings and on those of more recent economic
missions to Zambia. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.       With its mineral resources and plentiful land area suitable for
crops and livestock, Zambia, though landlocked, has the potential for
rapid and sustained development. Economic and social goals since
independence in 1964 have been security of transport routes to the sea,
reduction of dependency on copper exports through agricultural and
industrial development, more equitable distribution of income, and
expanded educational and training opportunities. Progress toward
achieving these goals has been below potential due to structural
imbalances in the economy, prolonged turmoil within the region and since
1975, a severe economic depression. Increased educational opportunities
and construction of the TAZARA Railway through Tanzania to Dar-es-Salaam
are the main areas in which substantial progress has been made.
4.       The economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity. Imports and exports range between 40 and 45% of
GDP. Government expenditures have amounted to about 35% of GDP in
recent years and the Government owns a majority share of mining and most
manufacturing enterprises. Much economic activity is dependent on
expatriate technical, managerial and administrative skills. Despite
high rates of savings and investment, real growth has been
disappointing, averaging only about 2.8% a year before the onset of the
economic depression in 1975.



5.       Diversification efforts have lagged; mining still prov H es over
90% of foreign exchange earnings and 30% of gross value added. -
Agriculture accounts for about 10 to 12% of GDP, compared with 14% at
independence. Manufacturing grew quickly through 1975, but has since
stagnated, due to foreign exchange scarcity and a heavy dependence on
imported inputs. Services also grew quickly, to about 35% of GDP, due
to Zambia's success in expanding education and to increased government
activity. However, income is concentrated in urban areas as a result of
high wages throughout the modern sector and a progressive deterioration
in the rural-urban terms of trade.  These factors have caused major
rural-to-urban migration (about 40% of the population is urban) and
unemployment in urban areas.
The Current Economic Crisis
6.       Zambia continues to experience an economic and financial crisis
initiated by a 40% decline in copper prices in 1975. Unremunerative
producer policies, difficulties in transporting goods to and from the
sea and a recent decline in copper production have exacerbated the
situation. Real GDP stagnated between 1974 and 1978, and declined by 8%
in 1979, with mining down 19% and agriculture down 10%. There was
little, if any, growth during the past two years, although agriculture
has recovered following two years of poor weather. Real GNP per capita
(US$556 in 1980) is 25% below that in 1974.
7.       The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium
since 1975, with current account deficits averaging 8 to 10% of GDP. In
spite of heavy external borrowing, a build-up in arrears on import
payments and a draw down on reserves, foreign exchange has been
insufficient to maintain the real value of imports, currently about one
half its levels in 1975. As a result, there persists an economy-wide
problem of underutilization of capacity. This has seriously affected
production and investment especially in the crucial mining sector which
has accumulated a large backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation
requirements contributing directly to recent declines in copper
production and exports.
8.       The decline in copper prices severely affected Zambia's fiscal
and monetary positions. Historically, mineral taxes provided a large
share of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976.
This contributed to large fiscal deficits, which required domestic bank
borrowing averaging 13% of GDP in 1975-77 and 5% in 1978-80. At first,
the shortfall in mineral revenue was perceived to be temporary and
expenditures grew rapidly, in part carried by the momentum of large
1/  In constant prices.  In current prices, however, the contribution of
mining has fallen to about 18 percent in GDP in recent years, due to low
copper prices.



capital projects already underway. Subsequently, a successful effort
was made to raise non-mineral revenues, but these efforts were offset by
large increases in expenditure on defense and subsidies, mostly for
maize imports resulting from poor harvests in 1979 and 1980. Deficit
financing has absorbed 88% of net domestic credit creation between 1975
and 1980, and contributed to a sharp rise in domestic prices, averaging
18% per annum during 1976-78 and 11% per annum in 1979-80.
9.       In April, 1978 the Government signed a two-year Standby
Agreement of SDR 250 million with the International Monetary Fund
(IMF). In the event, the Government's recurrent account was balanced in
*               1978, and the balance of payments recorded a small surplus on current
account in 1979. However, once the Standby Agreement expired, the
accounts returned to their previous imbalances with increased severity,
partly as a result of pent-up demand for imports and postponed
expenditures. A three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of SDR 800
million was approved in May 1981. It aims at a more gradual but longer-
lasting adjustment process and at balancing the government and external
accounts by 1983. Under the EFF, the Government is committed to
eliminate the maize subsidy and reduce the fertilizer subsidy by the end
of 1983; to increase sorely needed recurrent expenditures for operations
and maintenance in the productive sectors; to implement economic pricing
for products subject to price control; to raise agricultural producer
prices towards world price equivalents; to provide a larger share of
domestic credit to the private sector; and to allocate sufficient
foreign exchange to repay most of the external arrears. Implementation
of the EFF has been difficult; drawings were delayed in 1981 and a
program for 1982 has yet to be agreed.
10.      Although Zambia's financial circumstances will remain tight for
the immediate future, due to the continued low price of copper, its
long-term development prospects have recently improved. A significant
and long-overdue change in government policy towards agriculture appears
to have occurred. Producer prices have steadily increased over the past
few years, and special tax incentives have been approved, including a
radical reduction in the tax rate on agricultural income. Recent
capital budgets have allocated a higher percentage of expenditure to
agriculture and includes a number of projects aimed at increasing
smallholder productivity. These measures represent a necessary
beginning towards exploitation of Zambia's considerable agricultural
potential; constant attention to maintaining and improving these
incentives will be required, however, to bring about sustained
agricultural growth. In particular, a long-term strategy for the
development of agricultural and agro-based industrial exports needs to
be drawn up.



-4-
Creditworthiness
11.      Zambia's creditworthiness is inextrica'bly linked to the
production and price of copper. Estimates of economically recoverable
ore reserves indicate that copper production can be maintained at
present levels through the mid-1990s, but that depletion of reserves is
expected to cause production to fall off sharply thereafter. Thus,
Zambia's long-term creditworthiness requires strong measures to develop
avaiable source of non-mineral exports. The reczent policy measures in
agriculture represent an important initial step towards increasing
production and investment in this sector and should improve Zambia's
creditworthiness to the extent that the export potential is developed.
12.      Prior to 1975, Zambia's external public debt was relatively
small, and the debt service ratio was less than 10% of exports. Since
then, outstanding debt has risen sharply, to an estimated US$1,970
million by end of 1981, and the debt service ratio to about 22% of
exports. In addition, external payments arrears on non-public debt
stood at about US$490 million at the end of 1981, and net drawings from
the IMF at about US$720 million.  The IBRD and the People's Republic of
China are Zambia's largest official creditors, each with 17% of
contractual debt outstanding and disbursed.
13.      Increased debt service payments and low copper prices during
1981 acted to push Zambia's debt service ratio hligher than expected.
Service on external public debt will remain high for the next few years
as Zambia ays off earlier commercial borrowings, which it has been
replacing with more concessional funds. In the medium-term, copper
prices are projected to rise, and debt service could be kept under 20%
of exports through 1990 with careful debt management. The Government is
aware of the magnitude of the problem and is taking steps to improve its
debt management systems. It has also made some progress in reducing
external payment arrears by about US$60 million during 1981, the first
year of the EFF arrangement. Given the Governm(ent's commitment to
implement an EFF program and its actions to improve the incentives for
agricultural production, Zambia continues to be creditworthy for IBRD
lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
14.      Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 27 loans and 5 credits to
Zambia, totaling about US$609.1 million (net of cancellations). Twelve
loans and two credits have financed power, transportation and
communication projects. Four loans for education have helped expand
Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training, and
commercial, agricultural and technical education systems. Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocation. In agriculture and forestry, six loans and
two credits have been for industrial forest plantations, livestock,
commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee production, and



smallholder dairy development. An agricultural project in the Eastern
Provinces is assisting smallholder farmers. Other loans have assisted
Zambia's urban development program and, through the Development Bank of
Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural and industrial sectors. A
technical assistance credit is helping the Government improve its
planning and project preparation.
15.      The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$70 million in eight projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments
were in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, and one
each in the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production and
textiles.  The latest IFC investment was approved by the Executive
Directors on December 3, 1981. This investment (US$30 million
equivalent) is helping to finance a copper leaching project of the
Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Limited (NCCM), a major company in the
Zambian copper sector. The IFC has also appraised a project for the
production of ethanol from biomass (for blending into gasoline). Summary
statements of Bank Group loans, credits and investments and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects are in Annex II.
16.      Until recently, except in the agricultural sector,
implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has proceeded
reasonably well. Currently, however, serious delays are being
experienced in the execution of a number of projects -- particularly in
agriculture -- due to ineffective coordination among Government
agencies, but more importantly because of the tight budgetary situation
and the Government's limited ability to mobilize local resources for its
contribution to project financing and for prefinancing local
expenditures which are subsequently reimbursed by the Bank/IDA.
17.      The deterioration in project implementation has, expectedly,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four of the last five years (FY77-81), the
disbursement rate averaged slightly over 25% per annum, higher than the
Bank-wide average of 21.2%, 21.5% for the Eastern Africa Region, 22.2%
for Tanzania, 23.4% for Senegal and 20.2% for Bolivia.  In FY81,
however, the rate dropped to just over 16%, compared with 20% Bank-wide,
16.5% for Eastern Africa, 22.2% for Tanzania, 20.8% for Senegal and
21.2% for Bolivia. This problem is being addressed through provision of
technical assistance in projects to strengthen implementing agencies;
more frequent supervision missions; and increased use of the Resident
Mission in monitoring project execution. In addition, consideration is
being given to the establishment of special project accounts, such as is
proposed for this project (para. 62), under ongoing projects which
should substantially accelerate disbursements.
18.      The Bank Group expects to continue supporting government
programs to reduce dependence on copper, improve the efficiency of the
copper sector, reduce the energy import bill, narrow the urban-rural
income gap and develop local managerial and technical skills.



- 6 -
Anticipated lending reflects the Government's emphasis on directly
productive sectors, particularly agriculture-related activities, and
reducing the burden of imported energy on the foreign exchange
earnings. Continued assistance to education, transportation and
industry is also contemplated. The proposed project is a significant
step in assisting Zambia in determining whether parameters favorable to
the accumulation of hydrocarbons exist in the c:ountry, and is the Bank's
second operation, outside of electric power, in the energy sector.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND PETROLEUM SECTORS
A. The Energy Sector
Energy Base
19.      Zambia is well-endowed with diverse energy resources; however,
detailed assessment of the full potential and a strategy for their
development to meet the country's goals are yet to be carried out. The
country's energy resource base consists of hydropower, coal, uranium and
renewable energy such as fuelwood, bagasse, mo:Lasses, wind, solar and
geothermal.
20.      The potential for hydropower is substantial.  Existing
installed capacity is 1,652 MW, and there is known scope for
considerable further development. Zambia has been a net exporter of
power since the mid-1970's. Out of a total current power production of
8740 GwH about one third is exported. Hydropower in 1980 accounted for
93.7% of electric power generation capacity of 1763 MW, with the largest
hydropower plants being Kafue (900 MW), Kariba North (600 MW), and
Victoria Falls (108 MW).
21.      Known coal reserves, estimated at about 70 million tons of fair
quality, are located in the southeastern section of the country.
Additional deposits in other parts of the country have been identified,
but further exploration would be required to d,etermine their quantities
and qualitites, and whether they can be mined commercially. There is
one open-pit mine owned by the Government, and producing about 600,000
tpy of thermal coal.  Coke and coking coal for use in the mining
industry are imported from Zimbabwe.
22.      Fuelwood supplies the cooking, heating and lighting needs of
about 85% of the country's population. Fuelwood collection and
marketing is still largely on an informal basis. Urban demand for
charcoal is high and at the current rate of exploitation of woodlands,
supplies are becoming critically low.
23.      Bagasse produced by the Zambia Sugar Corporation (ZSC) is used
by the latter as energy source for its sugar milling operations. The
Bank, under the ongoing Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 873-ZA),



financed a feasibility study for a project designed to use ZSC's
residual molasses to produce ethanol for blending into gasoline. The
IFC has already appraised the project (para 15).
24.      The potential for utilizing solar energy and wind in Zambia is
good. Possible low-cost applications are in crop drying and water
pumping. The potential for geothermal energy is still undetermined but
there would seem to be potential for small scale applications using the
energy from hot springs for refrigeration on farms.
25.      Reasonably large uranium deposits have been found in several
parts of the country, particularly around the Copper Belt region and in
the Rift Zone in the south. Estimates of the deposits range between
10,000 to 100,000 metric tons. Several foreign firms have been carrying
out detailed exploration of these deposits.
Energy Production and Consumption
26.      Zambia's total commercial energy production from domestic
sources currently is about 1.8 million tons of oil equivalent (toe), of
which 84% is hydropower and 16% coal. The share of hydropower increased
steadily from about 77% in 1974 to about 82% in 1978 following the
expansion of hydropower generation capacity during the 1970's, while the
production of coal, the second most important domestic commercial energy
source, has been stagnant. In addition, domestic fuelwood provides an
estimated 1.4 million toe of energy for non-commercial uses. There also
is some energy production from waste heat recovery in mineral
processing, but its share of domestic energy production is not yet
significant.
27.      Commercial energy consumption in Zambia consists of domestic
coal and hydropower and of imported petroleum and coke and for 1981 is
estimated at about 2.58 million toe, as shown below:
ZAMBIA: Estimated Commercial Energy Consumption in 1981
Quantity
(in metric tons of
Energy Source                                  of oil equivalent)    % Share
Coal                                                  274,000            10.6
Coke                                                   68,000             2.6
Hydropower                                          1,485,000            57.7
Petroleum Fuel                                        748,000            29.1
Total                                             2,575,000           100.0
Source: INDENI refinery, ZNEL and NCDP



- 8 -
Hydropower has become the dominant source for Zambia's commercial energy
consumption. The second most important energy source is petroleum and,
despite the Government's conservation efforts, its share has been
increasing from around 26% in 1974 to about 29% in 1981. On the other
hand, the relative contribution of coal has been declining from around
16% (1974) to only 10.6% in 1981.
28.      The main consumer of commercial energy in Zambia has been the
mining industry, with about 60% of all commercial energy consumed in the
country, followed by commerce and households with about 24%. The share
of manufacturing has been declining from around 17% in 1974 to about 12%
at present, reflecting the prolonged recession affecting Zambia.
Transport accounts for about 3% and agriculture for only about 1% of
comercial energy consumption.
Energy Pricing
29.      In general, prices in Zambia for energy, including for
petroleum products as a whole, reflect their economic values, although
there are deviations for particular products.   Wholesale prices for
petroleum products are determined by the Government and for a number of
products include subsidies borne by Government. Petroleum product
prices in effect in December 1981 (wholesale) are shown below in
comparison with international prices:
Prices for Selected Petroleum Products End-1981
Zambia Wholesale   Rotterdam           Zambia as %
Product                       US$/ton          US$/ton          of Rotterdam
Premium gasoline                 989           346-352               283
Regular gasoline                 915           329-339               274
Kerosene                         428           349-351                122
Diesel                           428           319-325                133
Heavy Fuel Oil                   145               166                87
Source : Government, Platts Oilgram Price Repcrt
The comparison shows that Zambian ex-refinery prices for petroleum
products were higher than spot prices quoted at Rotterdam in December
1981, with the notable exception of heavy fuel oil. Landlocked and
without domestic petroleum resources, Zambia's petroleum prices may be
expected to be high by international comparison, since sea freight,
handling and pipeline transportation bring the c.i.f. cost per barrel of
crude to about US$40. Moreover, the uneconomic configuration of the
refinery adds another penalty charge on the likely economic cost of
petroleum products in Zambia, although this has not yet been
quantified. Under these conditions, the ex-refinery wholesale prices
for kerosene and diesel may be close to their incurred economic cost.
On the other hand, gasoline appears to be priced well above its economic



- 9 -
cost, while heavy fuel oil is clearly subsidized. The subsidy on heavy
fuel oil is due to the design of the refinery which results in a high
percentage of heavy fuel oil for which a local market has to be found
since export possibilities are uneconomic. At least part of these
subsidies is covered by heavy surcharges on other products such as
gasoline which in December 1981 was selling in Lusaka at about
US$4/gallon (regular), among the highest prices anywhere in the world.
This cross-subsidization permits Zambia National Energy Limited (ZENL)
which is responsible for the procurement and shipment of spiked crude
and for the sale of refined products ex-refinery, to fully recover the
cost of petroleum fuels, including taxes, and earn profits.
Development and Organization of the Energy Sector
30.      Organization of Zambia's energy sector has evolved over the
last decade and a half in response to the effects of the Unilateral
Declaration of Independence (UDI) in 1965 in neighboring Zimbabwe, then
Rhodesia. Prior to that period nearly all of Zambia's commercial energy
supplies originated from or were imported through Zimbabwe. Petroleum
products were shipped by rail from the Feruka Refinery near Umtali in
Zimbabwe; coal for both industrial use and power generation came from
the Wankie coalfields, also in Zimbabwe; hydropower was supplied by the
Kariba South Power Station, which, although jointly owned by both
countries, had its generating facilities and control centers located
within Rhodesia. In early 1966, as a result of events subsequent to the
UDI by Rhodesia, Zambia found itself unable to rely on Rhodesia to meet
its commercial energy requirements; it therefore became necessary to set
up institutions to develop domestic energy to reduce dependence on
external energy supply sources.
31.      One of the first institutions established was the Zambia
Electricity Service Corporation (ZESCO) with responsibility for the
development of hydropower. The Bank provided assistance in setting up
ZESCO, and has since made two loans (Loans 701-ZA and 919-ZA) for the
development of Kariba North and Kafue hydropower projects, the two main
sources of hydropower in Zambia (para 18). Other institutions
established for the development of other parts of the energy sector were
Maamba Colliery for mining of domestic coal, the TAZAMA Pipelines for
transfer of crude petroleum from Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania to Ndola,
Zambia, and the INDENI Petroleum Refinery for the refining of the
imported crude. All these operating companies are subsidiaries of the
state-owned holding company, the Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation Limited (ZIMCO).
32.      Authority for the development of the country's energy resources
is fragmented among the above institutions, the Ministry of Power,
Transport and Communications (MPTC), which is expected to coordinate
government policy on energy, the Ministry of Mines (MOM), which has
responsibility for geothermal and hydrocarbons development, and the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), which oversees biomass energy
resources. Coupled with the lack of an integrated strategy for the
development of the energy resources is a paucity of reliable and
systematic data on the sector's resource potential and lack of



- 10 -
managerial and technical skills to initiate the required assessment for
policy considerations.
33.      As a first step in initiating a national plan on energy for the
sector, the Government set up, in April, 1981 a National Energy Council
(NEC) to function as an advisory body to the Government. Subsequently,
the Bank in conjuction with NEC undertook the energy assessment of
Zambia and the report is under preparation. The report is expected to
provide important inputs on macro aspects of the energy sector (e.g.,
overall energy demand/supply perspectives, and desired pricing
policies).
Main Policy Objectives and Investment Priorities
34.      The energy sector objectives as reflected in the Third National
Development Plan of 1979-1983 (TNDP) are to (i) reduce domestic
consumption and imports of petroleum products; (ii) promote a shift to
the use of electricity and coal; and (iii) consolidate supplies of
traditional fuels.
35.      These priorities are reflected in the energy investment
proposals included in the TNDP. The bulk of the K 145 million TNDP
energy budget is earmarked for electric power, followed by petroleum and
wood fuels. There are little or no allocations for coal, nuclear, and
soft energies, such as wind and solar.
36.      Electric Power.  The Government plans rural electrification
projects with a total cost of about K 26 million, an expansion of the
Lusiwasi hydropower plant from 38 MW to 50 MW and some new transmission
lines and substations.
37.      Petroleum.  The main project in this subsector is an
engineering study to modify the refinery at Ndola (para 39). The Bank
is proposing an engineering loan for this project. Other planned
investments include an oil drum factory and a lubricating oil blending
plant at a total cost of K 5 million, which would be a joint venture of
ZNEL with Shell, British Petroleum (BP), Agencia Generale Italiana
Petroli (AGIP) and other product distributors. The proposed Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project was not yet identified at the time of
preparation of TNDP. However, following its identification, the
Government added the proposed project to its investment program.
38.      Fuelwood.  The most important project in this sub-sector is a
fuelwood plantations project, assisted by Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC) and aimed at large scale charcoal production to serve
the Lusaka urban market.
39.      Energy Conservation and Substitution.  The substitution of
domestic energy sources for imported petroleum is being carried out by
the mining and industrial sectors, and the TNDP includes a program of



- 11 -
replacing petroleum with coal, hydropower and ethanol produced from
surplus molasses. Zambia has been one of the first African countries to
use coal instead of oil in the heavily energy-intensive cement
industry. A study financed under the IBRD's Third Railway Project will
also look into the feasibility of electrifying the rail system which
currently uses diesel oil. Similar measures in other sectors include a
rural electrification program that would reduce the use of kerosene by
the rural population and of diesel oil at remote power plants. To
provide a consistent approach to energy savings and substitution, a
comprehensive study to review energy substitution measures, energy
pricing and the institutional framework is being prepared as part of the
proposed Bank financed, INDENI Refinery Modification Engineering
Project.
B. The Petroleum Sector
Petroleum Sector Organization
40.      There have been no petroleum exploration and production in
Zambia and the consumption and distribution pattern is completely geared
to imports. Activities related to imported petroleum are divided into
five areas of operations: (a) procurement of crude and refined products;
(b) pipeline transfer of petroleum; (c) petroleum refining; (d) storage
and distribution and (e) retail marketing. Procurement of crude and
refined products and the sale of refined products ex-refinery are
handled by ZNEL, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ZIMCO. ZNEL procures
crude petroleum from Middle East sources and refined products from
international markets on a spot basis. The refined products - naptha,
kerosene and diesel oil, known as spikes - are mixed with the crude
petroleum before shipment to Dar-es-Salaam in order to minimize handling
and shipping costs. About 44% of all the petroleum fuels purchased by
Zambia are refined products. The refinery, given its existing process
configuration, would produce large surpluses of products (fuel oils) not
required by the country and not economically exportable while there
would be correspondingly large deficits in products such as kerosene and
diesel, the predominant petroleum products required by Zambia. To avoid
this, the refinery input consists of about 49% crude and 51% of spikes,
which leads to a product mix more suitable to the country's need. The
proposed INDENI Refinery Modification Engineering project will seek
means of reducing or eliminating spiking, which at high levels produces
technical problems for the refinery process and is uneconomical. ZNEL's
operations have been carried out reasonably efficiently with a small
staff which includes experienced expatriate professional personnel.
41.      The transfer of the crude feed from the port of Dar-es-Salaam
to the INDENI Refinery at Ndola, Zambia, is the responsibility of TAZAMA
Pipelines Limited, a joint venture company owned 67% by the Government
of Zambia and 33% by the Government of Tanzania. The throughput charge
per ton of US$23 covers debt service, maintenance, insurance, operating
expenses and profit requirements. The INDENI Petroleum Refinery Company
Limited, owned 50% by ZIMCO and 50% by AGIP, refines the imported



- 12 -
petroleum.  AGIP is in charge of operation and management of the
refinery.
42.      Except for fuel oil and bitumen which are lifted directly from
the refinery by the main users, storage of refined products (gasoline,
diesel, kerosene and aviation fuel) is handled by the Ndola Oil Storage
Company (NOSCO), a joint-venture operation of the retail distributors
(50%) and ZIMCO (50%). Distribution and retail operations are handled
by Shell, BP, AGIP, Mobil, Caltex and Total. ZIMCO owns 50% of AGIP's,
Shell's and BP's retail operations.   The remaining distributors are
locally-incorporated wholly-owned subsidiaries of their multinational
parents. Distribution of petroleum products is working well and the
government pricing policies permit the distributors and retailers to
make reasonable profits.
Petroleum Consumption
43.      In volume terms, Zambia's recent oil consumption has varied
between 650,000 and 850,000 tons annually. However, reflecting the
increase in crude oil prices, Zambia's oil import bill more than
quadrupled in value terms between 1973 and 1978.. Petroleum consumption
for 1981 is estimated at about 748,000 tons, which is considerably
higher than the 1980 level of 683,000 tons. For 1981, petroleum imports
are estimated to have totalled US$240 million or about 23% of Zambia's
export earnings. There have been occasional small exports of petroleum
products to neighboring countries of less than 50,000 tpy.
44.      Zambia's petroleum consumption profile, like most other
developing countries', is dominated by the middle distillates (kerosene
and diesel oil) which account for about 54% of total petroleum fuels
consumption. The light ends (liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and premium
and regular gasoline) used for cooking and transportation respectively,
constitute about 17.6%; while the heavy ends (fuel oil and bitumen) make
up 28.2% of the consumption.
45.      As the claims of imported fuel on the declining export earnings
increased, the Government, starting in 1976, began using administrative
(rationing) and pricing measures which, along with the general decline
in economic activity, resulted in an average annual decline of 4.4% of
overall consumption from 1976 to 1980. During this period, consumption
of LPG dropped by 26.6% p.a., premium gasoline by 30.0% p.a. and diesel
by 7.1% p.a., while consumption of regular gasoline (2.1% p.a.),
kerosene (5.4% p.a.) and fuel oil (1.3% p.a.) increased slightly.
Potential for further reductions through rationing and pricing measures
without seriously affecting vital services appears to be very limited.
Recognition of the limitations of this method of reducing consumption
has led to the initiation of programs designed to reduce petroleum
demand by substitution with domestically-produced energy supplies
para 38).



- 13 -
Petroleum Legislation
46.      Petroleum Legislation in Zambia is non-existent, because oil
exploration/production has not been considered at all. The existence of
attractive and fair legislation would be a precondition for attracting
oil companies to exploration and production. Such draft legislation
would be prepared by legal consultants financed under the proposed Bank
loan and the Bank would be consulted on the legal framework and
incentives to be implemented (Section 3.03 (b) of draft Loan Agreement)
upon determination that the country's potential so justifies.
Petroleum Geology and Status of Exploration
47.      Zambia's sedimentary areas total around 300,000 km2 out of a
total of 720,000 km2 or about 42%. About 50% of these areas, or roughly
150,000 km2, are deemed modestly prospective for hydrocarbons. No
systematic oil exploration, as such, has taken place so far, although
there have been attempts in recent years to present Zambia's geology
from a petroleum rather than a mining viewpoint. Zambia is the second
copper exporter of the world (most of the copper is extracted from
sedimentary formations), and intensive prospecting for copper, cobalt,
uranium, etc. has been carried out for over 70 years in both sedimentary
and basement rocks. All of these investigations and geological surveys
resulted in numerous geological maps and publications of high quality,
which were not petroleum oriented, although old sedimentary rocks giving
off strong bituminous smell have often been reported even in the
Gopperbelt. An Annex on Zambia's geology is attached as Annex VII.
48.      A review of the geology indicates that the hydrocarbon
potential is modest, but deserving of further consideration. Karroo
sediments (sandstones, shales, minor limestones) contain potential
source rocks, reservoirs and caprocks which, if properly buried, may
have generated hydrocarbons. Older sediments such as the thick Katanga
Series also made up of sandstones, shales and limestones may have
generated gaseous hydrocarbons that could be trapped in the same series
or else in the overlying Karroo rocks. These rocks occur in grabens or
rifts whose depths are not known. In order to attract oil companies, it
is necessary to establish the distribution of the structural elements of
the country as well as the thicknesses of the sedimentary setting in
known grabens.
49.      The Western Zambia basin is one of the largest sedimentary
basins in the world that remain to be explored for hydrocarbons. To
date, no petroleum exploration, neither seismic nor drilling, has been
undertaken there by oil companies. Although the Government has recently
made efforts to attract oil companies to explore for hydrocarbons in
Zambia, this has not yet been successful. The proposed project is
intended to provide information that might make the geology of Zambia
more attractive for exploration. Because of their size (over
200,000 km2) Zambia's main basins deserve exploration to establish their
hydrocarbon potential.



- 14 -
The Sectoral Institution: Ministry of Mines (MOM)
50.      Because petroleum exploration and production are considered as
part of the mining sector, the Ministry of Mines (MOM) is in charge of
the petroleum sector, as far as exploration is concerned, while refining
and distribution are being handled by the existing ZIMCO companies under
the supervision of the Ministry of Industry. MOM is responsible for the
formulation of policies on mines and minerals. MOM includes three
technical departments: Mines Safety, Mines Development and Geological
Survey.  MOM supervises a number of mining and minerals marketing
companies whose shares are held by ZIMCO.
51.      The Geological Survey Department (GS), an MOM department
established in 1951, monitors mining operations, gathers geological data
for resource evaluation and is in charge of petroleum exploration.
Staffed with 40 professionals, including a number of expatriates, it is
an efficient institution. Its staff is well-trained and dedicated, but
its experience in petroleum exploration is limited.
52.      MOM's strategy for petroleum exploration is in line with the
country's potential. It includes a succession of logical steps designed
to lead to increasingly accurate information. The exploration efforts
could be stopped after each step without incurring unnecessary expenses
should a continuation of exploration appear unjustified. The first step
would be the airmag survey which would explore the depth of Zambia's
sedimentary basins. Should the survey provide positive results, i.e.
identify thick sedimentary basins, structural trends, etc. the next step
would be a gravity survey in the most prospective areas. This would be
followed by seismic exploration and finally by the most capital-
intensive step, drilling. The Bank's role would be to finance the first
two steps in order to obtain information that might attract oil
companies to carry out the following more costly and more risky steps of
exploration.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
53.      The proposed Project was identified in August 1981 following
preliminary discussions between the Government and the Bank earlier in
the year. The project was appraised in December, 1981. Negotiations
were held in Washington on April 8-10, 1982. The Zambian delegation was
headed by Mr. Austen S. Mweemba, Acting Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Mines. A Loan and Project Summary is given at the beginning of this
Report and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet in Annex III. No staff
appraisal report has been prepared.



- 15 -
Project Objectives and Description
54.      The Project would support the Government's efforts to gather
geological and geophysical information to promote hydrocarbon
exploration by attracting foreign companies with the technology and
capital to conduct expensive seismic surveys and high risk exploratory
drilling. The Project would include the following components:
(a)      Geophysical Surveys
(i)    Airmag Survey:  an airmag survey would be flown over the
prospective sedimentary Karroo areas (estimated at about
90,000 line-km) to establish their structural setting,
the thickness of the sediments above the basement and
the magnitude of possible volcanic intrusions in order
to appraise the prospectiveness of these areas and
generate interest in further petroleum exploration. The
work program and the specifications, which are
satisfactory to the Bank, have already been prepared.
(ii)   Gravity Survey:  a broad reconnaissance gravity survey
of about 1,500 stations would cover traverses to check
the airmag interpretations. The gravity survey would
help tie-in the airmag results to make them more readily
usable and confirm structural trends in the basins.
Together they form the basis for the decision to do
seismic exploration. The work program and the
specifications would be prepared by GS consultants in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank. The gravity survey
would be performed only if the airmag survey yielded
results that would make further exploration appear
worthwhile. A condition for disbursing the funds
related to the gravity survey would be for MOM and the
Bank to agree that the proposed program is justified in
view of the results of the airmag survey. (Schedule 1
Section 4(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
(iii)  Airmag Supervision and Quality Control:  the Project
would provide about 15 man-months of consultants'
services for supervision and quality control and
interpretation of the results of the airmag survey.
(iv)   Reprocessing of Available Mineral Airmag Surveys:  the
Project would include funds to reprocess and reinterpret
relevant data collected under 5 previous mineral airmag
surveys covering about 50,000 line-km over part of the
Katanga Group sediment areas.



- 16 -
(b)      Technical Assistance
(i)    Exploration Consultants:  GS would retain a consulting
firm which would dispatch a geologist and a geophysicist
(together 24 men-months), assisted by a photogeologist
for about six months. The consultants would (a) review
all the geological information on sedimentary areas; (b)
select rock samples for paleontologic and maturation
analysis; (c) monitor the various geophysical surveys,
including the reprocessing of existing mineral oriented
airmag data, and also the laboratory analysis;
(d) prepare a photogeologic map of Zambia's sedimentary
areas from conventional air pholtographs and Landsat
imagery; (e) interpret the resuLts of the surveys,
reprocessed data and laboratory analyses and integrate
them with the new geologic information in a final
promotion report for sale to interested companies;
(f) prepare a strategy report for exploration blocks
offering, administer the bidding, negotiate the
contracts; (g) assist the legal consultants (see below)
in the preparation of model agreements; (h) help
establish the Petroleum Unit, (i) coordinate the various
project components, in particular the airmag and gravity
surveys, and (j) provide training for Zambians in the
Petroleum Unit. Besides the provision of 30 man-months
of consultant services, this component would cover the
cost of the strategy report and of a promotional report
(items (e) and (f) above) special services or studies
(such as lab tests) that may become necessary during
project implementation.
(ii)   Legal Consulting:  the Project would provide about nine
man-months of legal consultant services by an
experienced law firm to draft petroleum exploration
legislation, prepare model exploration/production
contracts which would be both attractive to potential
investors and protect Zambia's interests, and assist the
Government in negotiating with oil companies.
(iii) Training: the project would include funds for overseas
training of two GS geologists and two GS geophysicists
and the attendance of specialized short-term courses
abroad by senior GS staff.
(iv)   Equipment:  including vehicles to be used in the field
as well as some office, lab, camping and training
equipment.



- 17 -
Project Cost and Financing
55.      The total cost of the Project, net of duties and taxes, (from
which the project would be exempt) is estimated at about US$8.1 million
equivalent. The cost of one man month of consulting services has been
estimated at US$16,500 on the average including travel, subsistence and
overhead. This amount is reasonable, taking into account the high level
of expertise required and salaries prevailing in the petroleum
industry. The estimated cost of the airmag survey (US$27/line km) is
based on recent actual airmag cost data for petroleum exploration in
neighboring African countries. The cost of airmag reprocessing at
US$7/km, of the gravity survey at US$700 per station and the remaining
cost estimates are based on data obtained from recent similar
projects. The cost of the strategy and promotion reports is estimated
to total US$150,000 and of the special services US$50,000.  The cost
estimates include 10% physical contingencies. Price contingencies have
been calculated on the basis of inflation rates of 8.5% for 1982 and
7.5% p.a. thereafter for foreign exchange and of 12% p.a. for
expenditures in local currency.
56.      The proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange
component of US$6.6 million equivalent. The local cost component would
be financed by the Government.
Status of Project Preparation
57.      The Project was prepared by GS who for some time has presented
Zambia's geology from a petroleum viewpoint in an effort to promote
hydrocarbon exploration. During the December 1981 appraisal, terms of
reference for the airmag consultants were discussed and agreed with the
Bank. The list of qualified firms was discussed and agreed
subsequently. The firms to carry out the airmag and the airmag quality
control are to be contracted by May 1982 and the exploration consultants
by June 1982 so that the airmag can be flown as planned during the 1982
dry season.
58.      In order to help finance the cost of the airmag services that
would be incurred until the loan became effective, a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) of US$1 million was granted in February 1982. This was
critical in order to avoid a postponement of the airmag survey until the
1983 dry season.  Any expenditures financed under the PPF would be
reimbursed by the proposed loan as soon as the loan becomes effective.
Project Implementation
59.      The Project would be implemented by GS.  To implement the
project, MOM has established under GS the Petroleum Unit (PU). The PU
is headed by a Project Coordinator who shall be a senior professional of
the Geological survey in the Ministry of Mines assisted by geologists,
geophysicists, an accountant and an administrative officer whose
qualification and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank.



- 18 -
The appointment of the Project Coordinator was confirmed at
negotiations. The consultants would be employed by GS. Terms of
reference for the consultants are to be made satisfactory to the Bank
and all consultants would be selected and engaged on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.   The planned implementation
schedule is presented in Annex IV.
60.      GS is expected to sell some of the data collected during the
project, in particular the results of the airmag survey, to interested
oil companies. The proceeds of any such sales would be recorded in a
special account and used for future hydrocarbon exploration
(Section 3.06 draft Loan Agreement). The Project would be completed by
June 30, 1986.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.      The contract for the airmag survey will be awarded following
limited international tendering (LIT). The need to fly this survey
before the rainy season begins in November precludes use of the more
time-consuming international competitive bidding (ICB) and a delay of
one year to permit ICB would be costly to Zambia. Moreover, there are
only a limited number of firms qualified to carry out such surveys and
proposals have already been solicited from all of these. The firms were
chosen and the proposals solicited under procedures agreed to with the
Bank. Bids opening is scheduled for mid-April. The firms are widely
scattered geographically (UK, France, Germany, Canada and the US),
providing a broad range of interregional competition.   If for any
reason the procurement of the airmag is delayed until after the 1982 dry
season, the contractor to carry out the airmag would then be selected on
the basis of ICB. The contract for the gravity survey would be awarded
following ICB in line with Bank guidelines. Vehicles and materials
(estimated to total less than US$250,000) would be procured following
local procurement procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants would be hired in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursement for the gravity survey will be conditioned on agreement
between the Bank and Government that the survey is justified in view of
the results of the airmag survey (para. 54 a(ii). Disbursements would
be made against 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of locally
purchased vehicles and equipment.  The loan is expected to disburse
quickly since the biggest project component - the airmag - would be
carried out in mid-1982.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
62.      GS would keep separate project acounts.  The Project's accounts
would be audited by external auditors acceptable to MOM and the Bank.
The audited reports would be submitted by GS to the Bank within five
months of the closing of the fiscal year, beginning with 1982 (Section
4.02 of draft Loan Agreement). GS would submit quarterly and annual
reports on the implementation of the project in a format acceptable to



- 19 -
the Bank. After completion of the Project, GS would prepare a report on
the execution of the project (Section 3.05 (d) of draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
63.      The main benefits of the Project would be (a) to provide
information to the Government on the depth and thickness of sedimentary
rocks and on stratigraphic sequences of Zambia's sedimentary basins;
(b) based on the results of the geophysical surveys, to attract oil
companies to invest risk capital for exploration in the areas surveyed
under the project; and in the case of successful exploration (c) to
initiate hydrocarbon production domestically and thus replace expensive
imports.
64.      The main risk associated with the proposed Project is that the
results of the surveys might be insufficiently attractive to spur
widespread industry interest. However, the advantages of proceeding
with the Project outweigh the costs involved. Even if the results do
not induce strong interest of foreign oil companies in exploration, it
would help Zambia's planners and policy-makers to better assess the
resource limitations that the country has to face and thus eliminate
illusions about possible resources that otherwise could lead to wrong
policy decisions. In any event, the remainder of the Project would be
terminated if the results of the airmag survey are negative.
65.      A further risk of the Project is that the quality of the data
obtained in the surveys might not be high enough to be attractive to oil
companies. This risk is intended to be addressed through the project
component providing for supervision and quality control by experienced
consultants.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Zambia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
67.      The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the usual pattern of
agreements on petroleum exploration promotion projects. Special
conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III of this
Report.
68.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W., Clausen
President
By: Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 22, 1982



- 21 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                  Page  1  of  5
ZAMBIA - SUCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMBIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
LAND AREA (THoUSAND bO. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOuAL             752.o                                    MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRILULuRAL      j50.6                1960  lb    1970 /b ETIMHAtE /b   AFRICA SOUTII OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PEA CAPITA (US()                    200.0         340.0      Soo.O                  794.2                    1616.2
ENERGY LONSUEPTION PER CAPIIA
(KILOCRA1b oP COAL LOUIVALENT)          ..        723.7      858.2                  707.5                     1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTIC*
PUPULATIUN, HID-YEAR (THOUbANDS)  3207.0          4242.0    5580.0
UKBAN  JUEULATION (PLECENT OP TOTAL) 23.1           30.0       37.2                    27.7                      64.2
PUo'ULAIloN PROJ ECI IONS
PVPULATIoN IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           11.0
bLATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             31.0
YEAR SIATIONARY POPULAIION US REACHES                      2125
BOPULAIlON DENS ITY
UER SQ. Eli.                          4.3          5.6        7.4                   55.0                      34.3
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         9.2         12.1       15.4                  130,7                       94.5
PUOELATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRb.                            45.0         46.1       47.1                   46.0                      40.7
15-B4 YEb.                            52.5         51.4       50.3                   51.2                      55.3
tb YKS. AND ABOVE                      2.5          2.5        2.6                    2.8                        4.0
POPULAIION GRCITH RAIL (PEKCENT)
rlOAL                                 2.4          2.8        3.0                    2.8                       2.4
URBAN                                 5.3          5.4        5.5                    5.1                        3.7
CKLDE BIRKH RATI (PEK IHOUbAND)        S.5         49.6       49.1                   46.9                       31.4
CRUDE DEATH KAIL (PER THOUSAND)        24.2         19.9       16.6                   15.8                        8.4
cRUb5 RUPEODUCTiON KATIL                3.4          3.4        3.4                    3.2                        2.3
FAHIlLY PLANN INC
ACCEPTORb, ANNUAL (IHOUbANDS)          ..           ..
UbERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..
fOUD AND NUTRITION
l1UcX oPF U0D PRUDUCIION
PEh CAPITA (1969-71=100)             99.0         95.0       92.0                   89.9                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQULRENIES)                       79.0         84.0       87.0                   92.3                     107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             54.0         56.0       56.0                   52.8                      65.8
OF WhILH ANINAL AND PULSE          13.0         16.0       14.0                   16.1                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MOKIALITY RATE        36.1         28.4       21.9                   20.2                        7.6
hEALIH
LIFE EXPECIALcY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.0            44.9       49.3                   50.8                      64.1
INFANI MuElALlIY RAIE (PER
lttoUbAND)                               ..        144.0          .                     ..                       70.9
ALCESS To bAFLE WATER (PLELENT OF
'?CPULATION)
IOTAL                                  ..         37.0       42.0                   27.4                      65.7
URBAN                                  **         70.0       6.0                   74.3                      79.7
hURAL                                  *-         22.0       16.0                   12.6                      43.9
ACGESb TU EXCKETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATlON)
TUIAL                                  *-         16.0       42.0                     ..                      59.9
RUKBAN                                                          ..         12.0       87.0                     ..                      75.7
AUKAL                                  ..         16.0       16.0                     ..                      30.4
POPULATIUN PER PEYSICLAN             9544.6       8288.4   10191.0                 13844.1                     1728.2
PO2ULATION PER NURs1iNG PERSON       991S5.O/c    2479.0    1931.0                  2898.6                    1288.2
2P0ULATION PER HOSPITAL 6E1
TOTAL                               343.0/c      311.3      269.6                 1028.4                     471.2
JKBAN                               181.O/c         ..      332.8                  423.0                     558.0
AURAL                               466. u/c        ..      258.3                 3543.2                        . -
ADMiSbiUNb PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..       31.0
HOUsING
AVEkAUS SlZt OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAL                                  ..          4.4
URBAN                                                          ..                 ..
aRUAL                                  ..           ..        4.6
AVERAGE NUMBLR OF PERSONS PER ROOM
lulAL                                  ..          2.6         .
URBAN                                  ..          2.6
KUKAL                                  ..          2.6
ACLESb IT ELECRiKCITY (PERCENI
UF oWELLiNGb)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                27.5           ..
RUKAL                                  ..           ..



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                               Page  2  of  5
ZAMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMBIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGCF.S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)]
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOTHI OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TCTAL                 42.0         91.0      95. 0                   73.7                     101.7
MALE                  51.0        101.0      106.0                   96.8                     103.0
FEMALE                34.0         80.0       89.0                   79.0                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0         13.0       16.0                   16.2                      35.3
MALE                   3.0         18.0       21.0                   25.3                      34.9
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       11.0                   14.8                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  28.0             3.0       3.0                    5.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             50.0         47.0       48.0                   36.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                           14.0         21.0      22. 0                   23.6                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          28.5/c      47.3       39.0                     , .                     80.0
(ONSUFPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
PuPULATION                          11.0         14.3       18.5                   32.3                      42.6
RADIU RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0         17.7       22.0                   69.,0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         4.0        4.9                    8.0                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     7.0        13.4       19.9                   20.2                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                    0.7                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAEOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1322.1       1653.4    2043.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    33.2         32.6       32.0                   36,7                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               79.0         73.0       67.7                   56.6                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   7.0          9.0       10.8                   17.5                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 41.2         39.0       36.6                   37.2                      31.8
MALE                                   55.3        52.9       50.1                   47.1                      49.0
FEMALE                                27.3         25.2       23.3                   27.5                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.2          1.2        1.4                   1.3                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED flY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.7             ..       23.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.2             ..       63.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEIHOLDS    5.4            ..        3.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0             ..       10.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      247.0                  381.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      168.0                  156.2                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      126.0                  334.3                    513.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       85.0                  137.6                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       25.0
RURAL                                  ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
a=ong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Epstimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1963.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates which Is shown In he 19 2 World
Bank Atlas are $560 (at 1978-80 prices) and 5766 thousand.
April 1982



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORO
Notes   Although the data ore druan frot sources generally judged the scat authortlatite and reliable, on should also be noted that they may not be utter-
tation-hly comparable hecause of the luck of atandardieed deftottlita   and cotcepts used by diff-cent  oo.ttties ho co-leotoig the dte.  The date are, tome-
theless.  useful nc aest_bIe ordeto of saigltude, Indloate  trends, and th.rentertas certatn mljor diff-etcea betese  .countries.
The reference gtoupa art (1) the same country group of the suhj et tountrya afd (2) a couttry group nlth motenhat highetc average incote that the zouotry group
of the subjeot coupory (encept foe  Caplnel Surplus 011 fEporters" group sBhere  'MIddle ItooI       e North Afltca and Middle iast" i  choaen because of st-og-et
socl-cultaral affinitlesa)   In tie t eferente group data the averages ae populacion veighted arIth -etIc means for each i.di-atot and tho-n only ahet
-ajootly of the co inorie- ir e group has data for that indicalor . Sine the conerags of coantriea among the idifoa.or. depends on the a-ailabillty of data
andtnot untfor.cautionmustbe hexerciaedlInrelating averages of onelindicatoroto atcbe.  These averages are onlys Iefulo in  ospartng the value oT
one tndit-tor at a nine atong the country aod reference groups.
LAD AREA (thusand eq kt.)                                                                         Populati-n per Ho      al       -total,  hrba, and  -eal - fopulation Itotal
Total - Toitul astrfuce area cortattg laod area end inlndo  aters.                                 urban, s,d rural)  tivided by  thier respeottoenumbet of hospital beds
ugrleulo ural - fanhoate cf agricultural urra used ce=porartly or pert nsdtly                      avuailahle 00 ybllc and pe _oste general aod epeoilltied hospItal and ce-
for cropa, paatures, .  aket aod kitchen gardeos cr to lue Nallou  1970 data.                    habiLltai_on concert.             are b  esta a n p       ermnentlky  tstf
by ur least 000 yhysltn   E-taltshmnr ...r...dlna prtenup..llyts-
GNP FOR CAPITA (OUI) - GNIY p        I               arices, cal-                                    Olal crn are not Included.   Rral hospitals, heee, innlude health
roTated by oats cotnersion menhod cc World tank Atlam  (19(7-79 has); 1560,                        und nedlrul tintten  not perataentLy staffed by a rhyatlci-   (hut by a
1970, end 1979 data.                                                                               u-di-al asaitant . nurse,  fidvife, etcr) whibh offer in-patie-ateoro-
datioo and provide a loiled range of tedical fac-ilitie         For  ata-
ENERGY COSSUMPTlON PER CAyITA - Annual consuptlIon  of cotsceot.l tneegy (coal                       ttral purposes urban haspiale include  MO. principal)/generul hospitals,
and Lignite, peceolmot, nutural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal -en-                        and  -orel  _ospltalmIntel or rutal hospitals and  edIcal and materotty
trioity) Io kilograa of tool equtralent per capita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                           cenees Sp.yealteed hospitals are Inoluded nnly ondee ttal.
data                                                                                            Adtssotsh peetaost a niied -y tota  namber oft adtalsslees to or dlmnhaeges
POPULATION AND VIAL STATISTICS
T.tal Populatton, hid-Year (thousanda) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, end 1979                   HOUSING
dana                                             A.rdsage tiet of nousaoljd (oseonoses  huehld   cr l,uban, and rura  -
Urhat Poeulation (porrcent of total) - Rttlo of urban no total porplation;                           ha A n h  ho..h.ld  -o clof a   oup of indlldoula vho share Lint  quatse
different deftnit boa of  urhanareac map affect co-p-rabillty of data                           and their  m   neals   A boardee oe lodgee may or mar not he unluded in
aEnng countries  19600  197G, and 1979 data.                                                     the household for crul Ptical purposes.
yoeulatnon Projections                                                                          Average number of peesons per ron= - total, urbat, and rural - Ay.r.g.
Poyulatlnn In year 7000 - C--rent populatIon projentloos act based on 1980                       her of persons yer r.oo  In a11 urban, and rotal ocopild .onventiooal
ootaL ppulatIon hy uge and soIn d  their                 ad r tls Ityrte                      d-ei  ogt, respentilvly.  D-el1igse -clude non-per-aet. teucturesand
Ing life enpectaucy at borth increasing  ith country's per carpte Iooms                    ucessito  lectrlctn  (cement of dnellt9gs) - total, urbhr ond earal -
Lenel, and female lifc mP-ycctauy snehtltning at 77.5 years  .he peru-                        Conoenetonal d-el1logs vith elecnriotry  In  lotog quaetees as p-rtenrage
neters for fertility  rate also hans three letels as-u-ing decline in                         of eotal, -rbac, and rural dellInga respectioely.
fertnlIty according tc Income lets0 mod past fa=inly planning pe-fo- -te
Oath country it then  sa.igned one of thes_  nine combinatlons of noenoilcy               EDUCATION
end feetliny  trends ... projectlon l   ruposes                                             AdfPscad Enrollment Ettios
Sntionary poplation - In a.statnay population there is ar gronth since                          PrImary school - total, sale acd Temale -Irus total, male and female
the birth rate is equal no ths death tate, and olso the oge struncurere-                        erorllset of all ages tt the yolmary lenel as percentages of reepentine
tIns conssaco    ThIs si achine-d  only after fertility rates dmolne to                       prlIep school-age populatoins;  notrally include  children aftd 6-11
the replacement lenel of unit net reproduction eate, when each  eeeranion                       yearn bho  adjusted for different lengths of primary edOna too  for
of someo replacet itself exactly   The stationery populatIon sits  _as                          couctrlec ciur  universal educatIon eeroilaent may exceed 100 percent
estlmated on the basis of the prn'mocsd charactee tcts of the population                        a itt some pupils are beloy or aboe the official school age.
in the y;ae 2000, and the tate oN deI line of fert_llty rate to.replace-                      Secondy ahooo    I      a   me   adel- Computed as aboce;  -ennodary
anot lecel.                                                             e~~~~~~~d-oletni 0oin   at least tou  perIf erpond prImary Insta  inn;
Year stationary population i   reacted - The year ahen statlonary populatior                       providec geneeal, nonoclonal. or teacher tratiog i=struc ions for pypia
sine has bher  -eached.                                                                         usualy of 12 to 17 years of age; co-reepondec-  courses are generally
Population letsalt                                                                                   excluded.
Per S. kh.  - Md-year popuhotlo  per aquare kilometer (100 hectares) of                        Voc-tlot-l enrollment (eercent of secondary) - Vocational instttu-.ons
total area;1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                            iSclude nechnuitl, indusnral, or othet pro grema  ehbh oPeracs independ-
Per sq h.   agt icltural land - Computed as ahboe for agricultural land                            ently or us dspart.r.c.   of secondary itstftt..ns.
only; 1901. 1971  and 197f doa-                                                               Pupil-teechee cacio - prirerv, a-d seondary - Total  s                -uendt  enrolled is
Popu  o ya s)  ESt-rued (per-ent) - Chtldn f(l-l  years). working-age (15-                         pripacy and aenoodney levels divided by nubtecs of reerhers Io the
64. years.  ot .d nttred 165 ye ee  and onr) as peenentagen of ntd-year pnya-                      oorr-spncdieg lens.
litton; 1960, 1970, sod 1979 data.                                                               Adult lIteracy  rate (pertct) - Literate adults fable en read and m-ele)
Populatiot Grovth  atse (percent) - total - Annual gro-th rates of total =Id-                        sanpercentage of total adult population aged 15 years and oIse
ylal pIp"lat.ona for 1951-61, 19t1-70, and 1970-79
Populatoc Oroth Rate (Perceot - uehan -hnaal grouch eaSes cf urban -ob p-                     CONSUMPTION
latlons fct 1950-hO, 19.0-70, end 1970-79.                                                    Pussngee Cees (fer thou-aad copulacion) - Passes.  .car  comprose   o tor
Crude Binth Rate (per th.usa.d) - An.nel loie birtha per thousand of mid-year                      oars stanSog less th.. eight persata; tolad.es arbulances, hearsesatd
population; 1960, 1970. and 1979 data.                                                            ilitary nehicla.
Crude D-leh Rlte free thousah d) - unal de pths yer tbousands of mid-year                       RadIo ne-elnee.  .r.n thousand pepolationi - All types or reteiners fur radio
populationn  1960, 1970, nod 1979 dana.                                                           e badcasns to general pubiic per tbousaod  of populatIon; exludes an-
Gros.  Reprndu-clon gte  -Anerage u=hee  of doughtersa noman vill beat in                          1 teteed re..lners in conete es and In years vhen regl- c-atlin of radio
her normal neprodunttne peerdieces presect  age-speuifio  tar-                                   sets esas in effeot; dana foe recent  years may not be copaeabls sieo
tility  rates; usually finc-year anerages ending In 1960, 1970, and 1979.                       maist  ountles aboltshed licensng.
F-ilfy Planning - Aceptor, kno.al (thouss.ds) - Aenual cuber of noceytcos                       TV neceiers free thousu-d population) -  I receioers for broadoast to
oc birth-control devices andee ausplots of national fa=ily planning pfngragt                     genaral poblln pee thousand Prolct on; excludes uoloensed  n reoeiners
Faeiln Planning-Tasrs (oercent of martied vnmen) - Percentage of Eareed                            I  co.u.ntris and in years =he. .egisteanloc of IT sets nas in effent
cree  of child-bearing age (15-40 years) =ho use birth-control devioesto                     Nensrapee  Olcoulanton (per thousand populationj - Oboes the suerage  ici-
o _ married nonen in snme age group.                                                            oulatne o  "dully generul interset  an,apaper', defiPed  caspen iodlcel
pbl-tcaion d--te  prim,.ly no  rondiog gectl1 news   itc ta nenshdeed
FOOD A0D SUTRITIOt                                                                                   to hc 'daily  tf St appease   t lease Tone ft iea mees          I      c
Inden of yood Prodactloc ptr  eCttap  f1969-71-1Of - Index of yet oapitacnnual                  Cunea xAonual uctendanne per Cayttca pr Year -s s1ed ot the cum2bEn of
production of ull food  -ooditles.  Produ-tien e-cludts seed atd feed end                        tickets sold durlng the peso, Including  dmtsatins to drine-in oie  as
LI on  calendar year bcc.  Corscodlits cner primacy gonds (e.g  suga.cane                       and unbileUnits.
instead of sguefr ohich ure edihle and contain nutients (e g. coffee and
tea are -ecuded).  Aggcegate poduttlon of -ech country is b-aed In                         LABOR yORCE
national aner.e. produceripre aighes; 1961-65, 1970, and 1979 daa.                            Total iabor Force (thousandaf - inoontally activt persons, i-noIdang
Per>                                > capIta Luoply of calocn (percent)of reonleemenna f - Compored from  seined forces end ane-ploy.d bat efCladlog httsenfoes, students, etc
-nrrgy equnaf-u  of nec food appylie.s. nllable  -notuotry Per .aPita                          _oeleg popaJ.lanc   If all age.  lNInlttos- It narluounleor
pee day.  Aiable soypl lec  me=Prei, Ise domtanto  p lrduntloy iPRs less                     nott cn-pa-abl; 19600, 1970 sed 1979 danar
enporen, and oh acngs Inontock   Set supl ies exclude anIafl feed, seeds,                   Female fnerent) - Pemale labor force as  percentage of tocal labor forc.
q.aatillea used IS  fuod proess.ing, and leases Sr dictrlbutuon  Reqaire-                   Agli-Ilcure Irercett  - Labor tome ic tarmino  Norestry, hnnctig and
Eents were eattni-ed by FAO bteed on physiological n                  -ads toe normal actl-   fishing as percentage of toss! labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dna.t
nity and heolth considering environecntal terperantre, body .elghes, age                    Indu-try f(ercent    - Labor forocc m  InIng  conscructfoo, manufacturing
and sex di-taibn tlon of populetion, and all. titg 10 prente    for eases at                  snd elertctrcty, enter and gas Iasrcentage of total ahoe force  1960,
household level; 1961-hI, 1970  and 1977 data.                                                1970 and 1979 dOt,
Per cr-ta a suyply oT protein (grams Per doY) - Proten content of per oupuro                  feenio oation  Rate (pfercnt) - total, sale, and fe le - Paottioipatloi  or
net supyly of food per dey,  Nt supply of food  S deflIned  as  Rbror   ne-                   activityraes are oopoced as total,  mal.e aed female labor forrIas
oulcemmo Is for all countries establiohed by USDA provide fto  minItu_                        parcentages IC total, male and female pBpuletton of all a gs resycti-ely;
allowance of 60 gr-os of  Dtn1-  pretelt per day and 20 genes of animal and                   1960, 1970, aod 1979 data.  Thece cre  ased On  ll's partlcipet..n.rc.e.
pulse prpteln, of ehich 11 grams should be  .n.mal yehten.  Theme  isand-                     reflecting a ge-senstructure 0f the population, and tong tie trend.  A
arda are loner  than      Ihose of 75 gratE  of total prrtetn and 07 g2ars  f                 fee est lanem  are from nantonal a crce-
aniral yrotein asanaverage  for thed  orld,7    prorcsed by FAO tDthe Thlrd                 ICOu n       pcndenr Ratlo -Ralo of lou lonunderSand65nodover
uorld yood tortey,;  961-t5, 1970 and 1977 data                                               no  the total labor frce.
Poe capita protein supply from uoImal and pulse - Py-teio supply of food de-
rived trot . nnta  and pulses On goaDa yet day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dans               7NC0E DISTRIBUTION
Chtldf(ages1-4)oralv Rate  (per houlab -.. Ad)          nual deaths per htuaID.foecghf.yud ef                         n lNCOhEt   bt rhaBnad ko            -Ret-d h,ute
age grouy 1-4  years, to ohol-oen in thos agr grouy    e m o st denekoying coon-                 S Peroeentage of P rheen   pcrr  yoLh  in  ca      e, an  d pk- eceived   p4riche
tries d_ta derived fr05 Infe table-; 19O, 1970 and 1979 de.                                         househtdchs.   t
HEALTH                                                                                           POViuTY TARGET GROUTS
Life Eupectany at Rirth lyesf-Aveage nurbee of y-r  of life                        Ti,  fov              i tIr                                               t portE ro1U
at brrh; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                              ands shu ld hetoteyared vet              Iderohlc  zaut_of.
nfant  Iornality hne (er tnhousand) - Annual deaths of infant e -der one ye-        r           Int imte  dhcelorerynety ino   Lerel fe                rap     - a       n       l
Ao       Sage pfe   h   (                                           d rurl lI-  -                  Absolute poverny Income In cl ic rhao  iecose lenel brelovhIo) a onoteal
hocas to  a    Water (pecent oi  oou  iOn) -toa, urhan, en  rata     Num                        -utritiocally  adequatr diet pl- cannotal non-f-od re dcrenu it not
=ater supply (include- treatd carfare  -a-e- apr untreated but u           IootnaiEnated       sfft rd ble
-aner moth as that trot pronected h-reholec. myrcugm, and sanitaryov11sf                      Eonae  eelne ponerty Incom   lenel In    pe-rd  o  e rage  aee
teftheirceupeorfoe yoyulatiou.  ID an orbnP areaap b;itdr    reln-atinvRe pofertcountry                            y lUyl is  enel-third   f -vrogm pe"  resp
fountain or satdyont located non uore rhan 210 reters froma a house may be                      personel eltajoent foro hughercoatof-tf thecg is durbiad fare thn a.       a
coomidered am bsing ninhln reasonable 00cc-lu of rhat house   Inerural areas                  fltevelod =ithlntion te-nt    Iior  - h e cs  yf liyntg Lnel    r...urban
reasonsble access nould Inyly t'at th, h-oseacaf  or seehers of the houmehold                   and        Percent oon                futb  andor    eYe  npr"hntoub
do not ho_  -no spend sfdisr.oortionatn  purr of the Jsy i  fetcing s                           p rad ra) =h
far ay' naer needs.                                                                             p
A-ost tc    reta Itsoor(percent of poBrutooc-total,urban  and r-al -
Uureh- of yeoyle (total. urhan, and -rerl s arved hy a.creta diaposal as
reercentanesnoftheicrnrnttlncie populations. Enrets disyosal may include
'he collection und disyossl,  tth or clotnut tretnent  of human e-etad S                                                                                  1 Da   D
and naste-eater by -atre-born-  syptem  or the use of pit pyrtiles cod neit                                                     T copnrIy    and   Peoj erto Dlepsion
far lustallotiona.                                                                                                                - ic             id P-j-i-n   Dep--
PoyPlation ten Phnafouao  - royalatlon dividad by number of  hrscr-cing ptysu-
clas quallfied fr- a  -edi-achool  ant-niersly lenel-
P!f_N ~ ~ - P.P..-I. d-dd b .......April   1982
rocuhatton per Nursina yeraon - yepulatnon dioidsd hr nurber of perSacticng                                                                A     rl      1 8
male and femtale graduate nustses, prectical nurses, and assistant nurses.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                 ANNUAL AVERAGE RATE OF GROWTH
1%, constant 1970 prices)
USS Mln.    %                         1965-1974        1974-1980
GNP at Market Prices             3,569    100.0                           2.4             -1.6
Gross Domestic Investment           811     23                           6.1             -18.5
Gross National Saving              416      12                           5.7             -20.2
Current Account Balance           -395    -11
Exports of Goods, NFS            1,406      39                           2.1              -3.4
Imports of Goods, NFS            1,512      42                           3.9            -11.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980 (prellminary)
Value Added               Labor Force  1,/         V.A. Per Worker
USS Mln.        %             Mln.      %               USS    % of Ave.
Agriculture                        510        14.3           0.873    52.0               584      25.5
Indwstry                         1,428        40.1           0.252    15.0            5,667      247.0
Services                         1,624        45.6           0.428    25.5            3,794      165.4
Unallocated                          -           -           0.126      7.5                -          -
Total/Average
3,562       100.0           1,679   100.0            2,294      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                General Government2/                  Centr-al Government
(K Min.         % of GDP        I K Mln.)                % of GDP
1980       1971 - 79
Current Receipts                                                    764              25            26
Current Expenditures                                              1,028              34            27
Current Surplus                                                    -264             - 9           - 2
Capital Expenditures                                                 87               3              6
External Assistance (net)                                            94               3              3
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES               1965   1970   1972    1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
(Million K Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                 107.6  355.6  341.0   440.7  493.0  623.0  699.0  640.0  832.0  907.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector 2/    -88.7 -163.8  147.2    78.1  373.0  571.0  791.0 1062.0 1122.0 1354.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector          42.3  136.9  165.0   335.8  393.0  399.0  470.0  462.0  483.0  505.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as S of GDP    15.1   27.8   25.5   23.1   31.1   33.3   35.8   29.1   31.7   29.9
General Price Index (1963=100)          76.2  102.6  114.6  132.1  145.4  172.8  207.0  240.9  264.3  295.2
Annual percentage changes In:
General Price Index                      8.2   2.6      5.4    8.1   10.1   18.8   19.8   16.4    9.7   11.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                          691.4  -61.9  378.2   53.1   38.5   34.3    5.6   20.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector 3/              21.9    -9.7   92.1   17.0    0.2   17.8  -10.2   14.5    4.6
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars In this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
i/ Total labor force as of June 1978, distributed by sector according to 1974 pattern; unemployment are
allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers
seeking their first Job.
21 Figures do not differ signIficantly from "Central Government".
T/ Includes parastatal organizations
not available
not applicable
April 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ZAMBI A
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1980
1977     1978      1979      1980 (preliminary)                   USS Min.    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS                963       988    1,378    1,406        Copper                      1,260      91
Imports of Goods, NFS              1,007    1,025    1,046    1,512         Cobalt                         60      4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)           -44       -37       332     -106       Lead and Zinc                  40       3
All other dommoditles          24      2
Total                     1,384    100
Non-factor Services (net)           -100      -140     -124      -229
Net Transfers                       - 84      -100      -75       -60
Balance on Current Account          -228      -277       133     -395       EXTERNAL DEBT, DEC. 31, 1980
US$ Min.
Direct Foreign Investment             ..
Net MLT Borrowing                                                           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    1,969
Disbursements                      244       364      306       305       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt          ..
Amortization                       120       161      35C I/   170        Total Outstanding & Disbursed    1,969
Subtotal                           124       203      -44       135
Capital Grants                              .              .         .      DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 4/
Other Capital (net                   200        75        19      160                                             %
Other Itens n.e.i.  )               -169       -90      -73       -31
Increase in Reserves (+W             -74      -89        35      -131      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)             74        60        88       60       Total Outstanding a Disbursed       22.0
Net Reserves 2/ (end year)          -227      -396     -354      -485                                          (est.)
Imports of petroleum                  84       85       121       188
IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31, 1982
(Million US$)
RATES OF EXCHANGE (SDR's or US$ per Kwacha) 3/                                                           IBRD    IDA
USS      SDR's
Before February 1973                 1.40        .                          Outstanding & Disbursed   325.65   5.17
February 1973 - July 1976            1.55        .                          Undisbursed                  88.38  39.58
July 1976 - March 1978                 .       1.0848                       Outstanding incl.
April 1978 - December 1981             .       0.9763                          Undlsbursed              414.03  44.75
ANNUAL AVERAGE
1977                              1.27     1.08
1978                              1.23     0.98
1979                              1.26     0.98
1980                              1.27     0.98
1981                              1.15     0.98
i/ Including US$186 million of reduction in arrears.
-7/ Excluding external payment arrears.
51 The Kwacha has been pegged to the SDR since July 1976.
Ratio of estimated debt service, excluding arrears and IMF repayments, to exports of goods and non-factor
services.
not available
not applicable                                                                                     April 1982



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
as of March 31, 1982
Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Credit                                                          (Less Cancellation)
No.    No.       Year   Borrower           Purpose                  Bank    IDA b Undisbursed
17 Loans fully
disbursed                                  277.00
900-1            1973   Zambia            Education                 33.00             8.60
919              1973   Zambia Elec-       Hydroelectric
tricity           Power                    115.00            4.37
Supply Corp.
1131             1975   Posts & Tele.    Telecommunications         32.00            6.68
1210             1976   Development       Development Finance
Bank of Zambia   Company                    15.00            0.65
1356             1977   Zambia            Education                 13.30             6.15
1424             1977   Zambia            Industrial Forestry       16.80            5.55
1566   798       1978   Zambia            Third Highway             11.25  11.25   22.29
863      1979   Zambia             Coffee Production                 6.00    3.10
873      1979   Zambia             Technical Assistance               5.00    4.42
1790   973       1980   Zambia            Third Railway             25.00  15.00   38.52
1923             1981   Development       Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company            15.00            9.13
2001 a           1981   Zambia            Eastern Province
Agric. Development        11.00           11.00
1196 a   1982   Zambia             Smallholder Dairy Dev.            7.50    7.50
Total                                             564.35  44.75  127.96
of which has been repaid                         130.92    -        -
Total now outstanding                             415.53  44.75      -
Amounts sold                        49.57
of which has been repaid           48.07           1.50    -
Total now held by Bank/IDA b                      414.03  44.75      -
of which is undisbursed                           88.38  39.58  132.01
a Not yet effective
b Prior to exchange adjustment
Note: The US$18.0 million Southern Province Agricultural Development Loan approved on
December 15, 1981 has not yet been signed.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as of March 31, 1982
Investment                                                        US$ Million Equivalent
No.      Year                        Type of Business        Loan Equity   Total
216 ZA       1972   Zambia Bata Shoe
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing       0.85   0.23    1.08
250 ZA       1973   Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery              1.20    -       1.20
307 ZA       1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.78   0.21    0.99
324 ZA       1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia           Company                  -      0.54    0.54
394 ZA       1978   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.10    -        0.10
483 ZA       1979   Nchanga Consoli-   Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production              28.00    -      28.00
527 ZA       1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers       7.60    -       7.60
600 ZA       1981   Nchanga Consoli-   Copper Production
dated Copper Mines                         31.04    -      31.04
Total gross commitments                    69.57   0.98   70.55
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                    10.44    -      10.44
Total now held by IFC                      59.13   0.98   60.11
Total undisbursed                          40.75    -      40.75



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
as of March 31, 1982
Loan No. 900-ZA       Third Education Project:  US$33.0 million Loan of June
6, 1973; Effectiveness Date: August 9, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
The project, as originally approved (excluding certain university
components and technical assistance that were deleted at Government's re-
quest), was completed in March 1980, about six months after the original
completion date. The Closing Date, originally September 30, 1979, was
postponed to March 31, 1983 to enable the Borrower to utilize savings to
finance construction of twelve primary schools originally included under
the Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services Project (Loan 1057-ZA)
and a maintenance program for secondary schools. Five of the primary
schools are under construction; tender documents Eor the remaining seven
are almost complete. Commencement of construction of the seven schools may
be delayed due to lack of counterpart funds and tlhe need to secure new
sites for three schools. The maintenance program is progressing well with
most of the five experts in post.
Loan No. 919-ZA       Kafue Hydroelectric Project i(Stage II):  US$115.0 mil-
lion Loan of July 16, 1973; Effectiveness Date: Jan-
uary 15, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The two 150-MW units at the Kafue Gorge power station were com-
missioned in mid-1977. Construction of the main dam has been completed and
the reservoir filled. The project is expected to be completed within the
appraisal cost estimates. The Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation's
(ZESCO) financial performance has not been satisfactory; tariffs were how-
ever increased 20 percent for domestic users and 30 percent for industrial
users during 1979. Largely because of the econoniLc recession affecting
Zambia, ZESCO has been experiencing a shortage of spare parts and the de-
parture of some expatriate staff. The Closing Date was extended to Decem-
ber 31, 1982 to enable additional civil works on ithe control of artesianal
pressures to be carried out.
Loan No. 1131-ZA      Telecommunications Project:  US$32.0 million Loan of
June 24, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
About US$5.4 million of the loan still remains to be committed.
Project completion is now expected by June 30, 1983, three years behind
schedule, due to delays in installing and commissioning telephone exchange



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
equipment. Increases in tariffs (averaging 75 percent), approved in August
1979, have reduced dependence of the Posts and Telecommunications Corpora-
tion (PTC) on government financing of local costs of the project. The
problem of large accounts receivable by PTC from Government and its agen-
cies continues. Operational difficulties with the semi-electronic main
telephone exchange in Lusaka also have severely affected PTC's revenues.
The Closing Date was postponed from December 31, 1981 to December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1210-ZA      Development Bank of Zambia:  US$15.0 million Loan of
February 18, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 23,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The loan has been fully committed for a number of projects in
various manufacturing industries such as chemicals, textiles, packaging,
food processing and in agriculture. The Closing Date was postponed from
September 31, 1981 to March 31, 1982 to permit disbursements for equipment
already ordered by DBZ subborrowers. The Bank is preparing to close the
loan account as soon as outstanding disbursements have been completed.
Loan No. 1356-ZA      Fourth Education Project:  US$13.3 million Loan of
January 17, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 8, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Civil works are complete except for minor works to the kitchen
and dining room at the Evelyn Hone College and the printshop at the Nation-
al Education Services Center (NESC). Seventy percent of all furniture and
equipment has been delivered. The NESC and the Farmer Institutes and
Training Centeres are underutilized because of recurrent budget shortages.
About US$3 million of the loan allocated for technical assistance is uncom-
mitted due to the Government's reluctance to hire foreign consultants on
high salaries and a lack of suitable candidates for the fellowship pro-
gram. The project unit is well staffed and manages implementation well.
Loan No. 1424-ZA      Second Industrial Forestry Project:  US$16.8 million
Loan of May 12, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November
15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to be satisfactory despite staf-
fing and management problems. Industrial Plantations Division's incorpora-
tion has not yet been effected, due to protracted consultations between
government agencies. Planting targets are being met. The audit report
between January 1980 and March 1981 shows a loss of US$423,500 caused by
frequent plantation fires and ineffeciencies in sawmilling and logging
operations.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Loan No. 1566          Third Highway Project:  US$22.5 million (US$11.25 mil-
and                    lion Loan and US$11.25 million Credit) of June 27,
Credit 798-ZA           1978; Effectiveness Date:  November 26, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Due to delays in loan and credit effectiveness and employment of
technical assistance personnel, project implementation is behind schedule
and completion is expected by the end of 1985, 18 months behind reappraisal
(July 1979) estimates. Progress in recruiting technical assistance person-
nel has improved.  The Government is reviewing a report on a consultant's
study of the MSD reorganization and will submit its assessment to the Bank
shortly. Consultants have started carrying out feasibility studies of the
Mansa-Mwense-Nchelenge road and estimate that the draft feasibility report
will be completed by May 1982. The Bank is currently reassessing the proj-
ect scope in light of the Government-s difficulties in providing the local
recurrent funds for road maintenance.
Credit No. 863-ZA    Coffee Production Project:  IJS$6.0 million Credit of
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Expatriate and counterpart staffing are satisfactory and the
planting and rehabilitation program for coffee and maize, as well as dis-
bursements, are ahead of schedule. Implementation under the smallholder
component has been slow and haphazard and lacked adequate guidance and
supervision. The coffee research component is uncderway. The estate compo-
nent is in financial difficulties, with a shortfall of about US$5.0 mil-
lion, because costs have been much higher than expected. The Government
has obtained agreement in principle from KfW for additional financing to
cover the cost of the coffee processing plant.
Credit No. 873-ZA    Technical Assistance Project:  US$5.0 million Credit
of December 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 12,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
A planning expert and a project evaluation expert have been hired
to work in the Project Preparation Unit of the National Commission for De-
velopment Planning and a second project evaluatiorL expert is being recruit-
ed. Phase I of feasibility studies for a fuel alcohol project has been
completed; preparation of a possible fisheries project is in progress; a
request to finance Zambia's contribution to the joint operational and staf-
fing study of Zambia Railways and TAZARA has been approved; and a request
for financing feasibility studies for a rural electrification project is
being considered.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Loan No. 1790-ZA      Third Railway Project:  US$25.0 million Loan and US$15
Credit No. 973-ZA    million Credit of June 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
March 31, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project is cofinanced by the EEC (through a Special Action
credit), AfDB, Japan, OPEC Special Fund, KfW, SIDA and ODA (UK). Procure-
ment is proceeding well and disbursement, which lagged due to delays in is-
suing letters of credit, is expected to regain momentum. Technical assist-
ance for project implementation is proceeding well and, likewise, train-
ing. Due to TAZARA's limited capacity, much copper has been sent to Dar-
es-Salaam by road rather than by rail, thus reducing Zambia Railways- (ZR)
share. This, combined with an increase in working expenses and the lack of
tariff revision, has caused financial difficulties for ZR. The Government
is considering a tariff increase and the Bank is discussing its possible
assistance for improving TAZARA with the Governments of Tanzania and
Zambia.
Loan No. 1923-ZA      Second Development Bank of Zambia Project:  US$15.0
million Loan of January 8, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
May 1, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The loan is almost fully committed for 17 sub-projects in manu-
facturing, agriculture and transport.
Loan No. 2001-ZA      Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project:
US$11.0 million Loan of November 23, 1981; Effective-
ness Date: Scheduled for June 23, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Implementation has been slow due to ineffective coordination
among concerned ministries and agencies and the bulk of the PPF advance is
unutilized. Progress in fulfilling conditions of effectiveness is slow as
are construction of houses and procurement of transport equipment. Govern-
ment now intends to retain a consulting firm to provide key project staff.
Credit No. 1196-ZA   Smallholder Dairy Development Project:  US$7.5 million
loan of March 24, 1982; Effectiveness Date: Scheduled
for June 23, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
The project is designed to increase milk production and raise in-
comes of smallholder dairy farmers in Mazabuka, Monze and Kabwe Districts
by increasing use of modern farm techniques and improving marketing ser-
vices. Credit will be extended to smallholders for on-farm development and
animal husbandry and veterinary extension services will be provided. Con-
ditions of effectiveness are expected to be met on schedule.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
D. IFC PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd. (216-ZA and 250-ZA) - Shoes and Tannery
IFC's investment in 1972 helped finance an expansion project to
triple shoe production to 2.9 million pairs. The project also opened up
the ownership of the company to local investors. In 1973 IFC's investment
helped finance a tannery to process 300 hides per day to meet the company's
requirement for leather. The foreign exchange situation of Zambia con-
tinued to limit raw material imports by the company. However, more local
materials are now used by the company, and this resulted in a 14 percent
increase in production during 1980. The company has been operating profit-
ably.
Century Packages Ltd. (307-ZA) - Packaging Materials
The plant was completed in 1977, about a year later than origin-
ally anticipated, with an increase in project cost equivalent to 26 percent
of total costs. Increased project cost has been met largely through provi-
sion of additional financing acquired under the Project Funds Agreement.
Sales during the fiscal year ended March 31, 1981 were stagnant at the pre-
vious year's level. Increases in administrative expenses, especially pro-
vision for doubtful debts, and interest cost contributed to the loss re-
corded for the year.
Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) (324-ZA) - Development Banking
DBZ' principal objective is to provide medium- and long-term
loans and equity financing for productive enterprises in manufacturing, ag-
riculture and tourism. Since 1979, the volume of DBZ business has been in-
creasing. Loan approvals, which had stagnated around US$9.5 million per
year in 1976-78, increased to about US$28 million in FY80 and US$49 million
in FY81. Profitability has also improved: between FY80 and FY81, net
profit rose from US$1.7 million to US$2.7 million, a roughly 60 percent in-
crease. At the end of FY81, the total portfolio of DBZ was US$41 million
as compared with US$28 million at the end of FY80.
Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (NCCM) (483-ZA) - Cobalt Production
The IFC loan of US$28 million (of which US$20 milion is for IFC's
account) to NCCM for a cobalt production production project was approved on
September 4, 1979. The project will more than triple NCCM's finished co-
balt production to about 43,000 tpa by 1983. The project is currently
under implementation, and physical completion of the project is expected by
mid-1982, on time and approximately within budget.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (NCCM) (600-ZA) - Copper Production
IFC's second investment in NCCM was a loan of DM 70 million
(equivalent to about US$30 million). IFC's loan which was approved on De-
cember 3, 1981, will help finance a major expansion of the company's tail-
ings treatment capacity. The project will produce an average of about
35,000 tpa of finished copper starting in 1984, equivalent to about nine
percent of projected total company output, at a cost far below the com-
pany's existing operations.
Kafue Textile of Zambia Ltd. (KTZ) (527-ZA) - Textiles
A loan investment of US$7.3 million and a contingent commitment
of US$0.3 million were approved in 1980 to assist KTZ' US$28 million expan-
sion. In the expansion, the company's production capacity will be increas-
ed from 10.6 million meters of finished fabrics per year to 18.9 million
meters and diversification into the production of cotton blended fabrics
will be carried out. The project is still under implementation and is
scheduled for completion in June 1983.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
ZAMBIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)      Time taken to prepare project:                         9 months
(b)      Project prepared by:                                   GRZ
(c)      Initial discussions with IBRD:                         August 1981
(d)      Departure of appraisal mission:                        December 1981
(e)      Negotiations completed:                                April 10, 1982
(f)      Planned date of effectiveness:                         August 25, 1982
Section II - Special IBRD implementation actions:
An advance of U.S. dollars one million from project
preparation facility was made on February 17, 1982 to
help finance project preparation and the initial phase
of the airmag survey.
Section III - Special Conditions:
(a) The Bank would be consulted on the legal framework
and incentives to be implemented (para 46).
(b) A condition for disbursin,g the funds relating to
the gravity survey is for the Government and the
Bank to agree that such a survey is justified in
view of the results of the airmag survey (para 54).
(c) Proceeds from sales of airmag reports would be
recorded in a special account and used for future
hydrocarbon exploration (para 60).



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
ZAMBIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Planned Schedule of Implementation
PPF Approval                                                   February 1982
Signature of Contract with Airmag Supervision Firm             April 1982
Signature of Contract with Airmag Firm                         May 1982
Signature of Contract with Exploration Consultants' Firm   April 1983
Flying of Airmag Survey                                        June-November 1982
Signature of Contract with Law Firm                            November 1982
Completion of Reprocessing of Mineral-oriented Airmag
Surveys                                                     May 1983
Completion of Draft Petroleum Legislation and Model
Exploration/Production Contracts                            June 1983
Gravity Survey                                                 July 1983-December 1983
Completion of Strategy and Promotion Reports                   May 1984
Offering of Exploration Blocks                                 Late 1984
Signature of First Exploration Agreements with Oil
Companies                                                   1985



- 36 -
ANNEX V
ZAMBIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IBRD FY                      Quarter           Annual           Cumulative
1982                            IV               460                460
1983                             I             1,300              1,760
II               900             2,660
III               900             3,560
IV               810             4,370
1984                             I               400              4,770
II               300             5,070
III               280             5,350
IV               250             5,600
1985                             I               250              5,750
II               250             6,100
III               250             6,350
IV               200             6,550
1986                             I                 30             6,580
II                20             6,600



- 37 -
ANNEX VI
ZAMBIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.       N. J. Money, Hydro-Carbon Potential of Zambia (February 11, 1981)
2.       Draft Flight Plan Map - Aeromagnetic Survey Program (December 1981)
3.       Ministry of Mines Handbook (1980)
4.       Ministry of Mines - Geological Survey Department, Records of the
Geological Survey Volume 12 (1972)
5.       Consultant Report on Preappraisal Mission (December 1981)
6.       Zambia Daily Mail, December 10, 1981, including Press Conference on
petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
7.       Airmag Survey - Specifications and Instructions to Tenderers
8.       Press Release:  Statement by Minister of Mines on Petroleum
Exploration (December 9, 1981)
9.       Thomas F. Ritter, ZAMBIA Summary of Geology (December 28, 1981)



- 38 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
ZAMBIA
Summary of Petroleum Geology
1.       Zambia is virgin territory as far as petroleum exploration is
concerned. Only rudimentary attempts at looking at its petroleum
possibilities were made in recent years. But no exploration activity per se
took place.
2.       Landlocked Zambia, with a total surface of about 580,000 km2 consists
of an old Basement (crystalline and metamorphic rocks) cropping out in large
areas, particularly in the northeast central and southwestern parts of the
country or as intrusions such as in northwestern Zambia. Around the Basement
highs and between Basement ridges lie large piles of sedimentary rocks which
were deposited partly under marine conditions for the older sedimentary cycle-
-the Katanga Series of Late Archean to Early Cambrian age--or else under
predominantly continental or paralic environment for the younger cycle--the
Karroo of Late Paleozoic to Jurassic age.  The sedimentpry rocks which now
cover about one third of the country or some 250,000 km were deposited during
two successive cycles separated by important structural upheavals that
heralded the initial break-up of the original African continent. Generally
some formations of each cycle may have accumulated petroleum, but more likely
gas under proper conditions.
Katanga Series
3.       Rocks of this series ranging in age from Late Archean to Early
Paleozoic consist essentially of great thickness (more than 6,000 m or 20,000
ft) of alternating clastic formations such as sandstones, conglomerates,
siltstones and shales with smaller layers of often algal dolomites and
limestones which give off a strong bituminous odor on a fresh split. Although
the detailed tectonic and sedimentary history is locally very complex (e.g.,
the Mines Series Nappes in the Copperbelt of northern Zambia and South Shabah
in Zaire), the possibility of dry gas accumulations does exist in favorable
structural situations in potential reservoirs of the Upper Katanga Series, or
of the lower Karroo sands after vertical migration through the Karroo/Katanga
interface. Obviously the Copperbelt area which has been subject to several
granitic and/or basic rock intrusions linked to the copper, cobalt, zinc,
uranium mineralizations, is not recommended for hydrocarbon search. But the
areas outside the Copperbelt which were subjected to mild tectonic and
intrusive activity do hold gas potential. Part of these areas were surveyed
for minerals using the low flying airmag method, and have been selected for
reprocessing. It is hoped to extract some useful information regarding the
depth to the Basement or the thickness of the sediLmentary pile in order to
valuate their hydrocarbon potential.



- 39 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
The Karroo
4.       Sediments pertaining to this cycle are usually called continental
deposits although some marine incursions are often reported. These sediments
which extend in age from Carboniferous to Jurassic, can be summarized as
follows in Zambia:
ZAMBIA - STRATIGRAPHIC COLUMN
Age              Series            Formation              Thickness
in m
Jurassic         STORMBERG         Basalt                     1,000
Sandstone
Upper Trias      Upper BEAUFORT   Escarpment Grit         750-6,500
Upper Permian   Lower BEAUFORT   Madumabisa Mudstone   300-1,500
Lower Permian   ECCA               Coal Measures          100-1,200
Carboniferous   DWYKA-ECCA         Tillites                   0-250
5.       Although the geology of the Copperbelt is known in great detail, that
of the Karroo regions was neglected until a few years ago when field
reconnaissance coupled with the drilling of waterwells and some stratigraphic
holes in search of coal deposits have unraveled the stratigraphic sequence of
the chart presented above.
6.       After the deposition of the Karroo, the region underwent periods of
intense structural deformations corresponding to the further break-up of the
African megaplate into uneven fragments of horst features separated by
downfaulted elongated areas or grabens in which Karroo sediments were
preserved and whose depth is unknown. This fault-graben geostructural pattern
-- long suspected and often harshly debated in the past but which is only now
beginning to be proven through the study of Landsat imagery -- could be
attractive to oil companies in search of structural situations similar to
those where prolific production occurs, e.g., the Gulf of Suez, the Chad
Basin, etc. In the grabens, the Karroo sediments may have been or still are
buried at depths favorable for generating petroleum from source rocks such as
the Ecca Shale formation or the Madumabisa Mudstone formation.



- 40 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
7.       The middle and upper Karroo sands could play the role of reservoirs
if appropriately protected by an impervious cover of shales and if situated in
a favorable structural position.
Summary
8.       Since sedimentary rocks capable of generating hydrocarbons either
liquid or gaseous have been deposited over Zambia and a larger part of these
sediments was spared the direct effects of metamorphism or volcanic
intrusions, petroleum potential exists even if it has been unrecognized and
unexplored until now. The older Katanga Series could be the possible source
of dry gas, whereas the younger Karroo may yield gas or oil in certain cases.



IBRD 16275
Z  A  M   B  I A                            28                                                                  MARDE792!!
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION                                                 p                                          TANZANIA  '
)                       PROMOTION  PROJECT                                               PeA AMbN'
GEOLOGY               *    Hydro Power Plants
cretaceous            A    Refinery                                  V
t   [ f    | Karroo    C     Area of Proposed Airmag Survey                                                      /
Basement  ~ainRoildas
.   II Katongo              -        Secondary Roads                                                           __  
h     LK3: \ | Basemrent          -K  oivevStJ                                        (                 V         sorrJN       xJ9dt           f;i
Rivers                  (R     National Capital
\  a    Rivers             ---~~~~~International Boundciries    >              ) X       '  \ ,\X             j               4      |4;
i                ~~~~~ 50  - 5 200                                                 VE:;tu :<                              :                Z 
t0       50        1  0 \                    (g   uk 150 M,I  7                             2
LUBUAHM    ZAMBIQUE
DO 4rLAr LA Sv /,Th,,,    Z  G         A FIA|'I
~.  ~   I  B   I      Vvto~v                            28~____   A,~* T
hJAFRIC



