LOAN NUMBER 2152 ZA
Loan Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        LUL                      , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2152 A
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     Uvp, I                    , 1982, between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions o-f the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980 with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise    aquires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditionm have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the term "Project Preparation Advance" means the
Project Preparation Advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated December 10, 1981 and
February 17, 1982 between the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six
million six hundred thousand dollars ($6,600,000),


﻿-2 -
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement betwe,- the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bs.nk shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan including interest and
other charges on the Loan.
(b)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn bal-
ance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be gov-
erned by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to ninety-seven
thousand five hundred and thirty-seven dollars ($97,537). The fee
shall be payable in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall
specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have received full
payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required for the full payment of the fee in the
currency or currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the


﻿-3-
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the Amortization Schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Mines with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering, and petroleum exploration practices and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall establish and maintain in its
Ministry of Mines, a Petroleum Unit whose function shall be to
coordinate the execution of the Project. The said Petroleum Unit
shall be headed by a Project Coordinator who shall be a senior
professional officer of the Geological Survey Department in the
Ministry of Mines, assisted by geologists, geophysicists, an
accountant and an administrator all of whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants,
including petroleum exploration specialists and legal consul-
tants whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in
accordance with the principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank
in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the draft petro-
leum legislation prepared by the legal consultants referred to in


﻿-4-
(a) above, and shall consult with the Bank on its contents,
including incentives proposed, prior to its enactment.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The iorrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿-5-
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, until December 31, 1986, record and deposit all
proceeds collected from the sale of reports, studies, data and
other activities carried out under the Project in a separate
account to be kept by the Borrower's Minister of Finance and used
solely for financing further petroleum surveys and studies.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution cf
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-6-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions 'of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate accounts
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure


﻿-7-
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
separate accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date   oi-NAm    A   is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpeses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                            ZA 42221
Lusaka
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A& T   Regional Vice President
.            Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expe,.ditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Airmag Survey            1,750,000             100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Gravity Survey           1,000,000             100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Training                   150,000             100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Equipment and              150,000             1    of foreign
materials                                     expenditures
and 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(5) Consultants'             1,250,000             100% of foreign
services and                                 expenditures
Project
administration
(6) Refunding of             1,000,000            Amount due
Project
Preparation
Advance
(7) Fee                         97,537
(8) Unallocated              1,202,463
TOTAL   6,600,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(c)   expenditur(s under Caterory 2 above unless the Bank
shall have determined that the airmag survey under Part A (1) of
the Project has yielded satisfactory results.
(d)  payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if
the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance


﻿- 11 -
all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to
meet the estimated shortf-ll, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been elig-
ible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project's objective is to support the Borrower's efforts
to gather geological and geophysical information and promote
hydrocarbon exploration by attracting foreign companies to under-
take petroleum exploration. The Project consists of the follow-
ing main components:
Part A:   Geophysical Surveys
(1) Airmag Survey totalling about 90,000 line-km of the
prospective sedimentary areas; (2) Gravity Survey to cover
selected traverses in areas identified in the Airmag Survey; and
(3) Reprocessing of mineral Airmag Data totalling about 50,000
line-km.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
(1) Exploration Consultants (45 man-months) to help estab-
lish the Petroleum Unit, coordinate the various project compo-
nents, supervise the geophysical surveys, produce a strategy and
a promotion report on Zambia's geological prospects, and provide
training to Zambians in geo-science; (2) Legal Consultants (nine
man-months) to draft petroleum legislation, prepare model explor-
ation/production agreements, and assist the Government in negoti-
ating with oil companies; (3) Consultants' services for training
of Zambian staff in petroleum geology and interpretation of
geophysical surveys and related equipment including vehicles,
laboratory and office materials.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1988
through   September 1, 2002                 $220,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years                             1.75%
before maturity
More than three years but not                         3.50%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                           6.40%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                        9.30%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                      10.45%
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                             11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   The Gravity Survey under Part A (2) of the Project shall be
procured under contracts* awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of -the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-:
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
.           2.   For the Gravity Survey to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the pub-
lic of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank.
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment and vehicles may be procured in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable tb the
Bank.
2.   The Airmag Survey including contracts for supervision,
quality control and interpretation under Part A (1) of the Pro-
ject shall be procured on the basis of limited international ten-
dering with bids requested from at least seven suppliers.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 16 -
With respect to all contracts for the Airmag Survey and the
Gravity Survey:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the rea-
sons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contracts shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of each contract shall be fur-
nished to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or


﻿- 17 -
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /  FLday of    4wL,, 198 .
FOR SECRETARY


