- Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5152
PROJBCT CDMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
HIGE3RAY MAINrENANCE PROJECT (LOAN 1565-PAN)
June 22, 1984
Latin America and tke Caribbean
Regional Office
This document has a sestricted distributien and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTNCE PROJECT (WOAN 1565-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Preface ............................ . i
Basic Data Sheet ............... .                         .i
Highlights ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  iv
I.   INTRODUCTION ........... ..... .1... .                        I
II.   PROJECT PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AND NEGOT IONS 1. . .          1
III. PRDJECT ECUTION.                                                2
IV.   COST ESTIMAES AND DISB. .SE..ENTS                           10
V. ECONOMIC RVALUATION..                                           1
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ANID PERFORMANCE OF THE
BORROWER ARD THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.                      1
VII. ROLE OF THE BAK .16
VIII.   CONCLUSIONS. . ............ . . . . . . . .                  17
Tables
1. Equipment Purchased Under the Project .18
2. Project Cost .............. .                                  19
___         IBRD 15638 (PCR)
I Thu document s a rcstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officicl duties Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



PREFACE
.
The following is a Project Completion Report on Panama's Highway Maintenance
Project for which Loan 1565-PAN in the amount of US$12.0 million was approved
by the Executive Directors on May 11, 1980. The loan was lGDZ disbursed,
effective March 15, 1984.
This Completion Report was prepared by the Bank's Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office and is based on information obtained from the
Minutes of the Board Meeting, LAC Information Center, Project Appraisal
Report No. 1891-PAN, staff supervison reports, and data on project costs
collected from the Ministry of Public Works.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance audit
reporting, this Completion Report was read by the Operations Evaluation
Department but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft completion
Report was sent to the Borrower; however, no coments were received.



- ii -
RASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Item                                      Original Plan        Actual
Total Project Cost (US$million)                     12.91            12.92
Overrun (Z)                                                        0 °
Disbursement                                        12.00            12.00
Economic Rate of Return (Z)                       above 50            - 1/
Date Equipment Procurement Completed                07/79            3/84
Proportion of Time Overrun (Z)                        -               100
Financial Performance                                 -              good
Institutional Performance                             -              fair
Other Project Data
First Mentioned in Files                              -            06/17/76
Appraisal                                           11/77             11/77
Negotiations                                        03/78        03/27-31/78
Board Approval                                      05/78          05/11/78
Loan Agreement Date                                   -            06/30/78
Effectiveness Date                                 10/02-78        10/02/78
Closing Date                                       03/31/83        12/31/83
Borrower                                              Republic of Panama
Executing Agency                                 Ministry of Public Works
through its National Directorate
of Highway Maintenance
Fiscal Year of the Borrower                                 01/01-12/31
Follow-on Project
Name                                          Road Rehabilitation Project
Loan Number                                               2020-PAN
Amount (US$million)                                          19.0
Loan Agreement Date                                        07/24/81
1/ See text, paragraphs 5.01 and 5.02



- iii -
MISSION DATA
No. of     No. of
Type          Month/Year    Staff       Weeks    Staff/Weeks  Date Report
Identification       11/76         1          1            1        12-27-76
Preparation          03/77         5          1.5          7.5      04-08-77
Pre-Appraisal        07/77         4          2.5         10        09-09-77
Pre-Appraisal 1/     09/77         1          1            1        10-05-77
Appraisal            10/77         3          2.5          7.5      04-20-78
Supervision          08/78         1          1            1        09-12-78
Supervision          01/79         2          1            2        02-26-79
Supervision          05/79         3          1            3        07-06-79
Supervision          10/79         2          1.5          3        11-21-79
Supervision          03/80         3          2            6        04-07-80
Operational          02/81         1          0.5          0.5      03-11-81
Ltd. Supervision 1/  10/81         1          0.5          0.5      02-19-82
Supervision 2/       11/81         2          1            2        02-23-82
Supervision 2/       04/82         1          1.5          1.5      05-25-82
Supervision 2/       10/82         1          2            2        11-24-82
Ltd. Supervision 1/  12/82         1          1            1        01-10-83
Supervision 2/        2/83         2          2           4         03-11-83
Supervision Z/        9183         2          1.5          3        09-30-83
Total Supervision Effort
FY1978    FY1979    FY1980    FY1981    FY1982  PY1983  PY1984
Staff Weeks   0.9      14.6       10.0       4.8       5.4      12.5      3.2
1/ Training component only
2/ Included supervision of Loan 2020-PAN



- iv -
HIGHLIGHTS
The project partially achieved its objective of building within the Ministry
of Public Works the necessary capacity to carry out the schedule of
maintenance activities prescribed in its four-year highway maintenance
program. To that end, the project included funds to finance equipment and
spare parts purchases and technical assistance in the areas of maintenance
and equipment management.
Although achievements under the project were below appraisal expectations,
the project was successful in laying the groundwork for ;he continuous and
systematic implementation of maintenance activities in Panama. These efforts
are being continued under the follow-on Road Rehabilitation Project (Loan
2020-PAN).
Project execution was hampered by dlfficulties in hiring qualified individual
consultants (after the Government's decision that contracting foreign firms
was too costly), frequent changes of Ministers that led to changes in MOP
staff and changes in perceived priorities, cumbersome procedures for
equipment and spare parts procuremeut and competing demand for maintenance
resources emanating from town and city streets in need of rehabilitation and
not included in the original maintenance program.
Important elements of the institution-building components of the project
(i.e., training) have reached only an embryonic stage but are expected to be
fully developed under Loan 2020-PAN. As a result, a project, comparable in
the economic sense to the one defined at appraisal, is expected to be
completed under the ongoing Road Rehabilitation Project:, and a meaningful
quantitative evaluation of the Road Maintenance Program has been postponed
until the completion of that project.
The Project Completion Report identifies two lessons to be learned from the
project:
(a)  Future project design should consider all related sources of
demand for resources. In this project, the lack of provision for
establishing control over maintenance of city and town streets
proved troublesome; and
(b) The difficulty in obtaining final approval of contracts in Panama
should be dealt with in a country context, and not in the
framework of individual project lending.



PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT (LOAN 1565-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Panama is divided lengthwise by a mountain range and across by the
Panama Canal. As a result, the country has developed on two main axes: one
north-south along the Panama Canal, and the other east-west along the Pacific
Coast in the south of the country and west of the Colon-Panama City Corridor.
Except for the relatively unexplored and sparsely populated Darien Province,
where air travel and coastal shipping are almost the only means of transpor-
tation available, road transport is the basic mover of domestic freight and
passengers. The development of road transport followed the improvement and
extension of the highway network. The network consists of some 8,900 km, of
which about 2,800 km are paved, 3,700 km have gravel surface and about 2,400
km are earth feeder roads. Although some expansion and upgrading, especially
of secondary and feeder roads, would be necessary to meet growing require-
ments and to give access to still isolated and undeveloped areas, maintenance
and rehabilitatioxt of the existing network are the highest priorities in the
subsector.
1.02     To date, the Bank's involvement in the road subsector has consisted
of four projects and the provision of technical assistance as executing
agency for the UNDP-financed 1974 National Transport Survey (NTS). The First
Highway Project (Loan 123-PAN, US$5.9 million, July 1955) was for highway
rehabilitation; the Second Highway Project (Loan 264-PAN, US$7.2 million,
August 1960), was for feeder roads; the third project, the Highway Mainte-
nance Project (Loan 1565-PAN, US$12.0 million, June 1978), is tbesubject of
this report; the fourth project is the ongoing Road Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 2020-PAN, US$19.0 million, July 1981).   Although the Bank did not
finance any highway projects between 1960 and 1978, it substantially
appraised two projects in 1966 and 1975. In the first case, the Government
withdrew the loan application, while in the second, financial constraints
resulted in the allocation of Bank funds to another project in Pauana of
higher priority.  The Highway Maintenance Project re-established a working
relationship between the Ministry of Public Works (HOP) and the Bank.
1.03       This completion report is based on information obtained from the
Minutes of the Board Meeting, the LAC Information Center, Project Appraisal
Report tio. 1891-PAN, staff supervision reports, and data collected from MOP
on project costs.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AND NEGOTIATIONS
2.01       The UNDP-financed NTS, carried out by a Canadian consulting firm
and completed in L974, identified high priority projects in the transport
sector and instigated important institutional improvements, particularly the



-2 -
establishment ef a separate Road Maintenance Department (DNM) within MOP.
With regard to highways, the NTS recommended that much greater emphasis be
placed on road maintenance and that a systematic program to prevent highway
deterioration be developed and implemented. The program, covering the four-
year period 1979-1982, was formulated by HOP's Department of Planning and
DNM.   The basis of the maintenance program was a summary road condition
inventory carried out in 1976 by DNM with the assistance of Mexican consul-
tants.
2.02      The project was defined with the objective of building within MOP,
over a four-year period, the necessary capacity to carry out annually a
program of scheduled maintenance activities prescribed in DNM's highway main-
tenance manual.   To that effect, the project included the replacement and
overhaul of existing maintenance equipment, the provision of spare parts
necessary to overhaul salvageable units, and technical assistance in the
areas of (a) maintenance organization and management, (b) annual maintenance
programing, (c) equ'pment and workshop management, (d) administration and
accounting, (e) personnel training, and (f) identification of rehabilitation
requirements.
2.03       The project was appraised in December 1977.  Since the appraisal
mission's recommendation did not differ substantially from the approach
agreed within the Bank prior to appraisal, no Decision Meeting was held, and
a combined Issues Paper/Decision Memorandum was issued on December 13, 1977.
The paper dealt mainly with the timing of the approval of a new Organic Law
formalizing the functions of the four directorates within MOP, and with seek-
ing agreement with the Government on a timetable for implementing vehicle
weight regulations.
2.04       Negotiations were conducted in Washington, between March 27 and
March 31, 1978, and a loan amounting to US$12.0 million was approved by the
Executive Directors on May 11, 1978.
2.05      The approved project elements and their estimated costs, as given
in the appraisal report, are shown on the following page.   All project
elements were expected to be completed by December 1982 and the loan closing
date was set at March 31, 1983.
III. PROJECT EXECUTION
3.01      Technical assistance by consultants to help MOP plan and implement
management improvements for road maintenance and related equipment force
account operations was fundamental to the basic project concept. Financing
for new equipment, spare parts, workshop Improvements and staff training was
to provide resources needed for maintaining the roads efficiently.



-3-
Estimated
US$ Millions       Foreign Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total      Component 2
(a) Equipment and Spare Parts
(i) Road Maintenance
Equipment                  0.35     7.23      7.58            95
(ii) Initial Stock of Spares
for New Units              0.04     0.85      0.89            95
(iii) Spare Parts for Overhauls  0.07       0.43     0.50            85
Civ) Wiorkshop Tools and
Equipment                  0.01     0.10      0.11            90
Subtotal                   0.47     8.61      9.08
(b) Technical Assistance            0.28      1.41      ___
Base Cost                       0.75    10.02    10.77             83
(c) Contingencies
Physical (10% of (a) (iii)
and (iv))                     0.01      0.05     0.06
Price Escalation (about 19Z
of Base Cost plus Physical
Contingencies)                0.15     1.93      2.08
Total Project              0.91    12.00    12.91             93
Technical Assistance
3.02        Outline terms of reference for technical assistance in highway
maintenance and equipment management, by a consulting firm, as well as
outline job descriptions for the two key MOP counterparts, i.e., (i) the
Senior Maintenance Engineer, in charge of program coordination, and (ii) the
Equipment Fleet Manager, were agreed at the time of negotiations.   The
appointment of these two counterparts, a condition for loan effectiveness,
was made in June, 1978, and proposals for providing technical assistance from
a short list of four foreign consulting firms were received in August 1978.
3.03       The evaluation of the proposals and the selection of a firm were
interrupted by a cabinet reshuffle which changed the Minister of Public
Works.   The new cabinet decided that contracting a foreign firm was too
costly and proposed, instead, to contract individual consultants, with pre-
ference to be accorded to qualified Panamanian engineers. In January 1979,
the Bank and MOP reached an agreement to try this alternative with the pro-
vision that, if suitably qualified free agents could not be engaged within a
reasonable period of time, MOP would contract staff from specialized firms;
it was also agreed that, if the results of this technical assistance proved
unsatisfactory, a firm of consultants would be contracted, at a later date,



to complete the services. In addition, It was agreed that MOP would engage a
local consultant as coordinator to provide direction and management to the
consulting team effort, as well as liaison with MOP's management.
3.04      Locating and engaging suitably qualified staff was not easy.  Bank
missions provided assistance in framing individual terms of reference and
conditions of contract for both foreign and local specialists. The coordina-
tor and an expatriate road maintenance management advisor Initiated the ser-
vices in August 1979, joined in less than a month by the equipment and work-
shop management advisor (also an expatriate). Initial contracts were for 18
months of service with a provision for extension.   Two field specialists
(Panamanians), to work in the provinces with the road maintenance and work-
shop staff,  joined the group in November, 1979.   Another two Panamanian
speciallsts started shortly thereafter, one working on improving purchasing
and supply procedures and the other Introducing the use of computer systems.
No suitable Panamanian candidates were found to provide assistance in manage-
oent accounting or staff training. MOP, however, agreed to seek candidates
through specialized international firms.
3.05      The presence of a relatively highly paid expatriate civil engineer
among the technical assistants (all contracts are published In the press)
raised bitter opposition from the Panamanian Society of Civil Engineers and
Architects (PSCEA) and became a 'cause celebre in the Panamanian news
media.   Although MOP obtained support from the Association of Consulting
Engineers, the PSCEA challenged the legality of the contracting procedure on
the grounds that efforts had not first been made to find qualified Panamanian
engineers for the job. The situation developed into a standoff but, without
doubt, contributed to the decision by MOP not to extend the services of the
two expatriates at the end of their contracts (January and February 1981).
3.06        Cabinet changes in January 1981 led to a second change of the
Minister of Public Works. An extension of the technical assistance financed
under Loan 1565-PAN had just been agreed between MOP and the Bank, In paral-
lel with the negotiations for the Road Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2020-PAN)
which provided additional and expanded technical assistance in equipment and
workshop management as well as for carrying out training once a satisfactory
program had been decided. The new Minister replaced most of the Panamanian
professionals on the technical assistance teams with engineers of his choos-
ing, once the first-phase contracts expired. Since the new candidates were
sufficiently experienced and had the confidence of the Minister, the Bank
agreed to the changes. Moreover, the consultant coordinator and field work-
shop specialist remained unchanged and provided some continuity. Specialist
contracts were again typically for periods of 18 months or leas, vith provi-
sion for extension. With these staff changes came a new orientation of the
services with greater emphasis on 'troubleshooting' (not exclusively for road
maintenance problems).
3.07       During the 1980/81 period, several ways of obtaining specialist
help in establishing a training unit and in management (cost) accounting were
explored. Tentative discussions concerning training were started with two
foreign firms.   This idea was dropped in favor of procuring assistance
through a local center for vocational training (SENAFORP) established under
the Ministry of Labor and supported by ILO.  A tentative agreement between
the two ministries was signed in late 1980, and a more detailed agreement,



-5-
dividing the services into program preparation (financed under Loan 1565-PAN)
and execution of the agreed program (financed under Loan 2020-PAN), was
signed in January 1982.
3.08       Less progress was made in obtaining management accountancy assis-
tance. Locally established, Internationally recognized auditing firms vere
Invited to informally submit detailed terms of reference and proposals for
services, but this line of action was not folloved up after the second change
of MOP management.
3.09        A third change in the Minister of Public Works accompanied the
change in the Presidency in July 1982. This time, the coordinating consul-
tant was replaced, and the staffing for a third and final phase of technical
assistance was agreed between MOP and Bank missions. The staffing plan for
this phase considered that the equipment and workshop management assistance
services, provided for under Loan 2020-PAN, would start in January 1983. In
fact, the start of this assistance was delayed until June 16, 1983.
Project Implementation
Road Maintenance Program
3.10        Implementation of improved systems in programing, executing and
controlling road maintenance activities was pioneered in two pilot provinces,
Panama (West) and Los Santos (Map IBRD No. 15638 (PCR)).  These provinces
were selected to provide experience with different geographic locations and
roadnet characteristics, representative of a range of conditions, in terms of
traffic volumes, logistic and support problems as well as other variables
which could affect maintenance implementation in the remaining provinces.
3.11       Systems development took place during 1980 within the context of
limitations on available workforce, equipment and budget.   MOP could make
available additlonal workers who were being laid off from -emergency pro-
grams but could not engage new workers; also, pending the arrival of new
equipment purchased under the project, transfers of additional equipment from
adjacent provinces were not judged politically possible; however, newly over-
hauled equipment was sent to the pilot areas. In both pilot provinces, aged
paved roads of obvious priority and urgently In need of rehabilitation or
strengthening consumed disproportionate amounts of maintenance effort to keep
them in acceptable condition. This action limited maintenance work on roads
representing more 'normal" circumstances. Increasing the allocation of main-
tenance funds to pilot provinces at the expense of other provinces was not
deemed possible.   In addition, 1980 was an election year, and pie-election
projects diverted resources from the maintenance program, leaving a heritage
of fuel shortages which forced rationing of fuel in the last quarter of the
year. Nonetheless, sufficient progress was made to justify an expansion of
the program to all other provinces in 1981, coinciding with distribution of
newly delivered equipment financed under the project.   The pilot provinces
then served as demonstration and training nuclei and were expected to con-
tinue innovation, development and fine tuning of further Improvements in
maintenance activities.



3.12      Of particular success durlng thls pilot phase was the establlshment
of Programing, Evaluation and Control (PEC) units In MOP Headquarters and at
the pilot provinclal level. These units began to provide basic data as well
aB relatively accurate records of the cost of road repair work actually per-
formed. The role and responsibilities of the newly created position of pro-
vlncial maintenance engineer vas also developed and tested in the pilot pro-
vinces. Both record-keeping and the use of the information by the Road Main-
tenance Directorate (DMV) are still being developed. For lnstance, there are
no records of how such work was done on speciflc roads (data are recorded by
provlnce) nor of the annual programlng and budgetary process utillzing the
availkble data on past  performance.   The pilot experience also made it
evident that provislon of hlgh callber management staff at all levels of the
new Equipment and Workshop Directorate was critical to continued improvement
of road maintenance operations.   Intensified  technical asletance tD  the
Directorate, Including local, management caliber staff to assist in develop-
ing  managers,  vas  included  In  the  Road  Rehabilltatlon  Project  (Loan
2020-PAN).
3.13      The change In MOP management In early 1981 led to markedly greater
priority being given to road repair and rehabilitation of Panama City and
provinclal town streets, work which had not originally been included when
determining the equipment and budget requirements of the Highway Maintenance
Project. The appointment of provincial maintenance engineers and the crea-
tion of PEC units In the non-pilot provlnces proceeded on achedule, but much
of this effort was diverted to meeting the new MOP priorities.
3.14      The new minister, with a few aides, aseumed almost personal control
of MOP force account operations. Road maintenance and equipment funds, pre-
viously managed by the responsible Directorates, whose headquarters were in
David, were placed under central control, pooled with all other recurrent
budget funds and spent as directed by the minister. One positlve effect of
the new management was the repair of a considerable length of town streets as
well as an increased tempo in highway pavement repair. On the negative side,
preventive maintenance was largely disregarded, and the Maintenance Director-
ate was virtually disbanded as its staff vas transferred or reassigned to
production tasks. The Maintenance Director had been replaced at the time the
nev minister had been appointed; his successor vas discharged after a few
months, and, for a considerable time, the position remained unfilled.  Expan-
sion of the coverage glven by the maintenance program to the roadnet and
Improvement of the resource and operational management systems slowed or
halted.   Some of  the  equipment  intended  for use by the provinces  was
reassigned to Panama City.   Systematlc programing and control were down-
played, and physical production at almost any cost was given paramount
Importance.
3.15      Some progress was made, however, In starting periodic maintenance
work and in bringing non-pilot provinces into the program. In mid-1982, the
Bank agreed that the town streets, including those of Panama City, be brought
Into the scope of the project in an attempt to Introduce more order Into the
operations of these areas of relatively high activity; little progress has
been made, however, because of a shortage of staff to develop the work
standards.



-7-
3.16       The third and latest cbange of Ministers of Public Works occurred
in August 1982, after the new President assumed office. Under this manage-
ment, a process of restaffing the Directorate of Maintenance has taken
place. Provincial ard regional uaintenance engineers have been appointed to
vacancies that developed.  Insofar as possible, staff previously involved in,
and familiar with, the program have been recalled from other assignmeuts.
Emphasis is again being given to improving management in order to increase
crew productivity, work quality and equipment utilization. Bwoever, inaction
on the part of the cabinet, followed by weeks of waiting for executive
approval, delayed the start of the technical assistance contract for
strengthening equipment and workshop management (under Loan 2020-PAR) by aix
months. Improvement in these areas remains crucial for continued improvement
of road maintenance performance.
Equipment Procurement
3.17      Preparation of specifications and bidding documents for acquisition
of maintenance equipment took place during the second and third quarters of
1979, largely without consultant assistance. Bids were taken for 416 units
of equipment and vehicles (in 33 lots) on January 30, 1980.   Five lots
recelved insufficient offers to be legally acceptable.
3.18        Bid evaluation, awards and formalizing of supply contracts took
over six months. The evaluation committee, composed of seven MOP staff (four
technical and three legal or administrative) as well as two Government repre-
sentatives, one from the Ministry of the Interior and one from the Controller
General's office, completed their recommendations before the end of March
1980. A major delaying factor was the lack of understanding of the system of
lowest evaluated bid on the part of Government officials and the cabinet,
outside of MOP, which also had to approve the contract awards.  This misun-
derstanding led to lengthy reviews and explanations by MOP of the departure
from -lovest price- criteria. Eventually, four additional lots were declared
void for lack o' sufficient responsive bids. Contracts for 24 lots of equip-
mert were signed and approved in the June to August 1980 period. Eight lots
were rebid with bids taken in July 1980 (one lot had been discarded because
the equipment was judged too expensive).
3 19      Eauipment deliveries started in November 1980 and continued through
June 1981.  Because of delays in awarding contracts, cost increases affected
eleven lots, increasing foreign costs about 5% to about US$8.4 million.
Table 1 summarizes the equipment acquired.
3.20        Orders for fast-moving spare parts for this new equipment were
placed separate'ly, over a span of two years.  The spare parts requirements
were carefully studied with the help of equipment experts from the technical
assistance- A hiatus in preparing and placing orders occurred between late
1981 and early 1982 when the then remaining equipment specialist was serious-
ly injured in an automobile accident. The process of parts procurement was
also delayed by cumbersome Government procurement controls.
3.21       Training for mechanics and in equipment operation was provided by
all suppliers; however, in some cases, the level was too superficial to



-8-
ensure that operators could really put the equipment to use under field conr-
ditions. Further assistance in training is currently being provided under
Loan 2020-PAN.
Equipment Overhaul
3.22       Concurrently with the acquisition of new equipment, a program for
rehabilitating broken down MOP equipment was started in late 1979 and early
1980. Identification, screening and selection of equipment and vehicles were
conducted with consultant assistance.   In general, a limit on spare parts
costs of 25Z of equipment replacement value, a criterion which had been
agreed with Bank missions, was applied during the screening process and con-
firmed before part orders were placed, after the equipment had been subjected
to close inspection in one of the shops.
3.23       Progress on equipment overhaul was always far slower than pro-
gramed. Constraints included lack of space in the workshop and shortages of
really qualified mechanical staff (both also needed for repairs of opera-
tional equipment and vehicles).   The main causes for delay, bowever, were
time-consuming procedures and controls on placing spare part orders.   7o
accelerate approvals and reduce re-typing of lists of spare parts, MOP
arranged to have representatives of other Ministries, involved in the
approval process, posted to MOP. Placing an order now takes about three to
four weeks, compared to several months in some of the earlier instances.
3.24       Aggravating the slow process of equipment overhaul was the con-
tinued cannibalization of partly overhauled equipment awaiting parte
deliveries, to keep working units operational. This reflects the lack of an
urgently needed spare parts storage/distribution system and of Government
financial arrangements to keep such a system operational. Introducing spare
parts management is one of the objectives of the recently started technical
assistance financed under Loan 2020-PAN.
3.25      O' 112 units originally selected for overhaul, 42 were dropped from
the program because of the high costs of spare parts needed, 53 units had
been overhauled, and 17 more were still under repair at the time the loan
closed. The total disbursed for spare parts is about US$0.7 million.
Equipment Renewal and Disposal
3.26      In order to clear space in MOP's workshops, a program for identify-
ing and scrapping useless equipment was initiated in 1979. Removal of scrap
equipment from provincial yards to several old quarries was arranged with the
Ministry of Interior in 1980. After this single effort, the scrapping pro-
gram came to a standstill. The Panama City HOP workshop, one of the three
large shops in the country, was never cleared.
3.27      No program of systematic equipment renewal has been prepared.  Lack
of qualified staff to prepare and implement such a program, as in most
matters relating to equipment and workshop management, has been the primary
cause of delay, which has been aggravated further by the delay in starting



-9-
additional technical assistance under Loan 2020-PAN. The preparation of a
renewal program is becoming more urgent every year as the existing fleet
ages.
Workshop Tools
3.28        About US$140,000 for mechanic tools was also financed under the
loan. These tools were received in early 1982 and progressively distributed
to provincial workshops once an adequate toolroom and tool control system was
in place.
Vehicle Weight Control
3.29      Controlling of overweight vehicles was re-established in a two-step
process.   In 1979, vehicle weighing was resumed at the four existing sta-
tions. Overweight vehicles received warnings, and MOP contacted shippers who
repeatedly dispatched overweight trucks. In 1980, overweight trucks began to
receive summonses. Bowever, the existing law regulating truck weights does
not prescribe sanctions, and fines levied by traffic judges have been too
light to discourage overloading. MOP has prepared a draft of a new law,
which is under consideration by the Government, specifying stiffer penalties
and has begun a program to inform the public,police and traffic judges of the
damage caused by overloading.   Loan 2020-PAN provides financing for con-
structing and equipping four new fixed stations and equipment for several
mobile weight control teams.
Road Rehabilitation Program
3.30      The project called for identification of road rehabilitation prior-
ities since the highway maintenance program was not dimensioned to provide
the resources for rebuilding pavements. In early 1980, MOP prepared a first
list of roads which had perceived priority to be rehabilitated. With help of
the technical assistance consultants and the Bank, a more comprehensive
screening program was undertaken during 1980, resulting in a condition inven-
tory and assessment of rehabilitation requirements on all roads with daily
average traffic volumes greater than 100 vehicles.
3.31       Evaluation of these rehabilitation data, again with Bank assis-
tance, served as the basis for preparing the Road Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 2020-PAN, July 24, 1981). To improve MOP's pavement evaluation capabi-
lity, purchase of a Maysmeter was financed under the Loan to permit the use
of pavement roughness measurements in confirming perceived priorities during
the second and subsequent years of the rehabilitation program.   Technical
assistance was also financed to help calibrate the equipment and train MOP
staff in its use and in utilizing the Bank's HDM model. The latter phase of
this assistance was also delayed until mid-June 1983 while awaiting Govern-
ment approval of the consultants' second phase contract with HOP. The con-
sultants did not actually provide the second phase services until December
1982. The delay in this case was initially attributable to waiting for HOP
to complete the collection of field data and arrange for access to a suitable
computer after which there was a wait until the consultant's staff could
again be made available.



- 10 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND DISBURSEMNETS
4.01      A summary comparison between appraisal estimates and final costs is
shown in Table 2. The final total cost of the project was US$12.92 million,
essentially the same as the appraisal estimate of US$12.91 million.  The
hiring of individual consultants resulted in savings that were utilized to
purchase additional spare parts.
4.02      The allocation of loan funds was formally revised once, in Septem-
ber lg81, to cover increases in the cost of road maintenance equipment (Cate-
gory I). As of January 1, 1983, the uncomitted balance of loan funds was
about US$710,000. MOP and the Bank agreed on the use of the remaining funds
for (i) purchase of two vehicles for use in the training program (US$16,000),
(ii) completing the purchase of fast-moving spare parts for new equipment
financed under the project (about US$130,000), (iii) purchase of additional
spare parts for equipment overhaul (about US$330,000), (iv) additional work-
shop equipment (about US$30,000), and (v) the remaining technical assistance
services (about US$205,000). The original, revised and expected final allo-
cations are shown below:
Category                  Original      Revision        Final
Allocation     09-30-81      Allocation
1. Road Maintenance Equipment       7,230,000     8,375,000     8,555,000
2. Spare Parts Inventory for New
Equipment                         850,000       850,000     1,292,000
3. Spare Parts for Overhauls          473,000       473,000       839,000
4. Workshop Tools and Equipment       110,000       110,000       137,000
5. Technical Aosistance             19410,000     1,410,000     1,177,000
6. Unallocated                      1,927,000       782,000   _
12,000,000    12,000,000    12,000,000
4.03      Because of the substantial delays experienced in project implemen-
tation, disbursement lagged considerably behind appraisal estimates, as shown
below. Disbursement against procured goods was set at 100% of the foreign
expenditures for direct Imports, or 852 of the total expenditures for
imported but locally procured equipment and parts. In the case of technical
assistance, disbursements were 100% of foreign expenditures, or 83% of total
expenditures.
Fiscal         Appraisal Estimate                       Actual
Year         Amount   Z of Total        Amount   x of Appraisal Estimate
1979           5.3          44             0.0                 0
1980          10.8          90             0.1                 0.1
1981          11.2          93             7.9                71.0
1982          11.8          98            10.6                90.0
1983          12.0         100            11.3                94.0
1984                                      12.0               100.0



- 11 -
4.04       The original closing date of March 31, 1983 was extended once, to
December 31, 1983.
V. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
5.01       As explained in previous chapters, the 1978-1982 Highway Mainte-
nance Program was not fully implemented as envisaged in the project apprais-
al. Delays in equipment procurement and difficulties in hiring the appro-
priate consultants postponed the initiation of the project.   In addition,
resources were partially shifted toward the maintenance of town and city
streets, many in need of rehabilitation but not included in the original pro-
gram. With the implementation of the ongoing Road Rehabilitation Project,
some current, heavy demands for maintenance resources will be reduced. Also,
the inclusion in the maintenance program of town and city streets should lead
to improved management of available resources, permitting the planning and
execution of maintenance operations to improve.   Furthermore, important
elements of the institution-building components of the project have presently
reached only an embryonic stage, but are expected to be fully developed under
Loan 2020-PAN. As a result, a project, comparable in the economic sense to
the one defined at the time of appraisal, is expected to be completed under
the ongoing Road Rehabilitation Project, and a meaningful quantitative evalu-
ation of the Road Maintenance Program has been postponed until the completion
of that project.
5.02       The preceding discussion exemplifies the difficulties inherent in
carrying out a quantitative evaluation of a road maintenance project in which
the institutional building objectives play a paramount role, but are very
rarely achieved in the context of one Bank project. The continued implemen-
tation under the Road Rehabilitation Project of critical technical assistance
components, especially equipment management and Phase II of the training pro-
gram, provides an opportunity to strengthen MOP's maintenance management and
capacity as envisaged at appraisal.        Furthermore, under Loan 2020-PAN,
efforts would be made to improve relevant data collection substantially in
order to make possible the quantification of costs and benefits of different
maintenance operations with a methodology similar to the one used in the
appraisal.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER AND THE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Institutional Development
6.01      The passage of the law in 1978 that sanctioned a new MOP organiza-
tion provided a reasonable basis for institutional development; however, per-
formance in this respect fell short of potential. Each of the three changes
of Minister of Public Works (1978, 1981 and 1982) 1/ led to changes in MOP
directors and some organizational modifications which often seemed motivated
1/ Another cbange of Ministers took place in September 1983, which has had
little effect on the project.



- 12 -
by suiting jobs to selected managers and the Minister'  management style.
Although some of the changes resulted in improved or equal alternatives,
modifications of rudimentary changes have prevented the new institutional
framework from taking root so that the internal organization, staffing and
procedures within the various directorates could be fully developed.
6.02      The 1978-81 MOP administration adhered quite closely to the organi-
zation contained in the 1978 law.  MOP headquarters was divided into two
divisions, administrative and engineering, the latter consisting of eight
technical directorates.   The field organization comprised nine provincial
directorates and two metropolitan offices (one erch for streets and public
buildings).   During  1980, MOP headquarters was  consolidated  from four
offices, in different parts of Panama City, into a complex of buildings
reverting from the former Canal Zone. However, the Road Maintenance (DMV)
and the newly created Equipment Workshop (DET) Directorates remained based in
David (near the Costa Rican border), where most of the administrative and
support staff for force account operations (except for supply functions) were
located.   With assistance from project consulting staff, PEC units were
established both at headquarters and in the field as the backbone for program
and project management.  Three regional offices were also created to help
manage the use of equipment and periodic maintenance crews in several
adjacent provinces.
6.03      The MOP administration which took office in early 1981 reorganized
three of the headquarters directorates and centralized control of Road Main-
tenance, Equipment and Workshops and of the budgets for these operations in
Panama (but left the administrative staff in David). The DMV in David was
depleted of technical staff without providing for its functions in Panama
City, and the Panama City workshop became the de facto equipment and work-
shops center, without being organized for this dual role. Not until late in
1982 was the decision taken to utilize Agua Dulce, in Cocle province, as the
management and support center for provincial shops in order to separate this
role from the daily activities of the equipment fleet working in Panama
City.  Little attention was given to improving systems and control, While
emphasis was placed on ad hoc, spur of the moment probler-solving, not condu-
cive to institutional development.
6.04      The current MOP administration has moved to restore institutional
order and has reestablished the Road Maintenance Directorate and the mainte-
nance field organization, although the final decision on the maintenance
headquarters location is still pending. Workshops and Equipment have been
split into two directorates, raising potential problems of coordination.l/
6.05       DET has been the most serious institutional problem throughout.
Created by the 1978 law (equipment and workshop units had previously been
part of the National Directorate for Maintenance), it was never provided with
the line managers and mechanical staff needed. On the basis of an internal
organization which was approved in 1980, MOP's 1981 budget provided an addi-
tional 169 staff positions to meet DET needs.   Loan 2020-PAN includes
11 A position of coordinator was established in December 1983.



- 13 -
technical assistance consultants to help DET and provides financing to con-
tract experienced local staff in order to set up the organization and train
junior MOP staff in equipment management. Although consultants were selected
in mid-1982, contracting has been held up because inefficient bureaucratic
procedures delayed the start of their services to June 1983.
6.06        In the provinces, the separation of road maintenance activities
from other force account work had, to a limited extent, been realized by
having non-maintenance work recorded separately from maintenance work. Since
the same crews and equipment are used, most other work is performed at the
cost of not performing some sort of maintenance. Fortunately, the amount of
other work has, in general, been small except for urban street rehabilita-
tion.
6.07        The exclusion of maintenance of provincial town streets and of
Panama City streets from the program, as it vas appraised, led to a con-
tinuous problem of competition for the same resources, staff and often
budget. MOP's Provincial Engineers are responsible for the town streets, and
NOP has a unit responsible for Panama City streets. The implementation of
maintenance programs vhich did not provide for street maintenance soon
encountered problems on this account, the more so since street maintenance
was increasingly given high priority. MOP is presently engaged in expanding
the maintenance programing and control systems to include streets.
Training
6.08        Another factor which limited institutional development, was the
late start of the training program.  Besides the training of skilled workers
and foremen, training of Junior and middle managers as well as clerks and
support staff 'is necessary when new procedures and systems are introduced.
The only significant training of this kind was given, with assistance from
the consultants, to the staff of the PEC units. Training of skilled vorkers
and foremen is currently being started.
Performance of the Borrower
6.09        MOP's performancE in implementing the project depended upon the
Minister in charge and his perception of maintenance. 411 have supported the
concept that priority be given to maintenance, but the importance given to
developing and introducing management systems as a means to improve perfor-
mance and quality has varied considerably.   In general, HOP has tried to
comply with the loan covenants, has succeeded in reestablishing the process
of identifying overweight vehicles, and presently is engaged in expanding a
weight control program, in introducing effective sanctions and in orienting
the public, truckers, police and traffic judges on the need for such con-
trols. Budget preparation has been improved, and measures are under way to
improve accounting practices and financial control.   The RtC system has
established the basis for eventual improvement of control of force account
work.



- 14 -
6.10        The Government's performance in matters relating to procurement
(purchasing and contracting) has consistently been unsatisfactory.   Time
consuming verifications and approvals by the Ministry of Plannlng and Eco-
nomic Policy, by the Cabinet Council, and by the Controller General's Office,
capped by the need for presidential signature endorsing what should be rou-
tine decisions, have resulted in long delays. Each Minister appears to have
the power to interfere with the approval of contracts vith other ministries.
The delays inherent In contracting works undoubtedly contribute to the ten-
dency to use force account whenever speed or certainty are of importance.
Equipment procurement, financed by the loan, was delayed by questioning,
after awards had been made, of the 'lowest evaluated bid' criteria which MOP
had accepted.  This delay resulted in cost increases of about 5%.  Spare
parts procurement has been handled, on the whole, in an even worse manner,
delaying equipment overhaul.  Initially, approvals of price quotations took
so long that parts prices had changed and the whole process had to be
repeated. The situation was improved by having representatives of approving
agencies posted in MOP In order to avoid each agency working in sequence and
retyping lists prepared previously.   Approval to purchase spare parts now
takes about 21 days when actively followed up.  Contracting of consulting
firms for major contracts has, to date, always been subject to delay in
gaining official approval, although individual consultants, for whom amounts
involved are smaller, were contracted relatively quickly. The real value of
importing expertise in order to be able to introduce improvements rapidly is
not sufficiently appreciated and the perceived higher costs of consultants,
compared to MOP staff, tend to encourage the seeking of in-house solutions.
6.11      The inability of MOP to provide qualified staff and counterparts in
DET has delayed and limited improved performance in the critical equipment/
workshop sector. In consequence, compliance with the substance and intent of
covenants relating to: (i) instituting an equipment scrapping and renewal
program; (ii) satisfactory maintenance of equipment; and (iii) developing
equipment availability data, has only been partial. Noncompetitive salaries
are a part of the problem, but lack of recognition within MOP of the need for
non-civil engineering technical staff also affects job attractiveness.  The
size of the country and the nature of private sector activity also severely
limit opportunities for Panamanians to acquire relevant experience in
managing anything comparable to MOP's fleet of about 2,000 units and the
supporting workshop system. These problems were recognized by MOP and the
Bank in providing for a far stronger technical assistance effort under the
Road Rehabilitation Project, Loan 2020-PAN.   Eowever,there have been two
years of delay in starting this technical assistance.
6.12      Provision of adequate budgets for road maintenance has also proved
to be a problem, in particular the budgets for spare parts, fuel and lubri-
cants, and materials. In most years, the Government provided supplementary
mid-year allocations to cover budget inadequacies, but, in mid-1982, the
mid-year modification reduced the maintenance budget. Effective maintenance
requires timely release of funds, and uncertainty regarding the eventual size
of the available budget complicates effective management. The commitment of



- 15 -
the Government to fully fund maintenance needs at the expense, if necessary,
of the investment budget is evidently still lacking.
Performance of Consulting Services
6.13      Technical assistance by individually contracted consultants rather
than a firm has had both positive and negative aspects. Administratively, it
proved more difficult to locate and engage staff with previous technical
assistance experience, particularly with the strong pressure for giving
preference to Panamanian professionals.   Consequently, for most staff, the
role was novel, and everything had to be developed from scratch. Delays in
engaging consultants for training and in accountancy, as well as lack of MOP
counterparts, especially in mechanical matters, left gaps in the assistance
needed to develop and establish an integral system.
6.14        The consultants' terms of reference provided for coordination
through regular monthly meetings of all individual consultants and their
coutterparts, at which progress and problems could be discussed, recommenda-
tions presented and decisions taken.   It was understood, with MOP, that
minutes of such meetings could serve as progress reports.  These proposals
were never implemented: meetings were generally held by smaller groups on
particular problems, and effective progress reporting was almost non-
existent. In spite of constant prompting, reports received by the Bank were
usually delayed and not very informative.
6.15      Integration of the technical assistance into MOP operations was far
above normal to the extent that most experts became part of the MOP staff.
However, this situation resulted in some diffusion of effort from purely pro-
ject matters. In some cases, this had positive effects on MOP's overall per-
formance while, in others, it led to neglect of some project objectives.
6.16      A consulting firm could have been expected to provide a much more
rapid startup by introducing and adapting systems developed in other coun-
tries through the employment of staff with previous technical assistance
experience. Also, delays in mobilizing parts of the total group and changes
in staff would probably have been avoided.   A firm may have been able to
exert mote pressure on MOP to provide lacking resources and counterpart
staff, since the perception of its own performance would have been at stake.
Such an arrangement could, however, also have led to more confrontation. The
use of individual consultants, most of them Panamanian, and their integration
into MOP activities led to a relatively high participation by regular MOP
staff in developing and introducing new procedures.  The full effect of MOP's
junior and mid-level staff involvement in road maintenenance may not be seen
for several years.



- 16 -
VII. ROLE OF THE BANK
7.01      The Bank  contributed significantly to project identification and
provided direct assistance to MOP in project preparation. The type of pro-
ject was well chosen and addressed priority needs in the road subsector.
However, the exclusion of the maintenance needs of the Panama City street
system and of the resource requirements for provincial town street mainte-
nance, in the interests of simplicity and of lack of data, resulted in com-
plications during implementation.
7.02      The project was within MOP's capacity to carry through, except in
respect to the number of available, qualified mechanical service staff. When
this deficiency became evident, the Bank participated significantly in pro-
viding additional assistance under the followup Road Rehabilitation Project
as part of a number of measures intended to complement the ongoing road main-
tenance program. Unfortunately, delays in implementing these measures have
continued to slow the pace of improvement under the two projects.
7.03       The Bank displayed understanding and flexibility in accepting a
fundamental change in the manner in which technical assistance would be pro-
cured and, subsequently, in helping MOP to adjust the technical assistance
under the project to meet changed priorities and delays in portions of the
project. Substitution of individual consultants for a specialized firm has
Bad both positive and negative effects, as discussed previously. In the con-
text of Panamanian conditions and perceptions, the Bank's acceptance has
probably proved to be the right choice and has provided the opportunity for
sustaining a dialogue with several consecutive MOP administrations.   The
ministry has only itself to blame for slow or unsatisfactory progress in
attaining project goals and no consulting firm as a scapegoat.   In conse-
quence, each new management has had to consider its own course of action in
improving maintenance performance.
7.04      Bank staff assisted HOP considerably in preparing terms of refer-
ence for all technical assistance services and in drafting equitable contract
terms for such services.   The position of coordinator was created at the
Bank's request. This post has proved most important in keeping vital issues
before MOP management, even though satisfactory decisions were not always
forthcoming as a consequence.
7.05       Bank supervision was generally adequate and included support as
well as supplementary technical assistance to the program by providing
experts on equipment and training as participants on a number of missions.
7.06       In addition, Bank missions assisted MOP staff and the technical
assistance coordinator in organizing the preparation of the study of road
rehabilitation requirements which served as the basis for Loan 2020-PAN. As
part of this work, the Bank financed additional technical assistance to train
MOP staff in gathering and interpreting road roughness data to introduce one
of the inputs in starting a systematic pavement management system.



- 17 -
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01      Although the objective of providing MOP with the capacity to carry
out an agreed program of maintenance operations over the national highway
network, together with related organizational improvements, has only partial-
ly been met, significant progress was made and the foundation for continued
progress has been established.   The orientation of MOP maintenance staff
toward work programing as a basis for control and the separation of recurrent
and cyclical maintenance from improvement projects should have a lasting
effect.
8.02       Institutional improvement has also progressed, although organiza-
tional stability is still tenuous in the light of the recent history of
frequent cabinet changes. However, internally, MOP's own perception of the
need for further improvement in areas such as procurement, equipment and
workshop management, staff training, pavement management systems and vehicle
weight control have been heightened in spite of the difficulties encountered
in trying to make such improvements.
8.03      One particular lesson which can be learned concerns project concept
and design. Any proposed project which has improved resources management as
an objective must consider and provide for all competing demands for the
resources, even though the project may focus on supporting one of them in
particular. In this project, the lack of provision for establishing control
over maintenance of citv and town streets proved troublesome.   Similarly,
ignoring the presence of nonr-maintenance force account operations, instead of
providing for controlling them, could have proved more troublesome than it
did had more funding been made available far these non-maintenance activi-
ties.
8.04       A second lesson which can be learned concerns the difficulty in
obtaining timely approv1ls of contracts in Panama. This problem lies outside
the authority of a single ministry such as MOP, but has been the core problem
which delayed implementation of this project, and it continues to delay
complementary measures under the subsequent project, Loan 2020-PAN.   Even
though provision exists in the budget, the work is within estimated cost, and
approvals are forthcoming from the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
and from the Controller General, the Minister still does not have the
authority to proceed without cabinet approval and eventual Presidential
signature.  This is a matter which needs to be dealt with in a country con-
text, and not in the framework of individual project lending.



- 18 -
TABLE 1
PARNAM
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT (LOAN 1565-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Equipment Purchased Under the Project
Equipment                        Ne of Units        Total Cost (US$) 1,
Pick-ups                                      24               153,700
Land cruisers                                 22               158,300
Light trucks                                  94               838,100
Water tank trucks                             12               428,200
Dump trucks                                   50             1,880,000
Stake trucks                                   5               163,900
Mobile greasing units                          4               218,200
Trucks for bridge painting                     4               229,900
Tow trucks                                     2               207,200
Asphalt distributors                           5               260,000
Graders                                       25             1,349,500
Pneumatic rollers                             12               417,000
Vibrating rollers                              9               208,800
Tandem rollers                                 8               295,800
Front end loaders                             12               543,800
Backhoes                                       6               170,200
Grass cutters                                  7              .178,000
Aggregate spreaders                            1                54,200
Industrial motors                             12               179,800
Air compressors, 350 cfm                       2                77,500
Plate compactors                              36                85,700
Pedestrian rollers                            36               137,900
Asphalt kettles, towed                        19                69,900
Air Compressors, 175 cfm                       7                70,500
Centrifugal pumps                              7                 3,300
Mechanical sweepers                            5                91,500
Asphalt mixing plants                          7                83,700
Total                                            8,554,600
1/ Includes only foreign cost, which represents about 96% of the total cost.



- 19 -
TABLE 2
PANAMA
HICHWAY NAINTENANCE PROJECT (LOAN 1565-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Cost
(US$ Million)
Appraisal      ostimated        C
Estimates 1/ Final Cost 2; Variation
A. Equipment and Spare Parts
(i) Road Maintenance Equipment         9.04         9.00          0
(ii) Initial Stock of Spares for
New Units                        1.06         1.36        +28
(iii) Spare Parts for Overhauls          0.66         0.99        +50
(iv) Workshop Tools and Equipment       0.14         0.15        + 7
Sub-total                       10.90       11.50          +6
B. Technical Assistance                      2.01         1.42        -29
Total                           12.91       12.92           0
-   m
*1! Including price and physical contingencies.
2/ Based on the same ratio of local cost to foreign cost as was used at
appraisal.



ir                                                                                                     k.~~~~~
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
czmElN-1NINKUI   LSTUINDOUU EIUIFACM OGD
PAA4. AVEIAMONF9AVLOVOUCONSwTMOCrION
C ,    ;>,^_                                                                          -         nGNRVIL =FACCD .aZlT
'I                                                        *-.--.---.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AILROAD
PO RS onol LANDINO PLACS
j                                                                                    -. .  -   INTINPATIOhAL  WUlNuLD                                                       C
g~~~~~~~~~~~Uc iiUI                                                                       REV                                                                                         ;
_-   %_>   0  S16 -                                                                                                                      -                 ° ,
Z    X t  ' - _                      ~~~~r oD                                                                   
-.-
<         w~~~~Vkb       fl0RW'--                                                                                                ---                                             -cft   tl@
AGNJPA I 
> ~ ~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ff G                                                                Ut IS
\                     r                                        \<   {        4tah1             s       ..,v.,1 Cr-.
~~Ntc\ *9*.^ITR
t ~    ~       ~        <Rf        t 4 0Dw                                         t 't,
tOS MAP I0S UED O    IV.Ml - II V,t 1A1111                                                                                                     ;5
rINs NIAIE   O 7C _ vuoOUS IOAO IIEDI I
L,TNTON O[JCT VE BEENOU'1WED-
O0UNDAMS DISCLAIIE 17AII 0
Ri.                                                        pr                                                          10



IBRD-15638!PCR)
.                     I
~~~-                C-  a-         ->
. 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PANAMA--
C--n                                          w -
*~~~~~~~                 ~~~~      qp-_
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UTALv -J.A -                             -it 
N                                -                 e4a      ,
cnSrAmCA r
O      -~                                lb. A 0  E    N
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ .  .  .  .   -  
-'E






