Document of             FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1891a-PAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PANAMA
April 20, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
C'urrency Unit = Balboa
US$1.00       = B 1.00
F'iscal year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kmi)         =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (ton)        =  1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AADT           - Annual average daily traffic
APN            - National Port Authority
CAkM           - Department of Roads and Ports
C]ENAFOR       - National Training Center
FNC            - Chiriqui National Railway
COFINA         - Corporacion Financiera Nacional
CO(EC          - Companila Mexicana de Consultores
DAC            - Directorate of Civil Aviation
D]ENE          - Directorate of Equipment
DTIC           - Directorate of Construction
D2UM           - Directorate of Maintenance
DTTT           - Directorate of Transit and Land Transport
IDB            - Inter-American Development Bank
IFARHU         - Institute for Training and Improvement of Human Resources
MOP            - Ministry of Public Works
MEPE           - Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
NDP            - National Development Plan
NTS            - National Transport Survey
ORT            - Price Regulation Office
PAH            - Pan-American Highway
USAID          - US Agency for International Development
UNDP           - United Nations Development Program



FOR Ov"CAL US ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
PANAMA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..................................                  I
A.   General ..........................................                 1
B.   The Transport System ...........          ..................       1
C.   Planning, Coordination and Financing ....            .........     4
D.   Recent Sector Improvements and
Recommended Developments .......................               5
II.   ROAD TRANSPORT * ........................................ .             6
A.   General       ................................... .                6
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic    .......              7
C.   The Vehicle Fleet ................................                 7
D.   Operations and Organization of the Industry    ......              8
E.   Tariffs and Costs ................................                 9
F.   Government Role and Enforcement of Weight and
Dimensions Regulations            .........................    9
III.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .................................                 10
A.   The Highway Network ..............................                10
B.   Highway Administration .....          ......................      11
C.   Highway Planning .................................                11
D.   Highway Financing ......          ..........................      12
E.   Highway Engineering ..............................               13
F.   Highway Construction .....          ........................      13
G.   Highway Maintenance ......          ........................      13
IV.   PAST BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .... .....               15
A.   General ..........................................                15
B.   Completed Highway Projects .......................                16
C.   The National Transport Survey (1972-1975) ........                16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Panama
during October-November 1977. The mission comprised Messrs. Enrique Pinilla
(Engineer), Jose M. Veniard (Economist), and Carlos F. de Castro (Road Transport
Industry Specialist). The report had been edited by Miss Virginia R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   THE PROPOSED HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT ....             ..........    16
A.   Objectives and General Description ....             ...........   16
B.    Background and Preparation of the Highway
Maintenance Program ............................              17
C.   Project Components and Requirements ....            ..........    19
D.    Cost Estimates and Financing .....................               21
E.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring ....            ........    23
F.    Project Risk .....................................               25
G.    Project Impact and Adequacy of Technology ........               25
VrI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...................................                25
A.   Formulation of the Highway Maintenance Program  ...               25
B.   Traffic .........         .................................       26
C.   Benefits ........          .................................      26
D.   Overall Economic Return ..........................                27
E.   Benefit Distribution .............................                27
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....              .............   28
TABLES
1.1 - Summary of Freight and Passenger Traffic by Modes                   30
1.2 - CompaLrison of Highway and Motor Vehicle Densities                  31
1.3 - Development of the Highway Network ....             .............   32
1.4 - Transport Infrastructure Investment, by Mode,
in Comparison with Total Public Sector
Infrastructure Investment  ........................              33
1.5 - Estimate of Transport Sector Expenditures ....            ......    34
2.1 - Annual Average Daily Traffic by Type of Road Surface
and Type of Vehicle ..............................              35
2.2 - Vehicle Registration ...............................                36
2.3 - Vehicle Fuel Consumption ...........................                37
2.4 - Freight and Passenger Vehicle Fleet ....             ............   38
2.5 - Limits on Weights and Dimensions ....             ...............   39
3.1 - Estimates of Highway Expenditures and Road Users'
Contribution .....................................              40
3.2 - Highway Sources of Funds 1970-1977 ....             .............   41
3.3 - MOP Highway Design Standards ..............         .........       42
5.1 - Inventory of Roads .................................                43
5.2 - Summary of Maintenance Activities and Prescribed
Standards ...............  .      .........................     44
5.3 - Estimated Annual Cost of Maintenance per Kilometer
by Type of Road and Level of Traffic ....           .........   45
5.4 - Tentative List and Cost Estimate of Maintenance
Equipment ........................................              46



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES (Continued)
5.5 - Estimated Highway Maintenance Budget Requirements
and  Financing  ....................................  47
5.6 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ............... .    48
5.7 - Tentative Implementation Schedule .   .................   49
6.1 - Summary of Formulated Highway Maintenance Program ..    50
6.2 - Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs .... .............    51
6.3 - Summary of Maintenance Program Economic Evaluation   52
ANNEXES
5.1 - Outline of Equipment Fleet Manager Job Description ...  53
5.2 - Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical
Assistance on Highway Maintenance ....  ..............  54
5.3 - Outline Job Description for Senior Maintenance Engineer
in Charge of Program Coordination ....  ..............  59
5.4 - Example of Intended Maintenance Program
Control  Reports  ....................................  60
5.5 - Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project  File   .......................................  63
CHARTS
18231 - Ministry of Public Works Organizational Structure
18230 - National Directorate of Maintenance Organizational Structure
MAP
IBRD 13290 - Panama - Highway Maintenance Project






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Panama, a long, narrow country, is divided lengthwise by a mountain
range and across by the Panama Canal. As a result, the country has developed
on two main axes: one along the Panama Canal and the other along the lands on
the Pacific Coast, particularly to the west of the Canal. To the east of the
Canal lies the relatively unexplored region known as Darien. The Darien
region, as well as the lands on the Caribbean coast, consists of dense rain
forests, relatively undeveloped, unpopulated and without land transport
facilities. Except for these regions, where air travel and coastal shipping
are the only and scant means of transportation, highways and road transport
are the country's basic movers of domestic freight and passengers. As shown
in Table 1.1, highways carry about 95% of all domestic freight traffic and
near 99% of passenger traffic.
1.02      On the international side, the most important transport facilities
are the Tocumen International Airport, the Canal ports and the Pan-American
Highway, not counting the Panama Canal itself. The Panama Canal, its ports
and ancillary facilities, including a transisthmic railway and a small oil
products pipeline, carry an important part of the international cargo traffic.
Its ports, in particular, handle most of Panama's general imports. All ports
combined handle some 95% of total international dry cargo traffic, while
the Pan-American Highway, although handling only 5% of that traffic, is
playing a growing role in the development of interregional commerce. Of the
total international passenger traffic, airports, in turn, handle some 80%
(Table 1.1).
1.03      The transport system in the developed regions of the country is
broadly adequate. Some expansion, especially in secondary and feeder roads,
would be necessary to meet specific growing transport requirements in these
regions and to give access to new areas of the country, presently isolated and
undeveloped. However, of paramount importance is the adequate maintenance of
the present transport infrastructure -- basically highways -- as a major
factor in facilitating further economic development, competitive interregional
transportation and expansion of the agricultural sector.
B.   The Transport System
(i) Highways and Road Transport
1.04      Distances between developed regions are relatively short in Panama.
The longest one, along the Pan-American highway west of Panama City (to the
Costa Rican border), is about 480 km. Because of the long and narrow shape of
the country, the Pan-American Highway, a paved road connecting directly or
through branch routes with most of the developed areas of the country, consti-
tutes the backbone road of the system (Map IBRD 13290). The longest "feeder"
to this road is about 110 km and is located in the widest part of the country,
the Azuero peninsula. Given these short distances and the many scattered low
volume production centers, road transport is, with very few exceptions, the



- 2 -
most adequate mode; it has been strongly stimulated by the country's overall
economic development and by the upgrading and paving of the road system.
Panama's vehicle fleet grew at 8.5% yearly over the period 1960-1976, but
was slowing down its rate of growth in the last years (para 2.04) while Panama
was reaching a reLatively high level of motorization (Table 1.2).  The develop-
ment and present <status of road freight and passenger transport are discussed
in fu]ll in Chapter II.
1.05      Panama's highway network totals some 7,800 km, of which about
2,500 km are paved, 2,600 km have gravel surfacing and 2,700 km are secondary
and feeder earth roads. Road development has been concentrated, in the last
decade, on paving and improving the more heavily trafficked roads and extend-
ing the system. W4hile the whole system grew by 17%. since 1967, the paved and
gravel road networks grew by 80% and 21% respectively. Earth roads, in turn,
decreased from a 62% share of the total network in 1967 to 35% at present
(TabLe 1.3).  Although Panama's road density is low compared to that of
neiglhboring Costa Rica because of large unexplored areas and relatively high
urban concentration, it is well above that of its neighbors to the south
(TabLe 1.2). The present network is basically adequate in coverage and design,
but its poor cond:[tion, due to insufficient maintenance, is becoming a major
bott:Leneck in the continued expansion of economic activities. Issues in the
highway sector are discussed in full in Chapter III.
(ii) Ports
1.06      In addition to the Canal ports of Cristobal and Balboa, three
major ports -- Almirante, Puerto Armuelles and Bahia de las Minas -- and five
minor ports serve the country. The three major ports handle the bulk of the
country's exports. They move, in total, about 1.5 million tons per year
excluding petroleum products, of which 4.2 million tons per average year
pass through Bahia de las Minas (Table 1.1). Puerto Armuelles and Almirante
are primarily banana ports, each of which handles over 400,000 tons per
year originating irom its immediate hinterland. Bahia de las Minas, basically
a petroleum terminal, has recently been adapted to serve the new and fast
grow:ing roll-on/roll-off system originating from Miami but reaching over
the Pan-American Highway as far as Costa Rica and Nicaragua.  The ports of
Crist:obal and Balboa have a duality of functions, i.e., as ports for vessels
in transit through the Canal and, in practice, as ports of entry to Panama.
They handle about 65% of the country's dry cargo imports, a total of about
700,000 tons per year. The five minor ports handle less than 100,000 tons of
cargo each per year, but are important as cabotage ports. Port capacity is
not a constraint for the economy. Panama is also developing a fishing port at
Vacamonte with financial support from the Bank (Loan 1114-PAN, US$24.0 million,
April 1975). This US$42.6 million port will be Panama's first deepwater
fishiLng port, an important economic activity capable of accommodating large
shrimp trawlers and providing transshipment facilities for the international
tuna fishing fleets.
(iii) Air Transport
1.07      Before the expansion of the road network, domestic air transport
played a key role in furthering national development and integration. The
upgrading and paving of the road system and the relatively short distances



-3-
involved, however, 1/ have caused a shift from air to road transport. Over
the last few years, air transport growth has been concentrated in a few major
economic and tourist centers where it is competitive. Panama has inherited,
from the pre-road era, a total of over 200 landing strips, of which only eight
(seven managed by the Directorate of Civil Aviation 2/ and one, privately
operated, on Contadora Island) handle a significant volume of commercial
traffic. Domestic passenger traffic, concentrated mostly on these eight
airports, has been growing steadily to a total present level of over 500,000
yearly arrivals and departures.
1.08      Tocumen, the only airport equipped to handle international traffic,
now on the order of 720,000 passengers per year (Table 1.1), is completing
a substantial expansion plan consisting of a new terminal and runway, total
cost of about US$70 million, partly financed by the Bank (Loan 783-PAN, US$20
million, July 1971). This expansion will allow Panama to exploit fully its
strategic location as the hub of both coastlines of North and South American
air traffic. Twelve foreign carriers are presently operating combined passenger
and cargo services in Tocumen, and six carriers offer all cargo services. There
are two Panamanian carriers in the international business: Air Panama, origin-
ally with participation by IBERIA, is the national carrier; and COPA, also a
private corporation originally organized by Pan American Airlines, which
operates in the domestic market as well, being the only medium-sized carrier
in Panama. The rest of the industry -- which is very competitive -- is in the
hands of light aircraft operators.
(iv) Railways
1.09      Unlike air transport, railways, with the exception of the short
Panama-Colon line, were never an alternative to highways in Panama. Two of
the three railway companies operating are specialized systems, one a banana
plantation railway (Chiriqui Land Company) and the other a complement to the
Canal (Panama Canal Railway); the third system is wholly within the western
Chiriqui province (Chiriqui National Railway). The most important of the
three is the Panama Canal Railway, which carries over one million passengers
and one-quarter million tons per year on its 76-km, well-maintained
transisthmic run between Panama and Colon. Traffic on this line (of which
about one-third is generated by Panama) has been growing over the years at a
rate of about 5% and 2% p.a. for passengers and freight respectively. The
Chiriqui Land Company Railway (a division of Standard Brands), although
nominally a common carrier for Panama, is completely integrated into the
Standard Brands banana production system. Its combined northern and southern
divisions, with 300 km of main line, carry an average of 750,000 tons p.a., of
which nearly 90% are bananas.
1/   Puerto Armuelles, the furthest significant population center from Panama
City, is less than 400 km air distance away.
2/   San Blas, Changuinola, David, Bocas del Toro Island, Chitre, and the
Panama City airports of Paitilla and Tocumen.



-4-
1.10      The Chiriqui National Railway (FNC) is a dying railway with vanishing
traffic and with very little track left in operation. Of the original 165 km
of main line, only 30 km remain in operation after successive branch closures,
topped in 1974 by the loss of a large bridge on the main line near David.
This severing of the main line resulted in a further decrease of traffic, now
on the order of 15,000 tons p.a. Because an adequate highway ne:work exists
as an alternative to the railway and, in view of the poor operating ratio
(costs exceed revenues by over 400% in passenger services and 50'z in freight),
the National Transport Survey (NTS) (para 1.17) recommended that the Government
completely abandon FNC's operations. This, in fact, is what is happening;
since 1970, the railway has not undertaken capital expenditures while subsidies
for current deficits have remained at the modest level of about US$300,000 per
year. The current National Development Plan (NDP) adopted the NTS recommenda-
tion to abandon FNC.
C.   Planning, Coordination and Financing
(i) Planning and Coordination
1.11      The creation of the Department of Planning in the Ministry of Public
Works (MOP) in 1971, and of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (MPPE)
in 1973, strengthened the institutional basis for rational economic planning
in the transport sector. Transport planning became the responsibility of the
Department of Projects and Sectoral Planning within MPPE. The primary func-
tions of this Department are the preparation of the integrated annual operating
and investment budgets of the transport sector and the intermodaL coordination
and control of sector activities. Since 1975, the NTS has provided an improved
framework for investment planning. The NTS, and the subsequent preparation of
the NDP, created an awareness of the need to plan in a more systematic manner.
The main constraints for a continuous approach to the planning process are the
shortage of qualified staff and, as discussed below, the modal fragmentation
of functions and resources. This, however, has not resulted in costly misal-
location of resources since intermodal competition is not significant and
domestic transport is dominated by the highway mode, for which the recommen-
dations of the NTS are an effective planning tool. Proper planning of highway
maintenance and rehabilitation, an important task ahead, will be aided by the
technical assistance included in the proposed project (para 5.13).
1.12      Highway planning responsibility lies with the Department of Planning
of MOP, discussed in detail in paragraph 3.06, while planning and financing of
urban streets are the responsibility of the Ministry of Housing. Road trans-
port administration is in the hands of two Government agencies: the Directorate
of Transit and Land Transport, under the National Guard, which controls regis-
tration and licensing of vehicles; and the Price Regulation Office, under the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry, which controls tariffs, as discussed in
paragraphs 2.09 and 2.11.
1.13      The small Chiriqui National Railway is a semi-autonomoujs Government
agency, but its investment plans, as well as tariffs, have to be approved by
the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy on the basis of previous analysis
by MOP's Planning Department. No planning control is exerted by the Government
over the other two railways.



-5-
1.14      Port planning responsibility lies with the National Port Authority
(APN), created in 1974, while the administration of the Merchant Marine is in
the hands of the Ministry of Finance. APN is effectively administered but,
because of the adequate capacity for general cargo in the Canal ports, the
Government has not needed to play an important role in port administration and
investments.
1.15      Air transport has been administered satisfactorily by the Directorate
of Civil Aviation (DAC) since 1969. DAC is responsible for all aspects of
planning and execution of airport facilities, traffic regulation and control.
(ii) Financing
1.16      Government investment in the transport sector is budgeted by the
agencies involved, mainly MOP, DAC and APN, which submit their annual budget
proposals to MPPE. There is an overall lack of appropriate information with
regard to infrastructure investment. MOP's current and capital expenditures
are not properly identified, and transport and non-transport activities are
not always accounted for separately. An attempt has been made, however, to
reconstruct total sector expenditures and investments. Transport investments
are shown in comparison with those of other sectors in Table 1.4, and expendi-
tures, by mode, are shown in Table 1.5. Compared with the total investment
budget for the Government as a whole, transport allocations, reduced from
about 25% of the total in 1970 to about 14% in 1977, absorb a relatively
modest share of public and capital expenditures, half of which were in the
highway sector and the rest in ports and airports. This reflects the comple-
tion of large capital investments in the Tocumen airport and the main highway
network. Sources of foreign financing for highways are presented in paragraph
3.07; some 40% of the transport sector investments were directly foreign-
financed. For the period 1978-1981, it is estimated that, on the basis of
the updated NDP, the transport sector share of public investments will fall
even further to about 11% (Table 1.4). This estimated decline indicates the
general adequacy of the transport system (para 1.03) and follows the Govern-
ment Development Strategy, outlined in the NDP, that puts emphasis on the
directly productive sectors, particularly agriculture, commerce, industry,
tourism and mining.
D.   Recent Sector Improvements and Recommended Developments
1.17      In 1973, MPPE undertook the National Transport Survey, carried out
by consultants N.D. Lea Associates, Canada, under UNDP financing with the Bank
as executing agency (para 4.05). The NTS, which was completed in 1974,
identified high priority projects and effected important institutional improve-
ments, particularly the creation of a National Port Authority and the estab-
lishment of a separate Road Maintenance Department within MOP. With regard to
highways, the NTS identified 76 road links warranting rehabilitation or con-
struction. The NTS also recommended that much greater emphasis be placed on
road maintenance and that a systematic program to prevent highway deterioration
be developed and implemented. These recommendations became the basis for the
proposed road maintenance project. The NTS recommendations also served as a
basis for the transport investment plan contained in the NDP (1976-1980)
prepared by MPPE over the period 1975-1976.



1.18      The NDP, with its current updating, recommends that the Government
undertake the following priority projects:
(a) Highway Infrastructure - continuation and expansion of a program
for improvement of feeder and rural roads, in particular with IDB
assistance under the ongoing Third and Proposed Fourth Rural Roads
Programs and under USAID's Rural Access Roads Project; the extension
of the Pan-American Highway across the Darien region; the construc-
tion of the Arraijan-Chorrera Highway (also an IDB loan); the
staged upgrading of the Panama-Colon Highway; the strengthening of
a road maintenance capacity; and the establishment of an adequate
highway maintenance program.
(b) Ports - the completion of the Vacamonte fishing port project and
the construction of a container port on the Atlantic at an estimated
cost of US$40.0 million. A master plan was carried out for a
location at Bahia de las Minas, but a more favorable place is being
contemplated. There are also plans to build large installations at
Puerto Armuelles for the transshipment of Alaska north slope oil
destined for the US east coast. For the time being, supertankers
transshi'p at the Panama Gulf to smaller tankers capable of
maneuvering the canal. The Government of Panama, through COFINA,
is having 25% participation, with foreign interests, in the proposed
pipeline.
(c) Airports - completion of the new Tocumen international airport,
with private construction of complementary participation, and
improvement and upgrading of provincial airports of Bocas del
Toro ancl Santiago.
The NDP, responsive to the needs of the economy, would allow Panama to pursue
the cievelopment of its domestic agricultural potential while strengthening its
posit:ion as a crossroad for international trade.
II. ROAD TRANSPORT
A.   General
2.01      The development of road transport followed the improvement and
extension of the highway network (para 1.05).  The main traffic flows are
found along the Pan-American Highway and consist of various types of commer-
cial carriers plus private vehicles. Among the freight carriers, the interna-
tional traffic between Central America and Panamanian ports using semitrailers,
roll--on/roll-off services and containers represents the most modern and sophis-
ticat:ed segment of the industry. This traffic is operated mostly by foreign
transport companies. Petroleum products (about 1.2 million tons per year)
constitute the largest single commodity moved by highway, followed by construc-
tion materials and cement (about 1.0 million tons per year), usually carried by
trucking companies. Beer and soft drinks also account for important flows,
usually carried by single-vehicle operators. Finally, there is the large flow
of agricultural products (grain, cereals, fruits and sugar) transported mostly



-7-
by single vehicle operators or farm-owned vehicles. Concerning passengers,
two distinct services are offered: long distance and international services
by the well-established companies and local services by owner-operators.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
2.02      Traffic counts have been carried out by MOP in a systematic way
since 1966. In spite of the many changes in the locations of counting stations
and in the criteria for vehicle classifications made over the years, the total
number of survey stations and the general usefulness of the counts on primary
roads, especially paved, have consistently improved. Traffic data on secondary,
gravel and earth roads are still weak since counts on these roads have not
been systematic.  Some information is available from the 1974 National Transport
Survey and a special survey carried out in 1977 by the Maintenance Directorate
of MOP for the preparation of this project. The latest MOP surveys indicate
that the Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) on the total system is about
510 vehicles, ranging from more than 4,000 on paved roads to about 20 on earth
roads, at the lower end of the scale (Table 2.1). This relatively high traffic
level indicates the degree of development of road transport in Panama.
2.03      The composition of traffic by vehicle type is fairly evenly distri-
buted on the several types of roads, with light vehicles accounting for about
54% of the traffic, buses about 13% and trucks 33%. There are no reliable
data on traffic growth over the network as a whole but, when congruent survey
stations and years in the annual traffic counts carried by MOP are analyzed,
an average growth rate on paved roads of about 4% p.a. is observed. On gravel
and earth roads, information is scant and unreliable, but, based on the analysis
of these data and general indicators, traffic appears to have been growing at
an average of about 5% p.a. General indicators, such as annual growth of
vehicle fuel consumption and vehicle registration, show rates that are consis-
tent with the estimated traffic growth rates, in particular for the last
five-year period.
C.   The Vehicle Fleet
2.04      Vehicle registration, shown in Table 2.2, indicates that the fleet
has been slowing down its rate of growth as Panama was reaching nearly 90,000
vehicles (52 vehicles per 1,000 population), a relatively high level of motor-
ization. Growth rate for the fleet was 8.5% p.a. for the last 16 years and
slowed down to 4.7% p.a. since 1971. The area of Panama City maintained a
relatively higher growth rate (8%) for automobiles than the rest of the
country, showing the effect of its rapid urban development. Average annual
growth of diesel and gasoline fuel consumption, shown in Table 2.3, was, until
the end of 1973, about 10%. In the last months of 1973, prices went up over
70% and a further 15% before the end of 1974. These price increases had the
effect of lowering the growth rate of fuel consumption to a level of about 6%
p.a. This small decrease in the growth of consumption shows that these
substantial price increases had only a minor effect on traffic growth.
2.05      Trucks and buses account for 25% of the total vehicle fleet
(Table 2.2) and are concentrated in Panama Province, which, having only
about 17% of the highway network, accounts for 50% of all trucks and 75% of
all buses. Three other provinces, Chiriqui, Herrera and Los Santos, with well
developed agricultural sectors, while having 47% of the highway network,



-8-
account for 33% of the trucks. Together, these four provinces share nearly 85%
of Panama's truck and bus fleet. The majority of this fleet (85% of trucks
and 93% of buses) iis used to provide public transport services, while the rest
are owned by commercial and industrial enterprises or farmers (Table 2.4).
TruckiLng companies use larger and newer vehicles than the rest of the fleet
with capacity of over 20 tons while the vast majority of the single-vehicle
owners use much older and smaller vehicles (average 6-ton capacity). The
estimated total stc1tic capacity of the fleet is 73,000 tons, of which some
50,000 tons are held by the trucking companies.  This total capacity seems
adequate since there is no evidence of delays or shortage of equipment, even
at times of peak demand.  The bus fleet consists predominantly of small
mini-buses (66%) as opposed to the larger highway type buses (34%). The small
buses have an average seating capacity estimated at 12 passengers, while the
large buses will seat about 45. The total static capacity of the fleet would
therefore be about 100,000 passengers, which appears more than adequate to
serve present demand.
D.   Operations andl Organization of the Industry
2.06      The industry is partitioned into single-vehicle owners on one side
and multi-vehicle companies on the other. Single-vehicle owners account for
about 70% of the trucking fleet (but only 30% of the capacity). The markets
served by the single-vehicle owners and the trucking companies are clearly
divided, the first handling agricultural products and serving rural communities
and the second dominating the more lucrative import-export markets and, espe-
ciallv, the distribution of manufactured products.
2.07      There is a large discrepancy in managerial and financial resources
between small domestic truckers and large international operators. National
companiies have limited access to international traffic, which is controlled
by foreign firms providing integrated intermodal services.  Three of these
provide container services and two more carry roll-on/roll-off operations
through Panamanian ports with destinations in Panama and in transit to Central
America. Such firms control, directly or through lease agreements with
Panamanian companies, about 50% of the trucks in the Panama province. These
trucks travel almost exclusively on two main corridors, between Panama and
Colon, and along the Pan-American Highway, where it is estimated that they
account for about 30% of the total freight traffic. The implications of this
foreign ownership of freight transport on the distribution of benefits from
the project are discussed in paragraph 6.08.
2.08      Single-vehicle owners are associated in cooperatives and syndicates.
The o:Ldest cooperative was organized by the Government in 1972 to answer the
need i-or improved passenger urban transport services. It operates in compe-
titioni with other cooperatives formed by operators. The syndicates, which
include mostly urban passenger and freight transport operators, are grouped in
the Central Panamena de Transportes. With the exception of services between
cities, rural passenger transport is mostly covered by operators performing
the dual function of transporting passengers and small loads, many still using
old special-body vehicles called "chivas," which offer a low quality of
service. They subsist mostly as a result of the limitations to modernization
and renewal arising from: (a) the low economic capacity of the less developed
rural areas they serve, substantially limiting the financial possibilities of



-9-
the bus owner; and (b) the poor maintenance of the rural road system, partic-
ularly during the rainy season, which discourages the entry of more efficient
vehicles on these routes.
E.   Tariffs and Costs
2.09       Rates and tariffs for the road transport of freight are not regulated
in Panama except for petroleum products. Rates for passenger traffic are
controlled. The Price Regulation Office (ORP), under the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry, is responsible for determination of the rates, which are generally
enforced effectively. Single-vehicle freight operators provide basic undiffer-
entiated services and competitive rates. Trucking companies operate at higher
rates, offering more reliable and diversified services under more sophisticated
contractual terms, particularly for complementary services such as warehousing,
storage-in-transit handling and forwarding. Rates for passenger transport are
relatively low. The Government, through ORP, has supported a policy of provid-
ing cheap transport, especially to the urban dweller. In order to maintain low
rates, the Government has exempted operators affiliated with cooperatives and
syndicates (para 2.08) from paying vehicle import duties and other taxes.
2.10       Average financial vehicle operating costs are estimated, from a
survey of several operators, at about USJ5.8/ton-km or an average of USJ47.0/km
for an 8-ton vehicle. The same sources indicate that the recorded financial
costs to single-vehicle owners are substantially lower than those of trucking
companies. Single-vehicle owners' recorded costs are commonly 15% to 30%
below company-recorded costs because they do not take salaries, insurance and
depreciation fully into account. On the other hand, single-vehicle owners
face higher fuel, tire and maintenance costs because they operate smaller and
older trucks. Single-vehicle owners are generally ready to operate with a
lower profit margin and, in fact, compete actively with one another and with
trucking companies. They contribute toward keeping the industry competitive
and responsive to the demand. Under these conditions, savings in vehicle
operating costs due to improved road conditions would, within a relatively
short time, be passed on to users. Better road conditions would also favor
the use of more modern and more efficient trucks.
F.   Government Role and Enforcement of Weight and Dimensions Regulations
2.11       Government intervention in the operation of road freight transport
has been minimal. Truckers operate freely over routes that they select, but
under the obligations of annual registration and vehicle inspection. Passenger
road carriers, however, have to request a license to operate a route. These
licenses are provided by the Directorate of Transit and Land Transport (DTTT),
under the National Guard, and are based on the population of the areas to be
served. Tariffs for passenger transport are established by ORP (para 2.09).
Transit regulations are based on Decree 75 of July 1937 and its modifications
of September 1941 (Decree 159). DTTT is currently studying a new regulation
with the purpose of bringing the old law up to date.
2.12       Vehicle weights and dimensions are regulated by Law 23 of January
1967 which complements Decrees 75 and 159. This Law adequately regulates weight
and size for all cargo vehicles (Table 2.5). However, in 1974, the Government,



- 10 -
in the midst of the recession that was affecting the industry, after discus-
sions with the trucking unions, suspended enforcement of Law 23. Since then,
overloading has become a practice among certain truckers. MOP is aware of
this problem and has taken measures for the future re-introduction and enforce-
ment of the Law. :[n fact, MOP is adequately equipped (it has four weighing
stations) and stafiEed for the implementation of the Law, and crews at these
stations continue to weigh trucks on a routine basis. In anticipation of the
re-inl:roduction of the Law, MOP is preparing an educational campaign for road
users, emphasizing the Law's advantages. MOP has not yet obtained authoriza-
tion fErom the Government to enforce the Law. The Government has been advised
that enforcement oiE vehicle weight regulation is a necessary component of a
sound road maintenance policy. At the time of negotiations, the Government
confirmed that it would: (a) enforce the vehicle weight regulations on a per-
manent and consistent basis, and in accordance with a timetable acceptable to
the Bank; such timetable to provide for full enforcement on all paved roads by
June 30, 1979 at the latest; and (b) exchange views with the Bank on any pro-
posal to amend or supplement existing vehicle weight regulations.   Agreement
on the above timetable would be a condition for the effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
III. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Nietwork
3.01      Development of the highway network has been discussed in paragraphs
1.04 and 1.05. Thie present system, as a whole, provides acceptable transport
to most populated areas of the country. Its backbone, the Pan-American Highway,
some .550 km in length at present, is being extended by 280 km through the
Darien Gap to Yaviza, about 60 km from the Colombia border, while other network
improvements, such as the upgrading of main highways and the extension of the
feeder roads system, are under way (para 1.18).
3.02      However, the substantial efforts toward upgrading and improvement
were not matched by a buildup of maintenance capacity. The general condition
of the road network is not adequate to assure a satisfactory level of service.
The inventory carried out in 1976 by MOP with assistance from Mexican consul-
tants COMEC (Cia. Mexicana de Consultores, para 5.04), showed that some 5,100 km
(66%) of the network are inadequately maintained. The proposed road mainte-
nance program is designed to improve this situation substantially and to plan
and prepare a countrywide highway rehabilitation and improvement program,
including paved roads in particular.
3.03      The development of the highway network was, until recently, based
upon an extensive program of construction of primary and secondary roads that
now link most populated areas of the country. However, as these roads were
constructed, feeder roads running to small rural communities were not developed,
leaving each community to build primitive paths and roads to provide access.
Over the last few years, the Government has undertaken a concerted effort to
develop the rural sector and to raise the income levels of the rural popula-
tion, and it is emphasizing its plans for the development of an adequate



- 11 -
feeder roads network. A number of programs are under way, or firmly planned,
which would provide for the construction of about 1,600 km of various standards
over the next five years. These programs include: (a) the IDB-MOP III Program,
including construction of 255 km of new roads (total cost of B 43.0 million,
of which B 30.0 million was financed by IDB); (b) a followup program, IDB-MOP IV,
similar in scope (about 300 km) planned for 1980; (c) the USAID Integrated
Rural Development Project I, including 80 km of feeder roads; and (d) a pro-
posed Rural Access Roads Project for about 1,000 km of new improvements to
be initiated in 1979 (total cost of B 15.0 million, of which B 10.0 million
would be financed by USAID).
B.   Highway Administration
3.04      MOP is responsible for practically all highway work in the country.
It is also responsible for the construction and maintenance of city streets,
national buildings and drainage works. In 1974, MOP was reorganized, following
the recommendations of the National Transport Survey, into four directorates:
Construction (DNC), Maintenance (DNM), Pan-American Highway (PAH) and National
Geographic Institute (Chart 18231). In January 1978, as a result of
preparation of this project, MOP established a Directorate of Equipment (DINE)
in response to the need for improved control over equipment. Although the
present organizational structure is rational, the functions and responsibi-
lities of the directorates have not yet been enacted into an appropriate
regulation. A law has been prepared to sanction the organization of MOP; the
proposed law would define the division of responsibilities within the
Departments of the Ministry and between the Ministry itself and other agencies;
it has been submitted to the Legislative Assembly for consideration. The law
would also be the starting point for future improvements in the organization
and management of MOP, and is, as such, an important element in the achievement
of the long-term objectives of the proposed project. At the time of negotiations,
the Government provided a draft of the proposed law and confirmed that it
would seek appropriate legislative action. Such legislative action would be a
condition for loan effectiveness.
3.05      MOP is reasonably staffed, and its senior personnel are generally
experienced and capable. Of its 5,800 employees, some 130 are professionals
and 700 are technicians. The Ministry shows the typical problems of many
Government organizations, where inadequate personnel policies regarding
recruitment and assignment of new staff are coupled with limited advancement
opportunities and wage scales generally lower than those of the private sector.
As a first step toward improving this situation, the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Policy (MPPE) is carrying out a census of human resources in MOP and
the public sector to obtain reasonably accurate data on the number, category,
education and experience of all personnel. This assessment will facilitate
manpower planning, including the needs for reclassification, transfers, re-
cruitment and training as well as appropriate compensation policy. MOP would
adopt improved personnel development policies under the project (para 5.14).
C.   Highway Planning
3.06      MOP's Department of Planning was created in 1971 to carry out overall
planning for highway investments and to prepare feasibility studies, loan



- 12
applications, and the Ministry's annual budget application. The Department
was later put in chbarge of coordinating MOP investment programs within the
. ar :ti-:nal economic plans of MPPE.  The development of a ceritrali7-d
planning function within MOP is still in the formative stage. The effective-
ness cf the Planning Department has been limited by lack of coordination with
other Divisions within MOP and shortage of qualified staff. Basic activities,
such as maintaining; an up-to-date road inventory, improving and analyzing
traffic surveys 1/ on all roads and preparing regular statistical reports on
road E!xpenditures and other information are not carried out.  As a result,
highwa,y programs have been based only on very simplified and pragmatic criteria,
centered around indiividual feasibility studies. The highway investment program
prepared by the NTS remains the main source for highway investment planning.
Its recommendations served as a basis for the current NDP and became the basis
for the proposed road maintenance project (para 1.17). The project would, in
effect, provide technical assistance to MOP to improve planning of highway
maintenance and rehabilitation (para 5.13).
D.   FLighway Financing
3.07      Highway expenditures are financed through the general Government
budget: under MOP allocations. Expenditures for the period 1970-1977 are shown
in Table 3.1. The level of total annual expenditures in 1977 was US$41 million,
somewhat lower tharn that of previous years when it averaged US$50 million. Of
this amount, recurrent expenditures for highway maintenance, periodic improve-
ments, administration and supervision absorb about 30%, a level that would ap-
pear adequate if maLintenance operations were interpreted correctly (para 3.13).
Over t:he period 1970-1977, some 37% of total highway expenditures, averaging
about US$13 million per year, was financed by external sources, of which two-
thirds were financed by IDB and the US Government in equal parts, and the rest
by other sources. The balance was provided by Government funds (Table 3.2).
3.08      Estimated contributions from road user charges are shown in Table 3.1.
On the average, road user revenues for the period 1970-1977 have been sufficient
(US$26.5 million eq[uivalent p.a.) to cover all expenditures for highway admin-
istrat:ion and maintenance as well as about 70% of other expenditures, mainly
for construction. Only in 1976, expenditures were substantially out of line
with revenues, in part due to large investments (close to US$20 million) on
the Darien Pan-American Highway, two-thirds of which are financed through a
US Government grant. It is estimated that, over the next four years, proceeds
from road user charges would be adequate to support planned expenditures for
maintenance as well as future outlays for construction, particularly since
motor fuel taxes, the largest contributor, were increased again (by 15%) during
1977. The prices of locally consumed gasoline and diesel oil are high in com-
parison with levels in the US and most Latin American countries. 2/
1/  I]n the past under DNM responsibility, but being reorganized under the
Department of Planning.
2!   Retail price f'or gasoline is B 1.10 per gallon and for diesel B 0.55 per
gallon.



- 13-
E.   Highway Engineering
3.09      MOP's Directorate of Construction (DNC) is responsible for the
technical preparation and supervision of all highway projects, with the excep-
tion of the Pan-American Highway (PAH), which is in the hands of the PAH
Directorate (para 3.04). DNC possesses adequate capacity and experience for
project preparation; in fact, it prepares the major part of the detailed
engineering of highway projects with its own personnel and carries out the
supervision during construction. The US Federal Highway Administration has
given engineering and project planning assistance to the PAH Directorate since
1945 and continues to provide it on the construction of the Darien Gap PAH.
3.10      The standards for most of the existing roads were adopted either as
a function of local conditions or in accordance with the funds available for
a given project. The PAH and the Transisthmian Highway, which were built in
cooperation with the US Government, had design standards established by the
US Federal Highway Administration and the US Army Corps of Engineers. For
secondary and feeder roads, in turn, DNC has developed standards in conjunc-
tion with USAID and IDB-financed highway projects. These standards (Table 3.3)
establish minimum specifications for roadway width, horizontal and vertical
alignments and bridges; they are adequate for flat-rolling terrain, where most
of the network is located.
F.   Highway Construction
3.11      Major highways such as the PAH have been built, and in some instances
maintained, by foreign contractors, with the exception of the Panama City-Colon
highway (about 70 km), which was built, and maintained until recently, by the
US Government. Most of the network has been built by MOP either by force
account or through negotiated contracts. MOP policy is changing, however,
toward contracting all new highway construction on the basis of competitive
bidding. Satisfactory bidding practices have been adopted following examples
set under IDB-financed projects and reflecting the experience gained with
construction of the PAH. The capability of the local contracting industry is
expanding; there are currently some 14 domestic firms which have experience in
roadwork; most of these firms recently prequalified for the IDB-financed
Arraijan-Chorrera highway (24 km, US$23.0 million). This prequalification
showed that four domestic firms had a capital of over US$40 million and
at least six others had a capital of over US$10 million, suggesting that
Panama should, in the future, be able to rely on domestic capacity for most of
its requirements.
G.   Highway Maintenance
3.12      Maintenance of the whole road network is the responsibility of DNM.
As a result of Government decentralization policy, DNM is headquartered in
David, some 400 km west of Panama City where the Ministry and its other
Departments are located. DNM operates through eight provincial directorates,
including one in charge of maintaining streets in the Panama City metropolitan
area (Chart 18230). DNM is also responsible, through an extra directorate,
for maintaining all public buildings. Highway maintenance planning and
supervision are handled from headquarters while the provincial directorates



- 14 -
carry out the actual field work, by force account in most cases. DNM employs
about 4,800 persons (that is, more than 80% of the MOP payroll) including
36 professionals, 11 of whom work at headquarters. Each of the provincial
directorates is headed by an engineer and has a small administrative staff.
DNM supervisory and engineering staff appear generally capable and receptive.
3.13      The nature and scope of maintenance operations are interpreted
differently throughout DNM; the provincial directorates carry out, under
maintenance, a variety of ill-defined operations and have not established a
clear dividing line between highway improvements, reconstruction and mainte-
nance. Levels of expenditures, which ultimately control maintenance standards,
are not determined on the basis of standard schedules of operations depending
on rcad types, traffic volumes, etc., with the result that resources intended
for maintenance are often diverted to other activities, mainly improvement
and construction. The need to improve DNM's organization - from the ability
to determine standard maintenance schedules to the planning of a full year's
program of activities and to the introduction of reporting procedures suit-
able for evaluation and control - has been recognized by MOP and is one of the
main objectives of the project (para 5.13).
3.14      The MOP equipment fleet is managed by a committee composed of the
five MOP Directors under the chairmanship of the Minister. The Director of
DINE is executive secretary of this committee and controls MOP's equipment
budget.  The recent creation of DINE, a central unit responsible for equip-
ment, is, in effect, to improve coordination among the users, the workshops
and the stores. Road maintenance equipment is not always available when
and where needed, and priorities set at headquarters are not always followed,
particularly those concerning road maintenance works and improvements.
Improvement of management initiated with the establishment of DINE would
be pursued further under the project.
3.15      The existing fleet of nearly 1,900 units is aging and in a very poor
condiLtion. Average age is eight years, and a preliminary assessment made by
MOP indicates that: only 33% of the units are in good working condition while
45% are out of orcder or in need of a major overhaul, and the remaining 22%
are not salvageable.  The availability of the usable part of the fleet (made
of the two first categories) is estimated at only 40%, and its average
utilLzation at only 30%. In addition, the composition of the fleet is in-
adequate; many of the units inherited from the former CAM and PAH Departments
are heavy equipment suitable for construction. Spare parts are in short
suppLy, necessitating that the equipment lie idle for months even for minor
repairs. The lack of routine budgetary allocations for spare parts and of
programmed preventive maintenance, together with the absence of a systematic
replacement program for the fleet, explains its present critical condition. A
substantial effort is required for the adequate maintenance of the road
network; this effort would be based on the programmed renewal of equipment and
on its adequate administration as the main objective of the proposed project.
The proposed project would renew the fleet, adjust its composition and carry
out overhaul of salvageable units and scrapping of obsolete ones (para 5.02).
3.16      Workshops at each provincial directorate are generally adequate for
the fleet they serve. The provinces are assisted by the two main workshops in



- 15 -
David and Aguadulce. In David, and to a lesser extent in Aguadulce, the
workshops are reasonably adequate. However, workshop equipment in Aguadulce
and in the provincial workshops is obsolete and in need of replacement. In
general, workshops are set to repair units and carry out major overhauls rather
than institute routine service and preventive maintenance of the most reliable
units. Spare parts stockrooms are adequate, and their control systems are
satisfactory. However, the spares are sometimes kept mixed with construction
materials, and there is no control over the number of obsolete parts being
kept. An essential updating of MOP's spare parts inventory and of its
requirements is to be carried out under the proposed project (para 5.11).
3.17      A training school for heavy equipment operators is run by DNM.  The
school operates on an ad hoc basis, but its curriculum is not completely
responsive to DNM needs. Since 1972, the school conducted 13 short-term
courses and trained some 300 men as equipment operators and heavy duty
mechanics. The program needs to be amplified and expanded to include middle-
management functions; a review undertaken during appraisal showed that some
additional 700 skilled workmen and foremen would need retraining or initial
training. Other institutions outside MOP, such as the National Training
Center (CENAFOR) and the Institute for Training and Improvement of Human
Resources (IFARHU) also provide training in areas sometimes useful to DNM.
The DNM training programs would be reinforced by the assessment of DNM manpower
requirements on the basis of staff reclassification (para 3.05), which would
provide a firm basis to plan the necessary strengthening of DNM's training unit
and the preparation of a realistic training plan under the project (para 5.14).
IV. PAST BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.  General
4.01      To date, the Bank's previous involvement in the highway subsector
consisted of two projects and the provision of technical assistance as execut-
ing agency under the UNDP-financed National Transport Survey. The First
Highway Project (Loan 123-PAN, US$5.9 million, July 1955) was for highway
rehabilitation, and the Second Highway Project (Loan 264-PAN, US$7.2 million,
August 1960) was for feeder roads. Performance under these two projects was
not fully satisfactory, primarily as a result of the weakness of CAM, the
agency responsible for their execution. Not until 1972 was the Bank again
able to assist the transport sector development in Panama. After helping to
prepare terms of reference for the UNDP-financed NTS, the Bank acted as its
executing agency. The survey was successfully completed in 1974.
4.02      Although the Bank did not actually finance any highway projects
since 1960, it was well advanced in the appraisal of a proposed US$6.4 million
highway construction and maintenance project in 1966, at which time the loan
application was withdrawn by the Government. In 1975, after successful com-
pletion of the NTS, a project to finance modernization of the Panama-Colon
Highway and highway maintenance equipment was prepared to a point at which
appraisal could have taken place. This project was not carried out because
of financing constraints. The present project would re-establish the working
relationship between MOP and the Bank in highways. Its objectives have been



- 16 -
kept well focused and simple, and the Bank has collaborated closely with MOP
in its preparation.
B.   Completed Highway Projects
4.03      The Bank's First Highway Project included:  (a) organization of the
Highway Department of MOP; and (b) reconstruction of approximately 650 km of
primary roads and :380 km of secondary roads. The project provided five foreign
experts to fill senior executive positions in the MOP directorate responsible
for highways. This provision became a source of friction, and the experts
were eventually replaced by local officials.  In 1958, the Government elected
to prepay the loan, and most of the project works were not carried out under
the project but were later built with the Government's own resources.
4.04      The Second Highway Project included:  (a) the engineering and
construction of about 300 km of feeder roads serving agricultural areas of
high potential; and (b) improvement and paving of 138 km of roads connecting
some of the above feeder roads with the Pan-American Highway and the Divisa-
Las Tablas road. As a result of cost overruns, two of the proposed feeder
roads, totaling 78 km, were eliminated from the project. CAM's performance as
executing agency was weak. The 138 km of roads requiring improvement and
paving were not surveyed and designed in detail before execution of the work,
and, as a result, they took nearly five years to complete.
C.   The National Transport Survey (1972-1975)
4.05      The National Transport Survey (NTS), for which the Bank was executing
agency, was supported by a UNDP grant of US$400,000. The Bank helped to pre-
pare terms of reference for the NTS and supervised its execution.  The Survey,
carrited out by consultants N.D. Lea (Canada), had the following main objectives:
(a) the formulation of a detailed transport investment program for the period
1974-1979; (b) the formulation of a tentative transport investment program for
1980-1990; (c) recommendations for the improvement of the organization, manage-
ment, operations and planning of each transport mode; and (d) recommendations
for the improvement of Government transport policy and coordination. The
Survey was instrumental in improving transport sector organization and in
helping the Government to focus attention on priority projects (para 1.17).
V. THE PROPOSED HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and General Description
5.01      The objective of the proposed project is to provide MOP with the
necessary capacity to carry out, during the four-year period 1979-1982, an
agreedl program of maintenance operations over the national highway network.
The project would provide technical assistance, equipment and organizational
improvements:



- 17 -
(a) to strengthen MOP's organization with relation to highway
maintenance and to improve its methods and procedures to
assure effective planning, scheduling, directing and
control of maintenance operations;
(b) to ensure that road maintenance activities are supported
by adequate vehicles and equipment; and
(c) to upgrade, through training, MOP manpower at all levels.
5.02      The project would provide the following:
(a) Equipment
-  acquisition of new maintenance equipment and replacement
of obsolete or unsalvageable equipment as required for
MOP's Highway Maintenance Program;
-  acquisition of spare parts for new units to build up an
inventory and introduce preventive maintenance practices;
-  acquisition of spare parts for overhauls of existing sal-
vageable units; and
-  acquisition of workshop tools and equipment for improvement
of maintenance workshops.
(b) Technical Assistance
-  consulting services to strengthen DNM's technical and
managerial capabilities to plan, implement and supervise
annual road maintenance programs; to upgrade the manage-
ment of DNM's equipment fleet and assist in the overhaul
and procurement programs; to assess MOP's personnel
training needs and undertake complementary training; and
to identify priority road rehabilitation and strengthen-
ing works.
B.   Background and Preparation of the Highway Maintenance Program
5.03      The need to develop an efficient highway maintenance program based
on adequate management policies was felt by DNM since it took over highway
maintenance in 1974. The Transport Sector Survey, in turn, found such a
program of high priority (para 1.17). The present program, covering the
Four-Year period 1979-1982, was finally formulated by MOP's Department of
Planning and DNM with Bank assistance. MOP has confirmed, by letter dated
March 15, 1978, adoption of the agreed maintenance program. Formulation of the
program required the establishment of adequate and economically efficient
levels of maintenance in accordance with road type and traffic levels, the
determination of resource requirements, and the procedures for implementation
and control.



- 18 -
5.04      The basis of the maintenance program was a detailed road condition
inventory carried -out in 1976 by DNM with the assistance of consultants COMEC
(para 3.02). The inventory - classifying, by direct observation, for each
surface type, the length of roads in good, fair and bad condition - covered
each of the provinces in Panama. It shows that only 34% of the total road
network. of Panama is presently in good condition, another 33% is fair and the
remaining 33% is bad (Table 5.1).
5.05      Economic considerations were at the basis of the concept used for the
design of the proposed highway maintenance program, i.e., for the determination
of the desired level of maintenance for the various types of roads and various
classes of traffic.  This analysis is summarized in Chapter VI.  As a first
step tcoward a more efficient allocation of maintenance resources, a proper
definition of highway maintenance activities, as distinct from betterment and
upgrading of roads, was sought. With this purpose, a list of 19 specific
maintenance activities, encompassing most of the operations for conditions in
Panama, was developed (Table 5.2). For each maintenance activity, quantity
standards were then established based on the frequency of the required opera-
tion for three diffe!rent traffic levels. The quantity standards were later
adjusted according to various alternative levels of maintenance efforts
designe!d to optimize the total program within the constraints imposed by the
Governmient budgetaryr limitations (para 5.16).  Resource requirements for each
maintenance activityt were then computed on the basis of the maintenance activ-
ities and quantity standards adopted, taking into account work procedures
and efficiencies acceptable for Panama.  The resulting cost estimates for each
maintenance activity by type of road and level of traffic are shown in Table 5.3.
The resulting Highway Maintenance Program specifying scope and frequency of
maintenance operations for the links making up the national highway network has
been adopted by MOP.. It has been reviewed and found adequate.
5.06      The basic purpose of the proposed project would be to build up within
MOP, over a four-year period, the necessary capacity to carry out annually the
schedules of maintenance activities prescribed in the highway maintenance
program.  This program is well in line with the priorities established in the
curreni: NDP.  Improvement in maintenance would tackle one of the two major
deficiencies of the current road system.  The other deficiency, the need
for feeder and rura:L roads, is being addressed under a number of programs
supporlted by IDB and USAID (para 3.03).
5.07      The program has not addressed directly the important problem of
rehabi'Litation. A number of roads have been allowed to deteriorate to a point
where they would need rehabilitation before being amenable to normal mainte-
nance. Others, incLuding paved roads, have pavement with insufficient struc-
tural strength to sustain present traffic volumes and need strengthening.
Rehabi'Litation and strengthening are large expenditures requiring detailed
identification and preparation. MOP would, with technical assistance provided
under the project, undertake to identify a five-year program for rehabilitation
and strengthening.  During negotiations, the Government confirmed that MOP
would, through its ])epartments of Planning and Construction, identify and
prepare a five-year program for the rehabilitation and strengthening of the
national roads in accordance with the following schedule: identification by
January 30, 1979; preliminary engineering by June 30, 1979; selection of
technical alternatives by December 31, 1979, after which the Government would



- 19 -
exchange views with the Bank on the extension and contents of the program
and proceed, with-in the next six months, with appropriate engineering design
for the road sections included in the first and second years of the program.
The scope and schedule for the preparation of such program were discussed and
agreed during negotiations.
C.   Project Components and Requirements
(i) Equipment
5.08      A major component of the proposed project would be to replace and
overhaul existing equipment and to incorporate new units as necessary to enable
DNM to carry out the proposed road maintenance program (1979-1982). Total
additional equipment needs were estimated by deducting from the resource
requirements of the program (para 5.05) the available maintenance equipment
in operating condition or suitable for rehabilitation. This net deficit was
formulated in a tentative list of equipment needs and costs (Table 5.4). Dur-
ing negotiations, the list of new equipment was reviewed and agreed. MOP is
carrying out a survey of units presently out of order or in need of overhaul.
The survey would identify, on one hand, the units that are obsolete or beyond
repair, and, on the other hand, the units which are economically salvageable
and those which can be quickly put back into service. A preliminary list of
units to be overhauled under the project and the program to complete scrapping
of existing wornout equipment was reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
5.09      As indicated in paragraph 3.14, the administration of the equipment
fleet needs strengthening. MOP intends to establish the position of Fleet
Manager and appoint to it an experienced engineer to be responsible for the
coordination of all fleet-related activities such as equipment maintenance,
spare parts, availability and utilization, procurement and the replacement
program. A detailed job description for the Fleet Manager has been prepared
(Annex 5.1); it was reviewed and agreed with MOP at the time of negotiations.
Appointment of the Fleet Manager would be a condition for loan effectiveness
(para 5.22). The Fleet Manager, who would be part of MOP's permanent organiza-
tion, would be the counterpart to the equipment maintenance specialist included
in the technical team of the consultants to be provided by the technical
assistance under this project. As such, he would help DINE to improve and
control the availability and utilization of equipment by implementing programs
to evaluate utilization and plan renewals in a systematic way. At the time
of negotiations, the Government confirmed that MOP would (a) prepare and put
into effect, not later than December 31, 1979, a program of procedures accept-
able to the Bank for the systematic renewal of maintenance equipment and
disposal of obsolete units; and (b) develop data to monitor and evaluate,
starting in fiscal year 1979, the availability of its equipment fleet.
(ii) Spare Parts and Workshops
5.10      The project would include introduction of systematic practices for
preventive maintenance of equipment. In addition to parts necessary for
overhaul of salvageable units, the project would also provide the necessary
spare parts to set up stocks. It is estimated that some 420 new equipment
units would be added to the fleet, while about 400 existing units would be



- 20 -
overhauled. On the basis of these incorporations, spare parts requirements
and related budget allocations have been estimated for the project period
p=r- 521'). Spare parts required for the proper maintenance and prompt
repair of the fleet would be funded adequately under a specific allocation
in MOP's budget.
5.11      Before undertaking purchase of spare parts for preventive main-
tenance, it is essential to separate spares from other materials, maintain an
up-to-date inventory of all spares held (para 3.16) and dispose of obsolete
spares. Under the project, MOP, with consultants' assistance, would improve
its practices for purchasing and warehousing of spare parts. At the time of
negotiations, MOP undertook to complete by the end of 1978, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) the separation of stocks of spare parts from
construction materials, (b) the updating of spare parts inventories, and
(c) the disposition of obsolete stock of spare parts. Completion of these
measures would be a condition for disbursement for spare parts for preventive
maintenance.
5.12      As mentioned in paragraph 3.16, the two main equipment workshops are,
in general, reasonably equipped. However, at the provincial directorates'
level, workshops responsible for routine preventive maintenance are poorly
equipped. Their tools and workshop equipment are old and in need of replace-
ment. The proposed project includes the provision for replacement and
modernization of workshop tools and equipment.
(iii) Technical Assistance
5.13      The need for strengthening of MOP, and particularly DNM, specific-
ally in the areas of highway maintenance planning, organization and control
(para 3.13) and equipment management (para 3.14), have been noted. The proj-
ect would provide technical assistance in the following areas: (a) maintenance
organization and management, (b) annual maintenance program, (c) equipment and
workshops, (d) administration and accounting, (e) personnel training, and
(f) identification of rehabilitation requirements. Terms of reference for the
related consulting services were reviewed and agreed during project appraisal
(Annex 5.2). Consulting services would be provided by a firm of consulting
engineers specialized in road maintenance management and execution. Seven
experts (two engineers, two equipment specialists, one accountant, one store
specialist, and one training expert) would be required for a period of one
to four years for a total of about 200 man-months.
5.14      The consultants to be provided under the technical assistance would
have a substantial responsibility for the planning and implementation of
highway maintenance training programs (Annex 5.2). To help set the institu-
tional basis for the success of their effort, the Government confirmed, during
negotiations, that MOP would undertake to prepare and put into effect not
later than December 31, 1979, after consultation with the Bank, a phased
program on personnel development policy, including training of personnel.
(iv) Budgetary Requirements and Practices
5.15      If the amounts allocated to maintenance in the MOP budget of the
last few years had actually been spent on road maintenance, Panama would now
have a reasonably maintained road system. However, in many instances, these



- 21 -
maintenance allocations were diverted to other activities, such as construction3
and maintenance requirements were not fully met (para 3.13). At the time of
negotiations, the Government confirmed that MOP would maintain the highway
network adequately and that the funds necessary for the purpose would be made
available to it through sufficient and timely allocations from the budget.
Agreed estimates of annual requirements for this purpose through the project
period were confirmed by the Government at the time of negotiations. There is
also a need to improve budgeting practices and establish a more rigorous
definition of maintenance activities as distinct from construction and
improvements. At the time of negotiations, the Government also confirmed that
MOP would: (a) adopt, by December 31, 1978, operational procedures satisfactory
to the Bank that would clearly differentiate maintenance activities from
improvement or rehabilitation activities; (b) separate, starting in fiscal
year 1979, the highway maintenance budget from other DNM activities; and
(c) subdivide its highway maintenance budget into: (i) administration and
labor, (ii) materials, (iii) fuel and lubricants, (iv) equipment acquisition,
and (v) spare parts acquisition.
5.16      Specific estimates of requirements for current allocations for the
duration of the proposed Maintenance Program (1979-1982) were prepared on the
basis of the total annual maintenance program.  The resulting estimates of
requirements for the Operational and Investment Budgets, including provisions
for equipment, spare parts, fuel and lubricants, construction materials,
labor and overhead expenses were discussed during appraisal and confirmed
during negotiations. These maintenance budget requirements, which are in line
with MOP's absorptive capacity, are shown in Table 5.5.
D.   Cost Estimates and Financing
5.17      The proposed project is estimated to cost about US$12.9 million
equivalent based on end-1977 costs, including contingency allowances as shown
in the following table:



- 22 -
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(million of Balboas)-/
Estimated
Foreign Exchange       Bank
Local Foreign Total    Component        Participation
Four-Year Highway
Maintenance Program (1979-1982)
(a) Equipment and spare parts
(i) Road maintenance
equipment                 0.35   7.23   7.58          95            100% fec or
85% of total
(ii) Initial st:ock of
spares for- new units     0.04   0.85   0.89          95            100% fec or
85% of total
(iii) Spare parts for
overhauls                 0.07   0.43   0.50          85            100% fec or
85% of total
(iv) Workshop tools
and equipment             0.01   0.10   0.11          95            100% fec or
85% of total
Subtotal                  0.47   8.61   9.08
(b) Technical Assistance         0.28   1.41   1.69         83            100% fec or
83% of total
Base cost /2                 0.75  10.02  10.77
(c) Contingencies
- Physical (10% of (iii)
& (iv))                      0.01   0.05   0.06
- Price escalation (about
19% of base cost plus
physical contingencies)    0.15   1.93   2.08
Total Project                0.91  12.00  12.91         93             93%
/1   Balboa 1.00 = US$1.00
/2   Estimates based on end 1977 values for consistency with MPPE agreed
budget (para 5.16).
5.18      The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange component of
the project, amounting to US$12.0 million or 93% of capital expenditures.
The Government would finance the local component of project costs as well as
the recurrent expenditures necessary to carry out the maintenance program.
Confirmation to this effect was obtained from the Government during negotia-
tions (para 5.15). The recurrent expenditures would total about US$34 million



- 23 -
(at end-1977 values) over the project period (1979-1982). The proposed loan
would thus represent about 21% of the total cost of the program over the
four-year period 1979-1982.
5.19      Cost estimates are well founded.  The costs of the road maintenance
and workshop equipment, including the initial stock of spares for new units,
have been estimated on the basis of lists prepared by DNM, reflecting manu-
facturers' quotations and recent purchases. The cost estimate also includes
US$500,000 of spare parts for overhaul of about 400 presently broken units
which can be put back into service quickly. These costs include local prepa-
ration and delivery charges, but exclude import taxes. The cost of the tech-
nical assistance to DNM has been estimated on the basis of about 200 man-months
required for these services and includes the cost of five fellowships abroad
for MOP professionals. The estimated average cost per man-month would range
from US$5,500 to US$8,000, which is consistent with current international
rates for the level of expertise required. Estimates of price increases
have been calculated at an average rate of 7.5% p.a. for equipment and consult-
ing services during the 1978-1982 period.
5.20      The foreign exchange component of the purchases of road maintenance
and workshop equipment and of initial stock of spare parts for new units has
been estimated on the basis of c.i.f. prices at port of entry and correspond
to 95% of total costs. The foreign exchange component of the spare parts for
overhauls has been estimated at 85% of total costs because it is likely that
most of them would be procured through local dealers. The foreign exchange
component of locally purchased goods was reviewed and agreed during negotia-
tions. The technical assistance would be provided by international consul-
tants; the foreign exchange component is estimated at 83% on the basis of an
analysis of expenses in local and foreign currencies. The relatively high
percentage reflects the fact that most of the expenditures consist of fees and
salaries. MOP would provide offices, accommodations and logistics support
directly.
5.21      Disbursements of the loan would be made as follows:
(a)  100% of the foreign expenditures for direct imports, or
85% of the total expenditures for imported but locally
procured goods; and
(b)  100% of the foreign expenditures, or 83% of total expenditures
for technical assistance.
E.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
5.22      MOP would be responsible for the project through DNM and DINE, which
would be assisted by consultants. To strengthen the management of maintenance
operations, DNM plans to assign two Maintenance Engineers full time to perform
the functions of reviewing and updating the highway maintenance program; they
would also assist DNM in the organization, supervision and control of the
program and in the preparation of progress reports required for management
purposes and budgetary control. The two Maintanance Engineers would be the
counterparts to the Highway Maintenance Specialists included in the technical



- 24 -
assistance team (para 5.13). A job description for a Senior Maintenance
Engineer is given. in Annex 5.3; it was agreed during negotiations. Besides
the two Maintenance Engineers, an Equipment Fleet Manager would be appointed
by DINE to coordinate all aspects of administration and handling of the MOP
equipment fleet (para 5.09). The two Maintenance Engineers and the Fleet
Manager would be permanent positions established within the MOP structure to
be filled by Panamanian engineers. The Government confirmed, at the time of
negotiations, that MOP would employ, with functions agreed with the Bank, an
Equipment Fleet Manager (para 5.09) and two Maintenance Engineers.  The
appointment of the Fleet Manager and of one of the Maintenance Engineers would
be a. condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan.
5.23      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement" (March 1977). The procurement program for equip-
ment and parts indicating lot sizes and estimated costs would be subject to
prior approval by the Bank. Contracts of over US$50,000 would be awarded
according to international competitive bidding. Lots with estimated costs of
less than US$50,000 and within an overall ceiling of US$300,000 would be adver-
tised locally in acordance with Government regulations contained in the Fiscal
Code, Decree 170 of September 2, 1969 and Law 46 of August 8, 1975, which are
satisfactory. Spare parts for specific makes of equipment would be procured
directly from established dealers in accordance with the same Government
regulations for individual orders of less than US$50,000 and within an overall
ceiling of US$500,000. Terms and conditions for procurement were reviewed
and agreed during, negotiations.
5.24      Terms of reference for consulting services under the technical
assistance to be provided to MOP have been submitted by the Government and
found acceptable by the Bank (para 5.13). At the time of negotiations,
the schedule and procedures for contracting consultants were discussed and
agreed. The Government also confirmed that the qualifications of the consul-
tants selected for these assignments as well as proposed terms of contract
would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval.
5.25      The implementation period of the project would be four years (1979-
1982). Equipment purchases would take place during 1979 while the technical
assistance, starting in 1978, would last four years; the estimated schedule
for disbursement of the loan is included in Table 5.6. The tentative schedule
for project implementation covering all project elements and indicating Bank
involvement is shown in Table 5.7; this schedule was discussed and agreed
during negotiations.
5.26      Indicators by which the project would be monitored are given in
Annex 5.4. They would follow (a) the scope and volume of maintenance oper-
ations through detailed and aggregated information for key activities; and
(b) the availability and utilization of the equipment fleet. In addition, MOP
would monitor the use of current budget allocations, especially for spare parts.
The purpose of project indicators and the specific indicators to be used for
the project were reviewed and agreed during negotiations as well as the
arrangements for collecting information during and after the implementation
stage.



- 25 -
F.   Project Risk
5.27      The main reasons for the poor level of maintenance have been the
lack of clear perception of road maintenance requirements and the derelict
condition of the equipment fleet. Every effort has been made in the prepara-
tion of the four-year maintenance program to develop a coherent framework for
upgrading highway maintenance and restoring the fleet to an acceptable level
of effectiveness. Direct responsibility of MOP and MPPE officials for project
preparation built up institutional commitments. The adequate funding of
operating expenditures, which would be essential for the success of the main-
tenance program, has been thoroughly reviewed and agreed and would be the
object of specific commitments.  The magnitude of the proposed expenditures
is well within the financial capacity of the Government. There is also full
agreement on the need to retain international consultants to assist in project
implementation. In view of the above, the risks attached to the proposed
program have been reduced sufficiently to allow reasonable expectation of
success in reaching the broad objectives of the program.
G.  Project Impact and Adequacy of Technology
5.28      Aside from the major quantified benefits mentioned in the economic
evaluation (Chapter VI), the program would provide further benefits by improving
reliability, safety and comfort for road users (para 6.09). In addition, the
project would assist DNM in improving its organization and, directly or
indirectly, would increase the level of qualifications of 80% of MOP personnel
currently employed in road maintenance. Current and proposed maintenance
methods generally represent an adequate combination of labor and equipment,
considering the prevailing wages, which, at B 128 per month minimum wage, are
sufficiently high to make more labor intensive work inadvisable.
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Formulation of the Highway Maintenance Program
6.01      The formulation and economic justification of the highway maintenance
program are based on the quantification of the direct benefits to be derived by
highway users as follows:
(a) vehicle operating costs savings through the improvement of
road condition; and
(b) passenger time savings through the reduction of average travel
time.
6.02      The economic evaluation justifies the costs of the program and formu-
lates the ranking of priority for maintenance works on all road sections for a
designated average year (1980). Costs reflect the various activities shown
in Table 5.3 for routine and periodic maintenance and include the equipment
and spares purchased under this project as well as the continued use of



- 26 -
existing equipment. throughout its useful life; they also include the labor
and mLaterials required and the overhead costs directly associated with main-
tenance.
6.03      The background and preparation of the maintenance program was
explained briefly in paragraphs 5.03 to 5.06. The formulation of the program
resulted from an iterative optimization process on which the economic feasi-
bility and priority of various alternative levels of maintenance (para 5.05)
on the 114 road sections of the country network identified by the road inven-
tory (para 5.04) were established. The analysis was based on the benefit/cost
ratic, (since benefits exceeded the annual cost), and the alternatives were
compa.red using incremental analysis. Three basic maintenance alternatives
defining decreasing levels of maintenance efforts ranging from deferred and
normal maintenance! to only routine maintenance activities were used in the
initial runs. However, the program so formulated included some road sections
for which the three basic alternatives were too expensive and for which only
a bare minimum maintenance effort could be justified. This minimum was thus
introduced in an additional iteration of the program optimization. Table 6.1
presents a summary of the formulated maintenance program.
B.   Traffic
6.04      Existing traffic volumes on the inventoried road network were estab-
lishetd on the basis of traffic counts routinely conducted by MOP since 1966,
and by special surveys carried out by MOP in 1977 (para 2.02).  Traffic pro-
jections were based on historical trends of various growth indicators and
their forecast trends. Indicators of traffic growth were trends in population
growt:h, levels of motorization and gasoline consumption and agricultural
prodtLction. They resulted in estimates of traffic growth rates, combining all
provi.nces, of 4% aLnnually for concrete and asphalt roads and 5% for gravel and
earth roads.  A small amount of traffic generation was assumed to occur at a
level. of 10% of normal traffic on some paved roads where the maintenance
program would produce an improvement in the road condition resulting in a
significant reduction of user costs.  Traffic on each of the 114 road sections
of the country network was then projected to the year 1980 adopted as average
for t:he four-year program (para 6.02).
C.   Benefits
6.05      The quantifiable benefits are measured by the direct savings to be
derived by highway users: vehicle operating cost savings and passenger time
savings. Vehicle operating cost savings were determined by comparing the
operating costs of four types of vehicles (passenger cars, buses, pickup
trucks and trucks) traveling on the network before and after various road
maint:enance alternatives were implemented. Estimates of vehicle operating
costs were prepared for three basic types of surfaces -- paved, gravel and
earth -- with the surface condition either good, fair or bad. These esti-
mates were prepared by the appraisal mission on the basis of the work carried



- 27 -
out by consultants L. Berger Inc. 1/, Cia Mexicana Consultores (COMEC) 2/
and N.D. Lea and Associates. 3/ A summary of the vehicle operating costs is
presented in Table 6.2.
6.06       Passenger time savings derived from reductions in travel time were
computed on the basis of the average labor wage when traveling for business
purposes. Traffic surveys indicated that some 50% of passenger trips were
for business purposes and 50% for non-work reasons. Passenger time savings
accounted for about 30% of the total quantifiable benefits of the maintenance
program. A sensitivity analysis on the impact of time benefits on the economic
return was carried out (para 6.07).
D.   Overall Economic Return
6.07       The proposed road maintenance program is well justified with a
benefit/cost ratio of about 5.1 considering only vehicle operating cost savings
and a net present value estimated at B 130.0 million. Including passenger
time savings, the benefit/cost ratio is estimated at 7.2. Benefit/ cost ratios
on the individual road sections range from a high of over 50 to a low of I
(Table 6.3). The economic rate of return (ER) for the project, including
equipment and spare parts, technical assistance and physical contingencies,
all of which account for 23% of the proposed road maintenance program cost, is
estimated to be about 160%. This high ER is caused by the relatively low
investment required to preserve the productive capacity of the large invest-
ments made in highway construction. Further benefits, such as reduced spoilage
of agricultural produce and increased comfort and safety to road users (para
6.09), have not been quantified. To this extent, the benefit/cost ratios are
conservative estimates.
E.   Benefit Distribution
6.08       The benefits resulting from savings in vehicle operating costs are
ultimately expected to be transferred, in large part, to the producers and
consumers of the goods which are transported. Producers and consumers, as
well as passengers in public transport vehicles, would very likely benefit
from gradual reductions, at constant prices, in the tariffs charged. This
effect, resulting from the highly competitive nature of the transport indus-
try in Panama, would less likely be seen in the not-so-competitive interna-
tional freight market segment, currently controlled by foreign companies. It
is estimated that foreign companies control some 30% of the total freight
traffic on the two main thoroughfares of the country, the Panama-Colon Highway
and the Pan-American Highway (para 2.07). Since these foreign truckers seldom
utilize the rest of the highway network, their impact on the benefit distribu-
tion effect would be felt only on some 570 km of concrete pavement roads in
the country. A summary reappraisal of the maintenance program, excluding
economic benefits accruing to these foreign truckers, would show the following
results: (a) road sections on the two main thoroughfares would have a benefit/
cost ratio some 11% lower than if all benefits were accounted for, but the
maintenance of these sections would still be among the highest priorities
1/   Tocumen-Chorrera Feasibility Study (1974).
2/ Vehicle Operating Costs Study (1977).
3/ National Transport Survey (1974).



with an aggregate benefit/cost ratio of 21; and (b) the overall economic
feasibility of the whole program would be reduced to a benefit/cost ratio of
6.8, still highly acceptable (Table 6.3). A comprehensive analysis of the
impact of the project on this segment of the road transport industry has not
been a.ttempted. Such analysis would have to consider the fact that improved
road c.ondition would enhance the role of Panama as a center of regional trade
and transit--two activities which contribute to employment and economic produc-
tion.
6.09      In addition to the benefits to be derived from reduced tariffs,
farmers would benefit from the increased availability of transport, now suf-
fering from the reluctance, on the part of vehicle owners, to travel over
poorly, or not maintained rural roads, particularly during the rainy season.
The quality of service, in turn, would also be substantially improved,
bringing additional comfort, safety and punctuality, as well as important
passenger time savings, to a large segment of the rural population.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following:
a)  enforcement of vehicle weight regulations on a permanent
and consistent basis, and in accordance with a timetable
acceptable to the Bank (para 2.12);
'b) MOP to icdentify and prepare a five-year program for the
rehabilitation and strengthening of the national roads
(para 5.C)7);
(c) MOP (i) to prepare and put into effect, not later than
December 31, 1979, procedures for the systematic renewal of
maintenance equipment and disposal of obsolete units; and
(ii) to develop data to monitor and evaluate, starting in
fiscal year 1979, the availability of its equipment fleet
(para 5.09);
(d)  MOP to prepare and put into effect, not later than December 31,
1979, a phased program on personnel development policy, includ-
ing training of personnel (para 5.14);
(e) MOP to maintain the highway network adequately and necessary
funds to be made available. Agreed estimates of annual
requirements for this purpose through the project period
were confirmed by the Government (para 5.15);
(f)  MOP to (:i) adopt, by December 31, 1978, operational procedures
differentiating maintenance activities from improvement. or
rehabilitation activities; (ii) separate, starting in fiscal
year 1979, the highway maintenance budget from other DNM
activities; and (iii) subdivide its highways maintenance
budget into adequate categories (para 5.15); and



- 29 -
(g) MOP to employ, with functions agreed with the Bank: (i) an
Equipment Fleet Manager; and (ii) two Maintenance Engi-
neers (para 5.22);
7.02      The following are conditions for effectiveness of the proposed loan:
(a) establishment of a timetable satisfactory to the Bank for the
enforcement of vehicle weight regulations (para 2.12);
(b) enactment of legislation providing MOP with adequate
organizational regulations (para 3.04); and
(c) appointment of the Fleet Manager and of one of the Maintenance
Engineers (para 5.22).
7.03      Completion, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, of:  (a) the
separation of stocks of spare parts from construction materials, (b) the
updating of spare parts inventories, and (c) the disposition of obsolete stock
of spare parts, would be a condition for disbursement for spare parts for
preventive maintenance (para 5.11).
7.04      During negotiations, the following points were also reviewed and
agreed with the Government:
(a) scope and schedule for preparation of the strengthening and
rehabilitation program (para 5.07);
(b) the list of new equipment, the list of units to be overhauled
under the project and the program to complete scrapping of
existing wornout equipment (para 5.08);
(c) the job description for the Fleet Manager (para 5.09);
(d) the foreign exchange component of locally purchased goods
(para 5.20);
(e) the job description for a Senior Maintenance Engineer (para 5.22);
(f) terms and conditions for procurement (para 5.23);
(g) the schedule and conditions for contracting consultants
(para 5.24);
(h) the tentative schedule for project implementation (para 5.25);
and
(i) the project indicators and the arrangements for collecting
information during and after the implementation stage (para 5.26).
7.05      Subject to the above, the project constitutes a basis for Bank
lending in a total amount of US$12 million equivalent to the Republic of
Panama; the term would be 15 years, including a three-year grace period.
April 20, 1978



PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Summary of Freight and Passenger Traffic by Modes I/
Freight Transport
Domestic (million tons- km)                            International (thousand tons)2'
Year     Highways    Railways 31 Aviation    Water 4/   TOTAL           Highways    Airports 5i Ports 61  TOTAL
1967        466.0        0.2          0.7        55.0      521.9           9.8         20.0       962.0     991.8
1970        590 0        0.3          0.9        55.0      646.2          15.0         27.4    1,256.7   1,299.1
1973        775.0        0.4          0.9        54.0      830.3          39.2         35.2    1,296.8   1,371.2
1976        805.0        0.2          0.7       50.0       855.9          56.3         39.7    1,476.0   1,572.0
Annual Ratc ef
Growth 1`6-1976         .2%       --          -- -2.17                5.7%         21.57         8.C7        A.Q5:
Passenger Transport
Domestic (million pass. - km)                          International (thousand pass.)7/
Year     Highways    Railways    Aviation    Water         TOTAL        Highways    Airports 8/ Ports        TOTAL
1967      2,424.0        4.8         28.7         1.7    2,459.2          29.9        389.2        14.6      433.7       1
1970      2,956.0        7.6         32.5         1.7    2,997.8          42.1        478.7        14.8      535.6       C
1973      3,572.0        6.0         36.7         1.7    3,616.4          94.5        640.5         9.4      744.4
1976      4,284.0        4.4         50.1         2.0    4,340.5         185.9        722.5         5.1      913.5
Annual Rate of
Growth 1967-1976       6.6%      -1.0%        6.4%        1.8%        6.5%         22.5%         7.1%      -10.0%      8.7%
1/ Excludes Canal Zone traffic
2/ Total Imports and Exports
3/  Only Chiriqui National Railway
4/ Of which 1/2 are petroleum products
5/ Includes in-transit cargo
6/ Excluding petroleum products (4.2 million tons/year average)
7/ Total Arrivals and Departures
8/ Excluding in-transit passengers
Sourre:  Direcci6n de Estadistica y Censo, Departamento de Planificaci6n, MOP, Ministerio de
Planificaci6n y Politica Econ6mica, National Transport Survey (N.D. Lea & Ass., 1974),
National Port Authority and Mission Estimates
November 1977



- 31 -
TABLE 1.2
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Comparison of Highway and Motor Vehicle Densities
(1976)
Km of Roads        Motor Vehicles
Km of Roads           per 1,000           per 1,000
per 1,000 km2         Inhabitants         Inhabitants
Panama                101                  4.5                 52.1
Costa Rica            488                 12.6                 52.2
Ecuador                98                  3.8                 17.9
Colombia               45                  2.2                 21.3
France              2,518                 25.7                352.9
Source: IBRD Reports and International Road Federation
November 1977



- 32 -
TABLE 1.3
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network
(in kilometers)
1967     1969     1971      1973     1975      1977
National Highways
Paved                       878      878       879      879       879      879
Gravel                       52       52        52       52        52       52
Regional Highways
Paved                       383      387       445    1,023    1,092    1,124
Gravel                      204      213       123      160       162      142
Earth                       288      290       274      --        --       --
Secondary and Feeder Roads
Paved                       139      270       588      321       343      505
Gravel                      930      872       868    1,632    1,872    2,421
Earth                     3,841    3,755    3,628    3,036    2,920    2,732
Total (All Systems)
Paved                     1,400    1,535    1,912    2,223    2,314    2,508
Gravel                    1,186    1,137    1,043    1,844    2,086    2,615
Earth                     4,129    4,045    3,902    3,036    2,920    2,732
Grand Totals                6,715    6,717    6,857    7,103    7,320    7,855
Source: Departamento de Planificaci6n, MOP
November 1977



PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Transport Infrastructure Investment, by Mode, in Comparison
with Total Public Sector Infrastructure Investment
(Millions of Current Balboas)
Summary of Four-
Year National
Development PllZn
1970     1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977                (1978-1981) Pn
I.    Transport Sector
Highways 2/              14.2      10.4      17.6      12.6      22.6      31.6      36.7      26.0    (7%)        41.6      (7%)
Railways                   -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -                   -         -
Airports                  0.6       1.4       Z.5       2.1       9.0      17.5      25.0      15.6    (4%)         3.3      (1%)
Ports                     0.1        -        0.2        -         -        2.3       3.4      12.1    (3%)        16.5      (3%)
Total            14.9      11.8      20.3      14.7      31.6      51.4      65.1      53.7   (14%)        61.4    (11%)
II.   Other Economic Infra-
structure 3/              6.5       8.3       8.2      42.6      41.3      81.1      77.7      75.3   (20%)        87.0    (15%)
7/~~~~~L
III.  Primary Sectors 4/           8.0      13.4      26.9      31.4      41.5    104.3    167.8    139.1   (38%)          311.4 -/ (54%)          W
IV.   Social Service
Infrastructure 5/        17.8      26.6      28.9      43.3      51.5      73.4      74.6      92.0   (24%)        97.8    (17%)
V.    Public Administration
and Others 6/             9.0       6.8       7.7       6.9      10.7      11.8       9.9      15.9     (4%)       20.6      (3%)
Total            56.2      66.9      92.0    138.9    176.6    322.0    395.1    376.0  (100%)            578.2   (100%)
1/  Annual average
2/  Includes Pan American Highway, interurban and rural roads, highway studies, and major urban arterials;
it excludes urban streets
3/  Telecommunications and Power
4/  Agriculture, Commerce, Industry, Mining and Tourism
5/  Health, Education and Housing
6/  Includes investments in municipal areas and urban streets
71  Includes nearly $200.0 million per year Cerro Colorado Mine development
Source: Highways - MOP Planning Department
Other Modes - Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
Public Sector Investments - Report on the Economy of Panama, IBRD, 1976 and Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
November 1977



- 34 -
TABLE 1.5
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimate of Transport Sector Expenditures 1/
(Millions of Current Balboas)
Ye_r      Highwqys          Railways 2/    Airports         Ports       Total
1970         28.8             0.4              2.6           0.5         32.3
1971        25.6              0.4              2.7           0.6         29.3
1972         28.1.            0.5              9.4           0.6         38.6
1973        18.7              0.5              3.8           0.7         23.7
1974        30.2              0.5             11.2           0.7         42.6
1975        36.2'             0.5             21.0           2.7         60.4
1976        52.7              0.5             30.7           3.9         87.8
1977 3/     39.7              0.7             22.0          19.3         81.7
1/ Including operational expenditures, investments, and debt servicing.
2/ Only Chiriqui. National Railway
3/ Current Budget
Source:  Highways - MOP
Other Modes - Ministerio de Planificacion y Polltica Econ6mica
November 1977



- 35 -
TABLE 2.1
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Annual Average Daily Traffic
by Type of Road Surface and Type of Vehicle
(1976)
Light
Vehicles    Buses      Trucks      Total
Paved                     2,155        550        1,350     4,055
Surface treatment           325         65          185       575
Gravel                       40         10           20        70
Earth                         9          2            6        17
Average for network 1/      275         65          170       510
l/ Weighted average based on network length
Source: Departamento de Planificacion, MOP
November 1977



- 36 -
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Registration
(1960 - 1976)
Passenger           Trucks
Years           Cars           Light & Heavy        Buses       Total
1960         17,590               4,729            1,612       23,931
1961          20,371              5,590            1,651       27,581
1962         22,403               6,425            1,807       30,635
1963          24,992              6,755            1,862       33,609
1964          27,259              7,463            2,038       36,760
1965          30,065              8,290            2,162       40,517
1966          33,686              8,933            2,306       44,925
1967          34,969              9,275            2,361       46,605
1968         40,449              10,218            2,513       53,180
1969          42,055             10,478            2,495       55,028
1970         45,526              11,716            2,818       60,060
1971          52,545             14,081            3,096       69,722
1972          53,629             14,498            3,253       71,380
1973          58,067             15,446            3,255       76,768
1974          62,569             14,158            4,196       80,923
1975          66,193             15,844            3,806       85,843
1976A/        68,100             16,500            4,500        89,100
Average rate
of growth
1960-1976    8.8%                8.1%               6.6%        8.5%
Average rate
of growth
1971-1976    5.3%                3.3%               7.7%         5.0%
1/ Estimated
Source: Direccion de Estadistica y Censo
November 1977



- 37 -
TABLE 2.3
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Fuel Consumption
(MillionE of US Gallons)
Year                     Gasoline                  Diesel              Total
1968                       46.5                     24.0                70.5
1969                       55.1                     34.0                89.1
1970                       65.0                     33.1                98.1
1971                       72.5                     44.2               116.7
1972                       75.7                     51.1               126.8
1973                       78.9                     53.1               132.0
1974                       76.0                     64.4               140.4
1975                       81.1                     73.4               154.5
1976                       85.0                     76.7               161.7
Annual Rates of Growth (Total for gasoline and diesel)
1968-1976 = 11.0%
1972-1976 = 6.2%
Source: Ministerio de Planificacion y Pol!tica Econ6xmica
November 1977



- 38 -                        TABLE 2.4
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Freight and Passenger Vehicle Fleet
(1976)
Total          For Hire           Private
Freight               Veh.     %        Veh.     %        Veh.
Pickup               10,200   62        7,800             2,400
Truck                 5,100   31        5,000               100
Tractor-TraiLler      1,200    7        1,200               --
Total          16,500  100        14,000   85        2,500   15
Passenger
Microbus              1,800   40        1,500               300
Bus                   2,700   60        2,700               --
Total           4,500  100         4,200   93          300    7
Source: Contraloria de la Republica
December 1977



TABLE 2. 5
- 39 -
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Limits on Weights and Dimensions
(In tons and meters)
Maximum Axle Load         Maximum
Vehicle  Road                Axle                 Total           Maximum Size
Type    Type    1      2     3      4     5       Load    Length  Height    idtn
A      4   10      -      -      -       14.0    11.00      4.10    2.50
A       B       4    8      -7           -       12.0    1O.00       3.80    2.50
B -  A -    4    8.2   8.2   -.    -             24:0    12.00       4.1-0    2.50
B      4    8      8      -     -       20.0    11.00       3.80    2.50
C       A       4   10    10       -     -       24.0    15.25       4.10    2.50
B      4    8      8      _    _-       20.0    14.00       3.80    2.50
A      4   10      8.2   8.2   -        32.0    15.25       4.10    2.50
D       a       4    8      8      8     -       27.5    14.00       3.80    2.50
E       A       4    8.2   8.2  10       -       32.0    15.25       4.10    2.50
B      4    8      8      8     -       27.5    14.00       3.80.   2.50
F       A       4    8.2   8.2   8.2  8.2        32.0    15.25       4.10    2.50
B      4    8      8      8    8        27.5   '14.00       3.80    2.50
G       A      10   10      -      -     -        *
B      8    8      -      -     -        *         .         *        f
HA    10    8.2   8.2   -       -        *         *         *        *
H       B       8    8      8      -     _        *         *
Vehicle Type A:  Single Axle Single Unit                  ,
B:  Tandem Axle Single Unit        -
C:  Single Axle Tractor Single Axle Semi-Trailer
D:  Single Axle Tractor Tandem Axle Semi-Trailer
E:  Tandem Axle Tractor Single Axle Semi-Trailer
F:  [andem Axle Tractor Tandem Axle Semi-Trailer
G:  Single Axle Trailer
H:  Tandem Axle Trailer
- Depends on vehicle pulling the trailer. If single unit maximum weight 27.5
tons if combination maximum weight 37.5 tons.
Source: Law 23 of January 30, 1967
Ministry of Public Works
Directorate of Maintenance
December 1977



PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimates of Highway Expenditures and Road Users' Contribution
(1970-1976)
(Millions of Current Balboas)
A.  Highway Expenditures            1970       1971      1972       1973       1974       1975       1976      1977 -/
Highway Studies       3           2/         2/        2/        0.7        0.4        0.4       0.6        0.6
Highway Construction -          14.2      10.4       17.6       12.6       22.6       31.6      36.7       26.0
Highway Maintenance and
Improvements                   3.5       5.2        6.7        6.1        6.2       9,3       10 1       10.0
Highway Administration
and Supervision                0.8       0.9        1.1        1.2        1.4        1.5       1.8        1.9
Interest on Foreign Loans        3.0       3.1        2.4        2.1        2.5        2.2       2.3        2.3
Equipment -                      6.0       6.0        0.4         -         0.3        4.8        -         o,5
Total           27.5      25.6       28.2       27         3                    51.5
B. Motor Vehicle Contributions
Vehicle Registration and
Licenses                       2.4       2.4        2.5        2.9        3.0        3.0       3.1
Import Duties on Vehicles        3.8       4.5        4.7        5.4        6.0        5.0       4.8
Import Duties on Parts           0.4       0.4        0.5        0.6        0.6        0.6       0.7                  1
Motor Fuel Taxes                 7.9       9.0       14.8       16.3       17.9       19.7      24.8                  4
Tire Taxes                       0.8       0.7        1.0        0.9        0.7        0.9       1.0
Total           15.3      17.0       23.5       26.1       28.2       29.2      34.4       38.0
1/ Preliminary figures
2/ Shown together with Highway Construction. After 1973 includes only foreign-financed studies
3/ Includes Panamerican Highway Construction at the Darien Gap for the following amounts:
(Millions of Current Balboas)
1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977
2.2   0.7   2.3   3.5   9.5  15.1  19.5   8.5
of which 1/3 paid by the Government of Panama and 2/3 paid by the U.S. Government
4/ B/18.0 million worth of equipment purchased in 1969 by National Government and given to MOP
(of a total purchase of B/22.0 million), arrived in 1969, 70 and 71.
Source:  Expenditures:  Departamento de Planificaci6n, MOP
Contributions: Contraloria General de la Repuiblica
November 1977



PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Highway Sources of Funds 1970-1977
(Millions of Balboas)
Other
Government     UNDP         Private           USA         External
Year       Funds       Survey    Foreign Banks2i  Government       Sources 3/  4DB    USAID    Eximbank    Total
1970       17.4          __          6.0               --            --        2.1     2.0         __         27.5
1971       17.5          --          6.0               --            --        0.3     1.8         --         25.6
1972       16.3          --           --              1.1           0.4       10.1     0.1        0.4         28.2
1973       15.8          0.4          --              2.3            --        2.9      --        1.3         22.7
1974       21.3          0.1         0.3              5.2            --        3.9      --        2.6         33.4
1975       29.4          --           --              8.9            --        4.0      --        7.5         49.8
1976       26.9          --           --             13.1            --        8.0      --        3.5         51.5
1977 -/    31.0          --           --              5.4            --        3.8      --        1.1         41.3
1/  Several banks (1970 and 1971) and Consolidated and Cleveland
2/ Federal Highway Administration
3/ Allis Chalmer
4/ Projects plus Pre-investment Fund
5/ Estimated
Source: Departamento de Planificacio'n, MOP and Contraloria General de la Republica
November 1977
U.)



- 42 -
TABLE 3.3
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
MOP Highway Design Standards
Primary Roads l/       Secondary Roads        Local Roads
Design Speed (Km/h)                      80                        50                40
Minimum Radius (m)                      130                        30                30
Stopping D:istance (m)                  85                        40                 40
Maximum Gradient %                        5                         8                12
Width of Surfacing (m)                    6.1                       6.0               5.0
Width of One Shoulder (m)                 1.5                       0.6               _
Bridge Loading                    AASHTO  HS15-44         AASHTO  HS15-44       AASHTO HS15-44
1/ Basically for the Pan-American and Panama-Colon Highways.
Source:   National Transport Survey; National Directorate of Construction
November 1977



PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Inventory of Roads (1976)
(Kilometers)
Type of Surface
Cement or                Pitumrinous
Province         Asphalt Concrete l/          Surface Treatment               Gravel                     Earth             TOTAL
good    fair    bad       good    fair    bad       good    fair    bad        good    fair    bad
Bocas del Toro             -        -      -         -        -       -         -       23      _-                 -       48        71
Cocle                     93       15      -        36      162       37       60       43      -        86      220      300      1052
Col6n                     42        6      -         7        3       75        7       42      -        35       84      134       435
Chiriqui                 200        -      -       288       78       22      139      370      23       25       83      401      1629
Darien                     -                         -        -       -         -       45      -         -        -       48        93
Herrera                   10        _       _      151        8       -       213       43      -         16      41      297       779
Los Santos                 -        -       -      113      219       23      233       40      -         30      94      422      1174
Panama (West Highways)  32         52       25      15      131       46       46       73       -        42     189      203       854
Panama (East Highways)  49         32      -         9       90       31       19       47      -        16       40       -        333
Veraguas                 122        -       -      173       80       17      273       56       -        95      143      395     1354
TOTAL                    548      105       25     792      771      251      990      782       23      345      894    2248       7774
678                      1814                      1795                       3487 2/            7774
1/ Includes some 30 Km of asphalt concrete surface layed over granular base course and 122 Km of Asphalt concrete over-
laying cement concrete pavements.
2/  Includes 456 Km of roads officially classified as gravel.                                                                             H
Source:   Consultant COMEC Road Inventory and National Directorate of Maintenance, MOP
November 1977



- 44 -
TABLE 5.2
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Summary  of Maintenance Activities  and Prescribed  Standards
I    ROUTINE MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES                                          Frequency of Operations per Year
1.0  for all classes of roads                                  Earth/Gravel   Surface Treatment Cement/Asphalt Concrete
1.1  Grass Cutting                                           1 to 2                   2                 3
1.2  Ditch Cleaning                                             1                  1.5                1.5
1.3  Cleaning Culverts and Drains                             2.5                  2.5                  4
1.4  Minor Repairs to Structures                                1                    2                  2
1.5  Repair signs and markers
2.0  for earth and gravel roads                                        Frequency of Operations per Year
Traffic                        Low                Medium              High
2.1  Ilatching                                                  3                     6                 9
2.2  1Reshaping of surfaces                                     1                   1.5               2.0
2.3  Rleshaping of ditches                                      1                     1                 1
3.0  for paved roads                                                  'Frequency of Operations per Year
Traffic                        Low               Medium              High
3.1  T.emporal patching of asphalt surfaces                     2                     3                 5
3.2  Plermanent patching of asphalt surfaces                    1                     1                 1
3.3  Replacement of Concrete slabs                              1                     1                 1
3.4  Replenishing of shoulders                                  2                     2                 2
3.5  ]leshaping of shouldlers and ditches                       1                     1                 1
II    PERIODIC MkINTENANCE ACTIVITIES                                        Number of Years between Operations
Traffic                        Low                Medium              High
1.   Replenishing of gravel surfaces                           12                    6                  4
2.   Sealing of asphalt surfaces                                8                     6                 4
3.   Sealing of cement ,:oncrete joints                         3                     3                 3
4.   Line painting                                              4                     3                 2
5.   Painting of steel bridges                                  5                     5                 5
6.   Repair of wood bridges                                     5                     4                 3
1/   Except for "earth" roadsthe suggested maintenance effort would keep a new road in a condition
to afford an average good service. For earth roads the suggested effort will produce a "fair"
condition on the average.
Source: Mission estimates and W. Matthey, Consultant
N  vember 1977



PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Annual Cost of Maintenance per Kilometer by Type of Road and Level of Traffic!'
(Balboas)
Cement/Asphalt Concrete           Bituminous Surface Treatment                 Gravel               Earth
Traffic Level: <iDooa0   l    0D -3000      >3000      < 350       350-750      7750      450        50-100      ;100    723T
I. ROUTINE MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES
A. Roadside
1.1 Grass Cutting                                          200           200           200        73           73          73       22         22          22       10
1.2 Ditch Cleaning                                         119           119           119       143          143         143      119        119          119      73
1.3 Cleaning Culverts and Drains                           188           188           188        88           88          88       88         88           88      41
1.4 Minor Repairs to Structures                              11           11            11        11           11          11        6          6            6       -
1.5 Repair Signs and Markers                                22            22            22          8           8           8        5          5            5       -
B. Roadway Surface
2.0 For Earth and Gravel Roads:
2.1 Patching                                                              -             -         -            -           -        99        198          297       -
2.2 Reshaping of Surfaces                                                 -             -         -            -           -       127         190         253      125
2.3 Reshaping of Ditches                                     -            -             -          -           -           -        44         44           44       -
3.0 For Paved Roads:
3.1 Temporal Patching of asphalt surfaces                    -            -              -         75         131         236       -           -           -        -
3.2 Permanent Patching of asphalt surfaces                   -            -              -        213         427         799       -           -           _        -
3.3 Replacement of Concrete Slabs                           272          287           319         -           -           -        -           _           -        -       U
3.4 Replenishing of Shoulders                               129          136           156         66          69           74      -
3.5 Reshaping of Shoulders and Ditches                     411           486            611       205         230         270        -         _           -         -
Subtotal Routine Maintenance                          1352          1449          1626       882         1180        1702      510        672          834      249
II. PERIODIC MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES
1. Replenishing of gravel surfaces                          -            -              -         -           -           -       330         660         990       -
2. Sealing of asphalt surfaces                              -            -              -        212         282         423        -          -           -        -
3. Sealing of cement concrete joints                       164          164            164        -           -            -        -
4. Line painting                                            13           16             22        16          22           32       -
5. Painting of Steel Bridges                               227          227            227       190         190          190       57         57          57       -
6. Repair of Wood Bridges                                   -            -              -         -           -            -        16         20          26       -
Subtotal Periodic Maintenance                          604          407            413       418          494         645      403         737        1073       -
III. OVERHEAD 2/                                            284           294           331       210          266         373      147        221          303       41
Grand Total                                           2040         2150           2370      1510        1940        2720      1060       1630        2210      290
l/ Prices at end 1977.
Ti Estimated at 16% of direct cost.
Source: National Directorate of Maintenance, MOP.
November 1977



- 46 -                                   TABLE 5.4
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Tentative List and Cost Estimate of Maintenance Equipment
(end-1977 values)
Number of       Cost per        Total
Units           Unit           Cost
(Balboas)     (Balboas)
A. Vehicles
Pickup 3/4 ton                             68              7,000        476,000
Water Tank Truck - 1500 gal.                14            30,000         420,000
Dump Trucks - 7 ton                        90            26,000       2,340,000
Flat Trucks - 7 ton                          3           26,000           78,000
Trucks with Painting Equipment             11            30,000          330,000
Bitumen Tanker - 5000 gal.                  2            60,000         120,000
Buses                                       4            30,000         120,000
B. Equipment
Motorgraders - 120 hp                       18           65,000       1,170,000
Rubber Tiredi Rollers - 8-10 ton           17            40,000          680,000
Front-end Loaders - 2 cu.yd.                 6           46,000          276,000
Back Hoe                                     2           29,000           58,000
Grass Cutter with Tractor                   8            26,000          208,000
C. Plant
Motors for Plrimary Crushers                20            17,000         340,000
Motors for Secondary Crushers                6           11,000           66,000
Tools and Equipment                        50             2,000          100,000
D.  Small Mobile Plant and Equipment
Water Trailers - 250 lt                    17              2,700          45,900
Plate Vibratory Compactors                 26              1,600          41,600
Pedestrian Rollers                         25             2,400           60,000
Asphalt Kettles - 200 gal.                  17             8,000         136,000
Lane-Painting Equipment                      1            22,000          22,000
Air Compressor - 250 c.f.                    4            16,000          64,0U0
Air Compressor - 800 c.f.                    3            38,000         114,000
Water Pump - 3 in.                           5             2,000          10,000
Mechanic Brush                               3            17,000          51,000
Cost Estimate CIF Panama                                         7,326,500
Local Delivery and before Operation Service                        366,325
Total Cost                                                       7,692,825
Source: National Directorate of Maintenance, MOP
November 1977



TABLE 5.5
- 47 -
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Highway Maintenance Budget Requirements and Financing
(millions of Balboas at end-1977 values)
Total
I.  Operational Budget                     1979       1980     1981      1982      1979-1982
Administration and labor               4.93      5.04      5.15      5.26        20.38
Materials                              0.86      0.87      0.89      0.91         3.53
Fuel, oil and lubricants               0.81      0.89      0.92      0.93         3.55
Spare parts (current
requirements)                       1.07       1.41      1.71      2.17         6.36
Miscellaneous                          0.06       0.06     0.07      0.07         0.26
Sub-total:                             7.73      8.27      8.74      9.34        34.08
II.  Investment Budget           1978       1979       1980      1981     1982      1979-1982
Tech. assist.-total         0.25      0.36       0.36      0.36      0.36         1.69
(Bank financing)        (0.21)    (0.30)    (0.30)   (0.30)   (0.30)           (1.41)
Equipment acquisition        --       7.69        --.70                          11.39
(Bank financing)          --       (7.33)       --        --        --         (7.33)
Spare parts2/ total          --       1.33        --        --        --          1.33
(Bank financing)          --       (1.33)       __        __        __         (1.33)
Sub-total:                  0.25      9.38       0.36      4.06      0           14.41
Total maintenance budget: 0.25       17.11       8.63    12.80       9.70       48.49
1/ Tentative amount for a second tranche of equipment to be reassessed based on the
fleet annual utilization actually achieved.
2/ Includes purchasing of initial stock of spares for new equipment and spares for
corrective maintenance and overhaul of existing equipment.
Source: Letter of Minister of Planning on Economic Policy dated December 15, 1977 and
mission estimates.
December 1977



- 48 -
PANAMA                              TABLE 5.6
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Quarterly                           Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Yaar                            Disbursements                       Disbursements
1979
September  1978                                 0.1                                   0.1
December   1978                                 0.1                                   0.2
March       1979                                 0.1                                  0.3
June        1979                                5.0                                   5.3
1980
September 1979                                  2.7                                   8.0
December 1979                                    1.6                                  9.6
March    1980                                    0.7                                 10.3
June     1980                                    0.5                                 10.8
1981
September 1980                                  0.1                                  10.9
December 1980                                   0.1                                  11.0
March    1981                                    0.1                                 11.1
June     1981                                    0.1                                 11.2
1982
September 1981                                  0.1                                  11.3
December 1981                                    0.1                                 11.4
March    1982                                    0.2                                 11.6
June     1982                                   0.2                                  11.8
1983
September 1982                                  0.2                                  12.0
Assumptions:  Loan Effectiveness - June 1978
Invitation to Bid-August 1978
Award of Contract- December 1978
Delivery of Equipment May 1979
Source:  Mission   Estimates
November 1977



49 -                                                       TABLE 5.7
0
o'z
a                            I
0                        I                 f
a                            I
-                           I
I                                           I                                                                 1
0  4  0  0  0
a
40.0
a                              a                                                                              a
S                                        0
0 004010ao
0                                a                                            000
000                          4]            >000
0  0  0  0  0         0  0
0  a  o  0
0000                              I

0  0  0  -         =         4  0  0  0  0                                                              0
-         a                             a   *                             a      0  0   -.                     0  0   0
0                                            .-00  0
O  a a                         0    0



- 50 -
TABLE 6.1
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Summary of Formulated Highway Maintenance Program 1/
Type of Surface and Length (km)
Cement or          Bituminous
Altern.  Maintenance Policy          Asphalt Concrete  Surface Treatment  Gravel  Earth
l.a  Routine Maintenance  2/              602                1,017          913    3,423
b  Periodic Maintenance                 602                1,017          650      -
2.a  Routine Maintenance                  130               1,022           189      -
b  Periodic Maintenance                 105                  771          166      -
c  Upgrading of actual                  130               1,022           189      -
condition from fair to
good or bad to fair
3.a  Routine Maintenance                   -                    86        1,256 3/   -
b  Periodic Maintenance                                       -         1,222      -
deffering replenishing
of gravel
4.   Grass cutting, cleaning                                                542      -
culverts and drains, re-
shaping of road surface
and ditches.
1/ The Highway Maintenance Program was formulated for the 1980 projected road network.
2/ Specific activities for Routine and periodic maintenance are given in Table 5.2.
3/  Reshaping of surface reduced from 1 per year to 1 every 2 years, for 34 km.
Source: Diepartamento de Planificacion, DNM, and Mission estimates.
November 1977



- 51 -
TABLE 6.2
PANAMA
HIGHWAY HAINTENANCh PROJECT
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs 1/
(Balboas/km)
Road Surface and Condition    Passenger Cars        Buses    Pickup Trucks      Trucks
Paved
Good                               0.03            0.13        0.05            0.17
Fair                               0.04           0.17         0.06            0.22
Bad                                0.05           0.22         0.07            0.31
Gravel
Good                              0.05            0.22         0.07            0.31
Fair                              0.06            0.27         0.09            0.39
Bad                               0.07            0.35         0.11            0.65
Earth
Good                              0.06            0.30         0.09            0.48
Fair                              0.08            0.40         0.11            0.68
Bad                               0.09            0.62         0.13            0.94
1/ At end-1977 values, economic costs including drivers' salaries for buses and
trucks.
Source: Tocumen Chorrera Study, L. Berger Inc., Vehicle Operating Costs Study,
COMEC Consultores, National Transport Survey, N.D. Lea and Associates,
Dr. H. Steiner, Consultant and Mission Estimates
November 1977



PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJBCT
Summary of Maintenance Program Economic Evaluation
(1980)
Economic Evaluation
Economic Benefits (B/thousand)             (Benefit/Cost Ratio)
Link                    Length              Road Surface       Alternative   Economic Cost              Veh. Op. Cost    Passenger        With Time  Without Time
Program Component                Rankitg    Province         (km)    AADT-   and Condition i/  Selected -   (B/thousand) -   Total            Savings       eitav s    Benefitsf
Road Sections with the
Highest Economic Return               I    Panama             25   5,800    Paved (bad)              2                 59.1      10,995      7,572             3,423          50            50
Road Sections with the
Lowest Economic Return              111    Los Santos        117      74    Gravel (good)            3                105.6          105        73                32           1.0           0.7
Total Maintenance Program       I to 111                     9,180       --                                          11,559.8      83,410    58,387             25,023            7.2          5.1
Benefits Accruijg to
Panama only A'                1 to 111         --         9,180       -_         __                  __            11,559.8      79,100    54,077             25,023           6.8          4.7
1/  Based on MOP traffic surveys, Consultant H. Steiner Study and Mission Estimates
2/  Based on Consultant GOMBC road inventory and MOP National Directorate of Maintenance
3/ Alternative levels of maintenance defined in Table 6.1
4/ Based on end-1977 cost estimates, including 16% overhead costs (see Table 5.3)
5/  Costs and benefits in end-1977 prices; benefits include savings in vehicle operating costs, including professional drivers' salaries and
passenger time savings.  Passenger time benefits accounted for about 30% of total quantifiable benefits.  Time benefits were computed on
the basis of average labor wage when travelling for business purposes
6/  Assuming 30% of trucks on paved roads are foreign-owned (see pars 6.08)
Source: Departamento de Planificacion, MOP, Consultant H. Steiner Study and Mission Estimates
Noveamber 1977
Io~



- 53 -
Annex 5.1
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline of Equipment Fleet Manager Job Description
1.   Title                     Equipment Fleet Manager
2.   Responsible to            Director of DINE
3.   Qualifications            Professional Mechanical Engineer with experience
in the operation and management of equipment
fleets including road construction/maintenance
plant and vehicles, scaling, stocking and
distribution of spares.
4.   Main Responsibilities:
(a) coordinate all aspects of administration and handling of MOP equip-
ment fleet;
(b) supervise the updating of equipment inventory including its condi-
tion and location, filing and information of same as well;
(c) coordinate, with provincial engineers, programs for utilizing
equipment;
(d) establish the needs of equipment and prepare annual programs for
renewal, including systematic procedures for adequate scrapping of
obsolete equipment;
(e) prepare bidding documents and participate in the evaluation of
proposals for equipment and spares required;
(f) prepare and keep up-to-date information about location, availability
and utilization of equipment;
(g) establish the needs of spares and necessary supplies for appropriate
functioning of equipment;
(h) administer workshops emphasizing preventive maintenance of equipment
and cost control of repairs;
(i) establish adequate cost systems for equipment; and
(j) agree with the training officer for training of the workshops' per-
sonnel and equipment operators, also arrange to send them to the
courses.
April 1978



- 54 -
Annex 5.2
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference
for the Technical Assistance on Highway Maintenance
Objective
1.        The purpose of the technical assistance is to provide consultant
services over a period of about four years to guide and assist MOP in develop-
ing and implementing work programs and management practices for more effective
highway maintenance operations. The principal objectives are:
(a) to review highway maintenance needs and define work
programs and resource requirements for fulfilling those
needs;
(b) to improve and expand the organization and procedures
related to highway maintenance and betterment operations;
(c) to introduce appropriate management systems which will
assure effective planning, budgeting, scheduling, directing
and controlling of maintenance and betterment work;
(d) to improve the overall management of the equipment fleet
by concentrating as much as possible on the achievement of
effective availability and utilization of the fleet; and
(e) to determine current and future manpower requirements and
related training needs arising from the highway maintenance
program, and to recommend, for the approval of the Govern-
ment, a phased training plan for maintenance personnel at
all levels to be implemented partly under the project and
partly at a later stage.
Scope of Consulting Services
2.        The project shall be performed as a joint effort of the Ministry of
Public Works and the Consultant. The Consultant shall advise and assist in
the development and implementation of improved practices for organization
and management of maintenance operations. This work shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, the following functional areas:
(i) Maintenance Organization and Management
3.        Provide advice and assistance in:



- 55 -
Annex 5.2
(a) defining maintenance objectives, policies and operating
procedures;
(b) establishing an organizational framework, in the office and
in the field, for carrying out maintenance operations most
effectively;
(c) implementing highway planning processes-- including roadway
inventory, traffic studies and highway classification;
(d) developing and implementing management practices for
scheduling, directing and controlling maintenance and
betterment work.
(ii) Maintenance Program and Identification of Rehabilitation
Requirements
4.        Provide advice and assistance in:
(a) analyzing roadway inventory, evaluating adequacy of the
existing highway network, and revising maintenance and
improvement needs;
(b) conducting economic analyses to determine appropriate
maintenance levels of service and to establish priorities
for rehabilitation and betterment work;
(c) preparing annual programs of specific maintenance and
betterment work and estimating program costs;
(d) identifying road rehabilitation needs;
(e) revising and updating the DNM maintenance manual.
(iii) Equipment and Workshops
5.        Provide advice and assistance in:
(a) revising and updating the equipment fleet inventory,
including a detailed survey of existing equipment requiring
major overhaul; and improving the inventory, records and
information on utilization and availability of the fleet;
(b) defining equipment needs to accomplish the work programs
and assessing yearly the replacement program for the
fleet, including the necessary scrapping;
(c) developing and implementing a comprehensive system for
preventive maintenance of equipment based on utilization,
including the improvement of facilities for preventive
maintenance of equipment;



- 56
Annex 5.2
(d) evaluating workshop facilities and implementing improved
workshop organization and management practices for servicing
and repair of equipment; and
6.        Prepare technical recommendations with relation to:
(e) bidding documents and proposal evaluation of required
vehicles and equipment; and procurement and supply and
spare parts including the required spares for units which
have to be overhauled.
(iv) Administration and Accounting
7.        Provide advice and assistance in:
(a) developing and implementing personnel management practices--
including classification and salary plans, terms of employment,
recruiting, manpower planning, employee development and per-
sonnel records;
(b) developing and implementing improved practices for purchasing
and warehousing--including procedures for acquisition, storage
and distribution of spare parts, materials and supplies;
(c) developing and implementing improved general accounting prac-
tices and establishing a cost accounting system appropriate
to support maintenance management systems;
(d) developing and implementing a system for performance-based
budgeting which clearly relates budgeted funds to specific
accomplishments; and
(e) initiating improved procedures for the administration and
processing of management information.
(v) Personnel. Training
8.        To assess the current and future manpower requirements and related
training needs, the consultant, among other things, shall:
(a) update the inventory of all maintenance personnel, divided
between headquarters and provinces, skilled and unskilled,
and broken down by categories and levels; and evaluate the
capability and potential of personnel currently available
to better assess training needs;
(b) develop a phased training plan, indicating how it will be
implemented, and the instructors, courses and training equip-
ment required, taking into consideration the distribution
of maintenance staff among eight provinces and existing
physical facilities;



- 57 -
Annex 5.2
(c) assist with the strengthening of a permanent training unit
within the Ministry, including its structure, functions and
related budget, which would be responsible for the planning,
implementation and supervision of all training activities;
(d) formulate and implement special courses for instructors;
(e) develop and implement priority courses on maintenance work
methods and equipment servicing and repair for certain low
and middle-level supervisors, as well as courses on main-
tenance for high-level staff, taking into consideration
techniques such as training through the use of training
production units and audio-visual courses;
(f) implement procedures and training programs as agreed; and
(g) establish a monitoring and evaluation system within the plan
both to monitor the results of training while it is being
carried out and, later, to evaluate the effectiveness of
completed programs.
Staffing
9.        It is estimated that the following specialists would be required:
Specialist                                  Man-Months
Highway Maintenance Engineer to work with DNM              60
Equipment Fleet Specialist to work with DINE               54
Store Specialist to work with DINE and Purchasing
Department                                               20
Accountant to work with DNM and the Accounting
Division                                                 30
Training Specialist to work with the Personnel
Department and the Training School                       36
Total                                                200
Schedule
10.       The project shall be carried out over a period of 48 months in five
phases of work including:
(a) review, evaluation of existing situation and detailed plan
of operation;
(b) study of future highway maintenance needs;
(c) pilot testing and demonstration;
(d) nationwide implementation; and
(e) overall program monitoring.



- 58 -
Annex 5.2
Manuals and Reports
11.       Because this is basically an implementation project, all manuals shall
be performance-oriented and most reports shall be directed toward documenting
accomplishments and results. They include a report on future highway main-
tenance needs and manuals on highway maintenance, equipment management,
accounting and budgeting, administration, and training.
Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
12.       MOP will be the contracting Government agency.  Counterpart per-
sonnel will be provided from among permanent employees of MOP as a joint
effort with the Consultant. It is expected that both professional and sup-
port staff will be required in the provincial directorates.
April 1978



_ 59 -
Annex 5.3
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Job Description for Senior Maintenance Engineer
in Charge of Program Coordination
1.   Title                     :   Senior Maintenance Engineer
2.   Responsible to                Director of National Directorate of
Maintenance
3.   Qualifications            :   Should be a qualified professional Civil
Engineer with experience in highway main-
tenance of paved, gravel and earth roads;
preferably with experience in operational
and administrative aspects of road main-
tenance. Should have ability to commu-
nicate and to apply logical and analytical
approach to managerial duties.
4.   Principal Responsibilities:
(a) The reviewing and updating of the highway maintenance program by
coordination of road inventory procedures and ascertainment of
needs and priorities in road maintenance taking into account the
resources available;
(b) the coordination, supervision and control of provincial highway
maintenance programs to ensure efficient execution of the main-
tenance program;
(c) the planning and progressing of work against program commitments
and the preparation of progress reports required for management
purposes and budgetary control;
(d) the developing, reviewing and updating of maintenance standards
and the development of management and field operations manuals;
(e) the preparation of highway maintenance budgets;
(f) the provision of guidance and assistance to DNM management and
provinces during the implementation of the program; and
(g) the coordination of the consultant's work which would provide
the technical assistance.
January 1978



HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Example of Intended Maintenance Proram Control Reporta
ACCOMPLISHMENT REPORT
CURRENT MONTH                                                                              CURRENT YEAR
Wor-k              Work
Work              Work                        Units               Units                                         Total                           Total
Unit       Units             Units           7.          Accomplished        Plan                           Total          Hessr       PerforUmane         Labor      Current Unit
Type  of  Road     Activity       Measures       Accomplished       Plan       Completed       To   Data           *To   Dat     Completed       M   o urs        PnI P            r             Coat          Labr  Ctn
MATERIAL UTILIZATION REPORT
CURRENT MONTd                                                                                                   CURRENT YEAR
Quantity      Quantity
Material      Quantity           Qusntity         %           Used           Plan               %           Total Material         Total Units                Current Unit
Type of Road              Class         Used               Plan          Utilized        To Date       To Date        Utilized            Cost             Accomplished to Date          Material Cost
EQUIPMENT UTILIZATION REPORT
Equipment       Out of                                      .              7                  7
Equipment      Hours           Service      Assigned        Use        Available       Utilized           Utilized
Type of Road          Class        Required         Hours          Hours        Hours        Month          Month               Year
Source:  Appraisal Mission
N.ovember 1977



- 61 -
ANNEX 5.4
PANAMA                               TABLE 2
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Indicators
1976      1980        1982
EQUIPMENT FLEET MANAGEMENT
Fleet availability %                     Forecast         -         75          75
Actual          40*
Fleet utilization %                      Forecast         -         65          70
Actual           30*
MAINTENANCE LEVEL
Grass cutting, Km                        Forecast         -     10,200      10,300
(both road sides)                     Actual          n.a.
Reshaping of ditches, Km                 Forecast         -      9,200       9,400
(both road sides)                     Actual          n.a.
Reshaping of gravel surfaces, Km         Forecast         -      3,700       3,700
Actual         n.a.
Reshaping of earth roads, Km             Forecast         -      3,400       3,700
Actual         n.a.
Replenishing of gravel surfaces, Km    Forecast           -        400         400
Actual         n.a.
Sealing of asphalt surfaces, Km          Forecast         -        290         290
Actual         n.a.
Highway network to be maintained, Km   Forecast           -      9,200       9,400
Actual       7,774
Highway maintenance expenditures         Forecast         -        8.7         9.7
B$ million at end-1977
* Estimated.
Source: Appraisal Mission.
November 1977



- 62 -
ANNEX 5.4
TABLE 3
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Indicators
Highway Surface Condition                         1976         1980           1982
Cement or Asphalt Concrete (km)                     678         730            730
Good            Actual          548
Forecast        -           700            700
Fair            Actual          105
Forecast        -            30             30
Bad             Actual           25
Forecast        -            -              -
Bitum:inous Surface Treatment                     1814         2100           2140
G3ood           Actual          792
Forecast        -          1850           1900
Fair            Actual          771
Forecast        -           250            240
]3ad            Actual          251
Forecast        -            -              -
Grave'l                                           1795         2900           2900
Good            Actual          990
Forecast        -          2400           2400
FPair           Actual          782
Forecast        -           500            500
P,ad            Actual            23
Forecast        -            -              -
Source: Appraisal Mission
November 1977



- 63 -
Annex 5.5
PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
1.   Panama National Transport Survey.  N.D. Lea and Associates.  1974.
2.   Panama Transport Sector Brief.  LCPD.  1973.
3.   Transportes y Comunicaciones.  Estadistica Panamena.  Direccion de
Estadistica y Censo. 1974.
4.   Highway Feasibility Study of Tocumen-Chorrera.  Final Report.
Louis Berger Inc. 1974.
5.   Informe Anual a la Honorable Asamblea Nacional de Representantes de
Corregimientos 1976-1977. Autoridad Portuaria Nacional. 1977.
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
6.   Resumen del Inventario de Caminos.  Conclusiones y Recomendaciones
Informe Final COMEC.
7.   Especificaciones Generales sobre Soldadura, Pintura e Inspeccion de
Obras. Gonzalo Cordoba. December 1976.
8.   Anteproyecto de Ley Organica del Ministerio de Obras Publicas MOP
Departamento de Asesoria Legal. March 1975.
9.   Ley 23 de 1967 por la cual se dictan medidas sobre dimensiones y
peso de los vehiculos de carga en circulacion por las vias
publicas.
*            10.   Lista de Precios de Materiales de Construccion.  Camara Panamena
de la Construccion. July 1977.
11.   Proyecto de Administracion del Mantenimiento Vial.  Terminos de
Referencia. November 1977.
12.   Inventario de personal de las provincias.  September 1977.
13.   Carretera Panamericana, Informe del Proyecto Chepo-Bayano.
August 1974.



- 64 -
Annex 5.5
14.   Departamento de la Carretera Panamericana.  Su organizacion y
funciones hasta 1974.
15.   Desarrollo de un programa para el Mantenimiento de la red vial
de Panama. Direccion Nacional de Mantenimiento. April 1977.
16.   Beneficios y costos propuestos para la evaluacion economica de
un program de mantenimiento. Departamento de Planificacion, MOP.
1977.
17.   Project Identification Document.  Access Roads AID.  May 1977.
1B.   Technical Analysis - Road Improvement (part of a project report),
AID. 1977.
C.   Selected Working Papers, Prepared by Bank Staff or Consultants
19.   Project Brief Highway Maintenance Project.  May 1977.
20.   Management of MOP Maintenance Fleet.  M. Mackie (Consultant).
September 1977.
2l.   Highway Maintenance Project, Back-to-Office Report.  H.M Steiner
(Consultant). August 1977.
22.   Third Highway Project.  Preparation Mission.  Back-to-Office
Report. W. Matthey (Consultant). April 1977.
March 1978



PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
CMinister|
Top Management
Vice Minister
Technical Committee
....... ......  - fiProfessional Committee                    Special Committees
Equipment Committee
Planning/Administrative
Auditing        | Finnce   I    F  Planning            F    Legal           Administration    Public Relations               Deparments
Pan American                                                                        National Directorates
National Geographic          Highway                Maintenance             Construction
- Design                   Secretariat                    Special Projects
- Construction Supervision   Equipment Control            Design
- Maintenance (Darien Prov., Shops and Space Requisition  Force Account Construction          Sections
Cost Accounting               Soils Laboratory
Technical Department          Supervision
Highway Maintenance Planning
Provincial Directorates
World Bank - 18231



-         PANAMA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
NATIONAL DIRECTORATE OF MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Director
Assistant Director
Secretariat
Administration        Prhasing            Cautontrol
Equipment Control                Shops and Spare               Cs  conigcnclDprmniha   aneac
Ian d School for Operatr           Requisition                 CotAcutn                      ehia   eatetPlanning
Provincial Directorate                                           Provincial Directorate
Porovincial eet              Provincial Directorates for        for National Buildings
|    for City Streets  l   Cocie, Colon, Chiriqui,
Herrera, Los Santos,
Panama, and Veraguas
World Bank - 18230



IBRD 13290
b];   gt   P    A  N   A   M   A  d   .   _   7d'  >  \  REER0AW T971~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lERAF                                                                                                                                                                                          W
q>>                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT                                                                                        t                         Y   , g.qfv                                      v f>                                        t 0etrn V    ;AA   F
W {1 S 12 5             l'v2'n^nt concrete U- botum dv> . surtncf d fWdS                                                                                                                                                                                    5 S       U;S         C-B4k2, M[;w]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'%
! :!22 J wX  -----IM:FAnV  con Hghsty u del g nsiruct de                                                                                                                                                                            :                           s              IAdFCA   >                ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FNOA
D:~ ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ 4 A:  IVnt; svnsgDe:F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         d#Sc   
t ;| A8Viplw dqbwoniqq 12C4PA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N;   .rl 
40    jX    \    -   -   PsVlAboS bcf ss \ Wedebos an - r , g;*Q~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                                                     -  Ma  .
d U  Zr   2   r    >  G~                                Inte lflotu bouedbrjes                                                                                 9  o   t S                  S: h~abe      !:    >        - -         .                                                 :                                ri~mdobb owu a.>d 
=                                                                                                                                                                                            _   t|   ~~~~~~  ,    .   9taFF   @    A*SrAE    rDrb \ t 3 ff5 U<_ 2 * \ \ : : ; \ \ Sxw1 vv; ,, :s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~,   '
;  fiI b' 6 ~ X - > ~ \ : d dPo ~ > ,*,,> z1 fa - G 2 9 0
fE _;dt O;  e  A 4M  >n' I. : O  & A_o>A< b os  \ 
eV NS ;r,' .t5_-  E-w' T  g  /'Frs.z/ ~3PA  - A> H
4:DF    S-    ~~    \   t r;   - o _ -c - - ......... S or ~~ t dUd n .n7 r . \ lY                                                                                                                                                                          LI       A   
'                                               - X                                              W                                                                                                       Bsfu\- '<'!'&'''';'                                          04;e    \                                                                  tW~~~~E 
vb   \   Sf eafS               -]                       aefunos     1o!.1eso    ~               m              9                                                                                                                                                      i                     <      v > o                              w  i.  
;   \   h               @</@ ---af 9;t    a                                              E<>7                                                Q  / / /    17~~~~~~~~~~ AP /1  G /i 7d rl 2 P                                                   z;nej a. ...\WS
.~~ ~~ I                                                                  ,.          CurdJ           ,_            A    /V ms  HERR        lt       D              e\(<  
;      yi S                X  )  !    <-n Inr!^snns;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



