Document of
rhe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16653
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3014-CM)
June 9, 1997
Agriculture 2
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       CFAF 290 (From September 1989 to January 1994)
US$1.00       CFAF 500 (From January 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1-June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAA           Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAR           Central African Republic
CETA          Comite d'Eradication des Tsetse en Adamaoua
DEPF          Direction des Etudes, des Projets et de la Formation (MINEPIA)
EDF           European Development Fund
IFAD          International Fund for Agriculture Development
IRZV          Institut des Recherches Zootechniques et Veterinaires
LANAVET    Laboratoire National Veterinaire
MINAGRI    Ministere de ['Agriculture
MINEPIA       Ministere de l'Elevage, des Peches et des Industries Animales
MSEG          Mission Speciale d'Eradication des Glossines
OPV           Office Pharmaceutique Veterinaire
PCR           Project Completion Report
PLMA          Pilot Land Management Area
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SODEPA        Societe de Developpement et d'Exploitation des Productions Animales
UMCO          Unite Ministerielle de Coordination Operationelle
USOV          Unite Speciale d'Organisation et de Vulgarisation
Vice President    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Acting Director    David Berk
Technical Manager     Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader      Noel Chabeuf (Senior Livestock Specialist)



Table of Contents                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .............................................. i-v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction ....................................................I
Project Objectives ....................................................1
Project Components ....................................................2
Achievement of Project Objectives ....................................................4
Project Costs and Financing ...................................................                4
Implementation Experience and Results ....................................................4
Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................................9
Project Sustainability ...................................................                    10
Bank Performance ...................................................                          10
Borrower's Performance ...................................................                    10
Assessment of Outcome ...................................................                     12
Future Operations ...................................................                         13
Key Lessons Learned ...................................................                       14
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3:  Project Timetable .17
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements                                  .17
Table 5:         Key Indicators for Project Implementation                     .18
Table 6:          Key Indicators for Project Operations .19
Table 7:    Studies Included in the Project .19
Table 8A:  Project Costs .20
Table 8B:  Project Financing .20
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits .21
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .22
Table 11:        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .24
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .24
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions .25
APPENDICES:
Appendix A:  Implementation Completion Mission - Aide Memoire .26
Appendix B: Borrower's Evaluation Summary .32
Appendix C:   Table I - Livestock Sector Development-Estimated Production .                  33
Over 20 Years
Table 2 - Actual Disbursements by Financier by Year .34
MAP: IBRD 20985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I
I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3014 CM)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Livestock Sector
Development Project for which a World Bank Loan in the amount of US$34.6 million
was approved on January 10, 1989 and made effective on May 30, 1989.
2.    The Loan closed on December 31, 1996, after a one year extension approved in
June 1995. Final disbursement took place on March 24, 1997. Almost two thirds of the
original Loan amount (US$20.5 million) were eventually cancelled (US$13.6 million
after the Mid Term Review, and US$6.9 million after closing of the Loan).
3.    The ICR was prepared by a consultant, Mr. P. Bono, who visited Cameroon for
3 weeks to carry out the Completion Mission between October 4 and 25, 1996, with the
support of the Task Manager, Mr. Noel Chabeuf, who carried out the last supervision
mission. The ICR was reviewed by Mr. Joseph Baah-Dwomoh, Technical Manager, and
Mr. Mike Walshe. The report is based on material in the project files, interviews with
Bank staff and Government officials as well as field trips in the country. The Borrower
representatives worked very closely with the mission, providing information and views
that are reflected in the mission's aide memoire (Appendix A). The ICR was sent to the
Borrower for comments, and these comments were applied in the editing of the final
version of this report. The Borrower's evaluation of project performance has not been
received.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3014-CM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank financed two livestock sector operations in Cameroon between 1974 and 1989,
both of which were cofinanced by the Federal Republic of Germany. The main components of
these two projects were: tsetse fly eradication in the Adamaoua Highlands, a credit program in
the East and North-West provinces; and a training program. The second project also included
the construction of two slaughterhouses in Yaounde and Douala and the establishment of four
ranches in the Adamaoua Highlands. In general, the results of these operations were quite
positive. The third livestock project discussed here, the Livestock Sector Development Proiect,
built on, and continued the efforts of the two previous operations.
Project Objectives
2.    The major objectives of this project were to: (i) increase meat and milk production,
(ii) improve producer's incomes; and (iii) reduce the financial burden on the Government
services provided to the livestock sub-sector. To reach these objectives, both policy reforms and
investments were used.
3.    Policy reforms were aimed at assisting technically and financially the traditional herders
and the emerging intensive production units. These reforms would: (i) support the import,
wholesale and retail distribution of veterinary products and the provision of health services to
livestock producers; (ii) promote the privatization of veterinary clinics, the reorganization of the
Veterinary Pharmaceutical Office (OPV), and the transformation of the Livestock Production
Corporation (SODEPA) into a commercial, self-financing operation; and (iii) include the
harmonization of extension methods and activities of the Ministry of Livestock (MINEPIA) and
the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI) and the stabilization of MINEPIA staff at a reasonable
level.
4.    Investments would cover a broad spectrum of activities, including: (i) creation of 250
producer associations; (ii) improvement of the livestock extension system; (iii) strengthening of
MINEPIA's planning and administrative capabilities; (iv) establishment of 11 pilot land
management areas; (v) reorganization of OPV; (vi) further clearance of Tsetse infested areas;
(vii) introduction of a special health program for small ruminants and poultry; and (viii) a large
credit component aimed at financing veterinary pharmaceutical imports, the establishment of
private veterinarians, land development, semi-intensive poultry production, women activities,
etc.



- ii -
Project Costs and Financing
5.    At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$55.2 million, with the Bank
expected to finance US$34.6 million. Cofinancing was provided by IFAD (US$10.8 million),
the Government of Cameroon (US$6.3 million), the European Development Fund (US$1.9
million), and the French Aid Fund, FAC, (US$1.6 million). As of March 31, 1997,
approximately US$14 million (41 percent) had been disbursed from the Bank Loan, US$13.6
million was canceled in 1994, and US$6.9 million was canceled on March 24, 1997. IFAD
successively suspended disbursements and only 6.57 percent of its credit was disbursed at the
time of credit closing on June 30, 1995. The EDF and FAC funds were fully disbursed.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project did not achieve most of its objectives, which were too many and too
ambitious and the project design was too complex, covering the whole country. The project
overlooked the capacity of the main implementation agency, MINEPIA, a weak, bureaucratic
institution which was not suited for field level work. Some policy reforms were carried out, such
as the privatization of animal health care (20 private veterinarians were established during the
project, which was 50 percent of the SAR forecast), and the re-orientation of MINEPIA's
training centers and the monitoring of taxing imported meat. However, SODEPA's status
remained untouched, and the harmonization of the extension methods of MINEPIA and
MINAGRI was never achieved in the field.
7.    Within the investment components of the project, only the Tsetse control and the
creation of herders organizations showed some success. The credit component failed as the sub-
lending conditions were unrealistic and the institutions selected to disburse the different lines
were either not interested or didn't meet project's requirements. Private veterinarians didn't
apply for loans as they preferred cheaper alternative sources of finance, mainly from
pharmaceutical firms. Privatization of the veterinary profession made considerable progress due
to the freeze of MINEPIA's recruitment and the active involvement of the Order of
Veterinarians. The Pilot Land Management Areas component never got off the ground as it was
too complex and MINEPIA's approach too rigid.
8.    On the other hand, the Tsetse control campaigns were successful because the "Mission
Speciale d'Eradication des Glossines" (MSEG) was a well organized institution, with good
leadership and a clear-cut technique based on the environmentally friendly "screens and traps"
approach. MSEG was also well integrated with the herders associations, which, in the last two
years, developed a keen interest in assisting MSEG in the control campaigns. Other positive
achievements included the creation of 65 herders organizations (though much less than the 240
forecast at appraisal) as well as the establishment of the "Comite d'Eradication des Tsetse en
Adamaoua" (CETA), the herders committee for Tsetse control in Adamaoua, with assistance
from MINEPIA's provincial office.
9.    The increased livestock output (meat and milk) resulted in higher family incomes and
benefited poverty alleviation. Trypanosomiasis-cleared areas helped in reducing migration
movements to neighboring countries and contributed to the diversification of the economy in the
Foulbe community. Crops and forage production, water points and hay making were also



- iii -
instrumental in the stabilization of some of the pastoral populations and the return to Adamaoua
of herds which had fled the region twenty years earlier. The final IRR is estimated at 24 percent.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
10.   Although, during preparation, appraisal and the first year of implementation, the
Government was committed to the project, this attitude changed with time and its support
became less evident, in part because of the repeated suspensions of disbursements (country
related), and the resulting spacing of project supervisions. One of the reasons was the critical
macro-economic situation of the country. Public sector salaries were cut by 63 percent during
the first three years of project implementation and a subsequent devaluation produced
devastating effects on staff morale. A Project Management Unit or "Cellule de Pilotage" was
created to improve management but its role was completely spurious and it became physically
and administratively isolated. The project also suffered from periodic shortages of counterpart
funds and bureaucratic bottlenecks.
11.    A Mid-Term Review after 4 years of implementation recommended to cancel all but four
components: (i) Tsetse control, (ii) the privatization of the veterinary profession, (iii) the
organization of herders associations, and (iv) the health program for small stock. Assistance to
the LANAVET laboratory was incorporated in the restructured project. US$13.6 million of the
Bank Loan was canceled and recommendations regarding more autonomous management
arrangements were made. The project had to be extended for one year due to several previous
suspensions, but during that year, disbursements had to be suspended because of serious
financial mismanagement related to procurement. In the last two years of the project, from July
1994 to June 1996, only 1 I percent of the restructured project cost was disbursed.
Project Sustainability
12.   Apart from the difficult macro-economic circumstances that affected the whole country,
the original project size and its complexity hindered its sustainability. Despite efforts made by
the Bank to improve management, the poor coordination between MINEPIA and the "Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement" (CAA), responsible for disbursement requests and managing
special account, did not permit a smooth operation. The non-reimbursement of expenses
incurred in disregard to the Bank's procedures, and the subsequent suspension of disbursements
prevented a second extension of the closing date, which would have been necessary to strengthen
the herders associations and organize the collection of grazing fees. These factors contributed to
reducing the project sustainability.
Bank Performance
13.    Overall, Bank performance was mixed. The Bank supervised closely the process of
preparation that was carried out by a consultant firm and financed with a PPF. Project objectives
were consistent with Government priorities and Bank strategy for Cameroon. However, with the
benefit of hindsight, it appears that various aspects were not assessed with the necessary
prudence. This applies particularly to MINEPIA's managerial and coordination capacity, the
credit arrangements, the land management aspects and the environmental consequences of a
successful Tsetse eradication program.



- iv -
14.    Supervisions were carried out regularly during the first year, but from 1990 to 1992 they
became less frequent because of general, country-related suspension of disbursements, to the
extent that for a while the project was visited only once a year. From 1993 onwards, it was again
regularly supervised twice a year. The turnover of Task Managers was excessive (4 before the
mid-term review). However, the project was already crippled with managerial problems,
shortage of counterpart funding, slow disbursement and a lack of Government commitment.
Closer supervisions during the critical first two years might have alleviated these problems.
Borrower Performance
15.    The Government was closely associated with the process of identification, preparation
and appraisal, but did not anticipate the difficulties that would have to be faced later with the
management of such a complex and large project. MINEPIA didn't have the structure, the
resources (human and technical) and later, the commitment to coordinate the execution of the
different components. The turnover of Project Managers (Ministry's Secretary Generals) was
excessive (4 between effectiveness and mid-term review). Some of the Bank's recommendations
were either implemented late or not properly followed by the Government. Counterpart funding
was a continuous problem and the chronic management and coordination difficulties affected the
disbursement of important items, especially in the final phase of the operation. The three last
audit reports were late and qualified. The success of the Tsetse control component was due to
the quality of the MSEG team, its professionalism, and the respect it commanded amongst
herders. The creation of a number of producer associations in a short period of time was the
result of the joint efforts of MSEG and "Unite Speciale pour l'Organisation et la Vulgarisation"
(USOV), a special unit created under the project.
Assessment of Outcome
16.   The project outcome is unsatisfactory because, apart from the components mentioned
above (in para 8 and 9), it is not expected to have any substantial development impact. The
combined effects of an over-ambitious design, a poor implementing/coordinating agency and a
lack of commitment on the part of the Government led to weak results in relation to the financial
and technical resources mobilized during the seven years. Some of tjhe project's objectives, such
as the privatization of the veterinary profession and the organization of pharmaceutical products
imports and distribution, were achieved without direct financial input from the project. The
assistance to the LANAVET laboratory, a component of vital importance for the future of the
sub-sector, included in the restructured project, failed as a result of lack of follow-up and
administrative mismanagement at MINEPIA's and CAA's levels.
17.    However, despite the complexity of the project, three positive achievements can be
credited to the project. The first is the consolidation of the results obtained after 20 years of
Tsetse eradication campaigns and the application in the field of the low cost "screen and traps"
technique. The subsequent return (often from abroad) of herds to regions they had deserted in
the 1960s, and the improvement in animal health and productivity are the main reasons for the
satisfactory ERR in the economic analysis. The second is the process of organization of herders
associations and the creation of the CETA, following the examples in Burkina Faso, C.A.R.,
Guinea, etc. The third is the acknowledgment on the part of the Government and the pastoral
groups, that without a form of association like the CETA, (provided it can secure its own
financial resources), there is no hope to preserve the achievements obtained in the control of



- v -
Trypanosomiasis in the Adamaoua. In addition, although the project may not have been directly
instrumental in bringing about these changes, it played an important catalytic role in the
privatization of the veterinary profession, which was one of its original objectives.
Future Operations
18.   A possible follow-up project could include two components. One would be the
continuation of the Tsetse control campaigns in the Adamaoua that may also include some other
activities like construction of water points, integration of crops in livestock production, forage
and hay making, etc. It could be nucleated around the CETA with the support of the MSEG and
USOV. The other component could be the continuation of the small ruminants and poultry
vaccination campaigns in the Center and Southern provinces, to be carried out by private
veterinarians.
Key Lessons Learned
19.   Any operation related to the field of livestock development in Cameroon should limit the
involvement of the public sector to a minimum. The role of the private sector should be
enhanced and institutions such as the CETA should be financially autonomous and have their
own operational resources in order not to suffer from public sector interference (arbitrary use of
vehicles, budget breakdowns, interference from bureaucracy, late delivery of inputs, etc.). An
ambitious, and complex project such as this one does not always yield positive results, more so if
the strength of the implementation agency has not been properly assessed. In this particular case
the weakness of MINEPIA could have been identified at an earlier stage.
20.   The mid-term review should have been organized earlier and not 4 years after the project
inception (it was delayed because of suspension of general disbursements and because of the
socio-political situation prevailing at that time in Cameroon). The Bank hoped that the situation
could be corrected and kept what seemed a manageable number of components in the
restructured project. However, there were still too many, considering that after 2 years, only
11 percent of the US$10 million dollars left available in the restructured project were disbursed.
21.   The successful performance of the Tsetse control component and the role played by the
MSEG demonstrated again the importance of: (a) decentralization; (b) the one-line-command
approach; and (c) the highest possible degree of autonomy. It is now clear that the project was in
general operating in a vacuum and that many people in the livestock sector didn't know about its
existence. A better promotion immediately after its inception would have been very important.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3014 CM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    The Bank has been involved in the livestock sector in Cameroon since 1974. The
First Livestock Development Project (Loan 983-CM, US$11.6 million) was cofinanced with
the Federal Republic of Germany and was aimed at: (a) providing credit for mixed farming
and ranch development; (b) eradicating the Tsetse fly in part of the Adamaoua Highlands;
(c) establishing three parastatal ranches and two slaughterhouses; and (d) providing training.
The Second Livestock Development Project (Credit 1010-CM, US$16 million), was also
cofinanced with the Federal Republic of Germany and continued these activities, extending
the credit program to poultry and pig production and adding the development of veterinary
infrastructure in the Adamaoua Highlands. Credit proceeds were equally distributed among
the various components (subloans, ranches and slaughterhouses, Tsetse eradication and
veterinary infrastructure). The closing date for the Second Livestock Project was extended
twice to December 31, 1986.
2.    The results of the two projects were in general quite positive. One thousand loans
amounting to US$ 10 million were extended by FONADER. Repayment rates approached
90 percent. The four ranches now total around 25,000 heads but they are facing maintenance
and financial problems. The slaughterhouses were working well until 1993, but now they
also require serious maintenance work because of normal wear. The Tsetse eradication
program in the Adamaoua cleared 2.2 million ha of land through aerial and ground spraying
of insecticides. This initiated a significant return of livestock in the province. The ex-post
economic evaluation of the Tsetse program was favorable (economic rate of return over
20 percent) in spite of the high clearance costs.
Project Objectives
3.    The major objectives of the third operation, the Livestock Sector Development
Project, were to: (i) increase meat and milk production, (ii) raise producers' income, in
particular, poor livestock herders; and (iii) reduce the financial burden on the Government of
services it provides to the livestock sector. The project aimed to accomplish this by:
(a)   improving the efficiency of the traditional and emerging modern livestock
production sector;



-2 -
(b)   promoting the role of the private sector in the provision of services to
producers;
(c)    making parastatal enterprises profitable and competitive; and
(d)   strengthening the planning and extension capabilities of the livestock services
of the Ministry of Livestock (MINEPIA). The project would test at the same
time various procedures allowing the recognition and consolidation of the
exclusive rights of herder groups to particular grazing areas, water resources
and, in the North, transhumance routes.
Project Components
4.    In order to achieve these objectives the project strategy consisted of two elements:
(a)    Policy reforms, based on the Government's shift of focus toward traditional
herders and emerging semi-intensive production units, aiming at:
(i) expanding the private sector's involvement in the import, wholesale, and
retail distribution of drugs and provision of health services to livestock
producers; and (ii) making the most efficient use of the Government's limited
budgetary resources; and
(b)   Investments for institution building, in order to improve: (i) the quality and
quantity of Government services; (ii) the capacity of traditional producers
organized into herders associations; and (iii) land use conditions in selected
pilot areas through better defined land rights and investments for land
improvement and conservation, tsetse fly control, and credit lines to meet the
financial requirements of private sector producers and health service agents.
5.    The policy reforms would cover the following seven components:
(a)    The privatization of clinical veterinarv services by providing incentives to
qualified government agents to leave the civil service and settle as private
agents, and have the possibility of providing services such as vaccinations
and, eventually, food inspection under subcontracts: "Mandat sanitaire";
(b)   The extension of full cost recovery to all clinical services and vaccinations,
combined with the discontinuation of distribution of free drugs by the
Livestock Services;
(c)    The reorganization of the Veterinary Pharmaceutical Office (OPV);
(d)   The transformation of SODEPA's commercial activities into autonomous,
self-financing operations;



- 3 -
(e)    The harmonization of the extension methods and activities of MINEPIA and
the Ministry of Agriculture;
(f)    The stabilization of MINEPIA staff at its present level and the reorientation of
MINEPIA's training centers to the training and recycling of existing staff and
private sector agents; and
(g)   The monitoring of the impact of meat import taxation on consumption and
production.
6.    The investments would include four components:
(a)   Institution building, which would: (i) create or strengthen about 250 producer
associations; (ii) promote grass roots participation by women and poor herders
in development activities in the extreme North Province and if successful in
the other provinces; (iii) improve livestock extension services in the main
livestock production areas; and (iv) strengthen the planning and administration
capabilities of MINEPIA;
(b)   Resource management, which would, with producer participation, finance:
(i) the establishment of 11 pilot land management areas (PLMAs) to test the
allocation of exclusive grazing rights and the provision of group services (like
credit and range management to selected herder associations, under alternative
land allocation regulations); (ii) minimum infrastructure in the PLMAs to
open up and conserve these grazing areas; (iii) range land research and
monitoring; and (iv) a sustainable protection system for areas previously
cleared of the Tsetse fly;
(c)    Animal health, which would finance: (i) the reorganization of OPV; (ii) the
clearance of an additional 12,000 km2 of Tsetse infested areas; and (iii) the
introduction of a special health program for small ruminants; and
(d)    Credit for on-lending for: (i) the establishment of two private companies for
the import of veterinary pharmaceuticals and a number of private veterinary
practices for clinical care and drug distribution; (ii) livestock and land
development purposes and women's activities in the PLMA; (iii) semi-
intensive poultry production; and (iv) feed and livestock processing industries.



- 4 -
Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    The project objectives as described in the SAR were in line with the Government's
strategy for the sub-sector. However, they were not realistic and they affected project
implementation mainly for three reasons. First, the project was far too complex, covering a
vast number of actions that were too ambitious given the limited capability of the different
institutions to carry them out. Second the project was planned to be national in scope,
extending from the Extreme North to the Center, South and Littoral Provinces, a vast
territory that would have required a serious effort of decentralization. Third the main
implementation agency, MINEPIA, was a weak institution, bureaucratic, with a limited
operational budget, mainly animal health oriented and not suited for development work.
Project Costs and Financing
8.    The project, with total cost amounting to US$55.2 million, was to be financed with a
Bank contribution of US$34.6 million and cofinanced with IFAD (US$10.8 million), FAC
(US$1.6 million, mainly for technical assistance), and EDF (US$1.9 million). Government
counterpart contribution was US$6.3 million. (See Table 8B).
Implementation Experience and Results
9.    The risks that were identified in the SAR became a reality during implementation.
The interest of the private sector in the provision of veterinary health services through the
project never materialized and practically no loan applications were received from "potential"
private veterinarians who obtained better terms from pharmnaceutical firms. The financial
institutions identified for relaying various types of credit lines to the private sector were not
interested or they were extremely rigid and slow. CAA failed to extend for another year the
subsidiary financing agreement with Credit Agricole which had been established for that
purpose during the last year of project implementation, thus preventing potential applications
from private veterinarians to be satisfied. MINEPIA staff in the field were not motivated to
carry out extension work, particularly after the salary cuts, which led them to seek new
sources of income by working for themselves, thus putting another handicap on the
privatization of veterinary services by creating unfair competition from civil servants for
private operators. Although the Tsetse control campaigns should be considered a successful
component, they were affected by several problems: procurement, timely delivery of inputs
and shortages of operational budget (counterpart funds), which put in jeopardy the payment
of contractors, suppliers and workers in the field.
10.   A long overdue Mid-Term Review (MTR) mission visited the country in April 1993.
It recommended a considerable reduction in project size, limiting its activities to the Tsetse
control campaigns, the privatization of the veterinary profession, the health program for small
stock and the organization of herders associations. A new component was added (to assist
the LANAVET laboratory at Garoua). The MTR mission also recommended the creation of
a semi-autonomous management unit (UMCO), assisted by a private accounting firm for



- 5 -
financial management. The Loan was reduced by US$13.6 million, leaving a total of US$21
million, of which, US$10 million was still unspent at that time.
11.   The project had to be extended for one year due to delays in signing the Amendment
to the Loan Agreement after the Mid-Term Review and a succession of disbursement
suspensions (3 for all Bank operations in Cameroon, one for IFAD, which was never lifted).
The project was supposed to be carried out over 84 months but only operated effectively
during 47 months (with the exception of the Tsetse component), and barely 30 percent of the
original project cost was disbursed. From July 1994 to June 1996, only 11 percent of the
restructured project funds were disbursed. During the year when the project was extended,
disbursements had to be suspended because auditors had found that US$300,000 worth of
goods had been procured in disregard to Bank's procurement directives. Government was
requested to reimburse this amount and failed to do so, a situation which resulted in the
closing of the project on June 30, 1996.
Policy Reforms
12.   Privatization of Animal Health Care. The Government, but mostly the Bank, made
consistent efforts to implement this objective. Meetings with the Order of Cameroonian
Veterinarians were held during supervision missions in order to promote the establishment of
private professionals. Unfortunately, the enactment of the "mandat sanitaire" was never
obtained although Bank staff assisted in drafting it (at project completion, the draft decree
was still awaiting signature at the Prime Minister's office). At the moment there are 38
private veterinarians in the country, of which, 20 are already established in the profession and
the rest unemployed. They operate mainly in the suburban poultry and pork producing areas
of Yaounde, Douala, Bafoussam and Ngaoundere. None of them have been financed by the
line of credit included in the project since they have preferred the more advantageous and less
bureaucratic assistance from pharmaceutical firms. The Government agents retiring from
MINEPIA never received the grant, equivalent to one year's salary worth of drugs, to assist
with their initial establishment (Government estimated that this would create a precedent for
Public Health Services staff, which it could not afford).
13.   As stated in the Letter of Government on Livestock Development Policy, attached as
Annex 6 to the SAR, cost recovery on all animal health care provided by MINEPIA was
substantially increased and deposited in the Regional Livestock Development Funds.
However, it has not been possible to audit these funds, and verbal information indicates that
the recorded deposits fell short of the expected amount, particularly after the salaries had
been reduced. Therefore, this component was only partially achieved.
14.   The reorganization of the Veterinary Pharmaceutical Office (OPV) was not done.
This component was fully financed by EDF, technical assistance was provided, ten vehicles
purchased and a computerized stock management system introduced. One million dollars
worth of veterinary products was also purchased to establish a Revolving Fund. After two
years, OPV was declared bankrupt. The Revolving Fund was used to pay old debts to the
suppliers and to finance recurrent costs, particularly staff salaries. OPV former activities



- 6 -
have been taken over by a network of local importers and retailers, which, today, market
three times as much as OPV did in the past.
15.   The project targeted the transformation of SODEPA's commercial activities, mainly
slaughterhouses and ranches, into autonomous, self-financing operations, with profit-oriented
criteria. A study carried out under the PPF was presented to the Commission Technique de
Rehabilitation des Enterprises Publiques et Para-publiques three years ago. No Government
decision has been taken yet on SODEPA's possible privatization. Achievement has been
negligible.
16.   The harmonization of the extension methods and activities of MINEPIA and the
Ministry of Agriculture was given particular attention by both the Government and the Bank.
Collaboration between the Ministry of Agriculture and MINEPIA was defined, while a
memorandum of agreement was signed by the two ministers and further elaborated in
successive meetings. However, this never resulted in any practical joint activity in the field.
Distribution of motorbikes and vehicles were hampered by the lack of an agreed procedure
and operating funds. The agreement was not implemented in a single province.
Achievement has been negligible.
17.   The reorientation of MINEPIA's training centers was achieved. Students were
informed that they would not be recruited by the public sector any longer and found
occupation in the private sector. In several Delegations Provinciales and other offices of
MINEPIA, staff were reduced mainly through attrition.
18.   Meat import taxation was monitored with funds provided by the project and several
studies were carried out. Imported meat, mainly from the European Union, was taxed with
CFAF 1,000 per kilo to offset the subsidization of cheap imports of beef from the E.U. This
tax resulted in a considerable import reduction.
Project Investments
19.  Institution Building. The establishment of herder organizations and producer
associations started late, but appears as one of the most successful components, though
concentrated in the Adamaoua province. During the last 18 months of project
implementation, approximately 65 herders associations were organized (out of 250 planned at
appraisal), with membership varying from 8 to 60 members each. They have different kinds
of activities but the majority are centered around Tsetse control and animal health. They are
trained in simple practices such as the use of "pour on" insecticides, dipping and spraying,
and in certain areas, forage and hay production. They have shown interest in participating,
with cash and labor, in the maintenance of the buffer zone against Tsetse fly.
20.   Central Planning. The Ministry's Studies Unit,DEPF, was to carry out several
studies, including the privatization of veterinary care, the establishment of a monitoring
system for prices of services in remote areas as well as several sociological surveys in the
Tsetse cleared areas. These tasks were carried out successfully. The studies were generally
of good quality. Technical assistance was well integrated into the DEPF, although this



- 7 -
Directorate seems to have remained isolated from the other departments of MINEPIA and
from the field.
21.   Central Administration. A year after the project's inception, a Management Support
Unit ("Cellule de pilotage") was created. It was supposed to be attached to the Secretary
General's office (the project's Coordinator) in order to support its activities. It was staffed by
a high level official and an internationally recruited technical assistant. However, the
"cellule" remained physically (in facilities located in a remote part of the city) and
operationally isolated and its role was completely spurious. Furthermore, information didn't
circulate effectively within MINEPIA, and with few exceptions, technical officers and the
provincial delegations were not well informed about the project and were little concerned
about its execution. No project launch seminar was organized at the beginning of project
activities. The achievement was negligible.
22.   Resource Management. Efforts were made at an early stage of the project to establish
Pilot Range Management Areas under this component; several such areas were selected and
an agreement was signed between MINEPIA and the Livestock Research Agency, IRZV, to
study and monitor grazing areas. Some transfer of personnel and equipment took place.
However, the complexity of this component, associated with a rigid approach adopted by
MINEPIA, didn't produce any substantial results.
23.   Tsetse Control. This component was meant to consolidate the results obtained
through aerial spraying under the previous two projects. The new approach was based on
low cost Tsetse control through the establishment of barriers of insecticide impregnated
screens and traps, with the involvement in the process of local producers, after the last
remaining isolated Tsetse infected "pockets" had been cleared by aerial spraying. Costs were
to be financed by the Fonds Regional de Developpement de l 'Elevage through the collection
of a tax of FCFA 200 per head of cattle grazing in the cleared areas. Technical results were
encouraging, due to a better control of cattle movements, the use of "pour on" products, the
periodical spraying and dipping of cattle as well as the utilization of screens and traps. A
"buffer zone", 150 kms long by 15-30 kms wide, has been established and maintained by the
MSEG with the participation of local herder associations. A network of roads to carry out
the periodical maintenance of screens and traps has been opened and maintained. Although
the achievement has been substantial, the containment of the Tsetse will depend on the
discipline that will be adopted in the implementation of preventive measures as well as on the
availability of realistic financial resources. In spite of the repeatedly affirmed willingness of
herder associations to pay the fee, Government allowed the collection to occur only one year
(in 1991) and subsequently prohibited it. Screens and traps, which require collective
organization for their installation and maintenance, remain indispensable in areas of low
cattle density to prevent the reintroduction of flies with migrating wildlife.
24.   Health Program for Small Stock. This component consisted mainly of vaccinations
and parasite control for small ruminants and poultry in 15 villages per province (in the
Central and South provinces only). Equipment and vehicles were purchased, seminars



- 8 -
organized and consultants recruited. Although it arose great interest among the grassroots
beneficiaries, the impact of this component was limited due to its scarce coverage.
25.   Subloans for Livestock Production and Services. Five loan types were foreseen, for:
veterinarians entering private practice; individual firms seeking veterinary drug imports;
semi- intensive poultry operations; animal products and livestock feed industries; and mixed
farming operations. Loans were also earmarked for improvement of range lands and women
activities in the pilot PLMAS, to be financed by IFAD. However, this component was not
successful in achieving its objectives because two out of three lending agencies didn't have
the capacity at provincial level to participate and the third only started operations in 1992,
and interest rates were considered too high (18 percent in a country with practically zero
inflation). Only 6 percent was disbursed through 11 loans out of more than 204 envisaged in
the SAR. Another constraint faced by this component was the multiplicity of credit and loan
schemes in the North and Extreme North with a variety of conditions that undercut private
banking in this area.
26.   Social Objectives. Although social cohesion within the pastoral society is declining
rapidly, the Fulanis and M'Bororos, (who own two thirds of the national herd) remain a
relatively well structured society. This is probably one of the reasons why the organization
of herders associations was achieved so quickly (65 groups established within the last
18 months). The creation of CETA is probably the most important social achievement
obtained by the project. It is a federation of the 65 associations and is composed of 16
members, of which, 14 are herders and the other 2 are the Chief of MSEG and the Provincial
Delegate of MINEPIA in the Adamaoua province. Its objectives are to strengthen Tsetse
control in the province with the participation of the cattle owners. The availability of funds
would be the main constraint to the development of its activities which, in the future, could
extend beyond their current scope, developing into the promotion of water points,
improvement of range management, development of forage production, etc. These problems
would be solved if the FCFA 200 grazing fee was levied as originally planned and approved
by the herders.
27.   Poverty Alleviation. The aggregate effect of the three projects was the control of
trypanosomiasis over a territory of 3.3 million hectares. This area represents almost 50
percent of the area of the Adamaoua grasslands. The implementation of this component
resulted in an increase in calving rates, reduction of calf and adult mortality and therefore in
an improvement in cattle off-take and family income. Transhumance still persists in some
areas during the dry months but sedentarisation has slowly replaced emigration to
neighboring countries which was common before Tsetse eradication. Development of crop
production amongst the Foulbes, mainly of maize, groundnuts, tubers and vegetables, led to
further stabilization and income diversification and improvement. The utilization of crops
residues and some forage production has also contributed to a closer integration of livestock
with agriculture.
28.   Environmental Objectives. Aerial spraying of the Adamaoua with insecticides was
carried out during the first four years of implementation of the project and was instrumental



-9-
in eradicating Tsetse flies from the region they had started to invade in the sixties. In order to
eradicate the flies from the total area, it was necessary to spray only the forest galeries, which
cover less than 5 percent of the range during the dry season when the flies seek shelter from
the drought. Precautions were taken by the Government to monitor periodically the impact
of this procedure on the environment in cooperation with the University of Hohenheim
(Germany), which provided scientific backing and laboratory support to the team operating in
the field. The results show that no serious damage has been incurred. The presence of Tsetse
over more than half of the total area of the Adamaoua plateau had led in the past to the
disappearance or the departure of a considerable number of herds. This resulted in
destocking and therefore in the regeneration of the range. Now, these herds have returned
and rangelands are in demand. This could result in a serious problem of overgrazing if
restrictive measures are not implemented.
29.   Private Sector Development Obiectives. As mentioned above, they have been
pursued, firstly, (but indirectly) through the promotion of the privatization of the veterinary
profession; secondly, through the creation of the CETA, a first step towards a much more
important role of the private sector (in this case, the herder associations). If the CFAF 200
per animal grazing fee in the Tsetse cleared area is properly levied, this institution could
evolve into a federation of private cattle owners that could be responsible for the design and
implementation of important actions leading to an improvement of livestock production in
the province. So far, the fee has not been collected and the herders are now being sensitized
to the need for such a fee.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
30.   Following a decline in commodity prices, a reduction in foreign exchange earnings
and a decrease in per-capita GDP, the country engaged in a process of adjustment in 1988,
the year the project was identified and prepared. An in-depth review of all the public
enterprises was carried out in order to abolish the loss makers and privatize the profitable
ones. A structural adjustment program was launched which included changes in agricultural
prices policies and administrative reforms.
31.   The CFAF devaluation in January 1994 affected the project in various ways. The
positive side was the increase in the local price for beef and a more open approach from the
producers. The negative side was the further erosion of MINEPIA staff's salaries that made
their situation untenable. The devaluation of the Naira converted Cameroon from a net
exporter into a net importer of cattle and animal products, mainly from Nigeria. Cattle prices
in 1993 were reduced almost by half in relation with those prevailing in 1988, and they only
recovered partially after the CFAF devaluation in early 1994. This is one of the reasons that
explains why the loans that were targeted at cattle and range development didn't disburse.
The impact of the cuts in civil service salaries had devastating effects on MINEPIA's staff
morale and incentives. Furthermore, salaries, particularly in the provinces, were paid up to
three months late.



- 10 -
32.   The Government was, at the beginning, committed to the project. The Government,
at Bank's request, drafted a Letter on Livestock Development Policy, an important document
that was meant to spell out the guidelines for project implementation. Even though the
project was complex and over ambitious, it became an integral part of MINEPIA, one of the
smallest ministries, very specialized in animal health, but without much experience in broad
development activities. After a year and a half, Government attitude towards the project
changed and MINEPIA's commitment to project execution became less evident. This was
partly due to the macroeconomic situation, the difficulties in obtaining counterpart funding,
the suspension of disbursements and, above all, the reduction of staff salaries. However, it
was also due to a high turn-over of top managers at MINEPIA (five Secretaries General in
2 years) and of Task Managers at the Bank (five in two years). The "cellule de pilotage"
never became an effective management tool and was physically and institutionally isolated.
Technical assistance, particularly in Yaounde (mainly through French bilateral aid), was at
best tolerated and generally ignored. This situation worsened after the conclusion of the
Mid-Term Review. The project's shortcomings were so obvious that the decision to cancel
US$13.6 million and to keep only four of the components didn't come as a surprise to the
Government. French bilateral aid withdrew its assistance to the project. However, even
though the restructured project was more manageable, problems related to administration,
coordination with CAA, and procurement continued to affect project performance, despite the
assistance of a private accounting firm and regular supervision. The final three audits were
late and qualified.
33.   Farmer participation was mixed. In the Extreme North (where IFAD disbursement
didn't exceed US$550.000 out of a Loan of US$13.0 million), the proliferation of NGOs and
the availability of alternative, competitive credit schemes didn't help project implementation.
In the Adamaoua province, where the most important work in Tsetse control was carried out,
farmers became gradually interested. Visits of livestock owners to neighboring Burkina Faso
and C.A.R. (organized by the project), where the same problems have been successfully
tackled with important producers' participation, were of crucial importance to build up
further interest in Tsetse control.
Project Sustainability
34.   Although macroeconomic circumstances affected the performance of the project, it is
clear that its size and complexity affected its sustainability. Although it was considerably
restructured by the Mid-Term Review, this type of project is only sustainable if simplified
and limited to the Tsetse control component closely linked with a sub-component of producer
associations. Keeping the areas free of trypanosomiasis, particularly in the Adamaoua
province, should continue to have the beneficiaries' support and commitment. If carried out
with the low cost "screens and traps" system, a possible follow-up project may have a
technical, financial and environmental viability. The social impact would be important
provided the participation of a large number of producers becomes more evident and a
continuous and closer collaboration with MSEG is properly organized.



Bank Performance
35.   Overall, Bank performance was mixed. Identification and preparation were
satisfactory and the dialogue with the Government was constructive. The objectives were
mutually agreed and they were consistent with government development priorities. The
project was prepared by a consultant firm, financed under a PPF, and under close supervision
by both Bank and Government. To ensure maximum Cameroonian participation in the
project's design, a workshop with government officials was organized during appraisal.
IFAD, one of the cofinanciers, carried out a post-appraisal mission with an economist and a
sociologist. With the benefit of hindsight, it now appears that various aspects were not
assessed with the necessary prudence. This applies, in particular, to the MINEPIA's
management and coordination capacity, the credit arrangements, the land management
component, and the environmental consequences of a successful Tsetse eradication program.
36.   During the first year, the project was satisfactorily supervised. Later on, supervisions
became less frequent (because of country-based suspensions of disbursements) and a year
elapsed without any mission visiting the project. It was only after 1992 that the project was
regularly supervised again. While supervision identified and tried to address implementation
problems, the project was having problems of counterpart funding, slow disbursement, lack
of commitment and poor management.
37.   A long overdue Mid-Term Review was conducted in April 1993 and recommended
reducing the project's size, limiting its activities mainly to the Tsetse control campaigns, the
privatization of the veterinary profession and the health program for small stock. A new
component was incorporated (assistance to the LANAVET laboratory at Garoua), and a semi-
autonomous management unit (UMCO) was created, assisted by a private accounting firm.
The Loan was reduced to US$21 million.
Borrower's Performance
38.   The government participated in the process of preparation and appraisal but, with few
exceptions, didn't foresee the consequences of an excessively large and complicated project
and the managerial limitations of MINEPIA. Although the project was in line with macro-
sector and financial policies, and the government was concerned about social objectives, it
didn't have the means, and later on the commitment, to carry out a proper implementation.
For example, the inadequacy of the lending channels, the high interest rates, and the lack of
promotion in the provinces all affected the disbursement of one of the most important
components (credit). Counterpart funding was a continuous problem, which, associated with
a lack of operational resources, crippled the extension work. The Government didn't feel
committed to the project to the extent that the signing of the Amendment to the Loan
Agreement after restructuring took more than a year. Managerial deficiencies in
procurement, accounts and lack of transparency were consistently eroding disbursement and
operations. In general, the relations of project management with the CAA were not very
constructive. The appointment of a private accounting firm to assist the Management Unit of
MINEPIA failed to fulfill its objectives. It developed into a parallel body, a source of



- 12 -
multiple conflicts with the project management, and didn't solve the continuous problems of
slow processing of disbursement that plagued the project until the end.
39.   The MSEG team at Ngaoundere was properly staffed, with dedicated and competent
professionals and well integrated with the local herdsmen organizations. Having concluded
the last aerial spraying to clean up some isolated areas, the follow-up strategy was based on
the low cost, environmentally friendly "screen and traps" technique, complemented with the
use of "pour on" insecticides, periodical cattle spraying and dipping and, above all, a close
control of cattle movements, particularly in the "buffer zone". Periodical monitoring of the
impact of insecticides in the environment was carried out.
Assessment of Outcome
40.   The project outcome is still unsatisfactory because, with the exception of the Tsetse
control and the organization of herders associations, it is not expected to yield substantial
development results.
41.   The implementation of the health program for small stock, in principle a rather simple
operation, was constantly delayed by government, with continuous organizational and
bureaucratical bottlenecks (request for training government technicians to supervise the
private veterinarians, delays in identifying and training village vaccinators, and restrictions to
their activities). Yet, the few actions in the field met with more success and aroused more
interest on the part of primarily crop-oriented villagers than had been forecast by officials.
42.   The privatization of the veterinary profession was also an important priority. Despite
the fact that the project component didn't have a direct impact in reaching this objective, the
constant dialogue between the Bank, the Order of Cameroonian Veterinarians and the local
and foreign pharmaceutical firms resulted in 38 veterinarians opting for the private sector and
20 establishing themselves in private practice. Bank's pressure to stop the recruitment of
veterinarians in MINEPIA also led to a "de facto" situation in which the private sector was
the only option open to the young graduates. But despite the Order's and the Bank's efforts
to promote the issuance of the "mandat sanitaire" (that would have offered further
employment opportunities for the profession), the decree still remains unsigned at the Prime
Minister's office. Yet, import and distribution of veterinary pharmaceuticals are now fully
private, with 8 major importers operating on the market.
43.   Assistance to the LANAVET laboratory at Garoua was considered strategically
important and during the Mid-Term Review, funds were allocated for that purpose. The key
role of this laboratory in vaccine production for Central Africa and its importance as the only
center for epidemiosurveillance in the country is unquestionable. Its reputation for the
quality of its products is firmly established regionally. Moreover, the sales of vaccines and
veterinary products are a source of foreign exchange earnings. Built 15 years ago and
financed by the national budget, the laboratory needed to renew some of its equipment in
order to separate vaccine production and research activities in view of the privatization of the
former. It also needed to import essential reagents and materials for routine work. But due



- 13 -
to the fact that there were no funds left on the Special Account and that the CAA refused to
apply for the "Special Commitment" and "Direct Payment" procedures from the Bank, time
elapsed and the supplies remained undelivered. Therefore, LANAVET operations, already
seriously limited by the Government budgetary restrictions, are now in serious jeopardy.
Future Operations
44.   Under the present circumstances and based on the experience of this project, any
follow-up in the field of livestock development in Cameroon should take the following points
into consideration:
(a)   The involvement of the public sector, and particularly of MINEPIA, should be
reduced to a minimum. For example, in the case of the Tsetse control in the
Adamaoua province, MINEPIA's participation should be limited to the work
of the MSEG and the USOV, possibly on a contractual basis. Direct public
sector involvement in project management in the field of livestock should
definitely be excluded.
(b)   The role of the private sector should be enhanced and institutions like the
CETA should have an important supervisory role. They should be financially
autonomous and have their own operational resources in order not to suffer
from the public sector interference (arbitrary use of vehicles, budget
breakdowns, interference from bureaucracy, late delivery of inputs, etc.).
(c)   A possible follow-up project should encompass two components. One would
consist of the consolidation of the Tsetse control in the Adamaoua as the
situation remains extremely fragile and the "buffer zone" could be overrun any
time. The other one would be the continuation of the vaccination campaign
against "Peste des Petits Ruminants" and the most common poultry diseases.
(d)   Regarding the first component, and following the example of Burkina Faso,
CETA should be made responsible for coordinating all activities in the Tsetse
control. It should be based in Ngaoundere and be completely decentralized.
Its current structure should be re-enforced through a closer relationship with
the MSEG and USOV. Some of its members, particularly the younger ones,
should be trained and its accounts should be kept by a private firm based at
Ngaoundere.
(e)   Regarding the second component (vaccination campaigns for small ruminants
and poultry), it should be carried out by private veterinarians and restricted
during a first phase to the Central and Southern provinces. This component
could also be detached from this project and added to the second phase of the
Research and Extension Project.



- 14-
Key Lessons Learned
45.   Although the dramatic deterioration of the country's economy had a serious impact on
the project implementation, particularly on prices, inputs, costs, salaries, incentives, etc.,
some features of the project itself were at the root of its limited impact. The project adopted
an approach that was rather common at the time of preparation/appraisal: the multiplication
of components, and the inclusion of every possible category of beneficiaries, related in one
way or another to the field of livestock production. This resulted in an operation that was
overly ambitious, very complex, and implemented over a large territory.
46.   Although in neighboring countries like Burkina Faso and CAR, the organization of
herder associations had made considerable progress, their development in Cameroon only
gained momentum with the Tsetse control program. The extension program undertaken
during the first phase of this project in the livestock areas, particularly in the North, did not
produce the expected results. Neither government nor producer associations were strong
enough to take over extension. An appropriate assessment of the capacity of the government
to carry out this task would have been essential.
47.   The credit component suffered from two shortcomings. One, was its size and the
number and variety of credit lines; and the other, was the difficulty in finding an appropriate
agency for its implementation. Again, a more thorough analysis of the institutions at the time
of appraisal would have helped during implementation.
48.   The recruitment of a private accounting firm for the financial management,
particularly procurement, should have smoothed and accelerated disbursements. However,
the frustration of MINEPIA's officials at losing the direct financial management of the
project and a misinterpretation of the firms TORs led to internal strife at managerial level.
There should have been better efforts to coordinate the work of MINEPIA and the accounting
firm.
49.   The successful performance of the Tsetse control component and the role played by
the MSEG demonstrated again the importance of: (a) decentralization, (b) the one line of
command approach; and (c) the highest possible degree of autonomy. It is now rather
obvious that the project was in general, and with the exception of the Tsetse control
component, operating in a vacuum. Many people in the livestock subsector didn't know
much about its existence. A better promotional activity, through seminars, meetings, etc.
should have been essential in the early stages of project implementation.



- 15 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievementof Objectives        Substantial    Partial   Negligible Not Applicable
Macro policies                                 F             L
Sector policies                                  3
Financial objectives               z            7           A I
Institutional development         E            F3            7          E
Physical objectives               E             E          F            F
Poverty reduction                  g                       r - 
Gender issues                      C                        V            - 
Other social objectives             7          E           F            F
Environmental objectives          F            I             7          E
Public sector management           7           F           I"             E
Private sector development        E            I           F            F
Other (specify)                    7           E           F            F
B. ProjectSustainability           Likely      Unlikely   Uncertain
Hi,h y
C. Bank Performance            Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                 7            23            E
Preparation assistance         F            E             z
Appraisal                      F             z           F3
Supervision                      E          23           F



- 16 -
Highly
D. Borrower Performance          Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                     0           S3           7
Implementation                 E           F            S3
Covenant compliance             C          F            S3
Operation (if applicable)       L          F            E
Highly                                    Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome       Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
71    F1                   EX I
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/CreditTitle                      Purpose          Year of Approval        Status
Preceding Operations
1. Livestock                     Livestock Sec.Dev.      March 1974          Completed
2. Livestock ll                  Livestock Sec. Dev.      April 1980         Completed
3. Rural Dev. North               Area development      November 1980        Completed
4. West. Province R.D             Area development        April 1984         Completed
Following Operations
1. Food Security                   Food Security          July 1991           Ongoing
2. Agricultural Sector Adjustment  Sector finance                             Ongoing
3. Second Western Province         Area Develop.                              Ongoing



- 17-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned    [        Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
ldentification(Executive Project Summary)           December 1986            January 1987
Preparation                                         November 1987           November 1987
Appraisal                                           February 1988             March 1988
Negotiations                                                                 October 1988
Letter of developmentpolicy (if applicable)         November 1987            February 1988
Board presentation                                   January 1989           January 10, 1989
Signing                                            January 25, 1989         January 25, 1989
Effectiveness                                         April 1989              May 30, 89
Midterm review (if applicable)                      November 1992             April 1993
Project completion                                   June 30, 1995           June 30, 1996
Loan closing                                      December 31, 1995        December 31. 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS '000)
FY 89  FY 90   FY 91   FY 92  FY 93   FY 94  FY 95  FY 96   FY 97
Appraisal estimate       4.00    8.90    12.90   18.60   25.40   32.20   34.20    0.00    0.00
Actual                   0.19    2.33    3.34    7.87    9.30   11.86   13.37   13.71   13.96
Actual as percent of     4.75   26.17   25.89   42.31   36.61   36.83   39.09          -
estimate
Date of final disbursement: March 24, 1997



- 18 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in           Estimated                         Actual
SAR
1.  Number of private             40 (number of loans to help     20. None of them with a loan
veterinarians established     establishmentunder the line of  from Project's line of credit ( 18
credit from the Project)       more unemployed)
2.  Number of importers of         At least 2.                    At least 12. None of the importers
veterinary pharmaceuticals                                    of pharmaceuticalsbenefited from
the line of credit. All received
credit from their foreign suppliers.
3.  Number of herders                           250                             65
associations established
4.  Equipment purchased                         na
Vehicles                                                                   42
Bulldozer                                                                    I
Grader                                                                       I
Wheel tract.                                                                 I
Motorbikes                                                                 122
Bikes                                                                       58
5.  Travel to neighbouring                      na
countries (study Tsetse control)
Herders                                                                     8
Professionals                                                               8
6.  Secondary roads construction                na                            950 km
7.  Houses for teams working in                 12                              6
the "buffer zone"
8.  Technical parameters
Estimated cattle population             1.4 million                     1.7 million
Effective weaning rate                  50 percent                      62 percent
Adult mortality                          6 percent                      4 percent
Liveweight(adult)                         350 kg                         380 kg
Extraction rate                         10 percent                      12 percent



- 19 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined                           Impact of
Study                   at Appraisal/Redefined           Status          Study
1.  Cattle marketing in the  Marketing channels                 Completed      Very useful
North
2.  Productivity of livestock   Basis for production assessment  Completed     Very useful
3.  Pastoral population in  Better understandingof herders      Completed      Very useful
Adamaoua                behaviour
4.  Tsetse Control in        Technical grounds for low cost control   Completed  Very useful
Adamaoua                of Tsetse
5.  Poultry production in   Survey of poultry production        Completed      Acceptable
Cameroon                                                                  quality
6.  Tax on beef imports     Better understandingof beef         Completed      Negligible
consumption
7.  Study of veterinary     To obtain basic information about OPV   Completed  Negligible
products network        and private distributors
8.  Livestock and crops     To study the possibilitiesof animal  Completed     Negligible
integration in the cotton    traction and fattening in the
areas of the North      SODECOTON area making use of
crops by-products
9.  Evaluation of strategy for  To update progress on Tsetse control    Completed  Very useful
Tsetse control in the   after 4 years of activities
Adamaoua
10. The herders in the buffer   Follow-up from previous sociological   Completed  Very useful
zone of Adamaoua        study
11. Technical services and  Assessment of technical services by  Completed     Very useful
herders associations    herders associations
12. Impact of meat import   Assessment of meat import policy                  Acceptable
taxation on domestic                                                      quality
consumption and
production
13. Audit of administrative    To establishthe operationalbasis of            Negligible
and budgetary procedures  accountancy unit



- 20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                   (US$M)                     (US$M)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local T Foreign   Total
Costs   Costs             Costsj  Costs
Institutionbuilding       7.70     13.40   21.10     3.14      6.44     9.58
Resource management       1.90     5.00    6.90      0.88      1.78     2.66
Animal health             1.80      8.70   10.50     0.01      0.03     0.04
Credit                    1.10     6.60    7.70      0.13      0.25     0.38
OPV restructuring         -        -        -        0.59      1.21     1.80
Technical assistance      -        -        -        0.36      0.74     1.10
Special account           -        -        -        0.35      0.72     1.07
IFAD                      -        -        -        -         0.55     0.55
Domestic                                                                1.26
Base cost                12.50    33.70   46.20      5.46     11.72    18.44
Physical contingencies    1.00      1.60    2.60     -        -         -
Price contingencies       3.30      3.10    6.40     -        -         -
Total project costs      16.80     38.40   55.20     5.46     11.72    18.44
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate       Actual/LatestEstimate
Source                  (US$M)                      (US$M)
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs            Costs   Costs
IBRD/IDA                 7.50     27.10   34.60    4.51       9.22     13.73
EDF (OPV)                0.00       1.90    1.90    0.59      1.21      1.80
FAC(TA)                  0.00       1.60    1.60    0.36      0.74      1.10
IFAD                     3.20       7.60   10.80      -       0.55      0.55
Domestic contribution    6.10       0.20    6.30      -          -         -
Total                   16.80     38.40   55.20    5.46      11.72     18.44



- 21 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(US$ '000)
Animal
Year  Capital Inv.& Op.    Health    Total           Benefits        Incr.       Net
Costs    Costs 1/   Expenses 2/ Costs   With   Without  Benefits   Benefits
Project  Project
1       3872            0        4500   8372   38699    37471         1228      -7144
2       6503            0         4500  11003   39969    37471        2498      -8505
3       2200            0         4500   6700   41282      37471      3811      -2889
4       7223            0         4500  11723   42643      37471       5172     -6551
5       2257            0         4500   6757   44052      37471      6581        -176
6       3584            0         4500   8084   45509      37471       8038        -46
7        1661           0         4500   6161   47018      37471      9547       3386
8        340            0         4500   4840   48582      37471      11111      6271
9          25         769         4500   5294   50201      37471      12730      7436
10          0         769         4500   5269   61319      37471      23848      18579
11          0         769         4500   5269   63072      37471      25601      20332
12          0         769         4500   5269   64879      37471      27408      22139
13          0         769         4500   5269   66740      37471      29269      24000
14          0         769         4500   5269   68659      37471      31188      25919
15          0         769         4500   5269   70637      37471      33166      27897
16          0         769         4500   5269   72675      37471      35204      29935
17          0         769         4500   5269   74776      37471      37305      32036
18          0         769         4500   5269   76942      37471      39471      34202
19          0         769         4500   5269   79176      37471      41705      36436
20          0         769         4500   5269   81479    37471        44008      38739
1/ Operating costs from year I to 8 included in the capital costs. Costs from year 9 onwards are for
follow-up activities of MSEG, USOV and CETA.
IRR=24 percent
2/ This assumption includes animal health treatment for 900,000 head @ an average of US$5 per
head. These expenses to be covered by the herders.



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-           Covenant Present  Original   Revised                        Descriptionof
ment    Section Type        Status   Fulfilment  Fulfil.                       Covenant                                            Comments
Date      Date
L30140  3.01(A) 4           CP                           Commitmentof Borrower(counterpartfunding).           Only CFAF 9 million paid out of 25.5 due in October 1995.
3.01(b) 3         C                             Subsidiaryfinancingagreementwith financial intermediary    Limitedby MTR to privateveterinariansand importersof
(Credit Agricole) for loans to veterinarians,feed producers,   pharmaceuticals.Closing date extended in November 1995
poultry farmers and importersof pharmaceuticals.    upon requestfrom Bank to comply with extensionof Loan
closing date.
3.03    5         C        06/01/89             Recruitmentof a financial controllerby Borrower.    MTR mission noted the ineffect. and high cost of controllerand
recommendedterminatingthe contract. Aiiendmentto the Loan
Agreementallows for contractinga local account. firm to keep
project accounts and records. Contract. completed Jan.1995.
3.04    3         C                             Borrowerforwards Bank annual programme and budget.  Borrowerhas usually compliedwith this covenant but MTR and
subsequentdelays have delayed implementationin 1993/94.
Currently in order.
3.05    5         NC       12/31/89             Borrowerto send Bank plans before undertaking       No agro pastoral developmentwas undertaken under the project
implementationof agro-pastoral development.         before MTR. Covenant appl ied since to development
undertaken in the Tsetsefront-linefrom now on.
4.01    I         CP                            Keeping accounts and provisionof audits.            Audits have constantly been overdue. Under the restructured
project an accounting firm has been contracted to keep records
and accounts. FY 1995 audits will be 2 months late.
4.2     10        C        06/01/89             Employmentof a consultantextension specialistand a small  The extension spec. was operatinguntil July 1995. The SPN
ruminants specialist.                               mission recommended replacing him with short-term consult. of
which one was completed in March/April 1996. Small
ruminantsspec. actually was assisting PMU, and not renewed
after MTR.
5.3     12        NC       12/31/90             ReorganisationofOPV in view of financial selfsustainability  The study of OPV managementwas completed and
in consultationwith EDF and the Bank.               recommendationsissued but not implemented.OPV eventually
went bankrupt and was closed in 1995.
5.4     12        CP       12/30/89             Study of SODEPA and implementationof study          The study was completedand SODEPA submitted to the
recommendations.                                    "Commissionpour la privatisationdes entreprisespubliques".
Situation at a standstill since the beginningof 1993.
5.5     12        CP      06/30/89              AgreementwithMINAGRlon implementationof the         An agreementwaseventuallysignedbutneverimplemented.
extension component.                                May be reviewed after the closingof loan to ensure
continuationof support to herders in the "bufferzone" under
National Ag. Ext. but MINEPIA reluctantbecause of turf
conflicts.
5.6     12        C       06/30/89              Limit recruitmentand stop guaranteeingemploymentto  Partly met. lmplementationmeasures were disrupted by civil
LivestockTrainingCcnter students at Garoua.         unrest and disobediencefollowingthe civil servants salaries
reduction in 1993/94. Employmentwith Govemmentno longer
guaranteedfor Garoua students.



-23 -
Agree-           Covenant Present  Original   Revised                         Descriptionof
ment    Section Type        Status   Fulfilment  Fulfil.                        Covenant                                             Comments
Date      Date
3.3     10         C       02/28/95              Recruitmentof an accounting firm to keep project accounts.   Done. It took a year to have MIR report approved and
Amendmentto Loan Agreement signed (04/04/94), and almost
another year to have MOCU's director appointed and
accountingfirm recruited (02/95).
3.06    5          C                             Before undertakingdevelopmentBorrowerto forward to Bank Complied with so far.
for its approval detailed plans concemingproposed
infrastructure,financial requirementsand organizational
arrangements for any such areas.
2B      I          C                            Creation of GICAPs (herders associations)in the "buffer  Done. CETA was established in June 1995, and met 5 times in
zone", establishmentofCETA (Committee for the Eradication 1995 and 2 in 1996. 17 GICAPs were establishedbefore Oct.
of Tsetse in Adamaoua).                              1995 and 46 as of May 1996 with total membership of 1,200.
2D      3          C                             Dl now reads Restructurationof LANAVET in view of the    Fully implem. in October1995. LANAVET cash flow over
privatisationof its commercial vaccine production activities.  CFAF 300 m annually. Research supported by France and EU.
Procrastinationof CAA prevented contracts for del ivery of
equipments and suppl ies to be executed, thus putting
LANAVET operations in jeopardy.
2E      13         C                             Suppress parts E3, 4, 5 of Sch. to original Loan Agreement.   Done.
8. 1 (a)   12      CD                           Establ ishmentwithin MINEPIA of MOCU (Ministerial     Done in November 1994.
Operational Coordination Unit).
8.1 (b)   12       CP                           Establishmentwithin MINEPIA of a coordinationcommittee. Done in November 1994. Committee never meets.
8.3(c)   12       NC                            CETA to supervise collection and use of the CFAF 200 Tsetse CETA made plans for tax collection, but so far prevented by
eradicationfee, and monitorherd movements.           Ministry to actually collect it because of alleged possible
consequenceson consecutive election campaigns.
8.3(c)   12        C                            SEP to be CETA's executivebody.                       SEP established.Has met with CETA and separately. Powers
limited by constant interferencefrom MINEPIA Delegate.
8.3(d)  2          NC                           MINEPIAto ensure that the CFAF 200 per head of cattle tax   Tax collection not started for reasons indicatedabove.
levied by its staff in cooperationwith herderrepresentativesin
Adamoua, is paid into RDLF for Adamaoua (the 70percent
which do not go to Treasury).
Covenant types:                                                                                                            Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                           8. =    Indigenous people                                                   C   =    covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation  9. =    Monitoring, review, and reporting
from beneficiaries                       10. =    Project implementation not covered                                 CP =    complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds               by categories 1-9
4. = Counterpart funding                       II. =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary                               CD =    complied with after delay
5. = Management aspects of the project or                or other resource allocation
executing agency                      12. =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action  NC =    not complied with
6. =     Environmental covenants               13. =    Other
7. = Involuntary resettlement



- 24 -
Table 11: Compliancewith Operational Manual Statements
No non-compliancewith the OMS was observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle       __Actual
Staffweeks    |        US$('000)
Preparation to appraisal                    37.8               88.5
Appraisal                                   27.5               66.3
Negotiationsthrough Board approval          15.8               40.3
Supervision(l)                             111.9              348.4
Completion                                  8.4                30.1
Total                                      201.4              573.6



- 25 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project  Month/ Number  Days in    Specialised           PerformanceRating              Types of
Cycle        Year      of    the Field   Staff Skills                                       Problems
Persons             Represented
Implementation   Development
____                                                        Status         Objectives
Through appraisal FY 86      7        20    Livestock,
Economist,
Finan. Analyst
Appraisal through  FY 87-    6        30    Liv.,Econ.,             -                -
Board approval   89                         Finan.Analyst.
Supervision      Apr89       4        15    Liv. and Econ.          3               2         Harmonizationof
Extension services
with Minagri
Supervision      Mar 90      1        10    Liv. Spec.              2               3         Delays in
Recruitmentof
T.A.
Supervision     Feb 91       2        10    Liv. Credit             3               3         Counterpartfunds
Econ.                                            - Inapropriate
management-
Bureaucr. delays
Supervision      Dec 91      2        10    Agron. Credit           3               2         Management.
Lack of
commitment
Supervision     Jun 92       2        15    Liv. Econ.              3               2         Management.
Counterpart funds
Mid Term Review  Apr93       6        21    Liv. Econ.              4               3         Management.
Finan. Credit                                    Project requires
serious restruction
Supervision     Apr94        1        9    Liv.                    S                S         Management.
Procurement
delays. Credit
Supervision      Oct 94      1        12    Liv.                    S               S         Management
Supervision      May 95      1        10    Liv.                    S               S         Management
Supervision     Oct 95       1        10    Liv.                   U                U         Counterpartfunds
Supervision     May 96       1        10    Liv..                  U                S         Procurement
delays. Lack of
commitment
Completion       Sep 96      1        21    Liv.Econ.              U                U         Procurement, lack
of commitment



- 26 -
Appendix A
REPUBLIQUE DU CAMEROUN
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR DE L'ELEVAGE
(PRET 3014-CM)
RAPPORT FINAL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
AIDE-MEMOIRE
0.1   La mission pour le rapport final d'execution du Projet de Developpement du
Secteur de l'Elevage PDSE (Pret 3014 CM) s'est deroulee du 4 au 25 octobre 1996. Elle
a ete effectuee par M. Percival Bono, Specialiste de 1'Elevage, Consultant, avec 1'appui
des cadres du MINEPIA, notamment:
- M. Maurice Bayemi, Secretaire General du MINEPIA et Coordinateur du Projet
- Dr. Paul Tsangueu, Directeur de l'UMCO
- Dr. John N'Doki NDoumbe, Chef de la MSEG
- Dr. 0. Dawa. Delegue Provincial de l'Adamaoua
- Dr. H. Saidou, Directeur des Services Veterinaires
- M. D. Leuze, Directeur General du Cabinet Comptable Eura Audit
0.2   La mission s'est rendue a Garoua oui elle a visite le laboratoire LANAVET et
rencontre le Dr. Abdoulkadiri Souley et ses collegues. Le lendemain elle a continue le
voyage vers Ngaound6r6 oui elle a rencontre les Docteurs Dawa et N'Doki, leurs
collaborateurs ainsi que les representants des eleveurs. Elle a visit6 plusieurs sites et
villages out la MSEG et la Delegation Provinciale realisent des activit6s. Plusieurs
reunions de travail on ete organisees a Libon, Mandourou, Bewe, Mando et Mbang
Bouhari. Des reunions finales ont eu lieu a Ngaoundere avec l'USOV, la MSEG et le
CETA.
0.3    A Yaounde, la mission a rencontre:
- M. Jose Tissier de la CFD,
- M. Franck Humbert du FAC,
- M. Blok et Mme MVondo du FED,
- M. Hubert Rauch et Awono du Credit Agricole du Cameroun,
- M. Julien Gonta de la CAA,
- Dr. E. Engueleguele de la SODEPA.
- Dr. Ombede Ohandja, Delegue Provincial de la Province du Centre.
- Dr. M. Sabo, ex Directeur de l'OPV,
- Dr. F. Kamga Fotso de l'Ordre des Veterinaires du Cameroun Prov. du Centre.



- 27 -
0.4   La mission a visite plusieurs sites oui s'est deroulee la campagne d'animation et de
vaccinations des petits ruminants et des volailles dans la province du Centre.
0.5   La mission remercie sincerement Son Excellence Monsieur le Ministre de
l'Elevage, des Peches et des Industries Animales qu'elle a eu l'occasion de rencontrer une
fois, pour l'accueil cordial qui lui a et reserve ainsi que pour l'appui particulierement
efficace de ses collaborateurs.
OBJECTIF DE LA MISSION
0.6   L'objectif de la mission est de rediger un rapport representant le bilan
institutionnel, financier et technique du Projet au moment de sa cl6ture. II s'agit d'un
exercice commun entre 1'Emprunteur et la Banque, dont la presente mission ne represente
que la deuxieme etape, la premiere ayant e  la preparation par l'UMCO d'une serie de
documents. Le rapport de mission sous forme provisoire sera adresse au Gouvemement
du Cameroun pour etre complte par la partie relative au point de vue du Gouvemement
sur le deroulement du Projet. Le rapport final d'achevement du projet sera constitue de
1'ensemble de ces contributions.
CONSTATATIONS DE LA MISSION
0.7   Les objectifs principaux du projet etaient d'augmenter la production de lait et de
viande, d'ameliorer le revenu des eleveurs, particulierement des plus pauvres et de
r=duire la dependance des producteurs vis-a-vis du budget de 1'Etat. Ceci devait s'obtenir:
a) en ameliorant la performance du secteur traditionnel et modeme de I 'levage; b) en
ameliorant le role du secteur prive comme une source complementaire de services pour
l1'levage; c) en rendant les entreprises para-publiques plus performantes et competitives;
et d) en consolidant les capacites de planification et vulgarisation des services du
MINEPIA.
0.8   Le projet devait s'executer en realisant deux types d'actions. La premiere
consistait en une serie de reformes, principalement de politique et la deuxieme par des
investissements. Les deux etaient complementaires. Voici, de facon resumee, les
constatations de la mission sur chacune d'elles.
0.9   Privatisation de la sante animale: Le Gouvemement et la Banque ont realise de
multiples efforts pour atteindre cet objectif. L'Ordre des Veterinaires du Cameroun a
organise plusieurs reunions et seminaires, et a etabli les criteres qui doivent ere suivis
pour obtenir I'autorisation d'exercer la profession dans le prive. De 1993 a 1996, 38
veterinaires, la plupart d'entre eux des jeunes professionnels, ont opte pour le prive. Vingt
parmi eux se sont deja installes. Malheureusement, la conjoncture economique n'est pas
du tout favorable pour ce genre d'activite et l'absence d'un mandat sanitaire limite encore



- 28 -
plus les possibilites de travail. Aucune des lignes de credit prevues pour l'installation des
veterinaires prives n'a ete deboursee a cause du taux d'intdr&t eleve.
0.10   Restructuration de 1 'OPV: Un des objectifs principaux de cette composante etait
de remettre en fonction une organisation qui devait jouer un role important dans la
politique de protection sanitaire du pays en facilitant la distribution capillaire de produits
pharmaceutiques. Malgre un investissement de presque 2 millions de dollars par le FED
(comme partie integrante du PDSE), 1'OPV a e  liquide en 1995. Le fond de roulement
qui en principe devait constituer un des aspects plus importants de la restructuration (I
million de dollars) a et utilise pour financer les operations courantes de l'institution et
payer des fournisseurs. Le role de l'OPV a ete repris par les firmes pharmaceutiques
privees.
0.11  Restructuration et eventuelle privatisation de la SODEPA: Depuis 1993,
plusieurs etudes de faisabilite on ete realisees pour adopter une decision sur l'avenir de
cette societe. Ces etudes se trouvent encore A la Commission Technique de
Rehabilitation des Entreprises Publiques et Para-publiques, et aucune decision n'a encore
ete prise. La situation des abattoirs de Yaounde et de Douala est devenue critique, car la
plupart des installations ont presque 20 ans.
0.12 L'harmonisation des methodes de vulgarisation entre le MINEPIA et le
MINAGRI: La collaboration entre les deux ministeres a ete d6finie et des accords ont
6t6 signes par les ministres respectifs. Pour le moment, cette collaboration ne s'est pas
traduite par des actions concretes sur le terrain.
0.13   Planification Centrale: Une serie d'6tudes devaient etre realisees par la DEPF qui
devait aussi organiser des cours de formation et effectuer le suivi et 1'evaluation des
differents parametres tels que : le prix de la viande, les importations, les cofits des
services veterinaires, etc. La majorite de ce programme a e  execute.
0.14   Administration Centrale: Un an apres la mise en place du projet, des problemes
de gestion ont commence A apparaitre et une "cellule de pilotage" fat creee pour faciliter
1'administration et la coordination des differentes actions. Cette "cellule" qui etait
composee d'un fonctionnaire de haut niveau et d'un expatrie, est restee isol6e et son role
a ete negligeable. L'information au sujet du projet et de ses activites n'a pas circule
d'une facon effective au sein du MINEPIA. La connaissance des objectifs du projet par
les fonctionnaires du MINEPIA sur le terrain etait fragmentaire et en general tres limitee.
0.15  Groupements des eleveurs: Cette composante a ete executee tard et pendant une
periode limitee (1 8 mois sur un total de 7 ans). C'est une des meilleures realisations du
projet, qui A travers un travail soutenu et efficace a organise 65 groupements d'e1eveurs
qui couvrent pratiquement toute la province de l'Adamaoua. Ils se sont reunis sous la
forme d'un Comite pour l'Eradication de la Tsetse A l'Adamaoua (CETA) qui est destine
a jouer un r6le important pour la conservation des acquis de la lutte antiglossinaire, et
l'ventuelle expansion des zones assainies. Les visites des eleveurs au Burkina Faso et en
RCA ont e  d'une tres grande utilite puisqu'ils ont pu apprecier dans des conditions plus



- 29 -
difficiles que celles de 1'Adamaoua, la viabilite de la lutte antiglossinaire et surtout le r6le
que les eleveurs jouaient dans 1'entretien et le financement de cette lutte.
0.16   Contr6le de la mouche Tsetse: Cette composante devait consolider les acquis
obtenus par les deux projets precedents. Apres deux campagnes d'epandages, le contr6le
de la mouche devait se poursuivre par le biais de l'utilisation d'ecrans et pieges
impregnes d'insecticides, l'utilisation de "pour on", la supervision des transhumances,
l'utilisation de bains detiqueurs, etc. Une zone "tampon" de 150 km de long et de 15 a 20
km de large a et etablie et entretenue avec la participation active des eleveurs. Un reseau
de 1000 km de pistes pour realiser les inspections periodiques a ete ouvert. La
construction de 12 cases pour loger des equipes de supervision n'a pas encore et
terminee. Les resultats de cette operation ont e  tres positifs. La surface totale assainie
dans la Province de l'Adamaoua est de l'ordre de 3.2 millionss d'hectares, sur une surface
pastorale totale de 7 millionss d'hectares. En 1978, la surface assainie n'atteignait pas
300.000 ha. Les eleveurs ont ete associes a la lutte antiglossinaire et sont disposes A
adopter (et faire adopter par leurs pairs) les normes techniques preconisees par la MSEG,
ainsi que la gestion des paturages et des transhumances. L'augmentation de la production
et de la productivite du cheptel paraissent evidentes, ainsi que 1'integration des activites
agricoles a l'levage. L'assistance technique pretee par plusieurs consultants a e  d'une
tres grande utilite, surtout sur le sujet de 1' integration des mouvements des eleveurs avec
le travail de la MSEG.
0.17   Programme de sante animale pour les petits ruminants et la volaille: Une
composante mineure du PDSE. Malgre quelques efforts au debut du projet, seulement 6
mois avant sa cl6ture, quelques realisations telles que la vaccination contre la peste des
petits ruminants et contre Newcastle et cholera aviaire ont ete enregistrees sur 1O villages
des Provinces du Centre et du Sud. Un effort limite malgre l'incidence des maladies de
petits ruminants et la volaille et vu l'importance que ces especes ont dans le milieu des
cultures de rente .
0.18   Credit pour l'Mlevage et la privatisation de la profession veterinaire: Cinq lignes
de credit destinees au financement d'importations de produits pharmaceutiques,
installations de cliniques veterinaires privees, entreprises de production avicole,
amelioration des parcours, etc. avaient e  prevues. Pratiquement, aucune n'a et
d6boursee A 1'exception du financement de quelques fermes avicoles. Les causes
principales ont ete les taux d'int&r&t eleves et la presence de sources alternatives de credit
A des conditions plus attrayantes.
0.19   Amenagement de zones pilotes de parcours: Quelques efforts ont et realises au
debut du projet pour executer cette composante. Plusieurs zones ont e  ainsi identifiees
et un accord a e  signe entre le MINEPIA et l'IRZV. Neanmoins, due A la complexite de
l'operation, aucune suite n'a e  donnee a cette composante.



- 30 -
CONCLUSIONS DE LA MISSION
0.20  Dans sa conception originale, le projet etait trop complexe et trop vaste, puisqu'il
couvrait toute la surface d'un pays tres etendu et tres varie. La proliferation de
composantes et l'inclusion de toutes les categories imaginables de beneficiaires ont ete
les facteurs qui ont n6gativement pese sur son execution. Les caracteristiques meme du
projet sont a l'origine de la plupart de ses problemes. II est evident que la capacite des
institutions qui devaient participer a son execution n'a pas ete examinee avec
suffisamment de profondeur. II est maintenant evident que le projet tel qu'il avait et
concu a l'origine n'6tait pas soutenable. Jusqu'en 1992 il n'a pas e  periodiquement
supervise et c'est seulement a partir de cette date que les missions ont e  realisees au
moins deux fois par an, avec rigueur et professionalite.
0.21   Le MINEPIA niteait pas une institution de developpement, mais un ministere qui
n'etait pas equipe pour realiser les taches, quelques unes relativement complexes
qu'exigeait le projet. Ces taches demandaient un effort de decentralisation considerable
que le ministere n'ajamais realise. Sur le terrain, tres peu de personnes etaient informees
des objectifs et des actions du projet. L'assistance technique n'a pas pu modifier cette
situation car a niveau de Yaounde elle a e  isolde et marginalis6e. La pesanteur et la
complexite de l'Administration publique ainsi que des serieux problemes de coordination
ont e  a l'origine de plusieurs "coupures" budgetaires qui, ajoutees aux multiples
suspensions de decaissements, ont serieusement affecte la performance des actions sur le
terrain. Le projet devait durer 84 mois mais son action effective ne s'est deroulee que sur
47 mois. II a subi 3 suspensions et "arrets de travail" (exception faite de la lutte
antiglossinaire). A peine un tiers des couits totaux du project original a e debourse.
0.22   Les recommandations de la Mission de Mi-Parcours d'Avril 1993 etaient
orientees vers une simplification du projet. Celles-ci portaient sur la reduction de la
plupart de ses composantes, la concentration d'efforts sur la lutte antiglossinaire et
l'organisation des eleveurs, la privatisation de la profession veterinaire et la continuation
des campagnes de sante animale pour les petits ruminants et les volailles dans les zones
du centre et du sud. Une assistance au LANAVET, non prevue dans le projet original
mais amplement justifiee, avait ete incorporee. Malheureusement, a cause des problemes
d'origine bureaucratique, et principalement de coordination et de suivi, l'impact du projet
"restructure" a ete nettement inferieur aux attentes. En ce qui conceme I'assistance au
LANAVET celle-ci, pour les memes raisons evoqu6es anterieurement, n'a pu se realiser
que d'une fa,on tres limitee ce qui met en cause 1'avenir meme de ce laboratoire.
0.23   En ce qui conceme la gestion administrative et comptable, les efforts commences
par la mise en place de la "cellule de pilotage" et poursuivis apres par la creation de
l'UMCO et ulterieurment par le recrutement d'un cabinet comptable n'ont pas simplifie
la tache de coordination avec la CAA, ni acceleres les delais de decaissements. Celui-ci
est un des aspects qui de toute evidence a le plus serieusement handicape la performance
de toute l'operation du PDSE.



- 31 -
REFLEXIONS SUR L'AVENIR
0.24 A la constatation de la Mission a Mi-Parcours du succes obtenu par la MSEG sur
la lutte antiglossinaire, on doit ajouter les resultats du travail de l'USOV sur
l'organisation des eleveurs. La MSEG a pu developper et appliquer une technique de
contr6le des glossines efficace et a un couit raisonable, mais qui exige une discipline
constante et un suivi rigoureux. Cette technique ne peut pas donner les resultats espEres
si elle est soumise aux aleas des coupures budgetaires ou a une penurie d'intrants.
Actuellement, la situation sur le terrain reste tres fragile.
0.25   La creation du CETA est aussi une realisation de grande valeur, obtenue dans un
temps remarquablement court (en 18 mois, 65 groupements ont ete formes).
Malheureusement, la cl6ture du projet a interrompu le travail que cet organisme devait
mener en etroite collaboration avec la MSEG pour assurer un suivi A la lutte
antiglossinaire et conduire les eleveurs A prendre leurs responsabilites dans cette action.
0.26   L'organisation de la perception de la taxe sur la zone assainie par le CETA est un
travail prioritaire qui doit etre suivi par la consolidation financiere et institutionnelle de ce
Comite et eventuellement sa transformation en Federation. Ce processus devrait mener A
souder encore plus les relations, CETA, MSEG, USOV, mais il est essentiel d'assurer
l'organisation d'un financement autonome du CETA ainsi que la formation de quelques-
uns de ses membres dans de simples disciplines de gestion et d'organisation. Dans ce
contexte, la Mission a pris contact avec la representation du FAC A Yaounde qui s'est
montree ouverte A la possibilite d'organiser cette operation en utilisant le Fond Social de
Developpement (FSD) ou le Credit Deconcentre d'Intervention (CDI).
0.27   Le probleme principal pour l'avenir immediat reste celui d'assurer la "transition
budgetaire" entre la fin de l'appui du PDSE, le prelevement de la taxe de 200 FCFA par
animal sur les paturages assainis et l'autonomie financiere du CETA. La continuation de
l'assistance technique des consultants qui jusqu'a present ont oriente de facon efficace le
travail de lutte antiglossinaire et de formation des groupements, reste un element tres
important dans cette nouvelle etape.
Fait A Yaounde, le 21 octobre 1996
Percival Bono
Consultant Specialiste de l'Elevage



- 32 -
ADpendix B
Borrower's Evaluation Summary
Borrower's own Evaluation Report has not been received. The Borrower only provided
comments in the editing of the final version of the Bank's ICR. Hence no Evaluation Summary is
attached.



- 33 -
Appendix C
Table 1: Cameroon: Livestock Sector Development - Estimated Production Over 20 Years
Increments
Year                      With Project                                Without Project                  Production           Value of Production
US$ '000
Herd      Sales   Liveweight   No. of    Milk      Herd     Sales   Liveweight   Milk   Liveweight   Milk    Meat I/ Milk 2/    Total
Projections            Tons   Milk Cows Liter '000 Projections           Tons    Liter '000    Tons   Liter '000
Nr. '000   Nr. '000                                Nr. '000  Nr. '000
1      1431       143      50519     25700      6066      1400.0    140       49000      5670         1519       396    1109      119       1228
2       1462      146      52085      26300     6489      1400.0    140       49000      5670         3085       819    2252      246       2498
3       1494      149      53699      26900     6941      1400.0    140       49000      5670         4699      1271    3430      381       3812
4       1526      153      55364      27500      7426     1400.0    140       49000      5670         6364      1756    4646      527       5173
5       1559      156      57080      28100      7944     1400.0     140      49000      5670         8080      2274    5898      682       6581
6       1593      159      58849      28700      8498     1400.0    140       49000      5670         9849      2828    7190      848       8038
7       1628      163      60673      29300      9091     1400.0    140       49000      5670        11673      3421    8521    1026        9548
8       1664      166      62554      29900      9725     1400.0    140       49000      5670        13554      4055    9894    1217       11111
9       1700      170      64493      30600     10403     1400.0    140       49000      5670        15493      4733   11310    1420       12730
10      1737       174     79474      31300     11009      1400.0    140      49000       5670       30474      5339   22246    1602       23848
1 1     1775       178     81612      31900     11651     1400.0    140       49000      5670        32612      5981   23807    1794       25601
12      1814       181     83808      32600     12330     1400.0    140       49000      5670        34808      6660   25410    1998       27408
13      1853       185     86063      33400     13048     1400.0    140       49000      5670        37063      7378   27056    2213       29269
14      1893       189     88379      34100     13808     1400.0    140       49000      5670        39379      8138   28747    2441       31188
15      1935       194     90758      34800    14612    1400.0    140         49000      5670       41758      8942  30483   2683          33166
16      1977       198     93200      35600    15464    1400.0    140         49000      5670       44200      9794  32266   2938         35204
17     2020       202      95708    36400    16365    1400.0    140           49000      5670       46708    10695  34097   3209          37305
18      2064      206      98283      37200    17318    1400.0    140         49000      5670       49283    11648  35977    3494         39471
19     2109       211      100928    38000    18327    1400.0    140          49000      5670       51928    12657  37907    3797         41705
20      2155       216     103644    38800    19395    1400.0    140          49000      5670       54644    13725  39890    4118          44008
1/     Valued at current price of US$0.73/kg. liveweight.
2/      Valued at current price of US$0.3 per liter.



- 34 -
Table 2: Actual Disbursement By Financier By Year
(US$ Millions)
Year      Year       Year       Year       Year       Year    Year    Year          Year
SAR   Actual         1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994     1995    1996         1997        Total
IBRD I/                     34.60     13.74        0.19      2.14        1.01      4.53       1.43       2.56      1.51     0.34      0.025       13.735
IFAD 2/                     10.80      0.55        0.55         0          0          0          0          0        0         0          0         0.55
Government 3/                6.30      1.26         0.1        0.6      0.40       0.16          0          0        0         0          0          1.26
EDF 2/                       1.90      1.80           1      0.80          0          0          0          0        0         0          0           1.8
FAC 2/                       1.60      1.10        0.55      0.55          0          0          0          0        0         0          0          1.10
Current US$                 55.20     18.45        2.39      4.09        1.41      4.69       1.43       2.56      1.51     0.34      0.025       18.445
Inflators 4!                                       1.621      1.591     1.561      1.54      1.578        1.4    1.100         I      1.000  ____
Constant 1996 US$                                 3.872     6.503      2.200      7.223      2.257      3.584     1.661    0.340      0.025       27.664
1/  World Bank Washington.                                                    3/  Estimate at 20 percent of the appraisal value.
2/  Actual yearly disbursement.                                               4/  Based on Consumer Price Index for USA - IMF statistics 1996.
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Capital Costs used in the Economic Anaiysis are Current US$ disbursed by Financiers by year converted into 1996 constant US$ using the USA Consumer Price Index; Capital
costs from year I to 8 include operating costs. Project costs from year 9 to 20 have been estimated at US$ 769000 per year for follow-up activities of MSEG, USOV and CETA. Animal
health expenses have been estimated on the basis of 900,000 head treated every year (equivalent to 50 percent of the cattle population by year 14) at an average of US$ 5 per head. This
includes "pour-on", dipping and/or spraying, use of trypanocides, and a basic vaccination program. This costs will be covered by the herders themselves.
*   Prices: A farmgate price of US$ 0.73 per kg of liveweight has been used in the economic analysis.
*   Milk price used in the analysis is US$ 0.3/liter.
*   In calculating the project's economic rate of return, only the Project's direct quantifiable benefits, i.e. meat and milk production of cattle herd, have been taken into account.
*   Based on the above assumptions the ERR has been estimated at 24 percent. (SAR estimate: 26 to 36 percent)
*   Net Present Value has been estimated at 42979.7 at 12 percent Opportunity Cost Of Capital (see table 2 above).
*   Sensitivity Analysis
*   The effect upon the Project's economic rate of return under various sensitivity tests is as follow:
Costs                             Benefits                   ERR Percent
Plus 10 percent                   Unchanged                          22
Plus 20 percent                   Unchanged                          20
Less 10 percent                   Unchanged                          27
Unchanged                         Plus 10 percent                    27
Unchanged                         Minus 20                           19
Unchanged                         AG 2 years                         17



M  A I I  v                              .                                
MALI               rR                  HA 
t 1                                                                                                                                 cA ,  KE    CHA P)
I NG ER I                                                                                                                                                                        AHAP
REP~ )UBLIC
RURIJ-   -r       -                 ,        a      - -    .                                            -\   7    \ iN oeo
I-J   i)             / Z A I R E 'o = zott                                                    \                >            l i                  C    HIAGD
C/ Ct A /V       N       AME ROONI,            I                                                                                                                                                    '
C A           -M E R O O N                                                                        j              | | g  l                       CHA
I  \OjZ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ZAI    
BCKECON                DEE
AQUAORAA?I 
OCEAN   ~      GUNE
-(0 I                                         PIIOT LAND MANAGEMENT AREASPILJ LAD MAAGEENTNRE-
L_ ...... AREA TO BE CLEARED OF TSETSE  5'.-.'   'nF  '  '   a  {                                                I OO
WILDLIFE BUFFER ZONE
/ I I /  PROVINCES WITH INTENSIVE EXTENSION ACTIONS          -
GR--I--4-RAELRPOADS                                                          /            c
P-ROICE bOHAI- -1                                                                                        
..TE.-  .AL--J
1-7      INIERNATIONAL AIDPORTS   ,   .',,,   .   ,,   ,;)  [  ,;^  C  9,  j  .,, ., .,, .,-,'.,
$IVERS                                                  Jr.    .... .. .                          ................
ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS
- ' - INTEDNATIONAL EOUNDARIES                                                                                                         . - ;  . . . .  |
I .',-CAL ZONES
9A    ~MIE  ,                                       J\ IER                /                                                                (;                                                R |_--i
SOU,DAN                                                                                                                                                                        A;ARR2IBEII'  I G, 111 ilitI   SODANIAN RIGHLANDS
IA~~~~~~~               IU5SAM~ 
7~~~~~~NoY                                    SOUISANIAN GUINEAN
0                                              A r~   A 7)* g r 1 SOUDAN GU,INEAN TRANSITION
'zl  EQUATORIAL GUINEA  j r    G A B O N                                                  3                     CONGO                         GE
,C IA                                              I  r. I                            _.
V                                  -i_ _                                                                             __       - _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                       L









IMAGING
Report No.:          16653
Type:     ICR



