Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7370-CM
I~~~~~~~~~
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 15, 1988
Agriculture Operations
Occidental and Central African Department
Tmis document has a resticted distrbuon and may be used by redpiens only in the perfomanMe of



CURRENCY ELqtVALWNTS
Currency Unit - CFAP Franc  CFAF)
US$l - CFA? 290 a)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDPA        Bureau pour le developpement de la production agricole
DPA         Direction de la production animale
DEPF        Direction des etudes, des projets et de la formation (MINEPTA)
ECU         European Currency Unit
EDF         European Development Fund
EEC         European Economic Community
FAC         Fonds d'aide et de cooperation (France)
FONADEF     Fonds national de developpment rural
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRZ         Institut de recherches zootechniques
LDF         Livestock Development Fund
LLDP        Letter of Livestock Development Policy
MINEPIA     Ministbre de l'elevage, de la peche et des industries animales
ONDAPS      Office national de developpment agricole et du petit betail
OPV         Office pharmaceutique veterinaire
PLD         Provincial Livestock Delegation
PLMA        Pilot Land Management Area
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PPR         Peste des petits ruminants
SODEPA      Societe de developpment et d'exploitation des productions
animales
TLU         Tropical Livestock Unit
UNDP        United Natioias Development Program.
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YvAR
July 1 - June 30
a/    Exchange rate at end September 1988.  The exchange rate of the CFA
Franc is fixed at 50:1 with the French Franc, which is a floating
currency.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE      .........................   i
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY            ........... ... .  iii
INTRODUCTION ... 6...................................... .................   1
I.  THE NATIONAL ECONOMY .......     ...............................    1
General       .................................................    1
The Role of the Agricultural Sector .....................   2
It.  THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR .......................... ... .... .    2
Livestock in the Economy ....... .............................. .    2
Livestock Production and Constraints ......     .......   3
Livestock Institutions .. ... ....... ..*. . . .  .................    5
Government Livestock Devtilopment Strategy     ...............   8
The Bank's Role and Xxperience with Livestock
Dev.J.opment in Cameroon ...............................   9
III. THE PROJECT ....     ...........................................  10
A. Objectives ...0....................................    1
B.  Project Strategy    ....................................   10
C.  Suvmary Project Description      .........................  11
D.  Project Area ........................................   12
E.  Rationale for Bank and IFAD Involvement .......... ...  12
F. Detailed Project Description .......       .     .      13
(a) Policy Reforms .................. .... .           13
(b)  Project Investments ................  * ......    16
Institution Building ........ ..................  16
Resource Management    ........................... 18
Animal Health               ... 19
Subloans for Livestock Production/Services ... 20
This report is based on the fJndings of preappraisal and appraisal
missions undertaken respectively in November 1987 and March 1988 by a team
consisting of Messrs. C. de Haan (Mission leader and Senior Livestock
Specialist), M. Asseo (Senior Economist), Ms. B. Hanan (Financial Analyst)
and Mr. A. Sousbie (Financial Analyst, Consultant in charge of reviewing
the parastatal sector). To ensure maximum Cameroonian participation in
the project's design, a workshop with Cameroonian officials was organized
during the appraisal mission. An IFAD post-appraisal mission was carried
out in May/June 1988 by IFAD consultants (Messrs. R. Harris, Mission
Leader and Economist, and J. Boutrais, Sociologist).
T   ', e   --   -    t  -  ; F-    d'  r'    *t 1,  .     -     MA -    v ra.  *s   w , Iv '  ti ''      ' l



Pase
IV.  PROJECT InPLEMENTATION .....    ..............................   20
Project Organization and Management    ....................  20
Onlending Channls for Subloans ............. ............   21
Projec? Preparation Facility (PPF) ............         22
Annual Work Programs and Budgets    . .......................  22
V.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ........ ............          22
Cost Estimates .....    .      ..... . ..               22
Financing ..............                ..........      23
Onlending Procedures  .................. ........ ...   24
Procurement          .....                              24
Disbursements ..... ...26
Accounts and Audits ..........    ....... . ....  27
Project Impact on MINEPIA's Budget .................    27
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...... ....................   28
Incremental Production ....... #.........................  28
Financial and Economic Benefits ..... ...................  29
Equity Considerations ..* ....................... ........  29
Project  Risks  ............. ..............................  30
Environmental Considerations ......  .....................   31
VII. ASSURANCES OBTAINED, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION ........  31
1  Livestock Production and Consumption
2  Major Technical Constraints and Options for Livestock Development
3  Socio-Economic As#ects of Livestock Raising
4  NINEPIA's Organization Chart
5  Veterinary Pharmaceutical Office (OPV)
6  Govermdent's Letter on Livestock Development Policy
Attachments Action Plar for Institutional and
Administrative Reforms
7  Experience with Pastoral Associations
8  Institution Building Component
9  Resources Management Component
10  Animal Health Component
11  Project Monitoring
12  Detailed Cost Tables
13  Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement
14  Government Cash Flow
15  Benefit Stream
16  Evolution of Margins and Charges of OPV
17  Budget of a Veterinary Agent
18  Economic Benefits
MAPs IBRD No. 20985



CANEROgE
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOCUMENTS CO'nTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   Pellemon International (1986): Programme de Recensement de
l'Elevage.
Z. MINEPIA Annual Report 1986.
3.   BDPA (1987): Lutte contre les Glossines, Bilan et Perspectives.
4.   BDPA (1987): Etude sur les Investissements de la Soci4t4 de
Developpement et d'Exploitation des Productions Animales.
5.   University of Saarbrucken (1987): Ecological Side Effects of
Dieldrin, Endosulfan, Deltamethrin and Cypermethrin Application
Against Tsetse Flies in Adamaoua, Cameroon.
6.   BDPA (1987): Etude Socio-Economique sur l'Elevage au Cameroun.
7.   SEDA (1987): Etude sur lea Credits aux Eleveurs.
8.   Boutrais/BDPA t1987): Etudes sur les Problemes chez les Eleveurs.
Ar.
9.   Consortium BDPAISEDA/JVL (1987): Rapport ,Oe Preparation d'un
Troisieme Projet de l'Elevage.
10. MINEPIA (1988)s Donn#es sur lea Importations de Viandes Congeldes
en Republique du Cameroon.
11. Sousbie (1988)s Report on SODEPA.
12. Sousbie (1988): Report OPV and Terms of Reference for its
Reorganization.
13. Detailed Cost Calculations.
14. IFAD. Post Appraisal Report, Messrs. Harris and Boutrais.



CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AN' PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers       Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:   Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Animal Industries
(MINEPIA)
Loan Amounts    US$34.6 million equivalent
Teras:          Standard IBRD terms, with a five-year grace period and
17 years maturity.
Onlending
Terms:          Up to US$8.9 million would be entrusted to one or
several financial intermediaries against a management
fee of IZ to 32 plus a margin on repayments and on-
lent to private sector agents, herder associations and
semi-intensive poultry breeders, at an annual rate of
not less than 112.
CofinancinPA:    International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
European Development Fund (EDF)
Aid and Cooperation Fund of France (FAC)
Proiect
Description:    The project would aim to increase meat and milk
production, raise producers income in particular of
poor livestock herders, and reduce the Government's
financial burden for its services to the livestock
sector.   The project would accomplish this in a
sustainable fashion by combining policy reforms and
investments tot (a) improve the efficiency of the
traditional and emerging modern livestock production
sector; (b) promote the role of the private sector in
the provision of services to producers;  (c) make
parastatal enterprises profitable and competitive; and
(d) strengthen the planning and extension capabilities
of the Livestock Services of MINEPIA.



- iv -
The Policy refo=ms would cover (a) the privatization
of clinical veterinary services and a greater private
sector involvemen'; in the distribution of veterinary
drugs; (b) full cost recovery for all clinical
services anti drug distribution; (c) the reorganization
of the Vete rinarf Pharmaceatical Office (OPV); (d) the
transformation of SODEPA's commercial activities into
autonomous,  self-financing  operations;   (e)  the
harmonization of the extension methods of MINEPIA's
field  services  with  those  of  the  Ministry  of
Agriculture; (f) the stabilization of MINEPIA stAff
at their present numbers and improvement of their
training; and (g) the monitoring of impact of meat
import taxation on production and consumption.
Proiect investments would comprise (a) an institution
building component to crep4e and strengthen producer
associations, improve livestock extension services,
and strengthen MINEPIA's central services; (b) a
resource management component to allocate grazing
rights to herder associations in 11 pilot land
management areas (PLMAs), provide the PLHAs with
infrastructure, develop range land research and
monitoring, and establish a protection system for
areas cleared of the tsetse fly; (c) an animal health
component to reorganize OPV, eventually clear an
additional 12,000 km2 of the tsetse fly, and introduce
a special health program for small stock; and (d) a
credit component for (ij private veterinary drug
importers and distributors, and veterinary clinics;
(ii) livestock and land development, and women
activities in the PLMAs; (iii) semi-intensive poultry
producers; and (iv) feed and livestock processing
industries.
Proiect
Areas           The policy reforms would be national in scope, while
most of the services would focus on the Northwest,
Adamaoua and Extreme North Provinces where livestock
is concentrated.  Producer organizations would also
be initiated in the North, West and East Provinces.
The pilot areas would be established in these six
provinces.   Further services for small stock and
poultry would be provided in the Center, South and
Littoral Provinces.
The tsetse control component would be limited to the
Adamaoua Province.



v 
Estimated Project Costs aJ
X&ocal    Foreisn    Total
-(USS million)-----
Institution Building                 7.7       13.4       21.1
Resource Managemant                  1.9        5.0        6.9
Animal Health                        1.8        8.7       10.5
Credit                               1.1        6.6        7.7
Base Cost                           12.5       33.7       46.2
Physical Contingencies               1.1        1.5        2.6
Price Contingencies                  3.3        3.1        6.4
Total Project Costs                 16.9       38.3       55.2
al  Includes US$4.7 million of taxes and duties and US$300,000
for a PPF.
Financing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total
---(US$ million)_----
IBRD                                 7.5       27.1       34.6
IFAD                                 3.2        7.6       10.8
Government                           6.1     1 0.2         6.3
EDF                                   -         1.9        1.9
FAC                                             1.6        1.6
Total                      16.8        38.4      55.2
Estimated IBRD  Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
89    90    91    92    93    94    95
------------(US$ million) -----------…   -
Annual                      4.0   4.9   4.0   5.7   6.8   6.8   2.4
Cumulative                  4.0   8.9  12.9  18.6  25.4  32.2  34.6



-vi-
Proiect Benefits
Quantifiable benefits are in the form of (a) an incremerAtal
production of 2,600 tons of meat and 9,^00 tons of milk in PYS, and 13,COO
tons of meat and 28,000 tons of milk in PY20; and (b) increased income and
improved nutrition for poor pastoral families, resulting from an increased
availability of veterinary drugs nationwide and improved health and extension
services in the major livestock producing provinces. Depending on the rate
at which herders adopt the health and production packages, the most probable
economic rate of return would be between 262 and 34?.   Non-quantifiable
benefits would result from the land tenure and environmental protection
measures built in the project.
Proiect Risks
Project risks relate tc (a) private sector interest in the
provision of veterinary-services; (b) the availability of efficient financial
intermediaries; (c) the motivation of MINEPIA staff; (d) the availability of
a balanced budget for MINEPIA; (ea. dhe effect of rural population pressure
on pastoral activitiesi and (f) serious droughts in early project years.
To mitigate these risks, the following actions are included in
the project.   Incentive measures have been built into the project to
encourage private participation and could be further increased if found to
be insufficient. Improved financial channels would be needed only after PYl,
by which time the structural adjustment program under negotiation is expected
to bring substantial improvements to the banking sector.  The management of
some of the subloans would also be entrusted to Non-Governmental
Organizations.   Staff motivation would be improved through moze extensive
training, some technical assistance, and the int:oduction of more efficient
extension methods. Improved cost recovery and staff limitations would help
balance MINEPIA's budget. More intense land use and an integration of crop
and livestock operations in mixed farming systems in areas of higher
population density would reduce the risk of encroachment of crop cultivation
onto grazing areas. The risk of highly damaging droughts, while existing,
is rather limited at the latitudes where the project would be mostly
operating.



CAMiWOON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INTRODUCTION
The Government of Cameroon has requested IBRD's assistance in
financing a livestock project to support its objective for increasing meat and
milk production. To achieve this objective, the Government plans to strengthen
the role of the private sector, rationalize and improve the public sector
services, and enhance the conservation of the country's natural resources.  The
proposed project was prepared by a consortium of Cameroonian and international
consultancy firms, financed under a UNDP/Government cost sharing arrangement
executed by the World Bank.   The Staff Appraisal Report is based on the
preparation report and on the findings of an appraisal mission whica visited
Cameroon in March 1988.   Interest in cofinancing has been confirmed by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (ITAD), the European Development
Fund (EDF), and the F 2nch Fonds d'Aida et de Cooperation (FAC).
I. THE NATIONAL ECONOMY
General
1.01        The Country.   Cameroon covers an area of 475,000 km2 and has a
population of about 11 million (end 1987 figure). Exiending from Lake Chad to
the Atlantic Ocean and from Sudano-Sahelian to rain forest latitudes, the country
is characterized by its ethnic, climatic and ecological diversity. Due to its
fast po^ulation growth (3.12 p.a.) and the migration of the young to the cities,
the rtsio of urban to rural population, presently at 40:60, is projected to be
50:50 by the year 2000, when total population will exceed 16 million. Population
distribution is uneven, wit1 zones of high density alternating with vast
stretches of empty land. This, in conjunction with high fallow requirements,
entails increasing pressure on land.  Some 402 of the territory consists of
savannas suitable for livestock grazing except in areas infested with tsetce
flies.
1.02        Cameroon's per capita GDP of US$930 in 1986, resulting from oil
revenues, was high by Sub-Saharan standards but has decreased by 25 to 302 in
real terms over the last four years; foreign exchange earnings have fallen by
452, mostly due to the fall in commodity prices, and the fiscal deficit is 92
of GDP and rising.  To address the fiscal deficit issue, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive review of all public enterprises with a view to
abolishing loss-makers and privatizing the profitable ones, keeping only
enterprises considered of strategic importance.   The Government has also
expressed its interest in proceeding rapidly with a structural adjustment program



-2-
whose eventual components are under discussion between the Government and the
Bank. The core of the program would consist of public enterprise and public
finance  reforms.    It  would  also  deal  with  agricultural  prices,  trade
liberalization, industrial promotion, and administrative reforms.
The Role of the Agricultural Sector
1.03        The relative contribution of agriculture to the GDP of Cameroon
decreased with the development of oil production from 40Z in the 1960s to about
201 in 1986. However, agriculture still provides employment to three fourths
of the population, generates 25? of export receipts, and contributes about 15
to 20? of state revenues. With the projected depletion of domestic oil reserves
in the mid 19909 and the recent slump in world oil prices, agriculture is again
at the forefront of the Cameroonian economy, notwithstanding similar slumps in
prices fetched by plantation crops.  The ecological diversity of the country
offers a wide range of possibilities for crop and animal production, including
cocoa, Arabica and Robusta coffees, cotton, oil palm, rubber, tea, banana, rice,
millet, sorghum, maize and tubers, besides poultry, pigs, and small and large
ruminants. However, agricultural performance has been modest relative to the
resource base. Prrduction has stagnated since 1982, and cash crop production
has actually declined. About 40X of the rural population is considered below
the absolute poverty line.  As a result, Cameroon suffers from substantially
reduced foreign exchange and government revenues. This, in turn, has affected
the volume and composition of the government budget which, in the absence of hard
choices ba-ed on economic justifications, has been evenly cut across all
ministries, usually at the expense of investment and non-salary recurrent
expenditures.
1.04        The Government's ambitious objectives to expand and modernize the
agricultural and livestock sectors to ensure food self-sufficiency and improve
the balance of payments of the country will require a number of policy and
institutional improvements in the rural sector. They will also require greater
reliance on the tzaditional farmers and herders at the production stage and on
the private  secto- for the  supply of inputs  and services.   Policy and
institutional changes sought by the project can be initiated in the livestock
sector before the implementation of the proposed structural adjustment program,
insofar as they are pursuing compatible objectives.
II. THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR
Livestock in the Economy
2.01        The livestock sector accounts for 16Z of agricultural production
and is a majer source of income for 30Z of the rural population. With the slump
in world market prices of Cameroon's agricultural export commodities, livestock
production offers the most immediate growth opportunities, as the necessary
internal and external markets, technology, feed resources and husbandry skills
exist.



-3-
Livestock F!oduction and Constraints
2.02        Production.  Cameroon's livestock population was estimated in 1986
at 4.4 million cattle, 5.3 milli'in sheep and goats, almost 1 million pigs and
14 million poultry, with a total annual production of 120,000 tons of meat
(75,000 tons of beef and 45,000 tot.s of meat from other species), 45,000 tons
of milk and 2,!00 tons of eggs, representing a total value of US$400 million.
The livestock sector also provides the draft power to cultivate annually 100,000
ha of food crops and cotton. About 60? of the national cattle herd is kept under
extensive nomadic or semi-nomadic conditions although sedentarization is
increasing, especially in the Northwest and Extreme North Provinzes. Extensive
production characterizes also the bulk of the small stock.   However, more
intensi.ve cattle production for animal traction in cotton farming ar.as in the
North, cattle ranching on the Adamaoua Plateau, and capital-intensive, medium-
size poultry production relying on purchased inputs and modern techniques are
becoming more common.
2.03        Markets.  Market perspectives for meat are good.  Productien costs
for meat, at US$2,000 to US$2,500 per ton ex-ranch and even lower under
traditional conditions, are competitive with the world market price of f.o.b
US$2,500 per ton. Per capita meat consumption is about 15 kg per year, resulting
in a total annual demand of 160,000 tons of meat and a deficit of 40,000 tons.
Furthermore, the Nigerian market has an annual deficit of 200,000 tons.  To
satisfy its own desnand, Cameroon imports yearly about 100,000 cattle on hoof from
neighboring Central African Republic and Chad, and about 20,000 tons of meat from
overseas, half of it in the form of heavily subsidized low grade frozen beef
from the European Economic Community (EEC). Because of their favorable price
(US$1,000 per ton or 402 of the c.i.f. value of Other imports), imports from the
EEC have increased rapidly over the last few ;ears: i rom 500 tons in 1984/85 to
about 9,500 tons in 1966187.   Preliminary data indicate that part of these
imports directly substitute for local production and that the remaining part
benefits urban poor who otherwise could not afford meat. Ho-.ver, the Government
has in February 1988 increased significantly the import tax on meat and ieat
offals to protect 2.ocal production. In addition, to limit possible detrimental
effects on thi nutritional status of the poor and to preclude the possible
development of an inefficient industry, the Government has indicated that it
intends to monit 'r the impact of the meat import tax on the consumption and price
of locally produc,d meat to correct, if necessary, any undesirable effects. More
detailed informa;ion on production, markets and imports is available in
Annex 1 and the 7Ycoject File (Document No. 10).
2.04        Technology. Appropriate technology to increase livestock production
exists in the veterinary field for all species, and in the management, husbandry,
and nutrition fields for small stock. High mortality is a prime cause of losses
affecting Cameroon's livestock. Mortality is atout 5? to 10 in aeJlt cattle
and small ruminants and even higher in young sto-*, with an average mortality
of 202 for calves and 402 for lambs and kids. The total estimated losses due
to diseases amount to about US$100 million per year. The main bottleneck in the
improvement of animal health resides in the delivery systems, except for African
swine fever, for which no adequate protection exists. No actions are therefore
envisaged under the project to assist pig growers.   Semi-intensive poultry
production, using an intermediate level of technology, has already been



successfully introduced in Cameroon and elsewhere in Africa. Input supply and
technical assistance in production and marketing seem to be the main constraints
here. Additional technology options exist in fostering a closer integration of
livestock in the cropping system to increase soil fertility and labor
productivity through animal traction.  The absence of adequate extension and
reliable input and credit distribution systems is the main bottleneck to a rapid
dissemination of these technologies and would be addressed under the project.
More information on technical constraints and their solutions is provided in
Annex 2.
2.05        Feed Resources.  Cameroon's natural range lands produce enough to
feed the national herd. With improved management, available range lands could
even carry two or three times the present livestock population.   However,
regional imbalances esist, and in the densely populated areas of the Northwestern
highlands and the semi-arid areas of the Extreme North Province the actual
stocking  rate  closely  approximates  the  carrying  capacity.    Furthermore,
qualitative deficiencies constitute a major problem, especially in the higher
rainfall areas. Intensification of land use, for which technology is available,
would address these problems, but would only be ?ossible if a more adequate land
tenure system were developed, wvich would give exclusive rights to the use of
improved range lands by groups or individuals who have invested in their
intensification.     The project would therefore address this issue.   More
information on feed resources is also provided in Annex 2.
2.06        Social Aspects.  Livestock production in Cameroon is carried out by
a variety of social groups. Two thirds of the national cattle herd is still
owned and managed by traditional pastoral societies. However, crop farmers are
becoming increasingly involved in cattle raising, and traditional pastoralists
increasingly take up cropping.   Because of these trends and traditional
mechanisms for distribution of wealth, cattle ownership in Cameroon. is becoming
more widespread and less associated with wealth. Increased ownership of cattle
by traders and civil servants only partially contravenes this trend. A large
portion of the pastoral population lives below the poverty line of an annual
income of US$320. Because of increased population pressure, government actions,
and inter-generational conflicts the pastoral societies in Cameroon are under
increasing stress, and the authority of the traditional leaders is eroding.
Under such circumstances, total reliance on traditional structures for
development purposes is not feasible, and more modern organizations which
complement traditional structures have to be created. The project would take
these trends into account in developing producer organizations. Small ruminant
and poultry ownership is widespread, and small stock makes an important
contribution to household income in many rural areas. Both cattle and small
stock are important to women, who often exercise direct ownership or directly
receive income from dairy produce.   More information on social aspects is
contained in Annex 3.
2.07        Land Aspects. The modern land tenure legislation adopted in Cameroon
has not yet been applied to the rural areas where access to land continues, for
the most part, to be decided according to the traditional rights of villages,
groups, and individuals. For social and political reasons, the Government feels
that the extension of modern legislation to rural areas should be attempted only
in a gradual fashion. In this context, land conflicts are often observed at the



- 5 -
borders of livestock and crop cultivation areas, and traditional herders, lacking
security of access to their range lands, are not therefore inclined to invest
in range improvement or conservation.
Livestock Institutions
2.08        The Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Animal Industries (MINEPIA)
is responsible for planning and implementing all livestock and fisheries
development activities.  The central staff of the Ministry, consisting of 25
professionals and 150 redium and lower level technicians, is distributed mainly
among four technical directorates (Animal Health; Animal Production; Fisheries;
and Studies, Projects and Training), supported by a Directorate of General
Administration.   Tae recently created  Directorate of Studies, Projects and
Training (DEPF) is still institutionally weak and would be strengthened under
the project.  MINEPIA's organization chart is shown in Annex 4.
2.09        Budget.  MINEPIA's 1986187 budget was US$12 million for recurrent
expenditures, US$13 million for investments, and US$15 million for special
activities financed with oil funds.  The total of US$40 million constituted
about 2Z of the natioual budget, in line with the sector's contribution to GDP.
However, because of Cameroon's financial crisis, the Ministry's overall 1987/88
budget was reduced to US$22 million, of which US$14 million for recurrent
expenditures and US$8 million for investments. Furthermore the investment budget
was mainly production-oriented and spread over too many activities: close to 40
ongoing or proposed projects, of which 65Z of   their costs is to develop
production or commercial activities.  This is at the expense of public sector
activities, such as extension, sanitary control or quarantine services, on which
the Ministry should focus, leaving to the private sector the handling of
production activities. The 1988/89 investment budget of MINEPIA has been further
reduced to US$4 million.  An imbalance has also developed in the distribution
of the recurrent costs of the Ministry, with an excessive share going to salary
costs at the expense of non-salary expenditures required to make the best use
possible of available human resources. The salary/non-salary ratio has declined
from a healthy 60:40 in 1983/84 to 84s16 in 1987/88. In addition, more than half
of the meager non-salary recurrent funds was used in 1987/88 to subsidize
treatments and vaccinations or, in some instances, to distribute free drugs.
The strengthening of the Ministry's planning and budgeting capacity by the
project and a process of joint annual reviews of public expenditures under the
proposed structural adjustment program would ensure better balanced and focused
budgets for MINEPIA.
2.10        The  field  level  of MINEPIA  (or Livestock  Services)  has  80
professionals, 600 medium and lower level technical staff, and 1,600 support
staff.  They are dividea among 10 Provincial Livestock Delegations  (PLDs), 42
Sectors, 94 Subsectors and 357 Livestock Centers.  This results in an average
coverage of one field post per 10,000 Tropical Livestock Units (TLUs) 1 or per
1,000 km2 (500 km2 per post in the livestock areas). Each PLD has animal
production, animal health, and pasture and water services at its headquarters.
1Tropical Livestock Unit (TLU) is based on standard conversion factors to
aggregate different classes and species of livestock.



- 6 -
The main responsibilities of the Livestock Services are preventive animal health
care, food inspection, and animal production extension.  The Livestock Services
carry out the main vaccination campaigns against Rinderpest and Contagious
Bacterial Pleuro-Pneumonia (GBPP) in an efficient manner. However, they lack
a systematic approach for extension and poorly supervises its field staff. As
a result of the lack of funding for recurrent expenditures, contacts between
producers and field staff are limited to those during the vaccination campaigns,
and transfer of technology  to the producer  is almost nonexistent.   The
introduction of improved extension methods and the improvement of the salary/non-
salary costs ratio are necessary to reactivate the Livestock Services and would
be sought under the project.
2.11        The Training Institutes.  Technical training of Livestock Services
staff is provided by the Francophone livestock training institute of Maroua
(60 graduates per year) and the Anglophone livestock training institute of Jakiri
(20 graduates per year).   Both institutes provide training for different
technical levels. The quality of the education is good, although somewhat biased
toward animal health at the expense of range management and socio-economic
aspects.  All veterinarians are trained outside the country, principally in
Senegal or France.  Graduates of foreign and local institutions have had an
automatic right to civil service positions. This, under the prevailing economic
conditions, puts a heavy burden on the bvdget. A reduction in the formation of
new staff (accompanied by a suspension of the automatic entry right to civil
service) and a concomitant emphasis on retraining existing staff and on forming
agents for the private sector would result in full utilization of existing
training centers without increasing the Government's financial burden. These
issues would be addressed under the project.
2.12        The Veterinary Pharmaceutical Office (OPV) was created in 1976 to
handle state sales of veterinary medicines and equipment (Annex 5).   Due to
pcor management and inadequate distribution channels, its services are
inefficient and irregular.  Yet, private sector competition to OPV has only
developed in areas of concentrated demand, mainly in the modern poultry sector.
This can be explained by the lack of distribution channels, low demand due to
inadequate veterinary extension, and MINEPIA's distribution of free drugs (which
has also depressed OPV sales and sent misleading signals to producers,
notwithstanding Lts limited volume of about US$100,000 in 1986). Drug sales for
cattle averaged in 1986 only US$0.12 per TLU, i.e., 20Z of minimum requirements
for adequate health maintenance.   OPV's staff of about 100 is far above
requirements and is contributing to the substantial financial losses of the
company (US$900,000 against a U3S$1.3 million sales volume in 1986, in spite of
a reasonable overhead margin). This, in turn, has negatively affected OPV's
credit rating. In the absence of well functioning private distribution systems,
and since a continuing supply of drugs is essential for the survival of the
sector, OPV's reorganization is absolutely necessaLJ. To achieve this, and as
part of the cofinancing of the project, MINEPIA has obtained ECU 1.8 million
(about US$2 million) grant from the European Development Bank (EDF) to increase
OPV's working capital and substantially reorganize its management (including
major changes in staff), prior to a possible transfer of OPV to the private
sector. In addition, free drug distribution by MINEPIA would also be suspended.



2.13        The Small Stock Office (ONDAPB).  With financial assistance from
the African Development Bank, complemented ty extra-budgetary resources, ONDABP
is completing two large poultry plants (one in Yaounde and the other in Douala)
for the production of day-old chicks and feed concentrates.   These state-
subsidized investments have a negative impact on private sector development and
constitute a drain on government resources. The future of these two plants will
have to be reassessed in the context of the general review of public enterprises.
The plants would be good candidates for sale to the private sector.    ;
2.14        The Livestock Develooment Companv (SODEPA) is a parastatal company
created in 1974 under the First Livestock Development Project and has continued
to be supported under the Second Livestock Development Project (para 2.21).
SODEPA was originally established to set up and manage four ranches in different
parts of the country and the slaughterhouses of Yaounde and Douala.   The
parastatal ranches now have a total of 30,000 heads of cattle, about the number
envisaged at inception, though still less than 1Z of the total cattle population
of the country. Although technical performance had been poor in the past, it
has recently improved significantly in terms of calving and mortality rates.
As a result, the ranches are now self-supporting, though with returns (42 p.a.)
too low to generate private interest in purchasing them for purely commercial
purposes at the full value of their assets. The slaughterhouses are also working
well, at or near full capacity (150 to 250 heads per day) and are virtually self
financing (excluding their share of the overhead costs of SODEPA) even though
they are not free to establish their own prices, which have stagnated since
1984. Headquarters overheads (US$1 million per year, or 30? of the operating
costs of the ranches and slaughterhouses) are due in part to inflexible public
sector personnel and administrative procedures and are the main constraint to
SODEPA's profitability.
2.15        Three Extension Units were also established by SODEPA in 1985 in
the Northwest and Adamaoua Provinces in an effort which has not yet facilitated
the distribution of improved stock from its ranches to traditional prcducers but
which has been successful in extending improved techniques. These units serve
mostly herders located near the ranches, who have been organized by SODEPA into
producer groups and allocated exclusive grazing rights over sufficient range land
with basic road and water infrastructures. These grazing rights have been fully
respected, even in the densely populated Northwest region.
2.16        SODEPA's functions (ranches, slaughterhouses and extension units)
are presently a mixture of private and public sector tasks which might lead to
conflicts of interest, both inside the company and with the Ministry at large.
Ranching being a purely commercial function, the maintenance of ranches under
public ownership ccald only be justified  insofar as (a) they are managed in a
manner avoiding further marginal losses; (b) there are no buyers willing to
purchase the ranches at a price above their present commercial value; and (c)
the ranches produce breeding stock to improve the traditional sector's herds.
The slaughterhouses have both public (meat hygiene) and private sector functions,
although the former concerns more the communities of Yaounde and Douala than the
country as a whole. Finally, SODEPA's extension responsibilities duplicate the
responsibilities of MINEPIA's field services. If those responsibilities were
left with SODEPA while increasing from their present low level, as envisaged
under the project, they would detract the attention of SODEPA's management from



- 8 -
the commercial objectives of the company and, more importantly, formalize an
undesirable duplication of livestock extension channels in the country. Actions
aiming at reorganizing and rationalizing SODEPA's activities would be envisaged
under the project.
2.17        Livestock Credit.  Agricultural, including livestock, credit vas
until very recently the responsibility of the National Rural Development Fund
(FONADER).   FONADER, besides its credit function, also acted as the executing
agency for small rural investments financed by the Government, but was not
allowed to collect savings. Within this context of multiple duties, it paid
less attention to its banking responsibilities, which resulted in poor loan
supervision and low repayment rates. FONADER has now stopped its operations.
Although it is intended to be replaced by an Agricultural Development Bank, the
rehabilitation of FONADER is also being reconsidered through possible Geuman aid.
Public sector livestock credit facilities exist, therefore, only in rural
development projects, i.e., the IFAD-financed Northwest Province Rural
Development Project (MIDENO), which focuses on credit for draft animals. The
commercial banking sector is well represented in the rural areas, but most banks
are suffering from severe liquidity problems because of the economic crisis,
which has especially affected its major borrower, the parastatal sector.
Informal credit schemes are widespread in Cameroon and are used successfully,
for example, in the MIDENO project.
2.18        The Institute for Livestock Research (IRZ).  Livestock research is
the responsibility of IRZ, under the Hinistry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research. The IRZ is well endowed in physical infrastructure and staff but tends
to concentrate on capital-intensive, modern production systems without due regard
for the traditional sector's needs.   Its impact is therefore limited.   The
National Agricultural Research Project   (effective since February 1988) is
strengthening IRZ's farming systems research capability and helping it to focus
research on the problems of the traditional sector.
The Government's Livestock Development Stratesy
2.19        The Government's main objective has been to increase domestic meat
production and improve the capacity of the livestock sector to meet a growing
demand. Under earlier development plans, the public sector was the preferred
vehicle to achieve this objective. However, the strategy has recently shifted
toward greater emphasis on the private input supply and production sectors, the
gradual modernization of traditional production units, support for more capit-al-
intensive poultry enterprises, better cost recovery for government services, and
rehabilitation of parastatal enterprises. Furthermore, while earlier attention
focused on cattle and poultry, present strategy also encompasses other species,
such as small ruminants. Finally, MINEPIA is becoming increasingly aware of the
need to provide herders with access to land so as to encourage them to maintain,
and possibly improve, land carrying capacity in the long-term.
2.20        A two-pronged approach is advisable to reduce the national deficit
in livestock products and increase the contribution of the livestock sector to
overall agricultural production. First, a gradual intensification of traditional
production needs to be pursued. The reduction of mortality and morbidity, the
intensification of range land use, and the development of a closer integration



- 9 -
of crops and livestock would be important avenues to develop the traditional
sector and reduce the drudgery of farm labor and could, therefore, contribute
to a reduction of migration to the cities. Second, the emerging semi-intensive
production systems need to be actively supported, especially in poultry. Such
production has a fast growth potential and fits well with available
entrepreneurial skills.  Poultry and small ruminarts could therefore make an
important contribution to reducing the national meat deficit and providing an
additional outlet for excess production of cereals, especially maize.
The Bank's Role and Experience in Livestock Development in Cameroc
2.21        Bank-Funded Livestock Proiects.  The Bank Group has been involved
in the sector since 1974. The First Livestock Development Project (Loan 983-
CM, US$11.6 million), cofinanced with the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG),
aimed at (a) providing credit for mixed farming and ranch development; (b)
eradicating the tsetse fly in part of the Adamaoua Highlands; (c) establishing
three parastatal ranches and two slaughterhouses; and (d) providing training.
The Second Livestock Development Project (Credit 1010-CM, US$16 million), also
cofinanced with the FRG, continued these activities, extending the credit program
to poultry and pig production and adding the development of veterinary
infrastructure in the Adamaoua Plateau. Credit proceeds have been about equally
distributed among the various components (subloans, ranches and slaughterhouses,
tsetse eradication, and veterinary infrastructure). The closing date for the
Second Livestock Project was extended twice for the entire Credit (to December
31, 1986), and once  additionally for the SODEPA component.  The Credit was
closed on June 30, 1988.
2.22        Results. The subloan program, administered by FONADER, has extended
about 1,000 loans totalling US$10 million. The repayment rate stands at 80Z,
negatively affected by the African swine fever epidemic and an improper
supervision of loans, especially in the ranching sector.  Better results were
obtained in poultry and smallholder cattle-fattening operations, with repayment
rates approaching 90? and, especially in the West and Northwest Provinces, an
excellent uptake.   The parastatal ranches and slaughterhouse components are
reviewed in paras 2.14 and 2.16. The training component has been limited in
scope and impact.  A substantial need for training persists, especially in
retraining  and  communication  skills  development  for  extension  staff.
Construction of the veterinary infrastructure on the Adamaoua Plateau has been
partially completed and would need additional funding under this project.
2.23        The tsetse eradication program on the Adamaoua Plateau has cleared
2.2 million ha of land through aerial and ground spraying of insecticides. This
has  initiated a  significant  return  of  livestock  to  the  province.    An
environmental monitoring program has shown that the one-time application had no
significant negative long-term impact on the fauna. However, repeated spraying
of barrier areas following reinfestation of previously cleared areas and
indiscriminate land use after tsetse clearance have caused significant ecological
damage. The ex-post economic evaluation of the tsetse eradication operation was
favorable (economic rate of return over 20?) in spite of the high clearance costs
(US$15/ha). The future strategy would seek local participation in (a) protecting
the  cleared  areas  by  using methods  of low  environmental impact;   (b)
safeguarding the large investment; and (c) further improving land use.



- 10 -
2.24        Summary and Implications for the Proposed Proiect.  The previous
projects successfully developed livestock credit operations and assisted in the
emergence of a semi-intensive poultry sector, which is starting to play a key
role in alleviating Cameroon's animal protein deficit.   This project would
therefore continue  along similar  lines.   The tsetse  clearance  component
demonstrated the technical and economic feasibility of clearing large areas of
the tsetse fly. The main remaining issue concerns the sustainability of this
operation and the need to regulatf and use after clearance. The project would
t.erefore involve the beneficiaries more closely in the conservation of cleared
areas and give increased attention to the allocation of grazing rights.  The
parastatal slaughterhause and ranching components were developed successfully
after a slow and poor initial performance. SODEPA's public sector management
structure is the main remaining constraint to the sustainability of these
'ctivities. Management incentives to make SODEPA profitable would therefore be
sought under the project in coordination with the Commission for the
Rehabilitation of Public and Para-Public Enterprises.  The previous projects
touched only slightly on the overall institutional and policy framework. They
also neglected the provision of veterinary and extension services to private
producers and the long-term land tenure and resource conservation issues. These
areas are vital for a sustainable development of the sector and would be
addressed under the project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
3.01        The major objective of the project would be to increase meat arnd
milk productiou, raise producer income, in particular of poor livestock herders,
and reduce the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the
livestock sector. The project would accomplish this in a sustainable fashion
by (a) improving the efficiency of the traditional and emerging modemn livestock
production sector; (b) promoting the role of the private sector in the provision
of services to producers; (c) making parastatal enterprises profitable and
competitive; and (d) strengthening the planning and extension capabilities of
MINEPIA's Livestock Services. The project would test at the same time various
procedures allowing the recognition and consolidation of tho exclusive rights
of herder groups to particular grazing areas, water resources and, in the North,
transhumance routes.
B.  Proiect Strateay
3.02        The project would combine:
..   iolicy reforms based on the Government's shift of focus toward
traditional herders and emerging semi-intensive production units,
aiming at: (i) expanding the private sector's involvement in the
import, wholesale, and retail distribution of drugs and provision
of health services to livestock producers; and (ii) making the most
efficient use of the Government's limited budgetary resources; and



_ 11 _
2.    investments for institution building underpinning the realignment
of responsibilities within the sector resulting from the policy
reforms and aiming at improving (i) the quality and quantity of
government services; (ii) the capacity of traditional producers
organized into herder associations to best benefit from extension
and health services;   and ,iii) land use conditions in selected
pilot areas through better defined land rights and investments for
range land improvement and conservation, tsetse fly control, and
credit lines to meet the financial requirements of private sector
producers and health service agents.
C.  Summarv Proiect Description
3.03        The policy reforms would cover:
(a)   the privatization of clinical veterinary services by providing
incentives to qualified government agents to leave the civil service
and settle as private agents in areas where they would be protected
from competition by MINEPIA agents, and have the possibility of
providing services such as vaccinations and, eventually, food
inspection under subcontracts;
(b)   the extension of full cost recovery to all clinical services and
vaccinations, combined with the discontinuation of distribution of
free drugs by the Livestock Services;
tc)   the reorganization of the Veterinary Pharmaceutical Office (OPV);
(d)   the transformation of SODEPA's commercial activities into autonomous,
self-financing operations;
(e)   the harmonization of the extension methods and activities of MINEPIA
and the Ministry of Agriculture;
(f)   the stabilization of MINEPIA staff at its present level and the
reorientation of HINEPIA's training centers to the Lraining and
recycling of existing staff and private sector agents; and
(g)   the monitoring of the impact of meat import taxation on
consumption and production.
3.04        Proiect investments would comprise four components:
(a)   an institution building component which would (i) create or
strengthen about 250 producer associations; (ii) promote grass-root
participation by women and poor herders in development activities
in the Extreme North Province and if successful in the others
provinces; (iii) improve livestock extension services in the main
livestock production areas; and (iv) strengthen the planning and
administration capLbilities of HINEPIA;



- 12 -
(b)   a  resource  management  component  which  would,  with  producer
participation, finance (i) the establishment of about 11 pilot land
management areas (PLMAs) to test the allocation of exclusive grazing
rights and the provision of group services like credit and range
management to selected herder associations, under alternative land
allocation regulations; (ii) a mininum infrastructure in the PLMAs
to open up and conserve these grazing areas; (iii) range land
research and monitoring; and (iv) a sustainable protection system
for areas previously cleared of the tsetse fly;
(c)   an animal health component which would finance (i) the reorganization
of OPV; (ii) the possible clearance of an additional 12,000 km2 of
tsetse infested areas; and (iii) the introduction of a special health
program for small ruminants; and
(d)   a credit component for onlending for (i) the establishment of two
private companies for the import of veterinary pharmaceuticals and
a number of private veterinary practices for clinical care and drug
distribution; (ii) livestock and land development purposes and
women's activities in the PLMAs; (iii) semi-intensive poultry
production; and (iv) feed and livestock processing industries.
D. Proiect Area
3.05        The project's policy reforms would be national in scope.   The
extension services it would provide would be focused on the three provinces
where large livestock is concentrated, Northwest, Adamaoua, and Extreme North
(see Map). The resource management component would be implemented in 11 pilot
areas in these three provinces and in the North, West and East Provinces. The
producer associations, and small stock and poultry health components would
further extend to the Center, South and Littoral Provinces. The tsetse control
component would be limited to the Adamaoua Province where the problem is most
acute.
E. Rationale for Bank and IFAD Involvement
3.06        Bank.  The project wmuld emphasize privatization and environmental
protection policies, considered to be important by both the Government and the
Bank, but which the Government could not finance without Bank assistance.
Progress in these areas could open the way for the adoption of similar policies
in other sectors of the Cameroonian economy and thus act as forerunners for the
proposed structural adjustment program.   The project's approach has been
successfully implemented in other Bank projects in the region. The Bank would
therefore be in a position to contribute useful experience to its implementation.
Additionally, the project would be a logical follow-up on the National
Agricultural Research Project and would be in harmony with, and complement, the
proposed Agr'.  ltural Extension project, ensuring closer cooperation between the
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock and the utilization of similar extension
methods in their respective areas. Financing of the various projects by the same
institution would enhance the coordination and impact of the total package.



- 13 -
3.07        IFAD.  The focus of the project on food production, i.e., meat and
livestock products, is a prime concern of IFAD, as is the potential orientation
to the rural poor. The rural population and areas served by the project contain
substantial numbers of pastoralists, livestock-dependent poor whose incomes are
substantially below those of other rural and urban groups and who have a high
degree of food insecurity. Their poverty is mostly of a structural nature, due
to low resource endowment in terms of livestock and transitory claims to range
land by pastoralists who are often transhumant or semi-transhumant.   IFAD's
participation would pursue three main objectives:
(a)   poverty orientation, by assisting livestock development in the
Extreme North Province where most poor livestock holders are
concentrated;
(b)   target group orientation, by increasing emphasis on the small stock
sector, which benefits the poorer herders and women; and
(c) an additional orientation toward women and their multiple roles in
livestock activities.
Moreover, the project would support policy reforms enhancing the structural
adjustment process and having a favorable economic impact on the rural poor.
P. Detailed Proiect Descriition
1. Policy Reforms
3.08        In line with stated government policies, a comprehensive set of
reforms would be introduced in the livestock sector.   The Government has
indicated its agreement to the principles of these policy reforms in a Letter
on Livestock Development Policy (LLDP), which was officially communicated to
the Bank at the opening of Loan negotiations. The reforms are detailed in an
Action Plan, and assurances were obtained at negotiations that this Action Plan
will be implemented as part of project execution. Details of the policy reforms
are presented below. The English translation of the LLDP and the Action Plan
are given in Annex 6.
3.09        Privatization of Animal Health Care.   To improve the supply of
essential veterinary pharmaceuticals and veterinary health care through private
sector involvement, the Government intends to help its veterinarians and
livestock technicians to become private agents. These agents would take over
from NINEPIA the provision of services to be paid by the producers, i.e.,
clinical treatments, non-compulsory vaccinations and the distribution of
veterinary drugs.   During negotiations, confirmation was obtained from the
Government that it will facilitate the establishment of qualified veterinarians
in private practice. The Government agents resigning from MINEPIA or eligible
for retirement would be granted up to one year's salary worth of drugs to assist
in their initial establishment. Private veterinarians providing animal health
care would be protected from unfair public sector competition and would be
subcontracted for public service tasks, such as compulsory vaccination campaigns



- 14 -
and eventually meat inspection at remunerative rates to be established by the
Government by October 1, 1989 and updated each year.   The Government would
support this privatization by gradually converting the tasks of the livestock
technicians remaining in government into other, usually extension, activities
in order to avoid that government agents provide health services at below-cost
rates. The transfer to private veterinary services would be initiated in a
pilot region, of the size of a province, with high livestock density, an emerging
moderr. sector, and good communications. The choice by the Government of this
region would. be communicated to the Bank as a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.10        Cost Recovery.   To create a favorable environment for private
veterinarians, technicians, and producer associations, and to generate income
for the Livestock Services, cost recovery on animal health care provided by
MINEPIA would be greatly increased.   During negotiations,  assurances were
obtained that the Government will (a) charge producers the full costs for all
clinical treatments and vaccinations; (b) abolish the distribution of free drugs;
and (c) as of October 1, 1989, charge herders in the tsetse cleared areas
contributions in cash and kind which will meet the cost of maintaining these
areas free of the fly. The level of these contributions would be established
annually on the basis of cost calculations to be carried out by the Directorate
of Studies, Projects, and Training (DEPI).  Their collection in the tsetse
cleared areas would be linked to the annual vaccination campaigns, and payment
would be against the issue of earmarks, clearly identifying the animals of owners
wno have paid. The major part of revenues from ali services rendered by the
Livestock Services would be deposited in the existing provincial Livestock
Development Funds (LDFs) as of October 1, 1989 and would be exclusively used to
meet the Livestock Services' non-salary recurrent costs. The promulgation of
the new tariffs for clinical interventions and vaccinations, and the abolition
of free drug distribution would be conditions of loan effectiveness.
?.11        Reorganization of Drua Imports and Distribution.  Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government will reorganize OPV by reducing
its personnel and other recurrent charges and, if required, increasing its sales
prices with the explicit objective of making it profitable by December 31, 1990
and avoiding financial charges to the Government's budget beyond that date. Upon
completion of the EDF-funded study of OPV and not later than June 30, 1989, its
recommendations would be reviewed by the Government in consultation with the Bank
and EDF, together with OPV's proposed timetable for their implementation, and
then put into effect. The results of these measures would be reviewed by June
30, 1991 by the Government in consultation with the Bank and EDF, together with
OPV's  future management  framework.    Preliminary  studies  show  that, with
appropriate management, OPV could reduce its recurrent charges to levels
compatible with the official margin (20Z of the sales price) permitted by the
Government. This would imply, at present sales and cost levels, a reduction of
those charges from US$1.2 million to US$240,000. All imports would be subject
to licensing and quality control as stipulated in current legislation to prevent
the introduction of undesirable, internationally banned or ineffective medicines
or vaccines. The costs linked to the above reforms would be financed by an EDF
grant (para 3.23).  The project would also establish a credit line for qualified
private businesses interested in drug imports and wholesale distribution (para
3.27).



- 15 -
3.12        Status of SODEPA.  Considering the present financial performance of
SODEPA and limited possibilities for further substantial improvements, the
project would focus on ensuring the transformation of SODEPA's commercial
activities into autonomous, self-financing operations, with profit rather than
administration oriented management criteria. The Government has indicated its
intention to review the public enterprise status of SOD-PA along these lines and
is contracting a review of the legal status and management options of the
company, including the possibility of selling part or all of its capital to
private interests or, in case SODEPA remains under public ownership, of
entrusting its management to a team employed under a contract affering strong
incentives for financial improvements. This study is to be financed by a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
study will be comapleted and reviewed with the Bank before June 30, 1989 and that
its agreed recommendations and time-table will be implemented as of December 31,
1989.
3.13        Livestock and Cron Extension.  The project would se,ek to promote a
cohereut system of crop and livestock extension.   For this purpose.  the
Government would centralize livestock extension operations under the Livestock
Services of MINEPIA and harmonize the activities and methods of the extension
services of MINEPIA and the Ministry of Agriculture along the lines indicated
in the LLDP. It is expected that, along with the reorganization of SODEPA, its
extension activities and key extension agents would be transferred to the
Livestock Services.   Assurances were obtained during negotiations that an
agreement between MINEPIA and the Ministry of Agriculture detailing the
modalities of collaboration in each of the three provinces where the project
would support livestock extension activities (para 3.18) will be reached not
later than June 30, 1989.
3.14        Staff and Training Policies.  With the grim budgetary perspectives
facing it, .he Government has stated in the LLDP its intention to limit staff
recruitment in MINEPIA to the number required to ccmpensate for normal attrition,
other than the agents transferred to the private sLctor, and accordingly adjust
itE use of existing training centers.   Assurances were  obtained during
negotiations that, starting with the 1989/90 academic year (a) enrollment in the
livestock training centers will not be automatically linked to a guarantee of
recruitment into the public service; and (b) the centers will be organized to
ensure (i) training for the private sector; (ii) the periodic training of all
exist.'ag staff; (iii) special training for staff considered for promotion; and
(iv) the instruction of agents to be recruited by MINEPIA.
3.15        Monitoring of Heat Import Taxation.  The Government his agreed to
monitor periodically the impact of the increased meat import taxes on the protein
consumption of the poorer segments of the population and on domestic livestock
production. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by June 30, 1989, the
Government will present to the Bank for consultation detailed guidelines for this
monitoring and will start implementing the guidelines immediately thereafter.
If the impact of the present measures is shown to be detrimental to the poorest
consumers, the Government would develop corrective measures.



- 16 -
2. Proiect Investments
lnstitution Building
3.16        Herder Organizations.  Institution building would be geared toward
the strengthening of herder organizations and of government agencies providing
services for which they have a comparative advantage over the private sector.
As the privatization of animal health care vauld progress, MINEPIA would
concentrate  on  extension,  planning,  sanitary  control,  and  compulsory
vaccinations. Herder organizations, which would have demonstrated good social
cohesion, would be assisted in taking, gradually and on a pilot basis, a bigger
role in resource management. These herder associations, selected by the local
livestock delegations, would be allocated exclusive grazing rights in the 11
pilot areas.
3.17        Producer Associations. The project would aim to create or strengthen
about 250 producer associations (mostly of traditional cattle and small stock
owners, but also groups of poultry and dairy producers) with a particular focus
on the promotion of women's activities and, when proven effective, consolidating
these associations into four regional federations respectively in the (a!
Adamaoua and East; (b) Northwest and West; (c) Extreme North and North; and
(d) Center,  South and Littoral Provinces.   Following the promising model
developed in other countries (AnFex 7), associations of traditional cattle
herders would be formed initially fo. the provision of veterinary pharmaceuticals
and simple veterinary care for the cattle of their members, due to the high
priority that producers give to these services.  Other group functions like
collective credits, water development and maintenance, and women's activities'
could be added later. A selected Individual contact member in each group would
be trained in simple veterinary care and management of stocks. Poultry and dairy
producer groups would be mainly organized around input supply and marketing.
Group formation would be based on grass-root interest and, therefore, on
traditional social and power structures wherever such structures are still strong
and representative. To achieve this bottom-to-top approach, the formation and
initial training of these associations would be set in motion by a
multidisciplinary team, attached to each of the Provincial Livestock Delegations,
comprising, besides the technical disciplines, a sociologist and a representative
of the traditional leadership. In tk? Extreme North Province, the team m$ght
be staffed, on an experimental basis, by a non-governwAntal organization (NGO).
The team would aim in particular at developing and testing innovative methods
of promoting group formation and activities which ensure an active participation
of the poorer herders and women in that province. Funds would be provided under
the project to allow the possible replication of successful innovations in other
parts of the country following a review of initial experience. Provisions would
also be made to support remunerative women activities within these associations,
and a women advisor would be appointed within the Ex-reme North provincial
producer organixation team. The project would fund the means to carry out this
compot ant, including equipment, vehicles, long and short-term technical
ascistance in pastoral organization and sociology, training of Cameroonian staff,
and part of the operatingrx csts. More details on the producer organization teams
and women activities are provided in Annex 8.



- 17 -
3.18        Extension Services. MINEPIA's extension staff is currently loosely
organized and, for lack of recurrent funds, finds itself office-bound. Livestock
extension tasks would be organized in parallel with the ongoing agricultural
extensinn efforts and would be based on the improved management and operational
principles of the Training and Visit (T&V) system. The specific inputs in each
province would depend upon the nature and problems of the prevailing production
systems-  The main issue concerns the integration of livestock into crop
extensiot to ensure a unified message at farm level and make the most efficient
use of limited staff and financial resou:rces. The Government has specified in
the LLDP that it intends, wherever possible, to integrate the field activities
of the two services  (para 3.13).   Where the two production systems are
integrated, the extension service concerned with the dominant activity would
assume responsibility for farm level extension, supported by subject-matter
specialists from the other ministry for specialized expertise. The two services
would continue to function in parallel in those areas where crop and livestock
activities are conducted fully separately. Training of extension staff would
be provided at two levels: two-week refresher courses provided once a year at
the Maroua and Jakiri institutes, and one-day training sessions offered every
month at the delegation or ;ector level. The project would finance the training
of subject-matter specialists, transport and extension equipment, and supplies.
civil works, including the completion of infraetructure in the Adamaoua Province
(para 2.21), associated recurrent costs, and short- and long-term technical
assistance.   Details  on livestock extension inputs and the geographical
distribution of responsibilities between the two extension services are given
in Annex 8.
3.19        Central Planning.  To assist MINEPIA in formulating realistic and
efficient sector development strategies, identifying and oreparing sound
investment projects, and monitoring the scatteretx development activities the
project would strengthen the recently created DEPF. Project inputs would include
training, long- and short-term technical assistance, equipment, and the
establishment of a documentatiou center.   Long-terc, technical assistance
(livestock economist) would help HINEPIA establish a monitoring system and
develop procedures to involve ministry staff at all levels in the identification
and preparation of investments.   One of the first tasks of this technical
assistance would be to prepare a detailed plan for the privatization of the
veterinary care, including recommended retail price levels, any incentives
required to ensure private services to remote and poorer areas, and the
establishment of a monitoring system for prices of services in such remote areas.
This technical assistance would complement the long-term technical assistance
to be provided by USAID under its Agricultural Planning Project, which, for
MINEPIA, would concentrate on macroeconomic studies and policies. The proje.t
would further provide funds to carry out economic and technical studies, either
directly through DEPF or throug' local or international consultancy firms.
Within the framework of overal.      ,t approval procedures (para 4.04), MINEPIA
would Eorward to the Bank for ;,  qal, before March 31 of each year, detailed
terms of reference, funding requ. aents, and organizational arrangements on the
studies it intends to undertake tne following year under Bank financing.
3.20        Central Administration. To further strengthen MINEPIA's operations,
the project would finance a study of the procedures applied by the Ministry's
services.   The study would develop improved internal procedures for budget



- 18 -
preparation and administration and for the management of personnel and assets.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained that (a) the study will be completed
according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank before December 31, 1989;
and (b) the recommendations of the study will be reviewed with the Bank, and a
timetable for the implementation of the agreed program will be finalized before
July 1, 1990.  In addition, MINEPIA's Directorate of Administration would be
strengthened through the local recruitment of a highly qualified administrative
controller who would assist the'Director in handling the increased volume of
operations resulting from the implementation of the project (para 4.01).
Resource ManaRement
3.21        Pilot Land Manaaement Areas.  The project would demarcate about 11
pilot land management areas (i.e., national agro-pastoral development areas) of
10,000 ha to 150,000 ha each, containing producer as. aciations selected for their
proven social cohesion and generally successful past results. The pilot areas
would include two overgrazed areas in the Extreme North, two tsetse-free areas
in the Adamaoua, four areas in the Northwest and one each in the West, North,
and East Provinces. The associations selected would be given a legal status
allowing them to borrow money and be allocated exclusive user rights to specific
tracts of land for a period long enough to create an interest in resource
improvement and conservation. Draft legal statutes would be prepared during the
first two years of project implementation by MINEPIA, with assistance from the
short-term consultant in sociology, and forwarded to tne Bank for comments. The
allocation of these user rights would be done respecting traditional rights,
within the frame of various options permitted by the law, to test these options
for a future generalization of their use. The major land rights would include
all range land users in the area, including the migratory groups. The project
would finance detailed land tenure surveys, the construction, with the Ministry's
existing machine pool, of about 40 km of access roads, 180 km of feeder roads,
about 20 water points, and the introduction of improved land use management
techniques. The project would also provide funds, through MINEPIA, for research
on range land improvement to be carried out by the Institute of Livestock
Research (IRZ), including an assessment of vegetation trends and the evolution
of the carrying capacity in the PLMAs and the establishment of a more general
range monitoring system in the three major livestock provinces and research on
weed control methods.   Further financing would be provided for long-term
technical assistance in land and grazing management to the Livestock Production
Directorate (DPA) and the Provincial Delegations in the establishment of the
pilot areas and in the preparation and implementation of their management plans.
Producers would be required to finance half of the costs of internal
infrastructures. Within the framework of overall budget approval procedures
(para 4.04), detailed plans for each area would be presented by the Government
for approval by the Bank before implementation.
3.22        Tsetse Control.  The tsetse control component of the project would
aim at consolidating the results obtained under the previous projects, paying
increased attention to the long-term sustainability of the eradication efforts
and minimizing possible ecological damage. During the first three project years,
the project would only finance the establishment of protective barriers around
the previously cleared areas with a financial and labor participation from the
local producers and using recently developed methods of low environmental impact,



- 19 -
like fly traps and impregnated screens.   The traditional methods of aerial
insecticide spraying would only be used during this period for the clearing of
a small complementary area to reach the best natural fly barriers.   In the
northern part of the Adamaoua Province, the tsetse screens would be laid out in
a manner to create a buffer zone between the tsetse-cleared areas and the Benoue
game reserve, where grazing would be discouraged but hunting would be authorized.
Project funds would cover a limited amount of insecticides and transport, road
construction, ground spraying equipment, and operatiag costs. Fly screens and
traps would be financed on a declining basis, the differenctt being gradually
provided by the local population.   The cost of short technical assistance
missions by an entomologist to advise on fly screens and traps technology, a
sociologist to advise on producer participation, and a biologist to continue the
ecological monitoring initiated under the previous projects would also be
covered. An in-depth evaluation would be undertaken at the end of PY3, and
completed in any case prior to any further extension of tsetse clearance (para
3.25) to assess the degree of cost recovery and producer participation achieved,
the results achieved by the PLMAs in resource conservation, and the feasibility
of using screens and traps in ma'ntaining buffer zones around game reserves.
More information on the resource management component is provided in Annex 9.
Animal Health
3.23         ReorRanization of OPV. The project would support the reorganization
of OPV (para 3.11) with an EDF grant of ECU 1.8 million (US$1.9 million) which
would cover (a) the recruitment of a qualified international management and
organization firm to provide a total of 30 months of consultancy services over
a two-year period to prepare and implement an action plan which would aim at
making OPV profitable and financially autonomous at the end of this two year
period; (b) an increase in OPV's working capital which would allow it to triple
its present sales volume; and (c) the purchase of vehicles to expand OPV's
distribution system. The reorganization plan would be prepared by the management
firm in the first three months of its assignment. After approval by OPV's Board
of Directors, the firm's recommendations would be implemented during the
subsequent year by tie same firm under the direct control of a small subcommittee
of the Board (maximum three members, including the Board Chairman).  There would
then be a final period of intensive training of Cameroonian staff.   The
reorganization can be carried out within OPV's existing statutes which provide
it with adequate autonomy. More detailed information on the reorganization of
OPV, including draft terms of reference, is provided in the Project File
(Document No. 12).
3.24        Private Health Care and Drug Distribution.   The development of
private drug import and wholesale distribution companies, private veterinary
clinics, and retail pharmacies would be promoted through the establishment of
two lines of credit under the project: the first for onlending to one or two
qualified individuals or firms seeking to establish a drug import business,
and the second to pro"ide loans for qualified Livestock Services personnel
wishing to start a private veterinary health clinic and retail distribution of



- 20 -
drugs (paras 3.27, 4.02, 5.03 and Annex 9).   The loans for private health
services would complement the grant given to public agents going into private
business (para 3.09). Appropriate measures would be introduced to (a) ensure
access to remote areas at reasonable prices;   and (b) avoid the import and
distribution of poor quality, undesirable or expired drugs (,aras 3.11 and 4.02)
3.25        Extension of Tsetse Clearance.  If the evaluation by the end of PY3
assesses the protection and management of the tsetse cleared areas as successful
(para 3.22), the project would provide for the eradication of the fly over an
adjacent area of about 12,000 km2 in eastern Adamaoua.  The project would finance
in PY4 and PY5 the corresponding equipment, helicopter rental, insecticides, and
operating expenditures. Bunk disbursements against expenditures for insecticides
would be made dependent on Bank approval of the type of insecticide to be used.
The residue and impact monitoring initiated under the previous livestock projects
would be continued to ensure an early detection of eventual ecological damages.
3.26        Health Program for Small Stock.  Special provisions would be made
to start experimental sheep and goat improvement and village poultry health
programs in the Extreme North, West, Northwest, Center, and South Provinces.
These programs would be conducted by the extension staff of the Livestock
Services with funds especially earmarked for this purpose. The programs would
cover vaccination campaigns and on-farm demonstration units. They would also
develop new extension messages for the small stock producers. More information
on the animal health component is provided in Annex 10.
Subloans for Livestock Production and Services
3.27        The project would provide funds for five credit lines to finance
investment or recurrent costs of privately operated activities, including (a)
about 40 loans not to exceed US$30,000 each, up to a maximum of US$800,000, for
veterinary agents entering private practice (para 3.09); (b) one or two loans
not exceeding US$250,000 each for individuals or firms seeking to open new
veterinary drug import businesses (para 3.24); (c) a line of credit for about
160 loans, each not to exceed US$30,000, up to a maximum of US$3.2 million, for
existing or new semi-intensive poultry operations; (d) loans, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$2 million, each not to exceed US$500,000, for animal
product and livestock feed processing industries; and (e) loans for mixed farming
operations, the improvement of range lands, and women activities in the pilot
PLMAs, up to a maximum of US$1.6 million. A global amount of about US$8.9
million (including IOZ for contingencies) has been earmarked for the five lines
of credit.   Onlending channels and procedures are discussed in para 4.02.
Onlending conditions are discussed in para 5.03.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Proiect Organization and Management
4.01        The project would be implemented by MINEPIA's existing central and
field staff, complemented by the local recruitment of an administrative
controller for the central services of MINEPIA and nine sociologists, one for



- 21 -
each of the Livestock Delegations of the provinces where producer organization
activities would be carried out, and the women advisor for the Extreme North
Province. The project would be under the direct responsibility of the Secretary
General of HINEPIA, who would delegate the supervision of day-to-day operations
to the Directors of (a) Animal Production for the producer organization and
extension components; (b) Veterinary Services for the animal health (excluding
OPV's reorganization) and tsetse components; and (c) Studies, Projects and
Training for the planning component.   The team would be assisted by an
internationally recruited extension specialist and a samll stock specialist.
Responsibility for authorizing project expenditures would be shared between the
Directors and the administrative controller recruited for the project.  The
latter would report directly to the Secretary General of MINEPIA. Procurement
would be carried out by the Directarate of Administration, MINEPIA, assisted by
the administrative controller. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the administrative controller, the extension specialist, and the small stock
specialist will have training and experience acceptable to the Bank and will be
employed not later than June 1, 1989. Under the agreement between the Government
and EDF, an internationally recruited management firm would prepare a two-year
reorganizatlon plan for OPV and would be entrusted thereafter with the
implementation of this plan. The plan would comprise measures to (i) reduce
recurrent charges of OPV; (ii) reduce and reallocate staff; (iii) redesign the
drug distribution network; and (iv) improrv the financial and management
procedures of OPV. In the Extreme North Province, implementation of the pastoral
organization and PLMA components might be subcontracted to an experienced NGO,
acceptable to the Bank and IFAD, which would also provide the women advisor.
Details for project monitoring are provided in Annex 11.
Onlendina Channels for Subloans
4.02        In view of (a) the present weakness of the commercial banking system
in Cameroon and numerous uncertainties concerning a future agricultural bank;
(b) the changes envisaged in the banking sector following a possible structural
adjustment program; and (c) the urgency in setting up some of the proposed credit
lines (in particular those for private veterinary agents and poultry operations),
various onlending channels, including private commercial banks, public sector
credit institutions, rural development entities, and NGOs with adequate financial
and accounting practices (the latter mainly for the poultry, mixed farming, and
range land improvement loans in the Extreme North Province), would be entrusted
with the administration of the credit lines.   The subloans for the private
veterinary agents would be approved and supervised by a committee comprising the
Secretary General of MINEPIA, the Directors of Animal Production and Veterinary
Services, the extension specialist and the Provincial Delegate of the province
concerned and a representative of MINEPIA's technical staff.  This committee
would ensure, inter alia, that appropriate measures are taken to eliminate unfair
competition to private agents by HINEPIA field staff and to encourage through
appropriate incentives private animal health care in remote areas. The committee
would also establish and regularly review lists of veterinary products permitted
to be imported and institute regulations on shelf life and container coding for
illiterate users. The establishment of the committee, with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of Loan effectiveness.



- 22 -
Proiect Preparation Facility (PPF)
4.03        A PPF for US$300,000 was recently approved to finance: (a) a
management review study of SODEPA to assist the Government in transforming SODEPA
into a private company; (b) the training of MINEPIA staff in extension methods,
pastoral organization and tsetse control, and of selected staff to be entrusted
with the provision of refresher courses to extension staff; (c) the testing,
under Cameroonian conditions, of ecologically safe methods of tsetse control;
and (d) technical assistance to the Directorate of Studies, Projects, and
Training (DEPF) to develop a project monitoring system.
Annual Work Proarams and Budaets
4.04        One objective of the project would be to improve work planning and
budgeting in the participating departments of MINEPIA in order to strengthen
management, improve project implementation, and use advisors more effectively.
Annual work programs for the project would be prepared before the start of each
budget cycle by the Provincial Livestock Delegation concerned, in cooperation
with the directors of Animal Production and Veterinary Services. These partial
budgets would be consolidated by DEPF into one work program and budget for the
project. Special reference would be made to the feasibility studies proposed
by DEPF to be carried out under Bank funding (para 3.19) and the investment plans
for the PLMAs (para 3.21). The work programs would be complemented by an annual
training plan, outlining courses to be held, numbers of staff to be trained, and
possible nominees for courses. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that,
beginning March 31, 1989, and no later than March 31 of each year thereafter,
MINEPIA will forward these programs and budgets to the Bank for approval.
Reports would also be issued annually summarizing project achievements, comparing
them with the agreed objectives, and commenting on key problems and future
priorities. A Project Completion Report would be prepared by the Government
within six months of project completion.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01        The cost of the proposed project has been estimated at CFAF 16
billion (US$55.2 million), of which CFAP 11.1 billion (US$38.3 million), or 691,
is in foreign exchange. The estimates are based on prices prevailing in July
1988;  they include US$4.7 million in taxes and duties and US$9.0 million in
physical and price contingencies.   Project costs include activities to be
financed under the PPF, which will be carried out in 1988 and early 1989, and
refinanced under the Loan. Physical contingencies of 101 have been included on
all items with the exception of pre-project activities and technical assistance,
whose specifications are clearly established. Price contingencies on foreign
costs are based on the Bank's projections of international price increases (31
per year during 1989 and 1990 and 42 per year from 1991 to 1993).   Price
contingencies on local costs are based on the Bank's forecast of domestic
inflation in Cameroon (102 per year during the five years of the project period).
Detailed cost tables are provided in Annex 12 and the Project File (Document No.
13).



_ 23 -
Proiect Ccst Sumsary
Foreign
Local     Foreign   Total      Exchange
-----(US$ million)------         (Z)
Institution Building         7.7       13.4      21.1          64
Resource Management          1.9        5.0       6.9          73
Animal Health                1.8        8.7      10.5          83
Credit                       1.1        6.6       7.7          85
TOTAL BASE COST             12.5       33.7      46.2          73
Physical Contingencies    1.1         1.5       2.6          57
Price Contingencies        3.3        3.1       6.4          48
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         16.9       38.3      55.2          69
Financins
5.02       Of the total projeet cost of CFAF 16 billion (US$55.2 million), the
Bank Loan of US$34.6 million would finance 71? of foreign exchange costs plus
44Z of local costs. IFAD would finance all project activities in the Extreme
North Province, including those related to the promotion of women and the poorer
herders, some technical assistance (including a vomen advisor), the credit line
for the pastoral associations, an extension to other parts of the country of
successful innovations achieved in the Extreme North Province and, on a 50/50
vari vassu basis with the Bank, the purchase of veterinary medicines. IFAD's
loan would amount to US$10.8 million equivalent. The European Development Fund
(EDF) would finance the reorganizatior of OPV.  The French Government would
finance, through FAC, two long-term technical assistance posts (livestock
economist and land management specialist).   The fulfillment of all conditions
prior to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan and the FAC grant would be a
condition of Bank Loan effectiveness. The Bank loan would finance the remaining
technical assistance (internationally recruited veterinary extensionist and small
stock specialist and a locally recruited administrative controller), training,
vehicles, equipment, insecticides and veterinary drugs and, on a declining basis,
operating costs. Operating costs would include mission travel and subsistence
allowances for staff involved in the project, operation and maintenance cost for
project vehicles and equipment, office supplies, training materials, and small
inputs such as seeds and fertilizers for demonstration purposes. IFAD intends
to contribute a grant to cover the cost of the NGO to be eventually recruited
to administer the producer organization component in the Extreme North (paras
3.17 and 4.01). The Government would finance 11Z of total costs.



- 24 -
Financing Plan
USS Million               X
IBRD                             34.6                  63
IFAD                             10.8                  20.
Government                        6.3                  11
EDF                               1.9                   3
FAC                               1.6                   3
Total                       55.2                 100
Onlendina Procedures
5.03       Assurances  were  obtained  during  negotiations  that  financial
intermediaries responsible for administering the subloans on account of the
Government will meet financial, operational, and technical criteria satisfactory
to the Bank. The Government would sign with each intermediary a financing
agreement on terms approved by the Bank as a condition of disbursement for the
line of credit concerned. Understandings were reached during negotiations that
these terms would include (a) the payment of a management fee of 1X to 32
(depending on the size or complexity of individual subloans) to the intermediary
on the subloan amount; and (b) a margin to be negotiated with the intermediary
on the amount collected by it on behalf of the Government as subloan repayment
(principal and interest). Further assurances were obtained during negotiations
that (i) onlending within the PLMAs, drug imports, poultry production, znd agro-
industry credit lines financed under the project would be based on feasibility
studies of the activities to be financed, subloans equivalent to US$150,000 or
more each being subject to Bank approval; and (ii) onlending by the
intermediaries to the final borrowers would be at an interest rate equal to not
less than 112 per year, and the foreign risk would be borne by the Government.
The interest rate of 112 is slightly higher than recently observed inflation
rates. It would be reviewed annually to take into account eventual changes in
the inflation rate of the country.
Procurement
5.04       All goods and services funded under the Bank Loan would be procured
in accordance with the appropriate Bank guidelines. Because of the limited size
of civil works contracts (estimated to total US$700,000) and the isolated
location of the work sites, foreign firms are not likely to bid for civil works.
These contracts would therefore be procured following existing Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures, which operate under the ongoing projects and are
acceptable to the Bank.       Insecticides, as well as vehicle and equipment
contracts exceeding US$200,000 would be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and would be bulked to the extent possible.   For
contracts between US$50,000 and US$200,000 and up to an aggregate amount of
US$750,000, local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used.
Procuremeut of goods for less than US$50,000 per contract and up to an aggregate
amount of tkS$400,000 would be on the basis of quotadcons from at leait three



- 25 -
eligible suppliers. Under ICB procurement of goods, local manufacturers would
be allowed a 15Z margin of preference or the applicable customs duty, whichever
is lower. All technical assistance staff would be selected in accordance with
the Bank's or cofinancier's guidelines, depending on the source of financing.
All contracts exceeding US$200,000 would be subject to review by the lank prirr
to their execution.
Procurement Method and Disbursement
Proiect Element            ICB        LCB        Other     N.A.          Total
Cost
----------------  US$  million  ---------------
Civil Works                       -          0.7       -          -          0.7
(0.6)      -          -         (0.6)
Vehicles and Equipment *          6.3        1.0       0.7  a/   -           8.0
(4.8)     (0.6)      (0.4)       -        (5.8)
Consultant Services               -          -         5.1  b/   -           5.1
_         _         (2.2)       -        (2.2)
Training and Studies              -         -          3.2  b/   -           3.2
-         -         (1.9)       -        (1.9)
Insecticides                      6.1       -          -          -          6.1
(6.1)      -          -          -        (6.1)
Veterinary Drugs                  2.0        0.5       -          -          2.5
(0.4)     (0.3)       -         -         (0.7)
Operating Costs *                 -         -          -         19.6       19.6
-         -          -        (10.0)    (10.0)
Goods and Services                -          -         -          8.5        8.5
for Credit Lines                 -         -          -         (7.0)      (7.0)
Incremental Local Salaries        -         -          -          1.2        1.2
PPF Refund                        -          -         -          0.3        0.3
-         -          -         (0.3)     (0.3)
TOTAL                       14.4        2.2        9.0       29.6      55.2
(11.3)     (1.5)      (4.5)    (17.3)    (34.6)
Note: Amounts in parentheses concern Bank financing.
a/ Quotations from three suppliers.
b/ Includes amounts for items financed by other cofinanciers under
their own procedures.
* Except for the Extreme rarth Province financed by IFAD.



- 26 -
Disbursements
5.05       To expedite disbursements, a special account of US$2 million  would
be opened at the time of Loan effectiveness in a conmercial bank, to be used
for all categories of expenditures. The special account would be replenished
on a monthly basis or when it is reduced to one third of its original amount,
whichever comes first. During project implementation, project expenses at the
Provincial Livestock Delegation (PLD) level would be prefinanced out of the
Livestock Development Funds (para 3.10) and reimbursed from the special account
upon presentation of justificatory documentation by the respective PLDs.
Retroactive financing of an amount of US$300,000 would be provided for the
contribution of PZL  infrastructure in the Adamaoua Province, initiated after
January 1, 1988.
5.06       The Bank Loan would be disbursed over a six and a half year period
(Annex 13). The schedule of disbursem'ats is based on the standard Cameroonian
disbursement profile for agricultural projects amended to take into account the
refinancing of the PPF. Contracts up to US$200,000 and operating costs would
be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) to be provided by the
administrative controller in MINEPIA's Directorate of Administration. All other
contracts would be fully do^umented.   Documentation of SOEs would be made
available for review by Bank supervision missions.
Disbursement of Bank Loan
Amount           Percent-ge
Category                        (USS million}     Financed Dv Bank
Civil Works                          0.6            100?
Vehicles and Equipment *             5.3             100% of foreign expenditures
and 85Z of local expenditures
Consultant Services,
Training and Studies               3.5            1OOZ
Insecticides                         5.6            1OOZ
Drugs                                0.6             502 a/
Operating Costs *                    8.8            On a declining scale b/
Goods and Services for               6.4            1002
Credit Lines
PPF Refund                           0.3            Amount due
Unallocated                          3.5
Total                             34.6
a/  Pari passu (lsl) cofinancing with IFAD.
b/ 90? for up to US$4 million; then 60? un to US$7 million and 30?
thereafter, in line with expected increases in revenue from cost
recovery.
* Except for the Extreme North Province financed by IFAD.



- 27 -
Accounts and Audits
5.07       A study of MINEPIA's budgetary and administrative procedures would
be carried out to advise MINEPIA on possible improvements in accounting,
budgeting, and internal control (para 3.20). Training and follow-up support
would also be provided to the financial controllers at headquarters and in each
of the three participating provinces. Simple operating manuals would be prepared
to assist accounting staff in applying the  systems.   The administrative
controller in the Directorate of Administration would be responsible for
consolidating the accounts and preparing disbursement applications and records,
assisted by short back-up missions on procedural matters. Project accounts would
be audited by a qualified independent audit firm under procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. Audited accounts and reports would be submitted to the Bank for
review within nine months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit would cover
the operations of the special account in Yaounde and of the Provincial Livestock
Development  Funds  (para 3.10).    The  audit  repo t would also  include  a
verification of the legitimacy of all expenditures, an assessment as to whether
goods and services have been procured from eligible countries, and an opinion
on the reliability of the SOE procedures and on the proper utilization of goods
and services financed under the project.   Assurances on the foregoing were
obtained at negotiations.
Proiect Impact on MINEPIA's Budget
5.08       Durint Proiect Implementation.  Because of its scope, the project
would finance an important segment of the livestock sector's investment budget,
especially now that pablic investment has so dramatically declined (para 2.09).
Annual project investments would equal, on average, MINEPIA's 1988189 investment
budget financed from the Treasury. Recurrent project costs are equivalent to
about 60Z of MINEPIA's present operating expenditures. External financing would
initially meet most of these costs, but would decline as revenues from improved
cost recovery measures incorporated into the project gradually replace external
financing without further impact on the Ministry's budget (Annex 14).   These
arrangements would at the same time reduce the project's dependence on often
irregular Treasury resources. Furthermore, staff reduction measures combined
with cost recovery and an abolition of drug and other subsidies would, by PY5,
entail savings of the order of US$5 million per year.
5.09       After 2roiect Completion.  Beyond the project disbursement period,
MINEPIA would be expected to finance recurrent cost (about US$3 million per
year) and the replacement of some project investments, such as cars and equipment
(about US$250,000 per year). This compares favorably with average savings and
earnings of the order of US$5 million per year resulting from the measures
described above.   Overall, if  successful, the project should result in a
budgetary improvement for MINEPIA of about US$2 million. At the same time, the
project would enhance the Ministry's operational capacity by improving its
salary/non-salary costs ratio from the present inadequate 84:16 ratio to a more
acceptable 75:25 ratio.



- 28 -
I. PROJECT J1JSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Incremental Production
6.01       Quantifiable project benefito in the form of increases in meat and
milk production are expected to result mainly from (a) an improved availability
of veterinary drugs, nationwide; (b) improved health and extension services in
the major livestock producing provinces; and (c) the conservation of areas
already cleared of the tsetse fly and their furtber extension in the Adanaoua
Province. Additional non-quantifiable benefits would result from the various
policy measures, institution building efforts, and pilot land improvement
activities. The quantifiable benefit stream of the project is given in Annex
15.  The following table summarizes the impact of the health and exteusion
components of the project on beef and milk production. Similar imprGvements
would be expected in small ruminant and poultry production, but have not been
calculated for lack of reliable base data.
Incremental Beef and Milk Production
Adamaoua       Extreme N    Rest of        Total
& N-West     Country
Services Provided            Drugs            Drugs       Drugs
Extension       Extension     -
Tsetse Control   -
Animal Population a/  PY1   900,000          2,350,000    1,150,000    4,400,000
PY20  970,000        2,550,000    1,450,000    4,970,000
Incremental Productions
PYS  PY20      PY5  PY20    PY5  PY20    PY5  PY20
Beef ('000 tons)         1.2    5.6      1.0   4.0    0.4   2.1     2.6 13.4
Milk ('000 tons)        2.4   12.6      5.0  10.0    0.8   5.4     9.2 28.0
Value of Incremental
Production (USS million) 2.1   43.0      4.5  17.0    0.4  23.0     7.0 83.0
in 1988 terms
a/ Including in PY20 the natural herd increment.



- 29 -
Financial and Economic tenef1ts
6.02      Financial Benefits.  Financial benefits have been estimated for
the reorganized OPV (Annex 16) sad for veterinary agents opening private
practice (Annex 17).  Once OPV has been rehabilitated, it could be self-
financing within the existing drug price structure. The veterinary agents
would combine income from clinical acts, retail drug sales, and activities
performed for MINEPIA under subcontracting. If their number were limited to
about 40 nationwide, they could achieve an income equal to twice their
present salary, which is considered sufficiently incentive to attract them
into private practice.   Financial benefits have not been calculated for
individual herders because of the extreme variability in herd size and
composition. Overall financial data show, however, that their incremental
production would bring, in all cases, a substantlally higher income than the
cost of incremental drugs or grazing fees the herders would be required to
pay.
6.03      Economic Benefits.   The economic benefits resulting from the
project would be strongly affected by the rate at which the veterinary and
extension services offered through the project would be adopted by the
targeted herders. The economic rate of return (ERR' of the project has been
calculated on the basis of the most probable rate of growth of services made
available by the project, modified by a factor of ladoption' (varying between
0.5 and 0.7) by the herders. Within the range defined by these assumptions,
the ERR of the project would be anywhere between 262 and 342. Sensitivity
calculations show the switching values of the project for an economic
opportunity cost of capital of 10? to occur, in the lower adoption rate
hypothesis, with a 20Z cost increase combined with a 10X drop in benefits
(Annex 18).
6.04      Other Benefits.  The project would create other non-quantifiable
benefits mainly from institutional development and more sustainable land use
in tsetse cleared areas, due to environmentally safer clearance procedures,
and in the PLMAs, due to better guaranteed land tenure.
Equity Considerations
6.05      Ownership  and  inheritance  patterns  in  traditional  pastoral
societies favor an equitable distribution of the herd among generations and
allow women to own part of the herd and benefit from dairy sale income.
Partly as a result of this, large herds are limited in number even If a
majority of the country's animals are found in the larger herds. Between
one half and two thirds of the traditional herder population targeted by the
project is at present below the relative poverty level of income, depending
on whether herders have income from sources other than meat and milk
production.  The project's poverty impact is expected, furthermore, to be
somewhat higher than implied by the above figures, since available studies
show that producers with small herds tend to purchase more drugs per animal
than larger, more extensive production units. Improvements of traditional
village poultry flocks, the introduction of a small ruminants program, and
the specific women activities envisaged would result in a further
contribution of the project to poverty alleviation.



Proiect Risks
6.06      Once  the  preliminary  policy  conditions  are  substantially
implemented by the Government, the project's success would depend on (a) the
degree of private sector interest which would actually materialize for the
provision of veterinary health services; (b) the availability of efficient
financial channels for the relaying of various types of credit lines to the
private sector; (c) the motivation of MINEPIA's field staff in the provision
of extension and group organization services to the producers; (d) the
availability of a balanced budget for MI'EPIA; (e) the avoidance of
detrimental effects from increasing rural population pressures on pastoral
activities; and (f) the absence of serious droughts during the first few
years of project implementation. Each of these aspects carries some degree
of risk.
6.07       Incentive measures have been built into the project to encourage
government employees to transfer to private sector activities. The number
of agents required to join the private sector to provide comprehensive
national coverage is small.  If, however, a review of actual transfers during
the first year of project implementation were to show a relative lack of
interest, complementary measures to achieve the objective would be studied
jointly with the Government. Improved financial channels would be necessary
only after the first year of project implementation, since the earlier credit
lines to private enterprise can be handled, as done in other countries, by
other development institutions or, in the case of mixed farming credit, by
a NGO if an adequate banking channel cannot be identified for that purpose.
By that time, it is expected that the structural adjustment program of the
country would have resulted in substsr-tial improvements of the banking
sector. Otherwise, the further credit lines of the project would be held in
abeyance until appropriate channels are agreed upon.
6.08      The proper motivation of field staff is expected to be achieved
through the extensive training program included in the project, appropriate
technical assistance, and the introduction of more efficient extension
methods and more expedient administrative procedures. Measures to ensure a
balanced budget for MINEPIA have been built into the policy reform component
of the project. Since actual implementation of these measures would involve
the cooperation of more than one ministry, their close supervision by both
the project and the structural adjustment program would be necessary.
Protecting the livestock sector from encroachment by crop cultivation would
require land tenure measures which would only be introduced in a pilot
fashion by the project. Where crop cultivation provides better returns per
unit area, pastoral activities cannot be fully protected from encroachment,
but the project would seek an intensification of land use and an integration
of crops and livestock within mixed farming systems through improved
extension methods. Finally, the risk of highly damaging droughts. while it
exists, is rather limited at the latitudes at which most livestick
development is envisaged under the project.



_ 31 -
Environmental Considerations
6.09      By providing better health care to the animals and improved
security to the herders, and by further monetizing the pastoral societies,
the project would ; vove the offtake rate from the existing animal
population and thus ental. a more limited need to increase this population
than would otherwise be necessary to meet domestic demand for meat and milk.
The concomitant risk of overgrazing would be proportionally reduced. The
land tenure and use policies, which would be tested nationwide through the
pastoral associations component, would be a first step toward a more rational
and less damaging use of range land, which would have to be gradually
amplified over the coming years.  The project would also make a positive
contribution to the quality of the environment in the Adamaoua Province by
introducing non-polluting tsetse control methods which would reduce the
impact of residual insecticides on the local fauna. Ecological degradat-ton
which could result from subsequent overgrazing would be contained through the
introduction of improved land rights, encouraging herders to better manage
their resources.
VII. ASSURANCES OBTAINED. CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Assurances obtained during negotiations are as follows.
(a)  The Governmeut will itplement the Action Plan for Institutional and
Administrative Reforms (paras 3.08 through 3.15 and attachment to
Annex 6);
(b)  the Government will carry out a study of MINEPIA's procedures
relating to budget preparation ant administration before December
31, 1989, and implement -he recommendations of that study, in
accordance with a timetable agreed with the Bank, as of July 1,
1990 (para 3.20);
(c) MINEPIA will forward to the Bank for its approval
detailed plans for the Pilot Land Management Areas before
undertaking activities in these areas (para 3.21);
(d) M INEPIA will employ before June 1, 1989 an extension specialist,
a small stock specialist, and an administrative controller whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
will be satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.01);
(e) MINEPIA will forward for Bank approval, beginning March 31, 1989,
and before March 31 of each year thereafter, annual work programs
and budgets, including training plans for Cameroonian staff (para
4.04);
(f)  onlending under the project credit lines will be carried out under
the conditions outlined in the report (paras 3.27 and 5.03): and
(g) adequate auditing procedures will be applied (para 5.07).



- 32 -
7.02      Conditions of Loan effectiveness wov..ld be:
(a) the communication to the Bank of the choice made for the area where
privatization of the animal health care would first start (para
3.09);
(b) the promulgation of a new tariff for all clinical interventions,
drugs, and vaccinations (para 3.10);
(c) the establishment of a committee in MINEPIA, with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank (para 4.02); and
(d) the fulfillment of all conditions prior to effectiveness of the
IFAD loan and the FAC grant (para 5.02).
7.03      Conditions of disbursement A3uld be:
(a)  for the insecticides component, the prior agreement of the Bark
regarding the type of insecticide to be used (para 3.25);  and
(b) for the subloans component, the signing of an agreement
satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government and one or several
acceptable financial intermediaries, for the management of the
subloans to be granted under the Loan (para -.03).
7.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the above project is
suitable for a Bank Loan of US$34.6 million.



- 33 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 3'
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Production and Consumption
1.          Cameroon's livestock population is mostly concentrated in the
northern part of the country, except for poultry, which is found mainly around
the urban centers. The main livestock producing areas are the Northern Provinces
(34S of total Tropical Livestock Units, mainly cattle, sheep and goats); the
Adamaoua Province (332 of total TLUs, mainly cattle); and the Northwest and West
Provinces (282 of total TLUs, all livestock species).
2.          The last decade shows the number of cattle stagnating in the
provinces with the highest livestock densities (Extreme North and Northwest
provinces) and continuing to grow in the provinces where natural grazing is
available and the tsetse eradication or introduction of modern drugs has reduced
the danger of tsetse transmitted trypanosomiasis (the Adamaoua and East
Provinces). As a result, the nationwide growth rate of the cattle population
over the last two decades is estimated at 2S per year.  The sheep and goat
population continues to grow, even in the provinces which have already a high
livestock population, like the Extreme North and North. Their annual growth rate
is estimated at 5Z. The swine population decreased significantly in 1983 due
to the African swine fever epidemic.  Since then, it has remained stable at
approximately 1 million. Poultry has shown the fastest. growth over the last
decade (10Z per year), mostly because of a rapid increase in semi-intensive
production units around the urban centers and in the Northwest. This trend can
be expected to continue.
3.          Annual national offtake rates are about 102 for cattlo, 202 for
sheep and goats, 602 for swine, and 10O2 for poultry. This results in an annual
production as reported in the following table (which, for comparison, also
includes 1969 figures)s
Meat Production in Cameroon (1969-1988)
Quantity ('000 tons)         Total growth Z
Meat TyDe        1969           1988
Beef              42             65              55
Sheep and Goat    11             20              83
Poultry            8             14              79
Pigs              11             11               0
Total             72            110              53
Per capita (kg)   11.8           11              -7



- 34 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
4.          The slight decline in per capita production over the last 20 years,
in spite of an increase of 252 in the per capita consumption, is mainly due to
the effects of the early 1970 and 1980 droughts, the Rinderpest epidemic which
affected Cameroon in 1983, and a decreasing interest in farming during the period
of strong economic growth resulting from oil revenues.
5.          Consumption.  Per capita meat consumption is about 15 kg per year,
with 21 kg per year in the urban centers and 11 kg in rural areas, substantially
higher than the West African average of 10 kg. The total demand of 150,000 tons
is satisfied through local production (110,000 tons), imports on hoof from Chad
and the Central African Republic (110,000 head totalling 20,000 tons) and imports
from overseas, especially from the EEC (20,000 tons).   The total demand is
expected to rise to about 240,000 tons by the year 2000.
6.          ImDorts.  Meat imports from the EEC have increased rapidly over the
last five years as shown in the following table:
Meat Imports in Cameroon (1981-1986)
(tons and CFAF/ka)
1981/82            1984185           1986/1987
Meat Type   Volume      Price    Volume   Price    Volume    Price
Beef           150      1,220       650      600    10,400       280
Pork            35        660       300      520     2,300       250
Mutton          60        940       290      810        65     1,030
Poultry        204        410     2,780     270      6,650       230
7.          Beef and poultry imports have increased from 4Z to 12? of local
consumption over the last five years, while the c.i.f. prices, especially for
beef, have strongly declined. The main reason for this trend is the substantial
subsidies the EEC has introduced since the early 19806 in the context of its
Common Agricultural Policy to stimulate exports of excess meat production and
reduce storage costs. Because of this subsidy, present c.i.f. Douala prices for
beef are 30S of the European production costs (farmgate price plus slaughter
fees). For example, beef exported from the EEC has a f.o.b. Marseille price of
CFAF 800/kg and a freight price to Douala of CFAF 200/kg, but is sold in Douala
at a c.i.f. price of CFAF 280/kg. The difference of about CFAF 700/kg is directly
subsidized by the EEC. The subsidy results in prices to the Cameroonian consumer
more or less equal to the price of fish available in the market (CYAF 700/kg).
8.          Because of the special deep freeze facilities required, frozen
imported meat reaches only the Douala and Yaounde markets. A (very limited)
household survey carried out in Yaounde in preparation of this project showed
that frozen beef from the EEC supplied 25? of the total animal protein
consumption of the poorer strata (less than US$120 annual cash income per
capita), whereas the same ratio for the relatively better off strata (more than
US$120 cash income per year) was 432.   Fish consumption, much of it also
imported, was proportionally higher in the poorest group (36?, against 24? of
animal product consumption for the wealthiest group); fresh meat was more
important in the diet of the wealthiest group (18? vs 8? in the poorer strata),



- 35 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
but the share of fresh meat in total animal product consumption is rather low
in both groups. The above figures show that imported beef could substitute for
fish consumption (equal prices but meat considered nobler by most consumers) as
well as for domestic meat consumption (more or less equal products, but a lower
price for imported meat).
9.          Slaughterhouse figures of Yaounde and Douala point in the same
direction of partial  substitution.    Over  1984/87,  the number  of cattle
slaughtered in the official slaughterhouses declined by 9S in Yaounde and
remained constant in Douala, in spite of 72 annual population increases in the
two urban centers.  Assuming a constant average per capita consumption and,
therefore, an increased demand proportional to the urban growth, an annual
throughput of the two slaughterhouses of about 30,000 heads above the actual 1987
figure could have been expected if no substitution had occurred.   However,
imports in the form of subsidized meat are equivalent to 50,000 head, and the
imported subsidized meat must therefore at least partially have replaced fish
or traditionally slaughtered meat.
10.         In line with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)
guidelines on protection against dumped meat, the Government increased in
January 1988 the assessment value of all imported meat to CFAF 1,000 (US$3.60)
per kg, thus increasing the import tax on frozen beef to CFAF 500 (US$1.80) per
kg and on frozen poultry to CFAF 690 (US$2.50) per kg, thereby neutralizing the
subsidy granted by the EEC to safeguard the local industry from unfair
competition. However, in order to avoid any possible detrimental effect, the
Government has indicated in its LLDP that it would monitor the impact of this
tax increase on animal protein consumption, particularly of the poorer strata,
and on meat prices, through regular surveys to be carried out by DEPF of MINEPIA,
and adjust the level of the tax if detrimental effects were identified. Detailed
guidelines would be established by the Government by June 30, 1989 and forwarded
to the Bank for comments. These guidelines would include:
A.    the nature of the data to be collected;
B.    the frequency at which the data would be collected;
C.    the agency responsible for their collection;
D.    the consumption and production price levels at which corrective
action would be initiated; and
E.    the nature of corrective actions envisaged when such levels are
reached.



- 37 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Maior Tet.nical Constraints and Ootions
for Livestock Development
1.          General.  High disease levels and regional and seasonal imbalances
in feed supply are the two most important constraints affecting Cameroon's
livestock production.   Their specific nature and relative importance differ
according to ecological zones. As a general rule, animal health constraints
are more important in humid areas, whereas feed constraints predominate in drier
azeas. While this would require different approaches for each zone to overcome
technical constraints, the accompanying organizational measures would be similar.
2.          Animal Health.  Total losses due to diseases are estimated at about
US$100 million per year or about one third of the total annual output. Country-
wide, the major problems are the contagious diseases Rinderpest and Contagious
Pleuropneumon.._a (CBPP), the more localized diseases, Anthrax, Blackleg and
Pasteurellosis, internal parasites in the wet season, and periodic outbreaks of
Small Ruminant Pest (PPR). In addition, internal and external parasitic diseases
and tsetse transmitted Trypanosomiasis are prevalent through most of the year
in the Adamaoua and the Northwest Provinces. Approximately half of the Adamaoua
Plateau has been cleared of the tsetse fly under the previous Bank-funded
Livestock Projects. The conservation of the cleared areas and the introduction
of sustainable land use on them constitute the main challenge to be now
addressed. In the West and Northwest Provinces, African Swine Fever decimated
the pig population in the early 1980s and is now endemic.    Finally, entire
village poultry flocks can be wiped out because of New Castle and other related
virus diseases.
3.          Appropriate technical solutions exist to reduce these heavy losses;
the bottleneck is found in the delivery syrstems. R !liable vaccines exist against
Rinderpest, CBPP, Anthrax, Blackleg, Pasteurellosis aLnd the poultry diseases.
An important exception is African Swine Fever, for which no vaccine exists. No
specific project actions are therefore envisaged for pigs. Internal and external
parasites can easily be controlled through periodic de-worming and *praying,
respectively. New products to control external parasites, obviating the need
for the construction of cattle dips, which are difficult to sustain and
frequently uneconomic, are being introduced throughout the region.  Several
ecologically and financially attractive methods, using impregnated fly traps and
screens, are being developed to control the tsetse fly and protect cleared areas.
Their testing under Cameroonian conditions has started and would continue under
a Project  Preparation  Facility  (PPF)  granted by  the Bank.    Veterinary
interventions exist also against the main small stock diseases and have been
successfully introduced in, for example, Burkina Paso and Nigeria.
4.          Feed Availability.  Total feed resources are adequate in Cameroon
and would even allow the national herd to grow, but grazing pressure in ceLtain
areas is close to the carrying capacity, as shown in the following table:



- 38 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Carrying Capacity in the Principal Livestock Producing Areas
('000 TLUs)
Actual Stocking     Actual Carrying    Potential Carrying
Rate               Capacity            Capacity
Province         (TLUlha)  Total     (TLU/ha)  Total    (TLU/ha)   Total
Extreme North    4.0      1,100       3.5     1,3Q0       3.0       1,500
North           12.0        550       6.0     1400        4.0       1,600
Adamaoua         5.0      1,200       4.0     1,500       3.0       2,000
Center/East     30.0        250       6.0     1,250       4.0       2,000
Northwest        6.0        200       4.0       300       2.0         600
West             3.0        500       3.0       500       2.0         700
Total                     3,800               5,950                 8,400
5.          Feed availability is becoming a constraint in the Extreme North and
Northwest Provinces.   The longer dry season,  combined with growing human
population and increasing cropping intensfty, is already causing overgrazing in
the Extreme North Province. In the high potential Northwest and West Provinces,
high human population pressure causes the converslon of grazing to crop lands
and puts the pastoral system and its feed resources under great pressure. On
the cooler and more humid Adamaoua Plateau, feed resources are adequate in
quantity; feed quality in the dry season is the major technical problem. This
problem is exacerbated by the inadequately controlled development of ranches,
which occupy valley bottoms vital to the nomadic herds. and by weed infestation
at lower altitudes. The project would test alternative land tenure modes, with
emphasis on group management of both uplands and volley bottoms, and start a
research program to identify economic weed control methods.
6.          Simple techniques to increase feed resources exist for all zones
for either pilot or general dissemination. Their success will depend on the
identification of appropriate land tenure systems.   In the Extreme   North
Province, a USAID-financed pilot project has succeeded (albeit at a high cost)
in introducing group ownership of land together with improved range management
practices. The approach needs to be tested with a lower level of government
input. Furthermore, techniques are being developed elsewhere in West Africa to
improve feed quality in the dry season, as needed in the Adcamaoua Province.
A ,.romising technology in. this respect, the fodder bank technology, is a low
input system of establishing high quality leguminous fodder reserves for the dry
season  for selected categories of livestock.    This  technology has been
successfully introduced in Nigeria by the International Livestock Center for
Africa (ILCA), one of the international research institutes sponsored by the
Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR).   For the
Northwest Province, intensification of crop and livestock production would be
the desirable development strategy. The use of cultivated forages, as well as
the introduction of alley farming, an agro-forestry technique which uses fodder
trees alternatively as fodder for livestock and as mulch for cropping would fit
well  in such a strategy.   Interesting possibilities would also exist in
smallholder dairy development, especially in the highlands of the Northwest



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Province, whether climatical and market conditions are favorable for milk
production. Technological packages (low level of cross breeding, combined with
forage production, use of crop by-products and health protection) exist and w^uld
be disseminated through the project's extension component.
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 41 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Socio-Economic Aspects of Livestock Raising
1.          The socio-economic aspects of livestock raising in Cameroon are
largely determined by the livestock species involved (cattle, small ruminants
and other small stock), prevailing natural resources and the ethnic backgrounds
of the producers.
Production Systems and Ownership Patterns
2.          Cattle.  Two thirds of the national cattle population is owned by
two pastoral groups, the M'Bororo and the Foulbe, both belonging to the Fulani
ethnic group. Together, they constitute about 62 of Cameroon's human population.
The M'Bororo live In northern and eastern Cameroon and in the western part of
the Adamaoua Plateau. They are nomads to whom national borders mean little.
The Foulbe inhabit the Adamaoua Plateau and the Northwest and West Provinces.
Because of their migratory lifestyle, the M'Bororo are socio-politically less
integrated into the Cameroonian society than the Foulbe.   The different
production systems are described in the following table.
Key Characteristics of the M.in Cattle Production Systems
I of      Individual
national    herd size        Main              Main
System              herd        (head)       Features            Reiions
Exclusively            30        50-200       Large movements;   Adamaoua
cattle                                        disappearing        N.V.
with increasing
population
Cattle with
subsistence crops    30          15-100       Shorter move-     Extreme
ments; small      North,
area cultivated   Adamaoua
w/hired labor     Northwest
Mixed crop/           15         10-50        Sedentary;        All
livestock                                    mostly pastoral   Provinces
background
Crops with
livestock as          15          1-10        Sedentary;        Extreme
second activity                               cotton farmers    North
with oxen.
Outsiders             10        50-1,000      Traders and       Adamaoua
civil servants,
frequently with
ranches.



- 42 -
Anne= 3
Page 2 of 4
3.        Small Ruminants.  Sheep and goat production is found throughout
the country. In the northern provinces, the majority of the sheep and goat
population is kept in small individual flocks (5-15 head), owned by crop
farmers and managed frequently in joint village flocks herded by young
children on fallow land. Only a minority of the sheep and goat population
is owned by pastoralists and directly managed in association with the cattle
herds. In the northwestern highlands, sheep and goats are mainly kept by
crop farmers. The average flock in this region is bigger (10-40 head) than
in the ni.rthern provinces and flock management is directed above all toward
avoiding damage to crops. In the forest areas, flocks are very small (3 to
10 head) and kept without any conscious management effort.
4.        Other Small Stock.  Poultry is kept in very small numbers at the
level of the individual rural household, although, in aggregate, the
traditional poultry sector supplies about 65Z of total egg and broiler
production. The emerging modern sector consists of small to medium sired
(500 to 2,000 birds) semi-intensive units, mostly found in the West Province
and around urban centers, and frequently owned by traders or civil servants.
Ho.t pigs are kept in small units in the villages, with few purchased inputs.
The African Swine Fever epidemic practically wiped out   the few more
intensive units which had developed during the 19708.
Eauitv Considerations
5.        There are no detailed labor and cash budget data available on
pastoral households; however, tentative estimates indicate that a herd of 50
cattle and 20 sheep (the number of livestock owned by a typical pastoral
family of 10) would provide an annual income of about US$3,000, or a per
capita income of US$300. A large portion of the pastoral population thus
lives below the poverty line of US$320 per year.   Furthermore, while
livestock ownership is often perceived as skewed, specific ownership patterns
within a group or household often cause livestock revenues to be distributed
over a larger portion of the population than assumed from the apparent
ownership. In pastoral societies, revenues from the sale of milk and dairy
produce (up to 202 of total household income) directly benefits women, who
can  also own part  (1-20 animals)  of  the family herd.    Furthermore,
inheritance customs in pastoral societies favor an equitable distribution of
herd between generatione, as a son receives his share of his father's herd
when he marries. More information on the socio-economic conditions of the
pastoral population is provided in the Project File (Documents Nos. 8 and
14).
The Role of Women
6.        The socio-economic situation of women in Cameroon's Livestock
Sector differs from one ethnic group to the other.   Among the sedentary
Foulbe, women, though they may own cattle, are not involved in agricultural
or livestock production activities, which are entirely left to men. The
wives of Choa and Mbororo herdsmen, on the other hand, rarely own cattle;
they frequently hold smallstock, however, participate in crop production
activities and are in charge of milking the cows and of selling the milk
which is not used for family consumption. The sale of milk and dairy



- 43 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
products can become an important source of revenue with direct benefits for
the female population. Outside the predominantly pastoral societies, women's
involvement in the livestock sector refers mainly to smallstock, i.e. small
ruminants and poultry.
Social Cohesion and Group Formation
7.        Social cohesion within the pastoral society is changing rapidly.
Originally, the Fulani formed a highly structured society, with the basic
group consisting of 10-50 families organized around the traditional leader,
the Ardo. In the past, the Ardo was the communication channel between the
group and the central administration, and played a key role in settling
(land) conflicts between his group and crop farmers.   However, increased
population pressure and frictions caused by conflicts between traditional
values of the elders and the modemn aspirations of the younger generation
has in many instances eroded the authority of the traditional leaders. This
trend is exacerbated by interference from the Central Administration, which
is interested in imposing strong leadership from the center.   However,
regional and ethnic differences exist and, for example, the Foulbe are still
a strictly hierarchical society, tightly structured around their traditional
leadership.
8.        Where groups are sufficiently strong and representative, internal
group cohesion could be developed into more modern forms of herder
associations or producer groups. However, in view of the recent trends in
Cameroon, a careful sociological analysis must precede any decision as to
whether a traditional group's structure can be profitably used for the
creation of producer groups as envisaged under the project.   The project
would provide for such an analysis.
The Small Ruminants Sub-Sector
9.        The small ruminants sub-sector, which is of particular importance
in the Extreme North, has up to now been by-passed by development and public
assistance efforts such as vaccination campaigns and systematic veterinary
treatment. This neglect has persisted in spite of the growing importance of
small ruminants among the livestock population, as illustrated belows
Evolution of Livestock Population in the
Extreme North
Cattle              Sheen                Goats
1981182              773 000             700 000              781 000
1985/86             839 000              692 000              851 000
1986/87              763 000             826 000            1 095 000
10.       Small ruminants, which resist better than cattle to the vagaries
of the Sahelian climate and can feed on village pastures during the dry
season, complement the transhumant cattle herds. They are also a basis for
poor herdsmen to gain or regain access to a cattle herd by permitting regular



44 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
capital accumulation on a small 9 1e. They are, moreover, considered as a
safety net which ensures the economic survival of the family in the case of
unexpected expenditures. They form also an important supplement to the
regular diet of livestock holders who rarely slaughter cattle for their own
consumption but frequently resort to small ruminants, in particular at
religious occasions. Contrary to the Foulbe, the Choa Arabs also milk their
goats and tie sale of milk becomes an additional income for women.
11.       Problems which have been restricting the development of the small
ruminants subsector include the insufficient treatment of diseases which can
lead to sudden and heavy losses and a general lack of attention to the needs
of small ruminants he.ds, which rarely benefit from shelter during rainy
seasons or supplementary feed during dry seasons.   The development of
adequate animal health services and husbandry extension packages, facilitated
by the supply of credit to the subsector, have been identified as the most
urgent steps to remedy the situation and are therefore included under the
project.



- 45 -
Annex 5
-            Page l of 3
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The VeterinarY Pharmaceuticals Office (OPV)
Background
1.  The Veterinary Pharmaceuticals Office (OPV) was established in
1976 to handle state sales of veterinary medicines and equipment.
Although it was not given monopoly rights for either the import or
distribution of pharmaceuticals, it enjoys a de facto monopoly in
rural areas because of lack of private sector interest to date in
providing similar services. Limited competition comes from the
Small Stock Office, which distributes poultry drugs along with one-
day chicks to their clients, from a private importer (Vetopharm) who
has limited his activities to the larger cities and some areas in
the North-West proviz:e, from MINEPIA itself, which distributes
limited amounts of free drugs to herders, and possibly from illegal
and unrecorded drug imports and distribution. This situation is the
result of inadequate distribution channels and could evolve as
private distribution channels are developed, in part with the help
of the proposed project.
2. OPV sales in 1986187 totalled about CFAF 360 million. Three
quarters of this total went for poultry and pork production, leaving
only CFAF 90 million for cattle and CFAF 5 million for small
ruminants. These figures imply a very low level of drug consumption
for cattle herds, about 202 of the average consumption in similar
ecological areas of Africa. Per cattle sales are even lower in the
Adamaoua province, of the order of CFAF 13 per head, compared to the
national average of CFAF 20. Herders have been complaining of the
insufficient and irregular supply of drugs by OPV, pointing to the
existence of an unsatisfied demand.
3. OPV headquarters are located in Yaounde. A well-furnished
central store was recently built in Douala. OPV has one agency in
each province, each with a retail store. Agency managers visit area
markets to sell drugs when they have the transport and financial
means to do it.
4. OPV employs a total staff of 102, an excessive number compared
to the sales volume of the Office. Each agency has a staff of seven
and yet often does not record more than two sales per day. The two
top managers are recently appointed veterinary doctors who have had
no commercial training. Neither managers nor staff have financial
incentives in increasing OPV's volume of sales or profits. There is



- 46 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
no analytical accounting, and accounting data is overall limited and
unreliable. They seem to indicate, however, that OPV's annual
losses are more or less equil to 252 of its total sales receipts.
Excessive stocks (equal to about 18 months of sales), combined with
distribution difficulties, often result in substantial losses of
adulterated drugs. At the same time, suppliers of OPV complain
about a poor payment record, and some of them require credit letters
before shipping the orders. For all the above reasons, OPV's
management will require a substantial rehabilitation if it is to
expand its activities and become efficient and ca.pable of attracting
private sector interest in acquiring or managing it. This
rehabilitation is furthermore indispensable since OPV fulfills a
strategic role in the livestock sector's development, which, in the
best case, would take years to be taken over by private competition.
Proposed Improvements
5. The main weakness observed today in the drug supply process is
the quasi-absence of a distribution network reaching the individual
customer. The development of a private sector network will depend
on a demonstration of the profitability of retail distribution
activities. The project inter.ds to help veterinaries settle as
providers of both health services and drugs. OPV's role would in
that case be limited to the import and wh.olesale distribution of
veterinary pharmaceuticals. To fulfill these functions, OPV will
require a much smaller but highly qualified staff in the fields of
veterinary medicine, international purchases of drugs, accounting
and overall management.
6.  OPV would first have to regain customer trust by improving the
re,gularity of supply of its provincial stores. Immediately
thereafter, it should substantially modify its organization and
estimate its real staff requirements. It would then have to review
the qualifications of its present staff, keep those who could be
istrained and determine the procedures to dismiss the remaining
staff. It should, finally, establish new procedures of management
by objectives. This reorganization would require one year to be
completed. A second year would be necessary to test the new
structures and procedures.
Operational Implications
7.  The proposed improvements can be implemented without changing
the legal status of OPV as an Office. A small number of high level
MINEPIA staff, probably the Minister himself and two of his closest



47                   ~~~~~Annex S
Page 3 of 3
collaborators should first be made exclusively responsible for the
reorganization of OPV and this group should be assisted on a purely
consultative basis by a council comprising the provincial delegates
of MINEPIA. The next step, to be financed through an EDF grant,
would con.ist of the strengthening of OPV's working capital to
ensure a steady supply of drugs and the simultaneous contracting of
two years of services of a management firm (or group) which would,
(a) during the first three months of its contract, formulate
detailed proposals for new OPV structures; (b) during the following
nine months and once the proposed changes have been agreed upon by
the Government and the donors, help the Government select OPV's new
management team and then help that team implement the proposed
changes; and (c) during the next twelve-months, provide further
assistance to OPV's management in running its day-to-day operations.



49                                  Annex 6
Page I of 7
CAMEROON.
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Letter of Government on Livestock DeveloRment Policy
(Unofficial Translation.
1.        In the framework of its policy for rural development and
national food sufficiency, the Government of Cameroon gives a high
priority to livestock development. This priority is clearly expressed
in the Sixth Development Plan and in the preparation report of the
third livestock project. The main objective of the Government policy
is to arrive at a sustainable development of the sector and a
significant increase of producer Income.
2.        To achieve this objective, the Government expresses its
intention to:
(a) implement a policy which will seek the participation of the
producers in their own development, in particular by
gradually transferring to them the responsibilit-' for the
majority of the development costs carried until now by the
State;
(b) favor and encourage the participation of the private sector
in the supply of inputs and the provision of services;
(c) implement a policy aimed at restructuring and rehabilitating
the parastatal se:tor, by reforming the structures and
rationalizing the management of the enterprises;
(d) strengthen the plarta.g and extension capacity of the
services of the Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Animal
Industries (MINEPIA) to enable them to better manage the
project; and
(e) define a program of key reforms to improve the instftuitional
and macro-economic environment of the sector to facilitate
the success of the project.
3.        The Government requests the financing of the Bank, EDP, FAC
and IhAD to implement the project. This letter provides a description
of the financial and economic reforms to be introduced within the
framework of the project.
4.        The specific areas in which the Government intends to
introduce significant policy reforms (beyond those already
implemented) are the following:



- 50 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
(a) generalization of cost recovery for services and products
supplied to the producers;
(b) reorganization of the Veterinary Pharmaceutical Office
(OPV) and the Animal Production Development Company
(SODEPA);
(c) introduction of a set of measures to encourage the
development of private veterinary health care;
(d) redefinition of the role of the national livestock training
centers;
(e) harmonization of extension services between MINEPIA and the
Ministry of Agriculture;
(f) review of the impact of taxation of meat imports; and
(g) improved security of access to land for the livestock
producers.
I.   Cost Recovery
5.        The Government vill consolidate its existing system of cost
recovery for clinical services and will implement upon project
effectiveness similar measures for cost recovery of pharmaceutical products
and compulsory and voluntary vaccinations, particularly through the
elimination of the free distribution of veterinary drugs and products.
In connection with the preservation of tsetse cleared areas, the
Government will introduce financial and operational procedures calling for
a contribution in cash and in kind from the producers, in order to
guarantee the sustained availability of resources and consolidate the
technical results obtained.
All or part of the various revenues from the costs recovered for
goods and services provided, will be used in priority to finance the
recurrent (non-salary) costs of the technical livestock services to allow
them to have essential materials and equipment. These revenues will be
deposited either In a special account to be opened in the Treasury or in
the Livestock Development Funds existing at the provincial level.
II. Reorganization of OPV and SODEPA
6.        OPV will be reorganized in order to gradually improve its
operations and the services it provides. By December 31, 1990, thanks to
this improvement, it will be able to operate vithout state subsidies. The
Government has entered into negotiations for the financing of this
reorganization as a priority through a grant of the European Development
Fund.
7.        SODEPA will also be reorganized.  OPV's and SODEPA's vill be
redefined at a later stage, upon completion of the ongoing review by the
CommLssion for the Rehabilitation of Public and Para-Public Enterprises.



- 51 -                            Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
III. Development of Private Veterinary Services
8.        Under the third livestock project, the Government intends to
encourage the development of private veterinary services to free the
public sector from most tasks presently carried out on force account
and create employment opportunities in the private sector.
This policy will be implemented through the following
actions:
(a)  gradual granting of the exclusive responsibility for the
provision of veterinary care and the distribution of
veterinary products at the field level to private
individuals;
(b)  encouraging agents who may interested by a private sector
career to leave the Civil Service (disponibility,
retirement, resignation, etc...); and
(c)  possibility of subcontracting public sector tasks, such as
vaccinations, animal products inspection, etc... to private
agents, in order to improve their income.
9.        Upon project start-up, the Government will select a pilot
area which offers the best possible conditions to test the feasibility
of private practice, with the goal of later extending the
privatization of animal care to other regions, if successful.
IV. Reorientation and Diversification of the Role of Veterinary
TraininR Centers
10.       The Government is fully aware of the need to review and
diversify the existing attributions of the Livestock Training
Institutes.
Upon project start-up, each training center will be assigned
four main functions:
(a)  periodic refresher courses of short duration (about two
weeks, for instance) for MINEPIA livestock services staff;
(b)  training of private sector operators;
(c)  training of new staff for the public sector; and
(d)  upgrading of existing MINEPIA staff promoted to higher
functions within HINEPIA.
Taking Into consideration the unavoidable reductlon of staff
recruitment in public services, linked to the need of improving the
efficiency of existing utaff services, the number of graduates from the
livestock centers to be recruited in the Civll Service will be limited to
the number of civil servants retiring.



- 52 -                              Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
The administrative procedures for admission of civil
servants to the refresher or training courses will be significantly
simplified.
V. Extension Functions
11.       The Ministry of Livestock and the Ministry of Agriculture
are both involved in the elaboration of a National Agricultural
Extension Program.
In the framework of the necessary reorganization of their
extension services, the two ministries will nped to coordinate their
actions in order to harmonize their extensien methods and to deliver
to the farmer (who often carries out both livestock and cropping
activities) a unified extension message.
The harmonization will consist in a regional specialization
and in entrusting the prime responsibility for extension to the
technical services of the ministry responsible for the dominant
agricultural activity in that region, with the other ministry
providing only technical support. However, in certain regions where
agricultural and livestock activities exist without any integration,
extension services will be pr,vided separately by the two ministries.
VI. Taxation on Imported Meat
12.       The Government has recently introduced an import levy on
meat to protect the local industry against competition from subsidized
meat from foreign origin. MINEPIA, through its Department of Studies,
Projects and Training, will closely monitor the impact of this import
levy on consumer and producer prices in order to correct any eventual
undesirable effects.
VII. Access to Land for Livestock Producers
13.       The Cameroonian land tenure legislation offers a variety of
modalities of access to land in the rural areas. The producers can
enjoy the benefit of these legal provisions on the land they occupy or
for free passage through their traditional ranges.
The Government welcomes the fact that the project would help
the producers activate land tenure procedures and assist those with
economically viable activities to claim the full benefit of this
legislation.



- 53 -                          Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
14.       We expect that t'he measures envisaged in this letter of
intent will no doubt provide the conditions necessary for a sustained
development of the livestock sector In Cameroon and contribute to a
maximization of the benefits expected from the third livestock
project.
Mrs. Elizabeth Tankeu
Minister of Plan and
Territorial Development



Annex 6
- 55 -                      Attachment
Page 6 of 7
Action Plan for Institutional and Administrative Reforms
1.        Privatization of Animal Health Care.  The Government would
permit qualified veterinarians, with a priority to agents resigning
from MINEPIA or eligible for retirement, to provide animal health care
privately, including: (a) the grant of exclusive rights to practice in
an area protected from the competition of MINEPIA agents; and (b) the
subcontracting of public service tasks, such as compulsory vaccination
and eventually meac inspection, at remunerative rates which would be
established by October 1, 1989 and updated yearly. The Government would
also provide MINEPIA agents transferring to private practice, free of
charge, an initial stock of medicines, in value equal to one year of salary
of the agent. This action would initially be undertaken in an area to be
comunnicated to the Bank as a condition of Loan effectiveness (para 3.09).
2.        Cost Recovery of Animal Health Care.  The Government would
ensure that producerslherders: (a) on a national basis, are charged the
full cost of clinical treatments, waccinations and veterinary drugs
provided by MINEPIA's Livestock Services; and (b) as of October 1, 1989, i'L
the areas cleared of the tsetse fly, share the costs for maintaining these
areas free of the fly through a contribution in cash and in kind. The
Government would annually review and adjust the level of these charges.
based on calculations carried out by MINEPIA's Directorate of Studies,
Projects and Training. As of October 1, 1989, the major part of the
revenues generated from these charges would be deposited into the
Provincial Livestock Development punds and would be exclusively used to
finance the recurrent costs (excluding salaries) of MINEPIA's livestock
field services, including project activities ,.para 3.10).
3.        Reorganization of Veterinary Drug Imports and Distribution.
The Government would reorganize OPV in accordance with an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank with the following objectives to be achieved by
December 31, 1990, namely that OPV's operations would be profitable, making
budgetary contributions from the Government no longer necessary. Upon
completion of the ongoing study concerning OPV's reorganization, the
Government would review the recommendations of the study by June 30, 1989,
in consultatiou with the Bank and the EDP, together with a proposed
timetable for their implementation, and then put into effect these
recommendations. The results of these measures would be reviewed by June
30, 1991 by the Government in consultation with the Bank and the EDF,
together with OPV's propose future mauagement framework (para 3.11).
4.        Reorganization of SODEPA. The Government would: (a) upon
completion of the ongoing study concerning SODEPA's reorganization by
June 30, 1989, review the recommendations of the study in consultation
with the Bank, together with a proposed timetable for its
implementation; and (b) carry out these recommendations as of December
31, 1989 in accordance with a program and timetable determined in
agreement with the Bank (para 3.12).



-56-                             Annex 6
Attachment
Page 7 of 7
5.        Livestock and Crop Extension.  With a view to promoting a
coherent system of livestock and crop extension, the Government would
take all necessary actions so that livestock extension activities are
regrouped in MINEPLA's technical livestock services, and extension
services provided by MINEPIA and the Ministry of Agriculture are
harmonized according to modalities satisfactory to the Bank, and to be
agreed upon between HaNEPIA and the Ministry of Agriculture, not later
than June 30, 1989 (para 3.13).
6.        Staff and Training Policies.  Starting with academic year
1989/90, the Government would take all necessary actions so that.'a)
enrollment in the livestock training centers would not automatically
guarantee entry into the public service; (b) staff rectuitment in
MINEPIA would be limited to the number required to compensate for
normal attrition, ozher than agents transferred to the private sector;
and (c) the livestock training centers would provide periodic training
to all MINEPIA staff and private sector agents and special training
for MINEPIA staff considered for promotion (para 3.14).
7.        Monitoring of Meat Ii&ort Taxation.  The Government would
(a) not later than June 30, 1989, furnish to the Bank for its
comments, proposed detailed guide.ines to monitor the effect of meat
Import taxes on domestic consumption and price levels; and (b) upon
receipt of the Bank's comments, put these guidelines into effect,
taking the Bank's comments into account (para 3.15).



- 57 
Annex 7
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMT PROJECT
Exserience with Pastoral Associations
1.        The establishment of pastoral associations is an important
component of Bank-funded livestock development projects. While the initial
results in pastoral organization were disappointing because of a
paternmalitic approach to the pastoralists combined with a lack of
understanding of their production system, recent experiences in Senegal,
Central African Republic and Zaire have been more successful.
2.        In Senegal, under the Eastern Senegal Livestock Development
Project (Cr. 633-SZ), 51 pastoral units were formed and now successfully
manage their own distribution of veterinary drugs and their grazing areas
and water points, supported by an effective animal health program. At
project completion (1986), the project showed a spgnificant. positive impact
on livestock mortalLty and fertility, causing cattle population to rise.
Furthermore, there was tentative evidence that in spite of a higher
livestock population, range land ecology was improving. The ex-post
economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at about 13t.
3.        In the Central African Republic, the First Livestock Project (Cr.
894-CA) concentrated on pastoral organization at the national level;
grassroot level organization was lnitiated only on a pilot scale. Under
the project, the National Association of Central African Livestock
Producers (ANEC) was transformed into a viable, efficient distributor of
livestock inputs, as sales of veterinary drugs jumped from US$12,000 in
1982 to US$1 million in 1985. Surveys showed that these drugs benefited
the poor herders relatively more than the wealthy herders. ANEC organized
together with the Livestock Service an effective Rinderpest campaign which
limited losses of the 1983 outbreak to negligible levels. Furthermore,
ANBC is becoming an Important factor In overall livestock development in
the country. At gra sroot levels, about 50 herder associations were
established, which generally manage thelr veterinary pharmacies well.
Grazing rights have only recently been adjudicated to these assoclations.
It Is not yet known whether they can lead to a more rational range
managemnt. The overall economic return of thLs project was good, the
ex-post ERR was calculated to be about 302.
4.        In Zaire, the ITURI Livestock Development Project (Cr. 697-ZR)
successfully established about 200 livestock owner associations and a
cooperative federation, which started to handle their own Input
diutributiJn, extension and livestock marketing. The ex-post ERR was
about 15Z. The Project Completion Report stresses that the assocLations
are still weak and require close and continuing attention, which is being
provided under a follow-up project.



- 59 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institution Building Component
1.        Producer Associations.  The technical and organizational
assistance to set up the associations and give initial training to their
members would be provided by special Producer Organization Units attached
to the Provincial Livestock Delegations (PLDs) i.4 the provinces of the
Extreme North, North, Adamaoua, East, West, Northwest, Center, South and
Littoral. Follow-up training and extension would be provided by the normal
extension staff of program of regular visits. The Producer Organization
Units would have the prime responsibility for group formation, introduction
of veterinary associations. Each Producer Organization Unit would be
staffed with a locally recruited sociologist or pastoral organization
specialist, a higher level livestock technician. a representative of the
traditional leadership and a range management specialist. Each Unit would
be provided with three vehicles, extension material and funds to defray
recurrent costs. Funds would be provided under the project to train
Cameroonian staff (six man-years) in sociology and pastoral organization
techniques. The Cameroonian staff would be further assisted by the various
specialists recruited internationally under the project.
2.        Extension Service.  The extension effort would be organized
according to the principles of the Training and Visit system (T&V),
applicable to the prevailing production systems. The T&V system is already
being practiced in Cameroon's North Western Province under the IFAD funded
North Western Development Project (HIDENO) and is being introduced on a
pilot basis in four Provinces (funded with a balance from the Western
Highlands Project, Ln 2406-CH). If successful, the T&V system would be
extended nationwide under the National Agricultural Extension Project (FY
91). The management principles to be introduced under the extension
component of the project would includes
(a) separation of extension and administrative functions at the
level of the Livestock Post, designating staff with exclusive
and full time responsibility for extension tasks;
(b) introduction of a program of regular field visits by the
livestock post agents;
(c) closer supervision of livestock post staff in charge of
extension;
(d)  provision of yearly two-week training programs combined with
monthly one-day training sessions; and
(e) establishment of a small group of subject matter specialists in
each PLD.



- 60 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
3.        Distribution of Responsibilities.  The allocation of
responsibilities between the Ministry of Agriculture and MINEPIA to deliver
extension messages at grassroots level would be defined on the basis of the
dominant activity in the prevailing production system. Thus, in the
Northwest Province, the direct extension responsibility of the Livestock
Services would be for large animals raised by traditional pastoralists,
while the Livestock Services would restrict their involvement in small
stock on mixed farms to the provision of subject matter expertise to the
Ministry of Agriculture's extension agents. In the Adamaoua Province, the
initial focus of the Livestock Services would be on animal production, but
responsibilities could be enlarged to include crop improvements. in the
Extreme North, the Livestock Services would directly cover large animals
(for the main part kept out of the cropping system), sheep and goats.
Although usually kept by agriculturalists, these animals have veterinary
problems requiring the specialized inputs that a crop extension scrvice
could not furnish. Subject matter support would be provided to the crop
extension service in animal traction, fattening by smallholders and village
poultry production. Before June 30, 1989, the Government would prepare
detailed protocols to specify the respective responsibilities of extension
activities to be undertaken by MINEPIA and the Ministry of Agriculture
(para. 3.13).
4.        Training.  Each field staff would take every year a two-week
training course at the Jakiri and Maroua training centers of MINEPIA. This
training would be carried out in small groups (15 to 20 students) and be
given by the regular staff of the training institutes. Emphasis in the
training program would be on upgrading animal production, range management
and communication skills, and familiarizing Livestock Services staff with
T&V extension methods. The curriculum for the training program would be
developed by the veterinary extension specialist assisted by a short-term
(six months) training consultant.   The inltial training of the Livestock
Services staff would be followed by monthly workshops at the PLDs and
sector level. These workshops would focus on the recommendations to be
passed on to the producers. They would be given by the regional subject
matter specialists assisted by IRZ researchers.
Proiect Inputs
5.        Extension.  The project inputs for the extension component would
cover training, transport, civil works, equipment, supplies and part of the
operating expenditures. Training would focus on increasing the competence
of subject matter specialists and is estimated at 12 man-years. Details of
the specific skills required for each PLD and the corresponding training
would be provided in annual training programs to be submitted to the Bank
for approval. The transport equipment to be provided would include
vehicles for the sector chiefs and subject matter specialists, and
motorcycles for the subsector chiefs and the livestock post agents
responsible for extension. A limited amount (US$700,000) would be made
available to complete the construction program for the Adamaoua Livestock
Service, initiated under the Second Livestock Project. Technical



- 61 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
assistance would comprise a long-term (four-man years) veterinarian with
experience in extension systems to assist the Director of Animal Production
and the Provincial Delegates in introducing the new extension system, a
small stock specialist for a period of three years and a poultry specialist
for six months, to set up specific programs in small ruminant production in
the Extreme North, Northwest, West, Center and South Provinces, and train
Cameroonian subject matter specialists in the these matters.
6.        Women's Activities.  Provision would be made to support
remunerative activities of women, both related to livestock and to other
activities. A women advisor, with experience of group support in pastoral
conditions, would be appointed in the Extreme North Province preferably in
the framework of a NGO to advise, train and support women's activities
principally, but not exclusively, in the sale of milk and milk products,
poultry and cash crops cultivated by women. Certain crafts including
weaving are important sources of income for the women and would be
promoted. If successful, this activity would be,extended to other parts of
the country.                                     !
7.        Central Planning.  The project would finance a total of four
man-years of training to allow Cameroonian staff to attend short courses on
monitory and evaluation, policy formulation and documentation. Equipment
would include four vehicles, two microcomputers, a high capacity
photocopier, a microfiche production set, and office and documentation
equipment. All PLDs would be equipped with simple microfiche reading
equipment. The long-term technical assistance to assist in the
establishment of monitoring and evaluation and investment review procedures
would be envisaged for three yearst it would be supplemented with short-
term expertise in agro-industries and documentation for a total of six-man
months. Special provisions would be made for a livestock marketing study
covering the three northern provinces and the urban centers to assess
market forces, prices and stock flows, in order to identify desirable
production strategies.



- 63 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Resource Management ComDonent
1.        Pilot Land Management Areas (PLMA).  To test the applicability
of existing land tenure legislation in the allocation of grazing rights to
producer groups and to assess whether the allocation of such rights would
engender the interest of the herders in resource conservation, 11 Pilot
Land Management Areas (or national agro-pastoral development areas) would
be developed under the project.  Grazing rights in these areas would be
allocated to satisfactorily functioning ecological zones and reflect
different degrees of grazing pressure. The project would finance the basic
infrastructure (with 50 producer participation) and demonstrate different
land management and intensification techniques.   The following table
provides a summary description of the PLMAs and their infrastructure
requirements.
Name of                      Grazing       Access        Internal     Ponds
PLMA          Province      Pressure       Roads        Roads         Number
(km)         (km)
Hindif Moul-  Extreme       moderate         -             -
voudaye       North
Makari        id.            high            -             20           3
Jagua         id.           high                          20            3
Benue         North          low             -            20            3
Faro          Adamaoua      moderate         -                          2
Djohong       id.           high             -             20           3
N'dokayo      East           low             20            30           2
Foumban       West          high             20            30           2
Tadu          N.West        high             -                          -
Mbengwi       id.            high                    -                  1
Eau           N.West         low                           40           2
Total                                        40          180            21
2.        To construct this infrastructure, the project would finance
recurrent costs for the operation of the heavy equipment pools of the
Pasture and Water Management Units of the PLDs, which are well equipped in



- 64 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
most of the Delegations. In the East and Vest Provinces, which lack a well
supplied heavy equipment pool, contracts with local entrepreneurs would be
sought. The project would further provide funds for the introduction and
demonstration of improved land management and agro-forestry techniques,
such as fodder banks and alley farming (Annex 2). A sum of US$20,000 would
be made available per zone for the initial demonstration of these
techniques. Funds would also be provided unaer this component for the
operating costs (transport, allowances, temporary labor and supplies) of an
IRZ scientist to set up a range land monitoring system to compare range
land evolution inside and outside the PLMAs. The ground level monitoring
system in the PLMAs would be supplemented with remote sensing techniques,
for which the project would provide the expertise (nine man-months of
consultants), training and supplies.
3.        Tsetse Control.  The conservation activities to be financed
under the project would include: (a) the clearance of a small area of
87,000 ha in the western part of the Adamaoua Plateau to reach the best
natural fly barriers; (b) the establishment of protective barriers around
the previously cleared areas; and (c) the placement of impregnated screens
and fly traps at regular intervals along these barriers. The barriers
would be created through a one-time insecticide spraying with helicopters
or knapsack sprayers of bands of lands which already constitute a natural
constraint to the passage of the fly (mountain range or treeless areas).
Preference would be given to the environmentally safer pyrethroid
insecticides. Experiments with these compounds are being undertaken in
Cameroon. The screen and trap technology has been successfully used in
Zimbabwe and Burkina Paso. They have a low environmental impact, can be
produced at village level and their placement and control can be entrusted
to the local population. Project financing would cover, for the first
three years, three trucks, three vehicles, a grader and a bulldozer to open
tracks, motorcycles for field personnel, insecticides and helicopter and
other small equipment. The manufacturing of the fly screens and traps
would be financed by the project on a declining scale. The balance would
be financed out of the grazing fees the Government intends to institute for
the cleared areas of the Adamaoua Plateau (para. 3.10). A total of slr;
months of an entomologist to advise on the screen and trap technology, six
months of a sociologist to advise on the organization of beneficiary
participation, and four months of a biologist to continue the ecological
and residue monitoring initiated under the first two projects would also be
included.
4.        To test the feasibility of a better integration of heavily
tsetse infested game reserves in the total development of the Adamoua and
adjacent North Province, the project would finance the creation of a test
buffer zone between the northern border of the cleared area in the Adamaoua
Province and Benoue game reserve. A number of parallel barriers of screens
and traps would be established in this area to establish a gradient of
decreasing fly pressure from the game reserve to the areas cleared for
livestock, and consequently create a natural protection against livestock
entering the game reserve. Hunting would be authorized in this buffer



- 65 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
zone. For this test, the project would finance the manufacturing costs of
the screens and traps and the operating expenditures for the Wildlife
Training Center in Garoua to place and control them over the project
period.
5.        At the end of PY3, an evaluation would be undertaken to assess,
for the Adamaoua Provinces
(a) the degree of cost recovery and producer participation achieved
in the maintenance of the fly barriers;
(b) the evidence of emergence of better range management practices,
because of the establishment of the PLNAs; and
(c) the maintenance costs and protection provided by the buffer game
hunting zone.
6.        On the basis of this evaluation, a decision would be made
regarding the extension of the tsetse eradication effort to the eastern
part of the Adamaoua and the possibility of extending the buffer zone
approach to other game reserves in tsetse infested areas of Cameroon (see
also Annex 10, para 5).



-67 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Animal Health Component
1.        OPV.  The EDF grant under the project for OPV's reorganization
would finance the services of an internationally recruited management firm,
which would prepare and implement an action plan aimed at making OPV
profitable by mid 1990. Over the same period, EDF would grant the
equivalent of ECU 1.2 million to increase OPV's working capital to the
level of about US$2 million. Assuming on average a nine month turn-around
time of the stock and a 75Z sales margin on the c.i.f. prices, the total
working capital after the EDF contribution would allow annual sales of
US$4.5 million, or three times the present viwume. No further contribution
is therefore required.
2.        Credit lines.  A credit line would finance the initial operating
costs and equipment, and if required, a limited amount to prepare a
workplace for livestock technicians wishing to start a private veterinary
pharmacy and clinic. A maximum of 40 loans at an average of US$20,000 per
loan would be budgetad for this type of operation. A second credit line
would finance one or two loans of up to US$250,000 each for qualified
veterinarians -ishing to take up the import and wholesale distribution of
veterinary pharmaceuticals.
3.        Small Stock Programs.  Special funding would be provided under
the project to develop poultry, sheep and goat production under smallholder
conditions. These programs would be carried out by the extension agents of
the Livestock Services and would include:
(a) for poultry, a vaccination campaign against New-Castle Disease
covering approximately 10 villages of the Northwest and West
Provinces and equal numbers in the Estreme North, Center and
South Provinces and later training of (privately employed)
village vaccinators, if successful; and
(b) for sheep and goats, a vaccination campaign against Small
Ruminant Pest and drenching against internal parasites in about
20 villages, and the establishment of 100 farmer-managed
demonstration units for more intensive production techniques,
like sheep fattening and the use of fodder trees for
supplemental feeding. This program would be concentrated in the
Extreme North, West, Center and South Provinces.
4.        The project would finance all inputs during the first year the
program is introduced in oach of the villages selected by the Livestock



- 68
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Services for these demonstrations; afterwards, the costs would be fully
covered by the producers. To monitor the impact of these interventions,
the project would make further funding available for two researchers and
their support staff from the IRZ station in Bambui and Garoua.
5.        Tsetse Eradication.  Provided the conservation effort on the
Adamaoua Plateau is successful, the project would provide funding for the
clearance of an additional 1,200,000 ha of tsetse infested area in the
eastern part of the Adamaoua Province. Funding would include the necessary
insecticide, helicopter operation and labor costs to implement this program
(..ee Annex 9, para. 6).



- 69 -
Annex 11
Page I of 2
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project MonitorlA
MINEPIA's Directorate of Studies, Projects and Training (DEPF)
vould be strengthened with long-ternm technical assistance to establish a
monitoring and evaluation system and to develop procedures to involve staff
In the preparation of projects and the corresponding budgeting. Monitoring
of the project would comprise routine data collection in representative-'
herds and flocks and in-depth studies on specific topics. Data would be
collected on key parameters (herd composition, calvings, deaths, home
consumption and sales), Inputs (feeds and drugs) and institutional changes
(private sector involvement in drug distribution channels, evolution of
training programs, evolution of herder organizations). Because of the
difficulty in obtaining reliable data concerning migratory herds, short
complementary studies based on detailed Interviews of sample herders would
be used to help re-orient project strategy. Specific studies envisaged,
but to which other topics could later be added, includes
(a) Baseline Survey of PLNAs. This would include a survey of
the physical characteristics of the zones selected for the
PLMAs, as well as a detailed household survey of the
members of herder organizations involved.
(b) Effectiveness of the Druz Distribution System. Drug
availability, prices, sources and actual usage (doses,
appropriateness of diagnosis) would be determined for the
various wealth strata of herders and small stock producers.
(c) MINEPIA Field Service/Producer InteractAon. The frequency
of contacts between extension agents and herders and the
quality of the information transferred would be assessed
under different HINEPIA and Ministry of Agriculture
extension roles.
(d) Berder Perception of their Organizations. Herder
perceptions about the management of their associations,
access to land and water, and management of these resources
would be assessed.
(e) Household Economic Studies. Recall studies would be
conducted every two years on sample herd-owner families
belonging to different wealth strata to determine the
evolutiop of their Income, nutrition and expenditures.
(f) Impact of Import Taxation on Domestic Meat Production and
Consumption. A study of the effect of recently Imposed
Import taxes on frozen meats, mostly imported at subsidized
prices from the EEC. on the protein consumption of the
pooTer segments of the population and on domestic red meat



- 70 -
Annex -11
Page 2.of 2
and flsh production would be conducted vith a view to
defining meoaures to correct undesired effects.
(a) Marketin . A market study of the three northern prowinces,
to detemine prices, flows and marketing losses and identify
institutional constraints would be carried out in PYI.



CANEROO
NATIOA  LESTOCK SECTOR DEoVELAPI  PROECT
POCT COST SMY
(FCfA '000)                      (RI '000)                     I TOL'I
Z Foreign   law
Local     Foreuif       Total       Local  Forei n   ToUl   Excharse   Costs
A. INStITUUTiI BILDI%6       2,215,255.0  3,892,180.1  6,098,035.0  79640.9 139386.8 2102'7.7\        64       46
B. ANIIK MEALTH                52$s317.5  2,519,577.5 3,049,995.0   1,825.2 8S688.2 10M513.4 '        63       23
C. PRSOURCE WhMtE£IENT         5459918.0  1,4524126.0  IvMvQ44.0  1,882.5 5,007.3  61889.8            73       15
D. CfiET                       327O000.0  1,928,0000  2,255,000.0  1I127,6  6,648.3 79775.9           S5       17
Totdl EASELIHE COSTS           3:618:090*5  9,781,293.6 13399,974.0  12i476*2 33,730.6 46206.8          73      100
Phisical Contiansncies        322,192.5    425M396.1    7474588.6   1111.0  1,466.9 2,57.9           57        6
Price Cohtingncies            9674530.    905,854.7 1873,435.5   3S336.5  3,123.6  69460.1          48       14
Total FROJECT COSTS            4,07,83U.  11,113,134.4 1602099M.1  16,923.7 389321.2 55,244.8           69        123
_ _ _ _ _tTzZCzI__z_Z_                                                       ___=ZC-XZZ_Czr=CZ__  m-M22=Z== 
w



CAM=
SIAT!M. L 2I'; SECTM D;JOPENtPRO FJCT
Firwrwinr  Fl3n b. Project Conments
(UM '000)
EUErIAN           AID MD
WILD SRE.          IFAD          JELWT FUHD   OOPRATION FUND            'J£EMENT        TotoI
~~'--~~~~~~~   w -  *~~~~   -----          -      -           -                      '.~~~~~~~La:l {FI.c1  Ditjcs S
AlwA   Z       A     t   2      Aaht        :      Amount    2    Aout   2          Aaourt   2    For. ELch.        Ta:*us)      Uves
A. I   ITualW DUIDINS    13,M.9 54.2   8,021.7 31.2                  -      -      596.0    2.3  3,167.4 12.3  25,710.9  46.5    15M41M.2           74216.6   3m074.1
2. h iAL  hELtSh             7sc5.4 i1.6 U62.8  7.7    1,916.8   15.0                   -      -  19993.2 15.6  124748.2  23.1    10,100.1          1,567.E   10-E.3        9
c. rESDuxtE MANA6E-2mN1      5,607.1 70.3      239.2  3.0           -       -      972.0   12.2  1,156.8 14.5   7,975.1  14.4        5,436.S        1,934.0      554.a
D. CFREIT                    7'236.9 62.1   1, 5738 17.9             -      -           -      -         -    -   8,810.6  15.9      7,316.4        1,494.3          -
iutal Disburseserat           34,65.2 62.7  10,817.4 19.6    1,916.8    3.5    1,568.0    2.8  6,317.4 11.4  559244.8 100.0    S8,321.2              12,214.6   47?D9.1
00 0
_ .
O m



TIONA1 LI BCTOI  SECTOR DJELOmPNT PRECT
SUARY ACCONTS CO  SUNAY
(FCFA '000)                      OUSs 000)                      Z Totzl
--  --, ;Frei*~ Dasei
Local     Forein        Total       Local  foreign   Total   Ece    Cos
I. INVESThEN COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTACLM                           -  1i375,725.0  1,375,725.0         -  4,743.9  4443.9 *       10         19
I. V1lICULES                                4,700,0  136400.0  164193900.0   11740.3  3,919.3 t5,659.7            6         12
C. EOUIPNENT                               57-353.8   172061.    229,415.0        197,8   593.3    791.1          75         2
D. TRAINING AND STUDIES                           -    302i250.0   302,25.0           -  19042.2  14042.2         100        2
E. LCAL TRAININ6                           126295,2   199427.8   315,713.0    435.5   653.2  1,03.7               60        2
F. CI.'IL SOMS                            114,240.0    766169.O   190,400.0    393.9    262.6   636.6              40        1
6. DRUS AND NEDICINES                             -    6391000.0   639,000.0          -  220M.4  2M2O3.4         100        5
H. 1EAR.                                          -   209,000,0   209000.0            -    720.7   720.7         100        2
I. INSECTICIDES                                   -  14581,600.0  1,581,600.0         - 5,453.8  5,453.8         .10       12
Jo. CEDIT FUD                             3279090.0  1,953,009.0 2,180400.0   w1127.6  6,3W.7  76517.2            as       16
K. FROJECT  REPAATION FACILITY              4,075.0    6225.0    71,300.0          14.1   231.8   245.9           94        1
Total IVESTMENT CCSTS                      141334654.0  74602i949.1  8$7350703.0  3,909.2 26,214.0 309123.           8;       65
M. REUMENT COSTS
A. OPERATIO AND  AINTNANCE               192i938.5    182,.93.5   365X377.0    630.8   6U0.8  17261.6            SO        3
S. GFE.RAT18; AND MINTE.lCE 'HICLES   1,0684915.0  10S68,915.0  2:137,230.0   36E5.9  3,635.? 7,371.3           '50       16
rC   V. .ER MINTErANCE                   1535534.0    117i856.0    273:390.0    536.7     406.4 6.4 A.           43        2
B. INf.CREETAL LOL PE-RSON               246v674.0            -    246,674.0    8S0.6         -    550.6          -        2
E. FIEl. ALLO    £ _Ci  -                8t3O375.0  910,125.0  1#640O,50.0  29863.4  20793.5  5:656.9            4?       12
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      2484436.5  2i179i834.5  4W6444271,0  S,567,0  7,516.7 16003.7             41?      3
Total BASELINE COSTS                        3,618,090.5  9,701823.6 13t3799974.0  127476.2 330730.6 462406.2         .3      100
Phwsica1 CWui.irJciies                     322,192.5   425t396.1   747i5^c8.6  14111.0  1,466.9  21577.9           57         6
rtice ConLinmencies                        967,580.8    905354.7  1:8739435.5  3,336.5  39123.6  6,460.1           42       14 -  
Total PROJECT COSTS                         4v90t7863,$ 11P113:134.4 1640204998.1  16,923.7 32:321.2 554214.8         6?       12x
~~~~~~~~~~~~=Z= === M==ZCM=_= = _ _5=-=-=---==  - .. V:--_=-T             t:a  
2~~~~~~~~~~~~ -. 
_ _ _   _,_ _ _  .     _________________.__________________                                               W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I:



- 75 -
Annex 13
CUMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement
IERD CY            Disbursement    Cumulative       Project
and Somester        by Somester   ,'Disbursement   Profile (Z)
-----…--US million)-------
1989     2             2.0                2.0          5.6
II             2.0                4.0          6.9
1990     x             2.4                6.4          6.9
1I             2.5                8.9          7.1
1991     2             2.0               10.9          5.6
II             2.0               12.9          5.3
1992     S             2.8               1537          7.8
II             2.9               18.6          0.4
1993     2             3.2               21.8          9.1
II             3.6              25.4           9.7
1994     1             3.4               28.8          9.4
it             3.4              32.2          10.0
1995     S             2.4               34.6         8.2
100.0
Notes   The region-vide profile in this report represents
projects' profile of Camuroob as of Mreh 198o.
fiscal Years January 1 - December 31
Project Years June 1.- July 31
Negotiations  October 1988* 
Project Bffectivenesss March 1989



- 77 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 3
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow
E          1.          The Government cash flow (Attachment) is based on actual figures
for the 1985186 - 1987/88 budgets and on projections thereafter according to
the following assumptions:
(a)  MINEPIA expenditures: (i) increase of the payroll for MINEPIA
staff at inflation rate of 102 per year, corrected for staff
reduction of 40 agents transferring to the private sector over
5 years; and (ii) growth of non-salary recurrent costs and
investment costs at 1OZ inflation rate over their 1988/1989
level.
(b) Expenditures after project comDletion: livestock extension, group
organization activities, and tsetse conservation efforts would
continue.
(c) Producer contributions: Mi) vaccinations: till 1988/89, revenue
from rabies vaccinations only; 1988/1989 (half year only) figures
are based on 1,500,000 vaccinations against rinderpest and
800,000 vaccinations against anthrax at CFAF 50 per head; double
that number in the following years; (ii) treatments: revenue
would be expected to double, following the price revision
'expected to be of the order of 1502) as part of the policy
adjustments envisaged under the project; (iii) vaccinations and
treatments5 expected to decrease in 1991/92 by about 102 per
year (resulting in stabilization of income in nominal terms)
following the gradual privatization of health care; (iv) herder
contribution to tsetse control: based on a CFAP 300 charge per
head and a population of 600,000 head in tsetse cleared areas,
increasing to 1,200,000 head in 1992/93 as a result of the
control financed under the project.
2.          Project recurrent costs financing would be shared as follows
(CFAF billion, see attachment):
1988189    1989190    1990/91   1991/92  1992/93  1993194
IBRD/IFAD           0.28         0.64        0.69      0.79     0.80      0.33
Government           0.03        0.07        0.15      0.35      0.75     0.55
Incremental          0.34        0.75        0.96      1.22     1.42      0.80
cost recovery



- 78 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 3
Cost recovery, if successful, could therefore easily absorb the incremental
financing requirements for operating costs.
3.     Savings from policy measures would yield, by PY5, about US$5 million
from the following cost savings and revenue enhancements:
Item    Amount
(CFAF million)
Salary savings (40 agents)                      96
Abolition of drug subsidy                       40
Abolition of OPV and SODEPA subsidies          350
Increased revenue:
Vaccinations                          370
Treatments                             80
Herder Contribution to
Tsetse control                       420
Total                                      1,356



LETU uSECTm KWrLTPOC
O.Pwvst Cash Flow
NamNM                                         NM 11RU   1   1 " '* NM L NM     LE"". NM  "In
S l.r7                 I.n    2.0    8.18   8.42   8.74   4.09   4;47    4.0    5.39  0.01 . 0.59
Ub*- sl5rp             1.Ul   0.65   0.54   0.6    0.6    0.72   0.79    0.07   0.96  1.02  " 1.17
8t.61    8.l   L.ts   1.01   1.11   1.21   1.p2    1.48   1.5   1.72   1.69
Zawasmns"                                                                          0.07  0.07   0.07
_ rwvs.                                                                           0.56  0.65   0.03
TOTAl                   7.26    7.18   S."2   L.0    5.5    6.02   6.5U    7.2    0.54  9.71  10."
pow   l"m  Mil
Kavein._s              1.35    1.01   **3    1.07    2.16    1.71    1.81
SeIsri                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.05   0.06   0.06   0.06    0.09   0.02
0.31    0.71   0."4   1.14    1.57    0.87
TWAL  *                 1.8      1.01   0.80   1.43    2.92   2.60    3.00    3.76    1.94
TVIAL OWUUU            S."      0.14   0.26   6.45    8.42    8.62    9.38   10.96   10.48   0.71  10.065
DIIIL  0_S11            1.85    1.01   0.85   1.43    2.92    2.60    3.00    3.76    1.94
muaum
va"Imstlm              0.08    0.00   0.00   0.17   0.U8  0.09   0.4        0.4    0.4   0.4    0.4
Trostr  ot            00.0     0.1    o.11  o0.      o.l   0.21   0.2       0.2    0.2   0.2    0.2                   C  
aq M1oe               0.54    0.82   0.71   0.82    .1   1.01   1.11    1.22   1.84  1.47   1.02                       w :r
Geamiss few                                   0.06   0.16   0.2    0.85    0.46   0.5   0.55   0.0                     O
Toli Preodues          O."     0.75   0.01   1.19   1.6    1.01   2.07    2.27   2.44  2.02   2.82
TOTAL                    2.01    1.7    1.2    2.62   4.52   4.41    5.07    6.03   4.36  2.0!   2.02                   W
TOAL IREAD uiguiins S.6          6.81   5.07   S."    3.9    4.21   4.51    4.93   0.1   7.02   7.9



- 81 -
Annex 15
Page 1 of 2
CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Benefit Stream
1.        The benefit stream for the project is based on the impact from
improved herd health measures. Three distinct situations are acknowledgeds
(a)  The Adamaoua Province.   Benefits for the 900,000 head of
cattle derive from the conservation of the tsetse free area,
the improved extension service and the improved supply of
drugs. The "without project  situai ion would lead to a gradual
decline of the tsetse free area; a declining fertility and an
increasing mortality are therefore assumed without project;
(b) The Extreme North and Northwest Provinces. Project benefits
for approximately 2,350,000 head of cattle would derive
principally from the improved extension and drug supply
situations. These benefits would also reach a substantial part
of the small ruminant populdtion;   however,  for lack of
reliable base data they are not included in the calculation.
Cc)  The North. East and West Provinces.  Project impact on the
1,150,000 head of cattle would be limited to an improved
supply  of  drugs.    The  considerably  under-utilized  feed
resources allow, in thiR area, an expansion of the herd,
unlike the other areas where feed resources are more limited
and lower internal growth rates are assumed.
(d) The Center. South and Littoral Provinces. Some limited lmpact
on small stock and poultry production. Not calculated for
project cash flow or benefit stream for lack of reliable data.
2.        The following Table provides a su1mary of the key parameters
used in calculating the benefit stream for each of the situations.
Details are provided in the Project File.



- 82 -
Annex 1S
Page 2 of 2
---Without Project- --W- With Project----------
Adamaoua     Extreme-North  North
Country   Adamaoua'                    North-West West
East
PY5  PY20      PY5  PY20    PY5    PY20  PY5  PY20
Percentage
Fertility           62    60    58       56    62      64      62      63    62
Calf mortality      13    16    18       20    13      12       13     12    14
Young mortality      7     8     8         9     7      6        7      6     8
Adult mortality      5     5     5         6     5      5        5      5     5
Average offtake    12.5  11    11.7       11.7  12.9   13.5    12.9   13.5  12.3
Adult liveweight (kg) 350
Milk production (kg)  200 200   200   210  230    210    230   200   200  200
Liveweight price (CFAF/kg)         325
Milk price (CFAF/ltr)               80
FP'mily consumption price (cfaf/kg) 60
These parameters were applied to the total population, and adjusted for a less
than complete adoption, by applying adoption rates of 502 and 702.



- 83 -
Annex 16
ULEr OCK SECTWt DEELOPME1T PROJECT
ownTI  OF MAM         AND CMRES
OF WV UnDEll VuI    ASSWTIONS
(CFAf Mliliton)
Veer     Volum      .     er1                Fised             Char  C1                     Chars.e C2
of Sl.             ox        M us    Charge    V riabls Cbl. teoal Chargs  Variable C.  ortl Charges
Va    0.18 Vs 0.24 Va  0.3t Vs                                1                       2
0       VaSW    47         U        126      172           B             252              of           252
1         60*      38    104        234      172         104             27n              02           264
*           l46    11s    2U        24?    12           116             2U               98           276
S          0"2    11    212        809      172          11U            296              9            271
4       1,172    182    261         416      172          140            312             111           282
*       1,6       196     no        5n       172          111            838             125           296
PROP'T MARGIN OP OPV
(ASSUMING A COMBIMATION OF M21C2)
Year           M2                C2            1M2-C2
Annual    Cumulative
O.___                  -----------------------------------------------------
1             164              264        -100            -100
2             203              270          -67           -167
3             212              271          -59           -159
4             281              282           -1           -160
5             365              295          +70              -8
C* \HFD\MASSl1-GENKRhL
CAHIROON hUllS



- 85 -
Annex 17
CAHEROON
LIISTOCK SECTOR DELOPHT PROJECT
Budget of a Veterinary Agent
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6
SzDenses
1.  Vehicle               4,000                                     4,000
2.  Rousing               2,000
3. Veterinary Equipment    600         100       100       100        100       100
4. Drugs 1/               7,800      9.400   -11,700    14,000    17,500    17,500
5. Operating Costs          950        950       950       950        950       950
6. Debt Service 21                   1,250     1.250     2.000      2,000     2,000
Total            15,350    11,700    14,000    17,000    24,550    20,550
Income
7.  Drugs 31             10,000    12,000    15,000    18,000    22,500    22,500
S.  Subcontracts          2.000      2,000     2,000     2,000      2,000     2,000
9. Vet. Services 41       3,300      4,000     5,000     6,000      7,500     7,500
10. Loan 5/               7,50C
Total            22,800    18,000    22,000    26,000    32,000    32,000
11. Available Income 6/   7,450      6,300     8,000     8,950      7,450    11,450
I/ Drug purchases: 76S of sales volume according to bareme.
21 Debt services 15? interest, 3-year grace period and 10 equal annuities.
3/ Drug saless Year 0 10,000,000 CPA (half of 1986187 Adamaoua sales)
4/ Veterinary servLces: Based on actual treatments carried out by Livestock
Service.
5/ Loan: for housing, vehicle, equipment, +25Z of first year's purchases.
61 To be compared to desirable income, i.e., twice the salary plus charges of
government veterinary agent or about twice CPAF 6 million.



-                          m
"" tZ-*t "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G'st  "-"lX-t U' - X  so,*'t"' a - vil  ln ot  o-wl    sot's   so's                     U-t ni-                                   Am
te~~~~~~~~~~4, *11,1  010   01V u-ogeeelr eo ee   Oslo   e01 e          rosl o 1,4    e o    "'a   IVlo   u-el   e-el   -el'    all eL Uw 
N et go'   tl -" * ""    Utg       OR at-4   e.   96 ti'S    N'""- "In    el "In       E W    'S ala   1,1o   owd   9 to'   9- "  "'t   ev's                         Sri t111* 1D
_I        mm            mm_m  su    i               teA _m         mu            tv      od"    Mn   sto    **  |        m   own _a                           C1"o D.
lae I                                                                                                                                                   O    M  eases    amo
tJ  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ms, mam   m
Mt   ta    to    *as        on    on    am       on    itS    i1      55      I18    In      M       "I     gt    ofil   lot    lot                         ll aM. W
a             .    de      a      a             a  *          so tt,         is     41      ts     a       a      a       to    it       a                       m  m5. *M
I*Wm   4lll,  lo
gw o         "lo       t M&   I   01   &M    un t sow    mu    VI            4Ca     =  a     m*    "R    wa    IS        M"   out    ""                          (NA    W 
5.65   mt  *is   sag    eu    tg    uts  gst   ug   got   sas    O                  mis   use    mis   sUc    Usa    Usa    was   isa                             (is) r
Ma                                                                                                                                                     Me em. me WnAm
isU t       _ t     tt      t     D"    B l     _n       f   tf        t    tJ        * a  a.t tin asZ t *tat t  eeta of    o  ts o    a  a  a  a  as  a.   is  a  tgm    as L  gas On.V1
sig1l  $m*    os   Not   s*>   owl   sm   1            out  "e    San   isest   =s    m            ptot   ns   am s    tall   aeu   las                      Wane)  UA wW.
I      a.          is      aItlO                       a      aoaasaa,                                                    t      a       sm                            . meWu
a      s    a          a       aa        M      o      o       t i1 t               el      a      es  t          St     is      to g                           Wu mea"o.t
wg *s
C
case  smW  "Me   sow    ei        ams  "Ma  g          glowtm   amn   a.   m         Mm      "aMu    Wm           Miem  "as m             as                     (PAN) gmw
its                                                                                                                                                    ame u. Mam~am-
it   sit   off   off    oil    usi        s      st sst aIt            t    011   asi       t      oi t  s        t             t       ae   tin Ua.  a.m inu .
el                                              of s      i    to    if  at  so     af      to     a0     91      so             a       Sp                     gua.s so 
*I    siL5    la             g uaat   eta. ggssts ug                         u     was     sa    ug    las         m    mm       ai    ri                          e utw
OM                                                                                                U "    mm                            a ""                      g  n   W   t t    n,nWA
go    at    Us       s              t                                       n *  a  n  sn    n tn  t    n          t n          a                                   m. ,m
to    a      a     to      a      a0    as     a t     as    e       Ma     an      G       GA     u      u       is     *       4  Wgown *=a.&Vue
WIW WA0 80
aa    a                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~me on. gam=a me
a     do        mg         a      a      a      e it   a             aso Is Ws nis         a       e                                    a.           _          mam.ut  _ i
at    a f        of        ss     an            to                   a              tt *o es  is  is    is  s  it  It    et     et                              wi no.
WAOM amonge
Om                                                                                                                                                     ame am.   -     ame
as  at    Mt         s     at    M       as          as  s           at "u  m       as;    OH               t    aa      1; s s  ae     os                      ma me. Wm
11a  a  a  a    as    g,   t  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  -  a  a  is     iV                         csmmo
Mgaanwt&am
a _~
LWa      _ -     .. -   m n
#mu



CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCREMENTAL BENEIFITS AND COSTS
Maximum Adoption Rate: 50X
(US$ 000)
ai    i   snie     im    am    iee    m        a      sw    ae    aw ell  =w     ne    t             20"   tes   nis   no,  2u
1e1,1M .  nmKo
uamzair xwaa                   m    sat    am    teas   ear   un  tea. o m          uo   auie  turn  ieee   awe  mnuo  aete   acne  act   aii    aim miete
EU0  OF                                -             -   -     * * *   * * *                                                                          *       aL im
1ZCOttai w ciet aw                                . .  .  .  .    ,      ,      ,     ,      ,      ,      ,      ,                                            540
SIIDIKMUUU4 Ratiallte          u"    mat   a1c   mc    Ate eu1n  1eae  mateU       a      m14e  Iu Wu aC   ateGmn   me 1. acne  a"4ne    ees   uue U170   tmu
asimne.l muts                 ama   ata   te.ua    m   2nc  msi   tis                 s   axe   asa   zes   asi    Iu 252   ste   tu    tes    axe   a§
1II    e                      i     set et    ie         ast   ace   eec  mu    ac    cia  Us           et    se    is    ac       ee   fsa    ace   see    eta
rnmun17uu            e       isU  sa    ic    at    mm           -       e     -  Hc        -  He         -    is      -    aH       -  H,         *  es         - .
e. rw  mu cmui                am    ao  ace sem          em    ue   muse  atm    mae   atm    mueom            ass    ae   nee   mas   mwe  itso  teuee  mw
untl£                          -   teem   ntU    met  ace       . -     -      -     -      '-     -      -      -                   -    -        -      - 
11taEaa s                     elms iee    ie    ma   cats nu    asi  uae eu    mael san   tat    mate   mite   w e   S7l   555    45    511   sUle 
_~~~~~~~unis.  rs,. 3m. _us, _.s. _ms _.s _rs. in_.  _m. _as. _.. _.s, ..ss.,. in....a 
._. a. cm. 0:_
ErnIE: Wa
nscut    warn     wzuu eoart out t                        mu       MavWmuawaurams
lot  ier lt. eN                    aa.a2     u.        nate       aecet ous           noel      it e       ts
., .  ,,,,,,,,te                                                                     z.asa  ,,.,,,.,,, neatl    u.....   nscs            ae. Ue   .lts1.2elUe .a U. l* 
'as,              teenIMA com  4M    4696    DO   "  m          am.s16tt.MU    Sin ee                    masse  n.seu    -a.aaa    ta es   toata            ssa In
mu m         isetl    aa,a       eo.aec    se.nt     ae.au     aseac      'a.s.s    aa.1mn    ai.ss     1ae. a
50tmin sEs -.u -.u  -                                    -.      -.        .u       ze.ee     n.etg      t 2,ua
MR111"Al. N121*3                                                   --                             -                              -    tLuAi     teim
AO* if INI                   -         -          *         -                    ' -       '        *      ac.eee
96411111.1 CAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



u-i
00 0
-d
en
0*66   lOLl   G1    W*£5   e1 36   SI 0£ l  ec Is 0'6I'1*                      go Ca    g0 w      at et                 1 es0           6al   co  C Ct  *69  US t's  lb* I   16O        3t *0116  0US           1SUQGd1 j
£0    ,0          e   £0   £0   10o 40    £0    £O                             £                           SO a0     a 00     00 e      l 0    6 0    06O  a0   1t0Q
0801 to h  W    "-" t6'6  0       1g6 a    *co 0isa         66t0'2O  ft'"    ogle    *0C6    60'*0    in' 6t 8OC    *61 t   to It                  11    0c  I      gO A     to -    001*NUT"*  1ld0m   tX1i0=n sn
636     no       UOtt oi  Ot 00  t60      UOat   1610t    *it         VISO     GMo    00O        Aeu      01e0      *egg     else      clog     0to       ties     clot1     4        M    ! l   ll I      UgDW         W
S4066* .6    610169   06          686    ON9       MLI   *vigi        MIS    soul    Dom          ci          Moe     10n6   e 1to      6 0    K@.'q    66           0g    1el6ls iv (9W ) *TA
1"s                                                                                                                                                                                              OM  OM.DO,      S13I tt
as0     at       la      tc       sit     oec     its       via      sic       tic      91C       CIC      gig      SIt       am        OOI      got      O51       lot       got                            eSM  OW0  3n1"
go      6       to        0       £0      16       OS       0        O *e      60        10       to       O61       £6       VI         0  W              1t       et       0£                                 I 000., £v3
UTTIA ¶1101  0
6161e   66t    "61   66g01    0 1t  01611   *061 9t "lit    omt1   £0161    861*!    VCI1 S                S  6      oel ne!    669 01  1   *"1  t0,0     clot    661*3    6191                              (ar14*  DIW A
m                                                                                                                                              OM  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w n. m    OWN wuoeep
So       11      49       1      n        of      of        96       VI        of       n         cS       es        1I       09       it        6V   n 1           to      1i                              VMS000, wiZm
16    C                  is   CC          la     *I         *6       Oa        66       Ca       66        Ca       6         IC       is        I        IC   e a           0!                             901'00.OiV
*em     "M       "M      "Mt   sem        s mSt  *"W        isOm     st@S   tou   OtO             "ts a             otot    OIL        ones          i    guts    ltst viols                          (wiOt  A tw
OLa                                                                                                                                                                                                      eo. _DIRAI cho
to      0                                                                               I s,    n          of       to   n             to                          to nnsn                                       de  o coeo. wll
esM111          as       ts 02            Oa      O t    1Oa         et        1t       61    1            of1    0t          et       It        Is8      i001               S                                   ON. AM
a:tit     I      M"    1=U -e            4t=      "Mt  la            ae"       n        som                "on      Ogg       sm       lm              s       s      oe     mu                Caam     jSWW
,,,                                                                                                                                                                                              aAt OMl0 .  eem   o 0
sit     oi      oil    6*U       off      lt      a*l      0*        Ut       Ott       At       lit       go       en       Of     t       ON   Mt       Mt       16        4e                             S0oeo  nt
to      VI       a       VI      CS       co       s        is        to       it        ,       et        of   ec            61       tO                 n £o I        C    061                           9010 0OD ,
(O                                                                      v                                                                                                                                               roi Out^
68*19    "M    *336              Nutu 66     n    Sca6 e    E6il   61U6    00606        MIS    CaUl66   tl1t   06)           lUIW      too"    on"    on                6001                                (tiSa) D1A
"s      "I       "I      "I      as sn     1      at       got      totl        l       Ito      £ low     let      61       bit       u0       60u W1              o       of£                             VOL 000. El
to      of      of       to      co      as      o0 f      as       of                  o        of       0*        el       a                  6*        u       6u        i*                             90         A10 0.  3
gag                                                                                                                                                                                             am  on. IICNh   430
as      ae Fs   a        a      So       ON      at        It O It           at #l O t          et        of             W t   nST   nn                            W OV At                                StoCl nn  ) 91wX t
663     61       a6      66      at1    661        61      opt       VI1      VI1      VI        16!      16t       61       Oit       St1      et1      01        e6t       St1                           9     000. lIdE
lam      sp      MI    66        209   Oso   er1413    9191   S"t    Wili    W"                  M"       Oi"       sw    Stgo    C5             iA       I"      loo         -"                      (Pm    wO WA IIS.
1t1111     go     t 111          Wt VRI          sne a"    M         c  n" Olt         "I                                             pol nz     t       "t       "I        Its                           gies coo  nwu
eta1    6       ina10   03       £69     is6     166       S6t0     6g0o661             60      31        £201     061       et01    6a0s        111     go*1    0to1       1101                           gotlu  01WA ¶Vj
6634 6W 1I/i 901W 
au       ld USl         WtA    41A       "Ad      *nS      el"  nu            SIA         Ad    S o*Ad     au       LOA       "a       gm       VA4  UFd           au        IA               u3 o    ~ A
XOL - II 3R NOIdOAG WWiIXW-
MO'kl4 LIAS3NS
133roHd INUwaoUi35a Aolms 5651s3AI
NOON314T)



CAMEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVEI.OPMENT PROJECT
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT'i AND COSTS
I989    19"0    191    IM2    1993    394    199 IS                 199 97   1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2001    2004    2005    20"    2007    2008
_ ..NE _AL K_ EFITS
FO0lCTION I£SNENI                      370    1410    1760    33?0    7160    9420   12210   I 830   18220   20050   23350   23790   24740   25380   26180   26750   27250   27700   27140   27700
H£1fl  1KMCRIEN1                          -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       - 55780
C0VE61 Of CRDI1 LIKES                    -       -                 -          -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -         -        -       _         6405
SUFl1ifi  ItREKE3dIM  SIIEFIIS        370    1410    1760    3370    7160    9420   32210   15830   18220   20050   23350   23790   24740   25380   26180   26750   27M               27700   27640   8988;
WMaiENIAL COSTS
I3SlITIUTIhi BUILDINI                 2527    3130    2430    3063    3380    2969    32.80    3380    295          3280    3397    29S2    3280    3380    2957    3297    3380    M2           3?80    3380
ANIIIAL HEALIH                         448      863      623    4046    4157      3m8      646      684     398      646     456      626     548      456      398     874      456     398      548      626
i&ELCE IIA1EIINT1                   1760      503      596     254      181        -      90        -      69        -      69        -      90        -       69        -      69        -      90        -
ON FAR U1  CO 3ENT                    100      200      300     400     0oo      800    1000    3I00    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200
CREDIT                                   -    I36 I         1   01    1601          -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -                -        -
SUBTOTAL IHRINENIAL COStS             4835    4696    3949    7763    8313    4167    5016    5164    4619    5126    5122    4778    511t    5036    4619    5371    5305    45S0    5118    520
INC6II3AL 3K1 KNEfI3S
IOTAL INCREENIAL ME  BENEfITS    -4445   -3206   -2189   -439    -115B    5253    719'i  1,666   13601   14924   18228   19012   39622   20344   21561   213379                  45   23150   22522   84179
.:;:.S: n=sa;.: ann.; n5a;n  S.:;:; *:::::  5::::;: .ss;;s; ;;sS:tS  C:::::;  n=:s  =:::;:8 *a:=a: *:::::= ::::::; Stan; nra,..s5 *r:.: naaa   a....:,
------                                ---------------------------- ----     ----.-------                --- --- - ----               -----
aw  . i988  13:12
UFOAIING:   cAm
o 
eB 
0o 



- 91 -
Annex 18
Page 5 of 5
CAKEROON
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRESENT VkUES OF NET STREAMS AT A DISCOUNT RATE OF 13,52
DTOT      UP 102      UP 20Z      Up 502      OWN lOZ    DOWN 20Z    DONN SU   LAG1 YEAR LAG 2 YURS LAG 3 YEARS
CTOT            42.278.9   S0w107*4    57936.0    81,421.6    34,450.3    269621.8    31436*1    32,967.4   24,763.4    179535.3
JP loz          389678.2    46,506.8    54.435.3    77,821*0    30849#7   23,021.1          -464.5    299366.7   21.162.8    13t934.6
UP 20K          35O077.6    42,906.1    50S734.7    747220.3   27,249.0    19,420.5   -4,065.2    25766.1    17'562.1    10,334.0
UP 502          24,275.6    32,104.1    39.932.7   63,418*3    16,447.0       8,618.5   -14,867*2    14,964.1    6W760W1        -468.0
DOWN 102        45,879.6    53,708.1    61,536.7   859022.3    38,051.0   30,222.5        6,736.8    36,568.1   28,364.1    21,136.0
DOwN 202        49.480.2    57308.8   65,137.3    88,623.0    419651.7    33.823.1    10,337.5    40,168.7    31,964.8    24t736.6
3m  502         60.282.2    68110.7    75.939.3    99,424*9    52,453.6    44,625.1    21W139.4   50,970.7   42,766.7    35s538.6
LAG 1 YEAR                         -                                                                  37,250.1    29046.2    21,818.0
LAG 2 YEARS            -           -            -           -           -           -            -           -    32819.5    25,591.3
LAG 3 r                -           -            -           -           -           -            -           -           -    28,915.9



M A L I  J/(                                                                                                                                        -,
-MALI ~ ~ o    N I G E R         /    C    A D
NIG  =         /  )   C E  N   T R    A   L   A  F  R I CHAD   N                                               CAAN
,               N I G E R I                  -
,/  /CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC      .
EAMROON\,41
~IJft4O    N. -~PEOPLE'SI
JREPOF  )   Z A I R E                                                                                                C    H   A   D
BON CONGO].
'rM J '               G A RO 0N         R j    0  N
LIVESTOCK SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
10V                            A      PILOT LAND MANAGEMENT AREAS
AREA TO BE CLEARED OP TSETSE
WILDUFe RBUFER ZONE
I I I I  PROVNCaS WITH INTENSIVE EXTENSiON ACTiONS
PAVED ROADS                                                                                    \       YOI
GRAVEL ROADS
_--- -  EARTH ROADS
- I IPRAILROADS
* INTER4   TIONALA IRPOPTS
-900_  15oHrETS IN MtlU AETEP R.S e ,  
R-                 IIA/ -* .ECNOOICAL eONDAIESIJ
|R         )v  W ES       WtN Lsc0' /.             OSMIJdkop3o                                                                                       SDUDANIAN.GUINEAN 
I   .)   | A>          \       \                                         XD03C3 \4                A             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S>OUTSAN.GEINEAS TRANSITION|
ECOASTAI LOWANDS ROLtNDARY
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=t WSAHE
I   \            i       g             \           Q                                                                  0           X          jAlh               t    .ilI 
0                                                                                                                                        FORESTAI
\             \~~~ --                                                  ~.=  _                                         hIW4O         undo l4
T2- N                                  - \ j W -% (                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC R N
'l  i   '   ' /--' I T/,-. > -    i  1        f,       R 'fit  h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yokdo



