Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11628-SLK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
MAY 28, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Central Europe Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Koruna (Kcs)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1987       1988       1989       1990       1991   1992
US$1.00                 = Kcs 13.68        14.36       15.05      17.95     28.50  28.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                          US System
1 meter (m)              =                       3.208 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         =                       0.6214 mile (mi)
I square kilometer       =                       0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)     =                       0.9842 long ton (Ig ton)
1 kilogram (kg)          =                       2.2046 pounds (Ibs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEL         -   Direct Exchange (telephone) Line
DON         -   Digital Overlay Network
EC          -   European Community
EBRD        -   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB         -   European Investment Bank
FDM         -   Frequency Division Multiplex (method used in the analogue environment for
combining multiple conversations on a single wire or radio channel)
FMPT        -   Former Czechoslovakian Federal Ministry for Post and Telecommunications
GDP         -   Gross Domestic Product
GOS         -   Government of the Slovak Republic
GSM         -   Group Special Mobile (proposed standard for digital cellular telephone systems)
IDP         -   Institutional Development Program
JV          -   Joint Venture
MAN/WAN  -   Metropolitan Area or Wide Area Network
MB/s        -   Megabit per second
MIS         -   Management Information Systems
MTCP        -   Ministry of Transport, Communications and Public Works (of the Slovak
Republic)
MW          -   Microwave
PHARE       -   EC grant program for providing assistance to CEE
PIU         -   Project Implementation Unit
PSTN        -   Public Switched Telephone (or Telecommunications)
Network
SPT         -   Sprava Post a Telekomunikaci (Slovak Republic's Post and Telecommunications
organization, so called during period under the former CSFR)
SR          -   Sprava Radiokomunikaci
ST          -   Slovak Telecommunications (Current name of operating company)
TC          -   Telecommunications
TCMI        -   Telecommunications Manufacturing Industry
TCO         -   Telecommunications Operator: i.e., the telecom
section of the SPT until separation of posts and telecoms, and the
telecom enterprise, ST, thereafter
USTDP       -   United States Trade Development Program
UNT         -   Unified Telecommunications Network (of former CSFR)
SLOVAK FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ........                                      .................. i-iii
I. INTRODUCTION ........................................ 1
H.   THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ........................ 1
A.   Introduction ........................................ 1
B.    Government Authorities ................................ 3
C.    Telecommunications Service Providers ....................... 4
D.   Telecommunications Users ............................... 8
E.    Telecommunications Manufacturing Industry .................... 8
Ill.  TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR POLICY ...................... 9
IV.  DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ............................... 13
A.   Development Plans .................................. 13
B.       Project Description and Implementation ...................... 15
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ................................... 23
A.   Introduction ....................................... 23
B.   Past Performance ....................                                                                 ................ 24
C.       Projected Financial Performance  ..... .....................                                      27
D.   Financing Plan ............................                                                           29
E.  Tariffs ............................                                                                   30
F.   Accounting and Finance ............................     31
G.   Cash Management ...........................                                                           32
H.  Auditing ...........................                                                                   32
I.    Financial Covenants ............................                                                     33
Ths Report was prepared by a team comprising Nwob Hker (Task Manager), Eaar Wmmstrm, and Greta
Nettleto  (Conasultant); David Loux is the Peer Reviewer. EC2 1nfrasructur is the responsbe division
(Han J1. Apitz, Division Ciel, Central Europe Deparbtent (Kenal Dervi, Director).
r  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ............................... 33
A.    Rate of Return/Benefits/Risks ............................ 33
B.    Environmental and Health Aspects . ......................... 35
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED  .............................. 35
TABLES
2.1    Comparative Quality of Service indicators  ...          ................  6
4.1    Total Program Cost: ST ..............  ................. 18
4.2    Project Financing  ........         ..............  ............  19
4.3    Procurement: ST ................. .................. 20
4.4  Performance Indicators: ST .............................. 23
5.1  Past Financial Performance .............................. 25
5.2    Projected Financial Performance  .      ......................... 27
5.3    Financing Plan: ST  ................................   30
ANNEXES
1   Organization Chart of ST ............................... 37
2      Slovak Basic Telecom Data  . ............................ 38
3      Slovak Telephone Network Architecture  .......            .............. 39
4      Telecommunications Manufacturing Industry ......            ............. 40
5      Physical Investment Data ............................... 43
6      Institutional Development Program  ..........           ............... 44
7      Training and Technical Assistance ......................... 51
8   Project Costs .................................. 52
9      Schedule of Disbursements .............................. 53
10    Implementation Schedule ...............................  54
11     Performance Indicators ................................ 55
12     Financial Statements  ................................  56
13     Number of Employees per 1,000 DEL  ........               .............. 61
14     Tariffs ................................ 62
15     Calculation of Intemal Rate of Retum  .........          .............. 63
16     Recommendations: PA Consultants ......................... 64
Map IBRD-24626



SLOVAK REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Slovak Telecommunications (ST)
Guarantor:              Slovak Republic
Amount:                 US$55.0 million
Terms:                  Seventeen years maturity, including five-year grace period at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate. The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by the borrower.
Project Objectives:     The project would support the digitalization and expansion of
the core network to: (a) reduce congestion on key network
elements (thereby improving service for all subscribers); (b)
rapidly provide modern digital communications for businesses
(especially export-related businesses); and (c) provide a sound
foundation for future modernization and expansion of the entire
network. The project would also focus on institutional and
policy improvements aimed at: (a) increased efficiency in TC
investment and operations; (b) improved quality of service; and
(c) transition to full commercial operation.
Project Descaption:     The project would support ST's development program for 1993
- 1995 and would consist of two main elements: (a) construction
of a digital overlay network focussing mainly on long-distance
facilities but with appropriate complimentary international and
local network improvement; and (b) technical assistance and
training to support institutional improvements, especially in
financial management, human resource management, and market
orientation.
Project Benefits:       The proposed project would help improve the quantity and
quality of telecommunications service--thereby directly
benefitting immediate users of these services and indirectly all
sectors of the economy which depend on communications.
Direct beneficiaries would include all existing subscribers (who
would benefit from the improved quality which would result
from decongestion of the long-distance network); and high



- ii -
volume subscribers (primarily business) who would benefit from
access to modem digital communications. By facilitating the
performance of business and the spread of market mechanisms
(which depend on telecommunications), the project would
benefit and support the development of the economy.
Project Risks:            The principal risks relate to: (a) the financial strength of the ST
and its ability to sustain high investment; (b) the implementation
capacity of the ST; and (c) the limited experience of the new
Slovak Government institutions. These risks are acceptable
because it is the Government's policy to promote self-financing
infrastructure investment, which means that the Government
must set such tariff levels which will permit the implementation
of the agreed development project. Furthermore, the
Government gives the highest priority to investments in
telecommunication where the customers are willing to pay
higher rates for services rendered and the tariffs are relatively
low.
Moreover, to increase the capacity of ST to manage these risks,
a number of provisions have been made. Measures to
strengthen the financial management of the ST will be included
in the project, such as the creation of a strong financial
department and training of its staff, tariff studies leading to
reform and rebalancing, and the design and implementation of
commercial accounting systems and related MIS. A series of
financial covenants (tied to internal cash generation and
operating ratio) will be required to ensure adequate financial
performance of the borrower. A strong Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) was created in the ST prior to negotiation. Initially,
this unit would deal with procurement preparation; later, it
would be responsible for project execution. The project would
contain technical assistance for the PIU. Finally, the
Government's policy and regulatory function is being developed
with the assistance of qualified consultants.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
US$ Million
Component                  Local         Foreign          Total
Long Distance Network       25.5           50.6            76.1
Local Network              139.0          119.4           258.4
Technical Assistance         6.9            6.9            13.8
Other                       36.7           27.9            64.6
Contingencies               22.7           26.7            49.4
TOTAL                      230.8          231.5           462.3
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local         Foreign          Total
IBRD                         --            55.0            55.0
EIB                                        55.3            55.3
EBRD                                       55.0            55.0
Export credits              --             66.2            66.2
ST                         230.8           --             230.8
TOTAL                      230.8          231.5           462.3
Estimated Disbursements (US$ Million):
ST
IBRD FY:        FY94    FY95        FY96        FY97        FY98       FY99
Annual           4       11          14         12           8           6
Cumulative       4       15          29         41          49          55
Economic Rate of Return: Over 40%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 11628-SLK
Map: IBRD-24626, March 1993






SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        In general, information systems, and the telecommunication (TC) networks
which form their core, have become the central nervous system of the world's economies,
and are becoming more sophisticated, more capable and more important every day. The TC
infrastructure of the Slovak Republic is severely underdeveloped. For most of the post-war
period, the TC network was accorded low priority by the Government in the former
Czechoslovakia, with the result that it is now inadequate to support the degree and quality of
economic activity generated by a market-oriented economy at the Slovak Republic's level.
1.02        Demand for TC services is increasing rapidly in the Slovak Republic. This is
already putting severe strain on the existing TC network. As the process of transformation
proceeds and economic growth picks up, the emergence of new private firms operating in a
competitive free-market mode and oriented toward the European and global economy will
accelerate still further the increase in TC demand. Investment along traditional lines will not
be sufficient to prevent TC from becoming an ever more severe constraint on economic
development. A substantial change, both in the magnitude and in the nature of TC
development, will be necessary. It is in this context that the Govemment of the Slovak
Republic (GOS) and the Bank have identified the telecommunications sector as a major
priority for investment and reform, and have designed the proposed program to meet the
needs of the sector.
HI. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR STRUCTURE
A. Introduction
2.01        The Slovak telecommunications sector consists of the following five main
parts:
(a)   Government authorities: The Ministry of Transport, Communications
and Public Works (MTCP) exercises the Government's authority over
the sector, except for final approval of tariffs. The final authority for
setting TC tariffs rests with the Ministry of Finance (para. 3.16).
(b)   Telecommunications operating company: The state-owned Slovak
Telecommunications (ST) enterprise was created by the Slovak
Government and started operation on January 1, 1993. It is comprised
of the telecommunications section (Sprava Telekomunikaci) of the
former Sprava Post a Telekomunikaci (SPT) which, together with the
former Sprava Radiokomunikaci, operates microwave links, as well as



the nation's broadcasting facilities. The same decree also effectively
split telecommunications from posts.
(c)   Other TC operators: Currently, various Ministries and industries own
and operate their own private networks that are largely separate from
the ST, but which do have some points of interconnection. In addition,
there are a few joint ventures between the ST and foreign investors
(and several potential joint-ventures). There are also a few specialized
operators whose existence is based primarily on leased ST lines; the
most important of these is the banking network. Although none of
these is a "TC operator" in the sense of offering TC services to others
on a commercial basis, some of them are beginning to think about
becoming operators of one sort or another in the future. Cellular
service is being offered by Eurotel, a new joint venture between ST and
Atlantic West, with a 20 year franchise.
(d)   Users of telecommunications services: There are approximately
563,000 residential subscribers, and 187,000 government and business
subscribers.
(e)   The Telecommunications Manufacturing Industry (TCMI):
Although not strictly part of the TC services sector, the TCMI has a
close and important relationship with it. The industry was traditionally
organized as a single conglomerate, known as TESLA. Since the 1989
revolution, and subsequent creation of the Slovak Republic, large parts
of this conglomerate have been dismantled and the constituent parts
now operate independently under names which begin with TESLA,
followed by the name of the town or suburb where they are located.
Traditionally, TCMI of the former CSFR supplied 90% of domestic
needs for virtually all types of TC equipment (switches, cables,
multiplexors, microwave equipment, telephone sets etc.) and exported a
substantial amount (primarily to the former USSR). However, the
revolution of 1989, and the subsequent relaxation of Western controls
on high-tech exports, has presented the local TCMI with a severe
dilemma: it must rapidly convert its obsolete analog technology to
modern digital technology or face extinction. It is the view of the Bank
that the development of the ST should be insulated from whatever
industrial policy the GOS may choose to follow for the TCMI by a
competitive procurement policy (para 2.33). There is now also a major
joint venture with Alcatel SEL to produce System 12 switching systems
in the Slovak Republic.
2.02        The proposed Bank loan will be made to the ST with the guarantee of the
Government of the Slovak Republic. Accordingly, these authorities are discussed in greater
detail below.



3-
B. Government Authorities
The Ministry of Transport, Communications and Public Works of the Slovak Republic
(MTCP)
2.03        The former Czechoslovakian Federal Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications (FMPT) was abolished in October, 1992. It had been the repository of
the Federal Government statutory, regulatory (except tariffs), administrative and ownership
authority over the sector and, particularly, over the two SPTs, located in Prague and
Bratislava, respectively. In 1990, the FMPT ceded a substantial amount of authority to the
two Republics (including the power to appoint the Director Generals of the SPTs).
However, the FMPT retained de jure pre-eminence and continued to exercise substantial de-
facto influence on what might otherwise be considered internal ST issues (e.g., investment
planning, choice of equipment, joint venture negotiations, etc.). In the second half of 1991,
the Federal Ministry attempted to recoup some of the authority which had been ceded to the
Republics and the SPTs.
2.04        At the end of March 1992, a telecommunications law was passed (as an
amendment to the existing 1964 Law) which reaffirmed the dominant legal position of the
then Federal Government (and, specifically, the FMPT) in TC regulation. However, this
law did not touch on the ownership of the SPTs. The law explicitly gave the FMPT the
following powers: (a) setting and enforcing technical standards and rules; (b) allocation and
control of radio frequencies; (c) conduct of international TC relations; (d) licensing of public
long distance TC operators; (e) licensing private operators whose facilities cross Republic
boundaries, and licensing mobile TC operators; and (f) licensing broadcasters. The law gave
the Republics the power to license and regulate local telecommunications operators, but the
Federal Government retained the authority to define the boundary between local and long-
distance services. When the separation of the two Republics became a certainty at the end of
1992, FMPT was eliminated completely, and the new Ministry of Transport,
Communications and Public Works (MTCP) took control over the sector in the new Slovak
Republic.
Regulatory Structure
2.05        No framework for a separate regulatory function has been set up so far. The
existing Federal law will remain in force until it is replaced by new Republican legislation.
In general, it is planned that the MTCP will take responsibility for setting strategy and policy
for the sector, and a separate telecommunications regulatory agency, with a Director General
for Telecommunications, will be set up that will be in charge of setting tariff policy,
assigning radio frequencies, homologization, etc. This agency would be set up based on
recommendations that have been made by a study done by PA Consultants, together with
outside legal experts (see Annex 16). Preparation and adoption of the new
Telecommunications Law will be required for these plans to be implemented.
2.06        Price regulation. The existing regulatory scheme for pricing is still in its
infancy. The MTCP is currently preparing a proposal for a new tariff structure, which will
be submitted to the Ministry of Finance for approval. Until the new law is adopted, existing



- 4 -
Federal law will continue to control tariffs, although the existing criteria and methodology
for setting TC tariffs--both level and structure--are rudimentary. The Bank, EIB and EBRD
will work closely with ST under the Institutional Development Program (para 4.11) to
improve its capability in tariffing. The Government's capability is being addressed by the
PHARE program assistance.
C. Telecommunications Service Providers
Slovak Telecommunications
2.07        Slovak Telecommunications (Slovenske Telekomunikace) or ST delivers TC
services to final customers. It combines TC and radio broadcasting communications in one
enterprise. Telecommunications was split from postal services at the end of 1992.
Telecommunications is being provided under the law for State Enterprises until the entity is
privatized.
2.08        Organization. The ST is organized on a territorial basis into three regions,
plus the capital, Bratislava. The regions are further divided into 36 district organizations. In
addition to territorial units, there are several special functional units, which cover
construction, finance, human resources development, marketing, network development, and
operations and maintenance (see Annex 1).
2.09        Existing facilities. At the end of 1991, there were 1,305,000 telephones and
757,000 direct exchange lines (DELs) in operation in the Slovak Republic, giving a density
of 15.1 DELs per 100 population (see Annex 2 for basic TC statistics). These numbers,
while slightly better than in other CEE countries, are far worse than in Western European
countries (including those with relatively similar income levels) and much below what is
needed--as demonstrated by the registered waiting list of 125,000, which is equivalent to an
average waiting time of 3.25 years for ST. In fact, the real number of unserved customers is
much higher, since in situations of such large and chronic excess demand, registered waiting
lists greatly understate the actual demand, usually by a factor of 50% or more.
2.10        Telephone penetration is also geographically unbalanced: DEL penetration
exceeds 30% in Bratislava but is far lower in all other towns (typically between 2 and 6%),
or in the villages and countryside.
2.11        Switching and network design. The national network is designed as a unit.
Network topology is a three level hierarchy. The top level is comprised of seven transit
switches, which are interconnected in a meshed network (see Annex 3). One of the seven
exchanges is the main central exchange in Bratislava, which is a combined transit and
international exchange and now also carries all international traffic for the Slovak Republic.
2.12        The second level of the hierarchy consists of 67 nodal exchanges. Below this
is the third level consisting of approximately 1,357 local exchanges. The local telephone
network is virtually fully automatized; equipment is almost all electro-mechanical analog
(strouger and crossbar). There are a few early vintage E-10 digital exchanges of Polish



-5-
manufacture (Alcatel licensed) but their significance on network design and capability is
negligible.
2.13        Long Distance Systems. The long distance network is comprised of some
42,000 trunk exchange lines interconnected with 2,645 tube km of coaxial cables carrying
Frequency Division Multiplex (FDM) transmission systems of 300 to 2,700 channels. There
are some 12,235 km of symmetrical cables carrying 60-120 channel systems. Furthermore,
there are 2,645 route km of microwave links employing systems of 300 to 1,800 channels.
In addition, there are 65,491 channels of multiplexing equipment.
2.14        The long-distance network--especially the cable network--is of relatively recent
vintage and in fairly good condition. However, the capacity, capability and architecture are
old-fashioned, inefficient and ill-suited to the needs of modem telecommunication systems.
Nevertheless, the comparatively good condition of this portion of the network has
implications for the design of the proposed Digital Overlay Network (DON--para 4.03) which
has been adjusted to make maximum use of existing trunk cable capacity.
2.15        International Facilities. International traffic is handled by an Ericsson-
designed exchange (ARM 201/4) in Bratislava. It was manufactured by Nikola Tesla in
Yugoslavia on license. The total number of international circuits is 300.
2.16        Telex/telegraph/data. The telex network is fully automatic with a total
installed capacity of 5,698 subscriber lines, of which 3,200 are connected. The telegraph
system is still fairly popular, especially with private citizens in rural areas, because of the
scarcity of telephones. The number of inland telegrams is currently about 1.6 million per
year. In the West, the advent of fax, voice mail, electronic mail and similar services, has
practically eliminated telegraphy and is rapidly eliminating Telex. In CEE, however, the
scarcity and congestion of the telephone network (which is the medium for the newer
services) keeps Telex (for business customers) and telegraph (primarily for private
individuals) afloat and of continuing significance. However, as the telephone system
improves--and especially as the planned DONs come on stream in the next 2-4 years--one can
expect these two services to go into decline in CEE as they have in the West.
2.17        Data services, as these are understood in the West, are almost non-existent.
There are about 7,300 fax machines and about 1,056 customers using data systems based on
ST leased lines. A joint venture to build an initial packet switched data network has been
formed with Atlantic West.
2.18        Mobile service. In addition to limited traditional mobile radio services (for
police, etc.) cellular telephone service has recently been initiated based on a license awarded
to a joint venture, Eurotel, between the ST and Atlantic West (itself a joint venture between
Bell Atlantic and US West).
2.19        Eurotel is 51 % owned by ST, while Atlantic West owns the remaining 49%.
The venture will offer service based on analogue technology operating in the 450 Mhz band
with equipment from Nokia. It has an exclusive franchise for 20 years to operate in this
band. Atlantic West hopes that the franchise will be upgraded and extended when the 890



- 6 -
and 900 Mhz bands become available, together with GSM digital systems standards (this is
expected in late 1993). However, there is no guarantee of this; the Slovak authorities may
decide to open the additional bands for one or more other carriers.
2.20        So far the Eurotel venture is growing very slowly. The main reasons appear
to be high tariffs and connection charges and the reluctance of Atlantic West to invest in
additional infrastructure or to market its services aggressively.
2.21        Quality of Service. Quality of service has been poor compared with Western
European ones--including those with middle incomes (see Table 2.1). Quality is
deteriorating. Congestion, in particular, is steadily reducing the call completion rate,
especially in the long-distance network. In general, call completion can decline to about 38 -
40%; after this point, if the number of unsuccessful calls clogging the system rises further, a
network begins to jam, causing a rapidly accelerating decline in completion rates and a
perceived collapse of quality. Currently, call completion rates in the Slovak Republic are at
or below this crucial point, ranging from 35 to 49 percent, depending on whether the call is
local, long distance, or international. Indeed, some routes are already experiencing
Table 2.1: COMPARATIVE QUALITY OF SERVICE INDICATORS, 1989
Slovak    Hungary      Poland     Average
Rep.                              European
Community
Call completion rate, local     35%       38%         37%         65%
Call completion rate, long     35%        36%         38%         60%
distance
completion rates of below 20% (and occasionally as low as 5%) in busy hours. At these low
rates, the network is almost non-functional. When the network jams, costs actually rise
(since the equipment is working at higher than designed capacity), while revenues plummet
(since only successful calls yield revenue). Since TC networks in the Slovak Republic do
not have the capability common to (much simpler) electric power networks of cutting off low
priority customers for a period when demand overloads the network, it is critical for TC
networks to avoid the problem in the first place by building necessary capacity.
2.22        Organization of maintenance in the Slovak Republic is relatively good, at least
by CEE standards. Outside plants are somewhat better than average for the region and the
long-distance trunk cable network is relatively new and in good condition. The principle
difficulties in the network are due more to antiquated equipment and inadequate capacity in
the face of rapidly expanding demand than to poor maintenance. However, with the rapid
introduction of new digital and optical technology, the nature and organization of
maintenance activities will change substantially. Training and organizational adjustment will



-7-
have to be stepped up to keep pace. These will be dealt with in the appropriate parts of the
Institutional Development Program (para 4.16).
Other Service Providers
2.23        The Sprava Radiokomunikaci (SR). Before it was integrated into the ST in
January, 1993, the SR was an independent enterprise operating separately from the SPT but
under the same umbrella of government ministerial control. The SR provided the
infrastructure and service elements for broadcasting, but not the programming. These
elements included long-distance trunk distribution of broadcast signal, as well as over-the-air
broadcasting to final audiences. In addition, the SR provided and operated the microwave
channels used by the ST. This operation is now part of the new ST.
2.24        Other Ministries and Enterprises. A number of other ministries, besides the
MTCP, have the authority to build and operate their own TC networks and have done so.
Under this authority, a number of independent TC networks exist, e.g., those of the military,
railroads, rivers commission, airlines administration, pipelines and electricity system. The
technology of these networks is roughly the same as that of the main telephone network,but
with simpler architectures and less capacity and capability. Most of them have at least a few
points of interconnection with the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), but this
interconnection is accomplished under standards that give them the status of being large
customers with PBXs rather than being directly integrated into the PSTN's own systems.
2.25        Recent legislation continues to allow these organizations to build and operate
networks for their own use and without licenses. However, should they wish to connect their
networks to the "United Telecommunications Network" (i.e., the PSTN) or to offer services
to the public, then they would require a license (para. 3.06).
2.26        Joint Ventures (JVs). Two JVs with the ST are now in place and operating.
The first is with Bell Atlantic and US West for cellular mobile telephone service and packet
switched data service. The second is with the Dutch PTT's consulting firm (NePosTel) for
the development of software. A number of other JVs are currently under negotiation and
nearing completion, including one with a French company for a nationwide paging system.
Each of these is structured so that the ST would retain majority control and the JV would be
operated in conformance with the current State Enterprise Law.
2.27        Independent operators. When compared with Hungary and Poland, the
Slovak Republic so far has seen relatively little overt activity by potential independent
operators. An exception is the network being constructed by the banks in both the Czech
Republic and the Slovak Republic. Initially, this would utilize an optical fiber loop to link
banking locations in Prague, and connect them to the planned digital switch. Simultaneously,
the banks are developing a nationwide network, primarily using lines and facilities leased
from Czech Telecommunications (in the Czech Republic) and ST (in the Slovak Republic)
and supplemented with new independent construction, where necessary. The banking
network is being set up in full cooperation with CT and ST, but future networks may be
more independent, especially if/when it becomes apparent that such networks (including the
Banking network) typically have spare capacity (with zero or near-zero marginal costs) which



- 8 -
can be made available to third parties at rates which are very favorable compared to ST's
facilities. The existing Federal law (in force until replaced by new Republican legislation)
would permit the entry of new operators independent of the ST, but would require them to
obtain licenses from the MTCP (para. 3.06).
2.28        There has been some activity among potential "interconnect" companies but,
so far, not very much. These sorts of companies begin by offering simple "add-ons" to the
existing TC network (by providing terminal equipment, PABXs, LANs, etc.). Typically,
however, they tend to expand the scope of their activities into Metropolitan Area Networks
and Wide Area Networks (MANs/WANs) with sophisticated capabilities. As such, they are
one of the main avenues by which competition enters the TC market. These sorts of
companies are becoming active in neighboring countries and one can expect the same in the
Slovak Republic if they are permitted. The new law explicitly permits networks which are
confined to a single premise (LANs) to operate without a license, which will presumably
encourage these arrangements. Wider networks will be classified as part of the public
network, and hence require a license. On the other hand, if they come under the category
of whatever the Ministry ultimately defines as "local" telecommunications, it would be up to
the Government to decide whether they need licenses or not.
D. Telecommunications Users
2.29        There is substantial and growing pressure on the government for rapid
improvement in TC services. This comes both from the general population, 85% of which
does not have a telephone at all, and from businesses and large organizations which generally
have basic telephone service, but far less (both in quantity and quality) than they need to
transform themselves and compete in modern markets. This pressure expresses itself, among
other things, in speeches by government officials and members of Parliament calling for
radical liberalization and privatization. It is probably also finding an outlet through large
enterprises exploring the possibility of building their own TC networks (of which the
previously mentioned banking network is an example).
E. The Telecommunications Manufacturing Industry (TCMI)
2.30        Like most other CEE countries, the former Czechoslovakia had a large, full-
range TCMI which in the past made the country practically self-sufficient in TC equipment.
Prior to the velvet revolution in late 1989, the former Czechoslovak TCMI supplied 90% of
the equipment required by the domestic TC sector, as well as exporting a significant amount,
primarily to the former USSR. At that time, virtually all TC manufacturing was in the hands
of a single conglomerate, TESLA. Today, the TCMI is composed of a number of factories,
all of which were part of TESLA. All still retain the first name, TESLA, followed by the
name of the town or suburb in which they are located. Most of these are actively seeking,
and some have found, foreign joint venture partners in order to obtain modem technology
and capital. Nevertheless, there is a question as to whether all of them can remain in
business and remain competitive. A summary of the industry, its products, and technologies
is contained in Annex 4.



-9-
2.31        A joint venture has been concluded with Alcatel-SEL to produce System 12
switching systems in the Slovak Republic. SEL was chosen after a competitive process
which was similar to ICB and yielded good prices for what are competitive modern systems.
The JV has been guaranteed 30% of the ST's demand through 1995. Another 30% of the
demand was guaranteed to Tesla Karin, a Siemens J.V. in Prague. (The remaining 40% is,
in principle, open for competitive bidding.) The supply contracts for 1992 have been signed
and will be financed by export credits from KFW, the German Government's reconstruction
credit agency. A similar contract for 1993 is currently being negotiated. The cable,
transmission and terminal equipment producers are also looking for foreign joint venture
partners, but so far, nothing definite has been determined.
2.32        There is no question that the switching systems chosen for the J.V. are of
internationally competitive quality and that the prices obtained were also good by
international competitive standards. However, the profile of delivery volumes is, in the
Bank's view, suboptimal, with too much being delivered too soon. This leads to
"warehousing" of expensive equipment until the entire supporting network can be put in
place to allow the equipment to be fully utilized. Be that as it may, these decisions have
already been taken. Where possible, the Bank has worked to stretch out the deliveries and
reduce the warehousing effect, but it has not been possible to eliminate it altogether. To
minimize the damage of the remaining "excess" early deliveries, some aspects of the Bank's
own project have been rearranged to permit earlier utilization of some of the Siemens and
SEL deliveries. The end result, while still somewhat less than optimal, is the best that can
be managed, given the circumstances and existence of prior decisions.
2.33        The existing contract with SEL (or any other manufacturer) ensures good
prices and terms through 1995, and for the duration of the Bank-supported investment
program, as well. Whether SEL will ultimately be able to produce world class equipment in
the Slovak Republic with a significant amount of domestic value-added at competitive prices,
however, remains to be seen. For this reason, it is important that the economics of
investment in TC networks be insulated from the fate of the domestic TCMI. This should be
done by reliance on competitive procurement practices which will ensure that, regardless of
whether domestic firms are chosen or not, ST will have access to quality equipment at
competitive prices. Procurement practices for the proposed project will enable this policy to
be implemented effectively (para. 4.20 et seq.).
m. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR POLICY
3.01        Until 1990, the former CSFR's operational and governmental TC functions
were combined in one body which was itself part of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications. As was usual in CEE, the law under which the sector operated gave sole
authority to build and operate public TC networks to the Ministry.
3.02        In early 1990, initial steps were taken to reform the sector, ostensibly in line
with evolving European practice as expressed in the EC "Green Paper" of 1987.
Accordingly, policy/regulatory authority was distinguished from operational responsibility,
with the former vested in a new Federal Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (FMPT)



- 10 -
and the latter in the two Post and Telecommunications enterprises for the Czech Republic
and the Slovak Republics, 'Sprava Post a Telekomunikaci (SPT-Prague and SPT-Bratislava).
At the same time, a Federal Government Resolution was passed setting out the "Principles of
the State's PTT Policy." These actions were taken administratively under powers given to
the FMPT under the then existing law (Act No. 110 of 1964).
3.03        At the same time work was begun on: (a) drafting a new TC law; (b)
reorganizing the SPTs; (c) further defining the government's regulatory/policy
responsibilities vis a vis the SPTs' operational responsibilities; and (d) allocating
governmental authority over the sector between the Federal and Republic levels. As of the
end of 1992, after nearly two years of effort, the following progress has been made on these
four tasks:
3.04        Recent TC Legislation: On the basis of the above-mentioned principles, a
new law was prepared by the FMPT, approved by the Cabinet and submitted to the
Parliament. It was passed in March, 1992. This Federal law took the form of an
amendment to the then existing TC law of 1964. In line with the emerging pattem in CEE
(e.g., Poland's new law and the new law in Hungary) the law is permissive in form, giving
broad powers and discretion to the Govemment (to be exercised through the Ministry). It
takes the essential steps of: (a) ending the mandatory monopoly of the State (and its agent,
the ST) and permitting the licensing of other operators; and (b) distinguishes regulatory
authority from operations of the TC network(s).
3.05        The new Government of the Slovak Republic will adopt a general
telecommunications law which will maintain the existing legal environment in the new
Republic, until new legislation can be implemented. This means that the existing Federal
law for telecommunications will continue in force until a new Republican law is enacted.
Simultaneously, a new regulatory agency is being organized along the lines recommended by
the PA consultants (para. 3.15). This proposed model calls for the creation of a semi-
autonomous government agency presided over by an appointed Director General for
Telecommunications (see Annex 16).
3.06        The existing law defines the 'United Telecommunications Network" (UTN) as
being, in effect, the PSTN. Any person (human or juridical) who operates any part of the
UTN must have a valid license to do so from the MTCP. This includes the ST. "Private"
networks of the railroads, electric power system, interior ministry, military, etc., do not have
licenses now and can continue to operate without licenses so long as they are not part of the
UTN, i.e., if they provide service only for their own use. Networks within a single premise
are similarly not required to obtain licenses.
3.07        In general, the law provides only the bare skeleton of sectoral authority. The
meat, sinews, blood and skin of TC sector policy, structure and regulation still remain to be
established in the detailed decisions of the MTCP and the Government after the law takes
effect. The law itself provides relatively little policy guidance, nor many criteria for
decision making, etc., but it is compatible with a wide variety of different policies. For
instance, the law specifies who must obtain a license, but it gives no guidance as to what
these licenses should contain. In fact, the content of licenses for all operators (ST and non-



- 11 -
ST alike) is one of the most important tools for setting and implementing policy. To date,
the Government's sectoral policy has been expressed only in the most general terms.
3.08        A major program of studies (para. 3.15) has been arranged and is being
financed by the EC and the US Government (through the PHARE and the USTDP,
respectively). The immediate "client" for these is the GOS (after Jan. 1, 1993) and
specifically, the MTCP. These studies have been coordinated and overseen by a steering
committee consisting of the senior officials of all major concerned institutions, including the
ST, the MTCP, and the Ministry of Finance. While the Bank does not have a rigid view as
to what constitutes the "correct" policy and regulatory framework, it strongly believes that a
clear, rational, orderly system which addresses the main issues is required. It is in close
contact with the steering committee and with the PHARE and USTDP and is confident that
this process will lead to policy and regulatory recommendations which are in the mainstream
of European practice and which the Bank will find satisfactory.
3.09        Internal reorganization of the ST. Separation of TC operations from Posts
within the ST occurred on January 1, 1993. Joint telecommunications and postal services in
small villages are regulated by contracts between the ST and the Post. In the meantime, the
ST is aggressively moving middle level management staff into international seminars and
training courses to develop internal business and corporate strategy capabilities. The
Institutional Development Program associated with the Project will assist the ST in upgrading
all aspects of its evolution into a commercially oriented public utility.
3.10        There is a serious lack of financial expertise in the ST. There are, of course,
"finance" or "economic" departments. But these are primarily bookkeeping or accounting
departments, oriented to the old system in which their function was monitoring and control
vis-a-vis the central planning commission. In a modern TC business, accounting and finance
have a much more complex and critical role, in analyzing performance, setting strategy,
choosing investments, etc. The Bank has worked intensively with the finance personnel in
the ST during project preparation (including an intensive, eight-day course for all CEE which
ST staff attended). The Bank, in cooperation with the EIB, will take the lead on further
developing financial capability and introducing modern accounting systems (as their part of
the Institutional Development Program jointly agreed with the ST, the EIB and the EBRD,
para 4.12).
3.11        Role of SR vis-a-vis the ST. In most countries an organizational division is
made between "broadcasting" (non-addressed, one-way transmission of signals to a general
area) and "telecommunications" (addressed, point-to-point transport of signals, including
TV, radio, telephone, data, etc.). The former are normally controlled by broadcasters, and
the latter by the national telecommunications company. The former activity (by its nature)
always uses the airwaves, but the latter should be free to use whatever techniques (coaxial
cable, optical fibre, terrestrial MW, satellite, etc.) are economically and technically
appropriate. Under this arrangement, broadcasters come to the TC company to transport
their signals around the country like any other customer for this service. In the Slovak
Republic, however, before January 1, 1993, the ST constructed and operated the closed
media portions of the TC network (e.g., symmetrical and co-axial cable, optical fiber) but
went to the SR whenever it wanted to use MW for a given link. In the past, this was never



- 12 -
a problem as the SR and ST were closely related and operated under the same tight
Ministerial control.
3.12        Currently, SR and ST (the telecommunications section of the former SPT)
have been integrated into one organization. This arrangement should not pose problems,
however, since the broadcasting service will be provided on a commercial basis, and users
will be billed just as they would be for the use of leased lines or other communications trunk
services.
3.13        Separation of Operations from Government Responsibility. There is a
general consensus throughout the sector that the Ministry should withdraw from the business
and operational activities of the ST and confine itself to "policy and regulatory matters". In
the past, the former FMPT attempted to follow this guideline, stepping back from routine
management and leaving the two SPTs to function with substantial independence in their day-
to-day operations.
3.14        As the operational activities of the Ministry decline, regulatory activities
should increase. This appears to be happening, but intermittently and without clear
direction. The slow progress is primarily the result of a lack of an agreed, well defined
policy on such basic issues as sector structure, ownership, division of powers, etc.
However, it is also the case that responsibilities, resources, staff and authority have not yet
been well defined and allocated within the Ministry. The MTCP will need to develop more
expertise on the two central issues which will dominate its regulatory function in coming
years: (a) regulating a dominant, increasingly independent and commercially oriented TC
monopoly; and (b) encouraging competitive forces while channeling them in directions which
are constructive and valuable. In the near term, these are unlikely to affect the viability of
the proposed project. In the longer term, however, the health and growth of the sector will
depend on the nature and quality of regulation as much as on the telecom management itself.
3.15        The MTCP is aware of the urgency of the regulatory tasks facing it, and has
chosen to utilize both USTDP and PHARE grant funds to meet the problem. PHARE has
allocated approximately 1.2 million ECUs for a broad range of technical assistance activities,
primarily to the MTCP. The definition and organization of this program has been going on
for a year. The first major element of this program is to be a study of regulatory policy,
rules, systems, etc. A well-respected TC consultant firm was chosen as the main contractor
and spelled out a detailed work program. In parallel, the USTDP financed a major law firm
to draw up proposals for detailed regulatory mechanisms. The PHARE financed work done
by the PA Consulting Group was completed in late 1992; an abstract of its findings is given
in Annex 16. Furthermore, PHARE agreed to extend the PA contract to help implement the
recommendations and to assist ST in the organizational changes that will be required
following separation of the two new republics.
3.16        Tariff policy. The MTCP has responsibility for maldng detailed tariff
proposals but final authority for setting TC tariffs (as with all other public utility prices) rests
with the Ministry of Finance. The Finance Ministry has a mandate to implement macro-
economic policies, and it has little micro-economic sectoral expertise. This situation tends to



- 13 -
work against the shaping of effective TC tariffs, since the Government has to take into
account a number of factors: (a) macroeconomic stability; (b) revenue for the Government;
(c) protecting customers from monopolistic overcharging; (d) assuring enough revenues to the
company to finance its investment (including service extension to rural, high-cost areas); (e)
microeconomic incentives to the company to improve efficiency; and (f) incentives to
customers to realign their TC usage with the structure of costs, etc. Some of these interests
conflict, often in complex ways. Some push in the direction of higher tariffs, some in the
direction of lower tariffs; some militate for one rate structure, and some for another.
3.17         In the long run, micro-economic price regulation and other regulatory
authority should be put into the hands of the relevant expert sectoral body, which should be
mandated to give predominant weight to micro-economic considerations in direct, sector-
specific tariff decisions. As of now, however, the GOS considers that control over inflation
is such an important and overriding concern that all price authority must remain in a single
location--the MOF. This being the case, the project will emphasize development of a
workable division of responsibility between MTCP and MOF and development of a workable
pricing policy to be adhered to by the MOF as well as by the MTCP (paras. 5.25 - 5.29).
3.18         Regardless of the tariff and regulatory scheme chosen, the ST should be
mandated and permitted to act as an autonomous economic/financial enterprise subject to the
same rules as other economic enterprises. Within general tariff guidelines, it should be free
to set tariffs in response to market signals and business considerations.  It should pay taxes
at the same rate as other companies. ' It should make its own investment decisions and be
required to raise its own financing. If the Government chooses to leave dividends with the
company to help finance investment, this should be reflected in the value of the
Government's holding and dividends paid at a later date. Such a system would not only put
the ST on a basis to become an efficient economic entity, but would also set the scene for the
introduction of competition and for private investment in the ST at such time as the
Government decides to move ahead with this agenda. The financial covenants and action
plan associated with the project will be designed to move the ST in this direction.
IV. THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Development Plans
4.01         Development Objectives. The Government of the former CSFR was aware of
the critical importance of TC for overall economic transformation and development. To
articulate its vision, it adopted a resolution setting forth the principles of communication
policy. This, however, was a ten-year program based on very wide-ranging, long-term
trends. Although this long-term prospectus provides a useful framework for planning, it
Eventually, the Government should receive a dividend on its equity in the ST in addition to taxes.
During the coming period when high rates of investment are needed, however, this dividend should be
foregone, just as a private investor would forego dividends during a period of rapid capital build-up.



- 14 -
must be supplemented by a concrete strategy for achieving the stated goals that also takes
into account the new situation created by the separation of the Czech Republic from the
Slovak Republic. The details of such near/middle term strategies have been the subject of a
complex dialogue involving the former SPTs, the former Federal Government, the current
Republican Governments, multilateral banks, expert consultants, and several foreign TCOs.
This has produced the four-year development program which forms the basis for the
proposed project.
4.02        Background. During the summer of 1990, Bank staff worked with CSFR
authorities to frame the initial, development strategy for the sector, which consisted of the
following steps: (a) offering immediately a tender for a joint venture for cellular phone
service and for a basic packet-switched data network; (b) using the franchise fees obtained
from the cellular tender to finance major studies on network development strategy and to do
initial investment in the most urgent areas (e.g., on the Prague/Bratislava corridor); (c)
beginning preparation of the basic changes in law, regulation and policy which are necessary;
(d) putting the ST's procurement procedures on a more competitive basis; (e) beginning to
seek strategic partners for core network development; and (f) drawing up an agenda of the
most urgent technical assistance items for the above activities. Since that time, Bank staff
have been working on a Sector Survey in parallel with project preparation.
4.03        Strategy. The core of the near-term strategy is to begin the digitalization of
the network by constructing a Digital Overlay Network (DON) designed to: (a) rapidly
improve the long distance and international networks; (b) quickly provide modern service to
large-scale (especially business) customers--without which they cannot hope to compete in the
world market; (c) create a modern digital "backbone" network which will form the basis for
future national network development; and (d) generate substantial profits to finance expansion
and modernization of the main national network.
4.04         Agreement on this strategy was reached with the FMPT and the SPTs in the
spring of 1991. Following this, two major studies were commissioned to provide detailed
alternative designs for the digitalization plan and the DON. These studies (costing about
$2.0 million) were undertaken by Bell Atlantic/US West of the USA and DETECON of
Germany. Bank staff worked closely with CSFR authorities throughout this process,
designing, monitoring and evaluating the studies. They were completed in late summer
1991. Although different in some respects, both confirmed the SPT's development strategies
and provided valuable data and strategic insights, and the decision was made to attempt to
combine the best of both studies. British Telecom (BT) was commissioned to assist in
evaluating and combining the best elements of both into a single plan. By the end of 1991,
the BT exercise was complete. This, plus the two previous studies, provided the basis for
ST's development proposal over the next four years. On the basis of this proposal, and the
extensive dialogue that lay behind it, a joint IBRD/EIB/EBRD appraisal mission visited
CSFR in February 1992. The findings of that mission resulted in the agreed program which
is reflected in this SAR. The one-year delay in the finalization of negotiations was caused by
the political transitions related to the separation of the Czech Republic from the Slovak
Republic.



- 15 -
B. Project Description and Implementation
4.05        Design. The project consists of a Three-Year Development Program. It has
been conceived and designed as a national telecommunications development program with
consistent technical standards, dimensioning and optimization, and where the interworking,
interfacing, traffic routing, tariffing and operational characteristics are harmonized.
4.06        Program Description. The Development Program consists of three main
parts:
(a)   A physical investment program;
(b)   Institutional and policy improvements to accelerate its transformation into a
modem, commercially oriented public utility; and
(c)   Technical assistance and training to support the above activities.
4.07        In addition, the program envisages support to the GOS from other sources
(especially PHARE and USTDP) for the creation and strengthening of regulatory and policy
capability (para. 3.15). This support will be closely monitored by the Bank.
4.08        The Physical Investment Program. The purpose of the program is to begin
the process of modernizing, digitalizing, and expanding the TC network. The first major
step of this process would constitute the core of the program and would include construction
of an international and inter-urban Digital Overlay Network (DON), plus complementary
local digital network development. The DON and related development has been designed to:
(a) relieve the most vital and congested portions of the national TC system; (b) rapidly
provide modem TC services to the business community; and (c) build a sound backbone
network to serve as the foundation for the future modernization, digitalization and expansion
of the entire TC network in the Slovak Republic.
4.09        A detailed description of the Development Program for physical investment
follows:
(a)   The three-year investment program (1993 to 1995) would result in the
installation of an overlay digital long-distance network consisting of:
(i)   Four transit exchanges with a total sum of 20,000 trunks; and
(ii)   A long distance transmission network with 2,600 km of fiber optic
cables, also including multiplexing equipment, coaxial cables, and
microwave equipment.
(b)   Local network development would consist of:
(i)   Provision and installation of 33,000 lines of switching capacity (analog
type), mainly for expansion of existing analog exchanges;



- 16 -
(ii)   Provision and installation of 410,000 lines switching capacity of digital
Stored Program Control (SPC) type, of which 160,000 would be used
for replacement of old worn out and obsolete equipment. During the
project period some 224,000 new subscribers would be connected. Of
the new digital subscribers some 40,000 would be high traffic volume
business customers. Another 30,000 analog business subscribers would
migrate to the new digital network; and
(iii) Expansion of the associated local network and subscriber plant would
require about 220 km of fiber optic cables (with an average of 16 fibers
per cable) and 690,000 km pairs of copper cables and subscriber
equipment.
(c)   The program also includes provision of network management centers,
measuring and testing instruments, training equipment, software tools and
miscellaneous equipment.
4.10        Physical investment data for the Slovak Republic is given in Annex 5.
4.11        Institutional Development Program (IDP) and Technical Assistance (TA)
Program Objectives and Scope: The main objective of the Institutional Development
Program (IDP) would be to assist ST in its restructuring process. This would involve: (a)
the transition from analog to digital systems and the introduction of modem technology; (b)
the separation between posts and telecommunications; (c) the transition from a centrally
planned system to a commercial enterprise in a market economy; (d) the introduction of
competition and the reduction of the basic telephone monopoly; and (e) the eventual
privatization and transformation of ST into a joint stock company. To summarize, the IDP
and related TA would support the transformation of ST from a government agency into an
independent and autonomous company run in a commercial fashion. The IDP would include
direct technical assistance for the execution of the Program and the Development Plan as
well as the overall institutional development of ST.
4.12        The IDP would be executed through technical assistance (TA) and training for
ST experts that would focus on the design, development and implementation aspects of
management systems, human resources development, the transfer of technology and
commercialization, all of which would include the transfer of know-how and hands-on skills
through in-house training. This training would consist of both on-the-job training and
classroom lecturing, and could include study visits abroad. The IDP would comprise six
main components:
-     Corporate Strategy, Service Planning and Organizational Development
-     Human Resource Management and Development
-     Accounting and Finance
-     Auditing
-     Technical Expertise
-     Project Implementation



- 17 -
The Bank, EIB, and EBRD would all participate in the organizing and monitoring of all of
these components, but the primary responsibilities would be divided up among them. In this
arrangement, the Bank, together with the EIB, would have the main responsibility for
organizing, supporting and monitoring the activities associated with the Accounting and
Finance components.
4.13        Program Implementation Unit. The IDP would support ST's Program
Implementation Unit (PIU) with 70 person-months of TA. The responsibilities of the PIU
would be the coordination and supervision of the execution of the entire program. The main
responsibilities would include: (a) coordination of program and project preparation and
implementation (planning, procurement activities, installation and acceptance testing,
synchronization of different activities, interfacing with foreign suppliers, etc.); (b)
coordination of different technical assistance and training activities, and (c) liaisoning with
and reporting to the three banks. The total support of foreign experts for the IDP would be
about 322 person-months (including the person-months for the PIU).
4.14        Detailed Terms of Reference for each IDP component are given in Annex 6,
together with the estimated cost of foreign consultants and implementation schedules. The
details of IDP and related TA were confirmed during negotiations.
4.15        Technical Assistance and Training: Besides the IDP and related TA, ST will
be the beneficiary and recipient and will manage and coordinate an array of other TA and
Training assistance. A preliminary list of these includes:
-     US Trade Development Program Assistance;
-     UNDP Project executed by ITU;
-     PHARE Program Assistance;
-     Bilateral TA from European TC Administrations, EC assistance, etc.
4.16        Additionally, ST has mapped out its own training and technical assistance
requirements, including the upgrading and modernizing of its training facilities. This would
entail resources for training at a cost of 15,200 person-days (US$16.8 million). The cost has
been allocated equally between local and foreign currency. Details of training and TA
requirements are found in Annex 7.
4.17        Total program cost is estimated at Kcs 13.16 Billion (US$462.3 million) with
a foreign exchange component of Kcs 6.588 Billion (US$231.5 million). These cost are
based on estimated late 1992 prices for equipment, materials services and civil works. Cost
details are given in Annex 8 and summarized in Table 4.1



- 18 -
Table 4.1: Slovak Telecommunications Program - Total Program Cost
(US$ Million)
ITEM                            Local          Foreign        Total
Buildings                                           24.0                        24.0
L/D Network
Switching                                            2.1           8.6          10.7
Transmission                                        23.4          42.0          65.4
Local Networks
Switching                                           39.3          92.7         132.0
Network'                                           99.7          26.7         126.4
TA and Training                                       6.9            6.9          13.8
Other2                                                12.7          27.9          40.6
Base Cost                                            208.1         204.8         412.9
Contingency                                         22.7          26.7          49.4
Total                                                230.8         231.5         462.3
'Local line network' includes local optical cables and subscriber multiplexing.
2 Other' includes operational support systems, instruments, tools, and miscellaneous.
4.18         Contingencies. Physical contingencies are based on 4% for local and foreign
equipment, 5% for civil works and 8% for local and foreign services. Price contingencies
are based on foreign cost increases of 3.8% in 1993, 1.9% in 1994 and 2.7%  in 1995.
Local cost increases are based on 7.5% annually.
4.19         Least Cost Solution. The dimensioning and financing of various elements in
the system are based on generally accepted engineering practices for selection of techniques
and equipment, after study (supported by foreign consultants) of feasible alternatives.
Project planning of the digital overlay network has as its objective the least-cost solution that
would be consistent with technical and operational strategies that are satisfactory. The
program includes allowance for an amount of local network investment which is larger than
optimal but which derives from previous contractual agreements with suppliers and bi-lateral
financing authorities. The remainder of the program has been designed to be optimal, taking
into account these previous commitments. The agreed physical investment plan for the
development program represents the least-cost solution for providing the service level
improvements planned, given the constraints imposed by the existing configuration and
technology of the telecommunications network. The agreed pace of replacement of obsolete
and worn out equipment and materials is necessary in order to achieve the service quality
improvement required during the program period.



- 19 -
4.19        Financing: The proposed sources of financing for the development program
are shown in the table below. The estimated program cost and the financing arrangements
were agreed during negotiations. Total program cost estimates are given in Annex 8.
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING (US$ Million)
Source                   Loca                Foreign              Total
IBRD                             --                  55.0                55.0
EIB                                                  55.3                55.3
EBRD                                                 55.0                55.0
Supplier Credits                 --                  66.2                66.2
ST                              230.8                --                 230.8
TOTAL                           230.8               231.5               462.3
4.20        Procurement: Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3. The
Bank loan would finance US$55.0 million for equipment, materials and associated services,
of which US$45.0 million would be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Most of the equipment,
supplies and materials have been grouped into eight main bidding packages. This has been
done to attract bidders, to enhance competition, and to benefit from economies of scale in bid
price.
4.21        There are several exceptions to the ICB requirement. International shopping
based on price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers, and from at least two
eligible source countries, would be used for those equipment packages with an estimated
value below US$300,000, and in the aggregate of US$5.5 million. Procurement of goods
which are of proprietary nature, which require standardization with existing equipment, or
for which early delivery is crucial for expedited program execution, would be carried out
through direct contracting (amount not to exceed US$1.0 million). Contracts for consultant
services and training to be financed by the Bank, totalling US$3.5 million, would be
awarded, subject to the Bank's prior review, according to Bank guidelines for use of
consultants. Such review would include the letters of invitation, TOR's, proposed short lists,
draft contract etc., in accordance with said guidelines. During negotiations, the procurement
arrangements were confirmed.
4.22        Participation by Slovak Republic suppliers in the bidding is expected to be
limited since equipment and supplies to be procured under the loan are generally not yet
manufactured in Slovakia. In the evaluation and comparison of bids for equipment to be
procured through ICB, domestic manufacturers, offering domestically manufactured goods
having at least 20% value added, would be granted a margin of preference of 15% or the
relevant duty, whichever is lower.



- 20 -
Table 4.3: Slovak Republic Telecommunications
Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million)'
ICB                           OTHER PROCUREMENT                  TOTAL
IBRD3   EIB   EBRD             IBRD   EIB    EBRD         ST       ST    (million
(export  local    USS)
credits)
ITEM
Buildings               -      -        -             -      -         -         -       27.6      27.6
Transit Switches        -      -        -             -       3.4      -          6.5     2.4      12.3
Local Switches          -     -         -             -      49.0      -        35.9    58.9      143.8
Optical Fiber Cables    9.3   -        17.5           -      -         -         11.5    26.3      64.6
(9.3)
Microwave, Coax         2.5   -         -             -      -         -         10.5     3.2      16.2
Cables                                                                                             (2.5)
Copper Cables          18.6   -        32.4           -      -         -          0.9    90.9     142.8
(18.6)
Network Operation       9.4   -         -             -      -         -          0.9     1.2      11.5
Facilities (OSS)                                                                                   (9.4)
TA and Training         -     -         -              352   1.2       3.1       -        7.8      15.6
(3.5)
Miscellaneous           5.2   -         -              6.53   1.7      2.0       -       12.5      27.9
(11.7)
TOTAL                  45.0   -        49.9           10.0  55.3       5.1       66.2  230.8    462.3
(55.0)
*Figures in parenthesis indicate amounts to be financed by the World Sank uider the proposed loan.
Includes Contingencies.
For USS3.5 million in TA, World Bank guideLines of using consultants will apply.
USS6.5 million in MisceLlaneous includes international shopping (USS5.5 million), negotiated
contracts, direct purchase (USS1.0 million).
Miscellaneous includes Instruments, measuring equipment, and office equipment (PCs, faxes, etc.).
4.23            All Bank-financed bid packages for goods estimated to cost US$1.0 million
equivalent and above would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation. It is estimated that this prior review would cover about 80% of the total
estimated value of contracts. The balance of Bank-financed contracts would be subject to the
Bank's review of the contract award. Relaxation of COCOM regulations, effective August
1, 1991, would practically eliminate restrictions on most of the equipment to be purchased
with the Bank loan. Nevertheless, the Bank would continue to review bidding documents
prior to issuance for any possible residual problems.



- 21 -
4.24        Procurement of equipment financed by EIB and EBRD would be carried out in
accordance with their respective regulations. Locally produced goods would be contracted
according to usual ST and telecommunications industry practice through local competitive
bidding, direct purchase and negotiated prices as appropriate, subject to GOS regulations.
4.25        To assist the ST, and ensure timely implementation, some contracts combining
supply of goods and installation are envisaged (e.g., long-distance fiber optic routes and
some key local networks). Such contracts, procured under ICB procedures, would be paid
for through the Bank loans.
4.26        Disbursement. Disbursement from the proceeds of the proposed loan would
be made for:
(a)   100% of: (i) foreign expenditures of directly imported goods;
(ii) installation services; (iii) local ex-factory cost of goods
manufactured in the Slovak Republic; and (iv) 85% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally;
(b)   100% of total expenditures for consultants' services.
Disbursement requests would be required to be fully documented, except for those
expenditures for contracts valued below US$150,000, which could be submitted on the basis
of certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). In this case, supporting documentation would
be retained by ST for at least one year (after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the
period during which the last disbursement was made) and would be made available to
auditors and Bank supervision missions upon request. In order to facilitate project
implementation, a special account in the amount of US$ 2.5 million equivalent, representing
about four months of average expenditures, would be established and maintained by the
borrower. The estimated disbursement schedule for the project is shown in Annex 9. The
loan closing date would be June 30, 1998.
4.27        Project Implementation. ST would be responsible for overall project
implementation, since it has sufficient experience in the execution of similar works, albeit in
analog technology. ST's investment organization would be charged with the responsibility of
executing their part of the investment, through interacting with the foreign suppliers under
overall coordination of the MTCP. ST's organization would also be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the systems once implementation had been completed. ST has
created a Program Implementation Unit (PIU) that reports to the Director General, which
would be responsible for overall coordination and execution of the project. It would also
carry out coordination, support, and direct supervision of works at the locations where the
digital transit exchanges, local exchanges, and transmission systems would be installed. The
supplier would be responsible for the installation and commissioning of the exchanges and
training of local staff. The PIU would contain sufficient experienced personnel to execute its
mandate, and would be supported by five man-years of foreign expertise as part of the IDP's
technical assistance program, in order to ensure smooth program implementation. Suppliers
would be asked to contract for maintenance supervision for one year in order to assist ST in



- 22 -
handling the complex new systems and the new technology. During negotiations, the
creation of the PIU was confirmed. The proposed implementation schedule is given in
Annex 10.
4.28        ST has already appointed a procurement coordinator, who would be
incorporated into the PIU, and who would coordinate the work of preparation of bid
documents, bid evaluation and contract signature. The three Banks are supporting the group
with foreign expertise for the early preparation of technical specifications for digital
switching (EIB), optical transmission equipment (EBRD), and microwave equipment (World
Bank).
4.29        ST has decided to rely more than it has in the past on outside contractors and
complex subproject deliveries in the implementation of the development program. The
eventual aim is to create and equip a special expert unit within the ST which would help
negotiate, contract and supervise the implementation of such contracts in the future, including
final acceptance. This unit would be supported by an MIS with an inbuilt finance and time
control function. ST's plans for more aggressive development and elimination of state
support would necessitate more efficient and cost conscious methods to ensure investment
efficacy. In any case, the more complex installations and new technology would require
special assistance and supervision by contractors and suppliers. As the digital overlay
network is an important element of the whole system, one year of supervision of maintenance
would be requested from and contracted with the successful bidders.
4.30        Performance Indicators. An Action Plan consisting of performance
indicators (see Annex 11) and target values, plus a mechanism for monitoring the execution
of the project in relation to the agreed targets was agreed during negotiations, together with
targets for each indicator for the Program in each year. More specifically, agreement was
reached on: (a) ST monitoring of the agreed indicators and semi-annual reporting to the
banks of actual vs. target performances: (b) discussions, once a year, between ST and the
banks of any shortfalls, reasons for them, and proposed remedies; and (c) agreement
following this discussion will be reached between the banks and ST on adjustment of
performance targets for the following year(s). Examples of key performance indicators (see
Annex 11 for full list) are shown in Table 4.4.



- 23 -
Table 4.4 Slovak Republic: Performance Indicators
1992 (actual)       1995 (target)
Network Development Indicators
connected DEL's (lines)                         800                1,046
x 1,000
exchange capacity (lines)                       935                1,231
x 1,000
DELs per 1,000 inhabitants                      15.2                19.7
Quality of service indicators
faults/100 DELs/month                            6                   5
effective calling rate                         40%                 49%
Efficiency indicators
employees per 1000 DEL'                         14.7                12.4
Excluding construction staff.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
5.01        The former SPT-Bratislava's accounting system was not primarily designed to
provide management with relevant and reliable accounting information, but rather to furnish
the information needed by the State Planning Commission for its overall planning.
Consequently, the quality of the information on which management decisions as well as
assessments of long-term profitability are based is not satisfactory.
5.02        It is, therefore, very difficult to estimate to what degree the historical financial
statements of SPT-Bratislava reflect the economic reality of the company. The situation is
aggravated by the fact that separate accounts for the postal and telecom services within SPT-
Bratislava were not implemented until January 1, 1992. In addition, there are a large
number of units supplying the operating units with services, e.g. (a) construction, principally
of the network and exchanges; (b) supply of goods, and central purchasing; (c) computing;
and (d) training. Since the effects of this intra-company trading have not been eliminated, the
historical revenues from the TC-sector have consistently been over-valued. Furthermore, its
own work has not been capitalized, which means that the operating expenses (salaries and
wages) have been far too high.



- 24 -
5.03        In addition to the weaknesses of the accounting system which have already
been mentioned, it is important to note that neither ST's tariffs, nor its input prices, have
been determined by markets; instead they have been set by the central planners. Seen from a
market economy viewpoint, the figures showing revenues, operating expenses, assets, etc.,
are distorted.
5.04        One conclusion that must be drawn from the above is that SPT-Bratislava's
accounts for 1992 contain weaknesses which make them less useful as a base for financial
projections. Therefore, beginning with the most recent financial information available,
Coopers and Lybrand were engaged to assess the estimates for 1992. The result of this
assessment has been a reduction of revenues as well as expenses by 1 billion Kcs. between
1991 and 1992.
5.05        A second conclusion is that the Financial Department of ST must be
strengthened in all areas, i.e. budgeting, finance, tariffs, and accounting. Moreover, because
the company has difficulties in recruiting and then keeping experienced staff, routines must
be established for training, career planning, salary levels, bonuses, and other financial
incentives. The IDP provides for ST to obtain expert assistance to improve their systems and
routines in each one of these areas.
B. Past Performance
5.06        The Financial Statements for telecom operations of SPT-Bratislava for the five
years 1988 through 1992 are shown in Annex 12. These statements have been assembled
through close cooperation between the financial management and accounting staff from SPT-
Bratislava and the World Bank. A summary of the most important entries and key ratios is
given in Table 5.1.



- 25 -
Table 5.1: Past Financial Performance 1988-1992
(Current Prices - Kcs Millions)
SPT-Bratislava
1988       1989        1990        1991        1992
Consumer Price Index (1985 = 100)         100.9       102.2      112.8        181.8       200.2
Operating revenue                         3,063       3,274      3,667       5,283        4,813
Net Operating income                       1,712      1,855      1,584        1,114       1,171
Net income                                  208        214         231         498          433
Operating Ratio                          44.1%       43.3%      56.8%        78.9%       75.7%
Operating Ratio
(including profit tax)                   91.9%      92.2%      91.4%        89.1%        88.4%
Rate of return on
net fixed assets                        20.9%      21.9%       17.7%        12.7%       13.1%
(before tax)
Net internal cash generation as % of
investment                               73.6%       96.9%      54.4%       114.2%       84.1%
Operating Revenue/DEL (USS)                 347        333         294         252          217
Operting Expenses/DEL (USS)                 153        144         167         198          164
Operating Income/DEL (USS)                  194        189         127          53           53
Employees/1000 DEL'                         16.4       15.9       15.4        19.2'        18.2
Including coaniction sff.
5.07           During most of the past five years, SPT-Bratislava's profits have been very
high. For example, during the period 1988-89, the rate of return on net fixed assets was
21 - 22%, which was fairly high, and operating ratios were low, at approximately 44%
(before taxes in both cases). The rate of inflation during this period was negligible.



- 26 -
5.08         However, SPT-generated profits were not primarily used for developing the
TC sector. The major portion of the TC surplus was used to subsidize postal services and to
otherwise finance the public sector, while expansion of new DELs was restricted to 3-4% per
year, far less than the demonstrated demand.
5.09         During the period 1990-92, profits were substantially reduced because inflation
of 80% was greatly increasing costs, but SPT-Bratislava could not raise its tariffs. In 1990,
the nominal rates of return on net fixed assets were still high, but a high rate of inflation
reduced the rates in real terms. The results were, however, still acceptable. In 1991 and
1992 the nominal rates of return dropped to approximately 13% at the same time as inflation
for this two year period was approximately 75%, thus resulting in an unacceptably low level
of real profitability.
5.10         The operating ratios (excluding taxes) for the period 1988-90 were good, but
when the extremely high corporate income tax is included, the ratio was 92%. In June 1989,
the 1970 decrees on economic planning were relaxed, thus reducing SPT-Bratislava's
corporate income tax to 55%. This tax change came into effect in 1991. Even so, the
operating ratio (including taxes) did not improve, because the benefits of the tax reduction
were outweighed by cost increases due to inflation.
5.11         Internal cash generation as a percentage of investments amounted to 97% in
1989. To understand why this figure is so high, it must be remembered that the size of
investments was adjusted to meet available cash. This consisted of the little that was left out
of profits after taxes, as well as the artificially low depreciations (4% depreciation rate).
External financing has been negligible.
5.12         During the period 1988 to 1992, the operating revenue per DEL increased
from Kcs 4,976 to 6,180. These figures do not, however, reflect the fact that during the
same period inflation was almost 100%, which means that in real terms the operating
revenues per DEL actually decreased from Kcs 4,976 to 3,140, i.e. by 36%. This trend can
also be seen in the fact that the operating revenue per DEL decreased from US$347 to 217,
i.e. by 37%. Our projections indicate that these figures are far too low to sustain the 1992-
1995 investment program (see paras. 5.19 and 5.27).
5.13         Performance measured as number of employees per 1,000 DEL improved
slightly. The present level is, however, still far too high. In the past, the ST reported level
of employees per 1,000 DEL seemed good in comparison to other Central and Eastern
European countries (see Annex 13). The figures were not comparable, however, since ST's
staff figures were exclusive of construction staff. ST has now retroactively included these
employees from 1991, thereby increasing the number of employees per 1000 DEL from 14.9
to 19.2. Taking this, together with the long waiting list, and the poor accessibility of the
network into account, the overall performance has not been good.



- 27 -
C. Projected Financial Performance
5.14        The Projected Financial Statements for the period 1993-96, which have been
prepared in close consultation with SPT-Bratislava/ST are based upon Coopers and Lybrand's
assessment of the result for 1992 (see para. 5.04). These financial statements are attached as
Annex 12.
5.15        The following table summarizes these projections for 1993-96:
Table 5.2: Projected Financial Performance for ST, 1993-1996
(Constant Jan 1993 Prices - Kcs Millions)
1993      1994         1995         1996
Operating Revenue                    5,839      7,071        7,967        8,920
Net Operating Income                 2,045      2,721        2,966       3,384
Net Income                            1,051      1,423       1,497        1,656
Operating Ratio                      65.0%      61.5%       62.8%        62.1%
Operating Ratio
(including profit tax)              79.7%      78.0%       78.1%        77.3%
Rate of return on net fixed assets
(before tax)                         23.0%     28.0%        26.8%         27.4
Net internal cash generation as % of
investment                           35.6%     69.9%        68.3%         68.2
Debt Service Coverage                  18.2       9.5          7.9         6.8
Operating Revenues/DEL (US$)           248        281          296         309
Operating Expenses/DEL (US$)           161        173          186         192
Operating Income/DEL (US$)              87        108          110         117
Employees/1000 DEL'                    17.1       16.0        15.0         14.0
Including construction staff.



- 28 -
5.16         The projections are based on a number of assumptions, which are described in
detail in Annex 122. The most important of these is the assumption that a 25% tariff
increase will be implemented on July 1, 1993 and that tariffs thereafter will be tied to the
rate of inflation. This increase is a necessary first adjustment of the tariffs, expressed in real
terms, to a level sustainable with the investment program. Further tariff adjustments will be
necessary if the rate implementation proves to be considerably faster than has been assumed.
ST will otherwise be unable to manage its self-financing (net cash generation as a percentage
of investments). Sensitivity analyses show that changes in the rate implementation would
greatly affect the level of self-financing. This possibility, combined with insufficient
information about price-elasticity, could mean that a further adjustment of the tariff level
might be necessary from April 1, 1994 (see para. 5.19).
5.17         The projections have resulted in the following changes of some important key
ratios between 1992 and 1996:
a)    the operating revenue would increase from the present level of US$217 to
US$309 per DEL;
b)    the operating ratio (excluding taxes) would decline from 75.7%  to 62.1 %;
c)    the net internal cash generation as a percentage of investments would increase
from 35.6% (1993) to 68.2%; and
d)    the debt service coverage would decrease from 9.2 to 6.8.
5.18         If ST is to manage its domestic financing within the current credit ceiling of
the country's banking system, the net internal cash generation, as a percentage of
investments, must not fall below 55%. For the same reason, the operating ratio must not
exceed 65%. The debt service ratio must not fall below 2.5.
5.19         In order to fulfill these financial covenants the average operating revenue per
DEL should be increased from the present level of US$217 per DEL to at least US$300 per
DEL. As mentioned above (para. 5.16), additional revenue increases might prove necessary,
depending upon how rapidly the investment program can be implemented. At the present
2     It has not been possible to take the recent merger of ST and SR into consideration in these projections
since the required analysis of the effect of this merger has not yet been carried out. This has very little
significance for the reliability of the projections, however, since SR is considerably smaller than ST.
SR's operating revenues for 1992 amounted to 9% of ST's revenue, and the corresponding shares for
costs and assets amounted to 10% and 13% respectively.



- 29 -
time, tariff increases are the only means available to achieve the required operating income.
The proposed Loan and Guarantee Agreements will therefore stipulate that tariffs be
increased by at least the amount required to ensure the Borrower's compliance with the
financial covenants of the Loan Agreement.
5.20          For ST to manage the financial strain involved in extending the telephone
network, it is, however, important to make sure that the proportion of business subscribers is
kept as high as possible during this developmental period. The reason for this is that
business subscribers usually generate revenues many times higher than those generated by
household subscribers. Otherwise, it could prove necessary to raise tariffs to a level higher
than the average subscriber (business as well as residential) is willing to pay.
D. Financing Plan
5.21          ST will need approximately US$57 million per annum in the period 1993-96 in
external financing. The amount of foreign financing needed is primarily determined by the
cost of the foreign component in the investment program, and not by a company policy
decision which determines to what extent the company should be leveraged.
5.22          A summary of the cash flow statements for the program period 1993-96 shows
in detail how ST plans to finance its program.
3      Two other ways exist to increase operating income. The first is to increase the proportion of business
subscribers. Apart from low tariffs, the main reason for low revenues per DEL in Eastern European
countries is that the proportion of business subscribers is far too low. Currently only 30% of
Slovakia's subscribers are business subscribers. When the Japanese telephone network had the same
level of penetration as the Slovakian network has today (i.e. 10-15 DEL per 100 inhabitants), business
subscribers constituted 70% of the total number of subscribers. The second method is to increase
productivity, i.e. lower the expenses per DEL. The number of employees per 1000 DEL is far too
high in comparison to the corresponding ratio for developed countries. These two issues can, however,
not be solved in the short run, and will be addressed under 'Corporate Planning' in the IDP.



- 30 -
Table 5.3: Financing Plan 1993-1996
(Constant January 1993 Prices - Kcs millions)
1993     1994      1995      1996  Total Kcs          USS
Mill.           Mill.
Cash from Operation         3,317    4,125     4,532     5,119    17,093           600
Compulsory Outflows:
-Repaym. of Loans             0       177       177       177       531            19
-Interest Expenses           135      133       244       373       886           31
-Taxation                    860     1,164     1,225     1,355     4,603          162
Cbange in Working Capital   1,444      333       296       310     2,382           84
Net Internal Cash
Generation:                  878    2,317      2,590     2,905     8,691           305
Investments                 2,500    3,600     3,840     3,940    13,880           487
External Financing:
IBRD                          57       428       542       542      1,569           55
EIB, EBRD Loans              228       855     1,026     1,026     3,135           110
Supplier's and
Export Credits              1,026      613       128         0     1,767            62
Change in Cash:             -311       613       447       533     1,282            45
5.23     Sixty-three percent (US$305 million) of investments is being financed internally by ST.
5.24          The foreign financing sources the ST plans to use are loans from the IBRD, EIB
and EBRD, as well as supplier and export credits. ST projects using total bank loans of
US$165 million and obtaining the remaining US$62 million in supplier credits, which are
projected to cover total requirements. External borrowing will finance the foreign costs of the
program.
E. Tariffs
5.25           Domestic telephone tariffs have not been raised since 1979. In that year, the rates
were increased by 25% with the intention of subsidizing the loss-making postal system as well as
providing funds for the state through large tax revenues. Slovak tariffs are currently among the
lowest in Europe (see Annex 14).
5.26           In 1992, the former FMPT made a proposal to the former Federal Ministry of
Finance (FMOF) for tariff increases totalling about 70%, including selected structural changes.
In the version of the proposal which was before the FMOF on February 7, 1992, the most
important new structural feature was the introduction of metered local calls and the concept of



- 31 -
peak and off-peak tariffs for long distance calls. Since it was later decided that the company
would not invest in metering equipment needed to measure local calls in analogue exchanges, the
proposed increases would not generate the calculated revenues. At best, only between 20 to
25% additional revenues would be generated.
5.27         Although the proposed tariff increases described above represent a necessary and
valuable first step, they will neither be sufficient in level nor structure over the medium and long
run. There is significant uncertainty about how traffic will respond to the changes, and about
the revenue impact of the DON.
5.28         Therefore, in addition to the above-mentioned tariff increase, the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements will require that:
(a)   The effects of any 1993 tariff increases on revenues be monitored, and a
study of the results undertaken (for which consultant assistance shall be
obtained). This study will analyze both structure and level of tariffs from
the view point of both financial viability and economic efficiency;
(b)   On or before September 30, 1993, a report giving the conclusions of this
study will be submitted to the three banks. This report will analyze both
level and structure of tariffs and will make recommendations regarding:
(i) the real level of tariffs necessary to sustain financial viability, and the
agreed investment program; and (ii) structural changes to improve
economic efficiency; and
(c)   The report shall propose a timetable of actions to: (i) improve the tariff
structure; and (ii) achieve the tariff level required to fulfill the covenant,
by January 1, 1994.
5.29         The IDP includes provision for the ST to obtain expert assistance in upgrading its
tariff setting capability with respect to considerations of demand, cost, competitive environment
and regulatory imperatives. This activity should be integrated in a major study of tariff structure
which would provide the basis for a general rebalancing of tariffs (see para. 7.01).
F. Accounting and Finance
5.30         A new accounting law will come into force in 1993. This text of the law conforms
to EC practice and the ST's present accounting system will be hard pressed to cope with the
change. A new and modem accounting system will, therefore, be implemented as soon as
possible as one of the components of the Institutional Development Program4 (see Annex 6).
G. Cash management
4     The IBRD and EIB will finance the accounting, financial analysis and corporate finance components while
the remainder of the IDP (Corporate Strategy, Service Planning, Organizational Development, HRD, Audit,
Technical and Project Implementation) will be financed by EBRD.



- 32 -
5.31         ST feels that its billing system works well because it experiences few problems
with late payments and bad debts. Larger companies are billed through an automatic debiting of
their bank accounts. Prompt payments are the rule rather than the exception for smaller
companies and residential subscribers, because defaulting would mean risking being
disconnected.
5.32         Despite ST's high ability to collect cash, there is, nonetheless, a pronounced cash
deficit problem. ST's revenues are, in fact, taxed and paid before they are collected. This results
in monthly cash deficits that have to be bridged by short term loans.
5.33        ST is now considering introducing subscriber pre-payments as well as spreading
out meter reading and billing over the entire month. Billing is carried out by regional offices,
which means that headquarters does not have access to information about the regions' cash
situation. Furthermore, there is no joint liquidity plan for the entire corporation, i.e., for regions
and subsidiary companies. The regions, for example, are very independent and borrow from
local banks on their own initiative without there being any consultation about the overall cash
situation of the corporation. It is usually not taken into account that certain regions could well
have a cash surplus at the same time that other regions need to borrow.
5.34         Another important aspect of cash management control is that no one seems to have
the responsibility for calling into question decisions tying up cash, such as building-up over-
dimensioned stores, etc.
5.35        The cash management issue will be dealt with in the IDP program (particularly in
the accounting and finance package as well as associated technical assistance) with a view to
expressing recommendations to the ST management and to relevant government authorities
(para. 5.29).
H. Auditing
5.36        Annual audits of the ST will be carried out by an external auditor acceptable to
the Bank for fiscal year 1993 and thereafter. For fiscal years 1993-94, annual financial
statements and the related auditor's report must be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the end of the fiscal year. By 1995, however, the ST should move to international norms and
submit audit reports within four months after the end of the fiscal year.
I. Reports
5.37          For the third and fourth quarter of 1993, ST will submit an income statement
within two months of the end of the quarter. Beginning in 1994, ST shall, in addition, submit a
cash flow statement and a balance sheet. The format of these reports was agreed during
negotiations.



- 33 -
J. Financial Covenants
5.38        IBRD, and EIB have agreed to use the same financial covenants in their Loan
Agreement. It was agreed that: internal generation of funds will not fall below 55 % of the three-
year moving average (previous year, current year and projected following year) of investment;
and that the ratio of operating expenses to operating revenues (excluding taxes) will be no higher
than 65%; and also that the debt service ratio, i.e. the ratio of internally generated funds to
total debt-service obligations, will be maintained at a level not less than 2.5:1 (para 5.18).
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Rate of Return
6.01        Financial Rate of Return (FRR): The financial internal rate of return (FRR) for
the investment program is 41.3% for ST (see Annex 15). This figure is based on the following
assumptions: (a) there will be additional traffic from new subscribers who will be connected to
the local network in the four-year program period; (b) there will be additional traffic from
existing subscribers who formerly could not get through but whose traffic the overlay network
will be able to handle; and (c) there will be an additional increase by 50% for trunk and
international traffic in 1996, and increases will continue thereafter by 5% per year through 2001.
6.02        The following sensitivity tests were carried out on the FRR:
Case                                   FRR
Base                                  41.3%
Delay of one year                     31.7%
Investment cost higher by 20%         34.4%
Maintenance cost higher by 50%        34.6%
6.03        Economic Rate of Return (ERR): The financial rate of retum, though high, still
does not fully reflect the net economic benefit from the project. The actual value of improved
telecommunications service to customers is much greater than indicated by the tariffs charged,
and this amount can be estimated in a number of ways. For instance, in similar countries,
where a market for private housing and office space has now developed, the "consumer surplus"
is indicated by the significant difference in rental costs for similar premises between those with
and those without a telephone line. Although a well developed real estate market does not yet
exist in Slovakia, one would expect that similar results will occur when it does. There are also
black and grey markets for telephone access in Slovakia, as are found elsewhere in CEE.
Another indicator can be found in the price that new customers are willing to pay for cellular
service. Although the existing cellular franchise may have overshot the mark on pricing, there
is no doubt (especially given experience in neighboring countries) that a substantial number of
customers are willing to pay substantially more for cellular service and be connected to the
network immediately, rather than wait for fixed service at the lower price. This is particularly
valid since in most cases cellular service is not much better in quality (since cellular phones must
transmit through the normal network) and since most cellular phones in CEE are purchased
simply to get a phone--any phone--and not in order to obtain mobile service, per se.



- 34 -
6.04        Revaluing telecommunications connections at these implied prices would yield an
estimate of benefits (and ERR) several percentage points higher than the FRR. However, this
factor will not be as important as it might seem in the case of this particular lending project.
The higher, indirect value of a connection implied by the higher price of premises with a
connection applies mainly to residential or small business users, where obtaining any connection
is a major problem. For large businesses (all of which have at least one connection) the problem
is rather one of obtaining sufficient connections and service of sufficiently high quality to
conduct business efficiently. This lending project focuses heavily on business customers,
especially larger businesses, and its main benefits and revenues will come from the increased
traffic and quality of service provided to business customers. It is only in the long run that these
profits will form the basis for extending and improving service to the nation as a whole, an
important economic benefit not included in the FRR.
6.05        Project Benefits: The proposed project would: (a) greatly improve the quantity
and quality of traditional TC services and permit new services for key sectors of the population
(especially business) by providing direct access to a modern, internationally integrated digital
network in a short period of time (by the end of the 1996); and (b) significantly improve service
to all subscribers by decongesting the existing long-distance and international network and
thereby improving its performance. In addition the project would facilitate network expansion
and modernization by: (a) creating a soundly engineered digital skeleton upon which to build the
future modern network; and (b) by increasing the revenue generating capacity of the system in
order to finance rapid growth. Taken together, these benefits would significantly improve the
capacity of the Slovak Republic to sustain its economic reform and development program.
6.06        Risks: The principal risks relate to: (a) the financial strength of the ST and its
ability to sustain high investment; (b) the implementation capacity of the ST; and (c) the limited
experience of the new Slovak Government institutions. These risks are acceptable because it is
the Government policy to promote self-financing infrastructure investment, which means that the
Government must set such tariff levels which will permit the implementation of the agreed
development project. Furthermore, the Government gives highest priority to investments in
telecommunications where the customers are willing to pay higher rates for services rendered
and the tariffs are relatively low.
6.07        Moreover, to increase the capacity of ST to manage these risks, a number of
provisions have been made. Measures to strengthen the financial management of the ST are
included in the project, such as the creation of a strong financial department and training of its
staff, tariff studies leading to reform and rebalancing, and the design and implementation of
commercial accounting systems and related MIS. A series of financial covenants (tied to internal
cash generation and operating ratio) will be required to ensure adequate financial performance of
the Borrower. A strong Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was created in the ST prior to
negotiation. Initially, this unit will deal with procurement preparation; later, it will be
responsible for project execution. The project will contain technical assistance for the PIU.
Finally, the Government's policy and regulatory function is being developed with the assistance
of qualified consultants.



- 35 -
B. Environmental and Health Aspects
6.08        The project is expected to have no adverse environmental or health impacts.
Indeed, to the extent that it facilitates substitution of TC services for transportation, the project
will have a net positive environmental and health impact.
VH. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01        During loan negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
a.    With the Borrower:
Financial Covenants
By November 30, 1993:
(i)   ST shall submit an income statement for the third quarter of 1993 and
thereafter on a quarterly basis within two months from the end of the
quarter. Beginning in 1994, ST shall, in addition, submit a cash flow
statement and a balance sheet (para 5.37).
From January 1, 1994 on:
(ii)  Internally generated investible funds (operating income plus depreciation
minus taxes, debt service and increases in working capital) for any one
year shall not be less than 55 % of a three-year moving average of
investment (para. 5.38).
(iii) The ratio of operating expenses (including depreciation) to operating
revenues shall not exceed 65% (para. 5.38).
(iv)   The debt service ratio shall not fall below 2.5 (para. 5.38).
(v)   A study of tariffs is to be undertaken by the ST and a report submitted to
the MTCP, the Ministry of Finance, and the World Bank by Sept 30,
1993. This study will address, inter alia, what further adjustments may be
needed in the level and structure of tariffs (including provision for
differential charges for direct subscribers to the DON). The study shall
make recommendations regarding the real level of tariffs and shall propose
a timetable for adjustments by January 1, 1994 (para. 5.28).



- 36 -
b.    With the Guarantor:
(i)    The Guarantor shall increase, or cause to be increased, tariff levels as
necessary in order to ensure that the Borrower is able to comply with these
Financial Covenants (para. 5.28).
(ii)   The Guarantor shall review the existing distribution of tariff responsibilities
and any studies undertaken by the Guarantor and/or the Borrower, and, by
January 1, 1994, shall propose an action plan for implementing a program
for a regulatory regime, methodology and procedures covering
telecommunications tariffs. This will be discussed with the Bank and, by
April 1, 1994, actions will be taken to implement the resulting program
(para. 5.28).
c.    Additional conditions of effectiveness:
(i)    Effectiveness of the EIB and EBRD loan agreements; and
(ii)   The Bororower shall provide a financing plan satisfactory to the Bank for
the suppliers credits through 1995.
7.02 Subject to the above conditions and agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$55 million equivalent for a period of seventeen years, including a five year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



-37-
ANNEX 1
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
SLOVAK TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ORGANIZATION CHART
(As of 1-1-93)
Z                                       | General Director
z
4J
Capital                       Human        Strategical       Network         Operation
Constructlon    Flnance        Resources                                            and
Development    Marketing        Development    Malntenance
4                                  -
Bratislava        Western Slovakia         Middle Slovkla          Eastern Slovakla
U
a
U           _________________________________._________   __
______ _ _ ___
H
Storage and SuppIy  Tralning and Educatlows                                 Constructlon
and Supply  Training and Educations    Computatlons centra
o      centre/ Logistic            centre                                            Works
0
IL_                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
L.



Slovakia / ST
Basic Telecommunications Data, 1986 - 1991
1986        1987       1988       1989       1990       1991       1992
LOCAL TELEPHONY
total no. of main exchanges    1,380       1.381      1,341      1.336      1.337      1.341      1,357
manual                           8           5           5         --        --          --         --
automatic                     1,342       1,376      1,336      1.336      1,387      1,341      1.357
total capacity (x 1.000 lines)  713.7      736.8      763.2      785.5        809        870        936
net change in lines (x 1.000)    --         23.1       26.4       22.3       23.5        61          66
total connected telephones
(x 1,000)                       --          --          --      1,254      1,254      1.305         --
number of DELs
total (x 1,000)               567.1        598       634.1      676.6      717.2        757         --
business                      162.1       168.3      175.2      181.2      185.9        187         --
residential                   401.5       425.5      454.3      487.7      524.9        563         --
pay phones                      3.6         4.2          5        5.7        6.4        6.6         --
numberotDEL1s00pop.            10.8        11.3         12       12.6       13.4       14.4         --
main exchange fill ratio (%)    79.5        81.2       83.1       85.9       88.7         87         --
no. of registered waiters     47.811      57.570     73,444     90,644    109,357    124,844         --
INTERURBAN
no. interurban exchanges         --          --          --          7          7          7          7
capacity (lines xl)                                      --        --          --     29.468     30,583
INTERNATIONAL
no. countries (automatic)        --          --           4          6          6          6          8
total no. international                                                                  200        300
circults (out & in)              --         --          --         --         --         --         --
TELEGRAPHY, DATA, AND CELLULAR
no. of telex exchanges           --          --          --          2          2          2         --
capacity of telex exchanges
(lines xi)                      --          --          --      4,000      5,000      5.698         --
connected telex subsribers       --          --          --      3,240      3,232      3,729         --
connected data terminals (tot.)   --          --         --         --      1,066      1.546         --
mobile subscribers                --         --          --         --         --        350        700



-39-                               ANNEX 3
SLOVAK REPUBLIC TELEPHONE NEIWORK ARCHITECTUR
I N T E R N ATI ON AL
transit exchanges
In 7  zones
70 nodal                              -----.     .------------------------|
exchanges
Approx. 1357
local exchanges
Small
exchanges



-40-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TELECOMMUNICATIONS MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY
Like most other CEE countries, Czechoslovakia has a large, full-range TCMI
which, in the past made the country practically self-sufficient in TC equipment. Prior to the
revolution in late 1989, the Czechoslovak TCMI supplied 90% of the equipment required by
the domestic TC sector as well as exporting a significant amount--primarily to the USSR. At
that time, virtually all TC manufacturing was in the hands of a single conglomerate, TESLA.
Today, the TCMI is composed of a number of factories, all of which were formerly part of
TESLA, but have now been broken off. All still retain the first name, TESLA, followed by
the name of the town or suburb in which they are located.
The relationship between the industry and its main customer, the SPTs of the
two Republics, was that of centralized monopoly/monopsony--as was typical of CEE
centrally planned economies. The two SPTs would receive annual quantitative investment
targets from the Federal Ministry, virtually all the equipment for which had to be obtained
from the designated source. Even the choice of technology was (and, to a degree, still is)
the prerogative of the Ministry. Similarly, the TCMI would receive annual production
targets together with the destination to which the products would be shipped. "Buyers"
(SPTs) and "sellers" (the TCMI) then merely arranged the details of transfers, shipments,
dates, etc.
The strong pressure to accomplish yearly production and investment plans in
quantitative terms together with the absence of either competition or "hard budget
constraints" resulted in lax quality standards and little incentive to invest aggressively in
R&D. These domestic tendencies were reinforced by the Soviet export market which was
both large and undemanding on either qualitative or technical/innovative grounds. CoCom
restrictions exacerbated these tendencies since they both: (a) prevented access to the best
technology available in the world; and, (b) protected CMEA TCMI from competition from
western companies. Faced with little incentive to improve performance, the CSFR TCMI,
SPTs, and research community drifted apart and made little effort to co-ordinate or co-
operate. (This situation, it should be said, was virtually identical to that in all the CEE
countries prior to the 1989/90 revolutions).
Up until the late 1970's and early 1980's the effect on technology was not so
great. The basic technology of electro-mechanical analogue switching and analogue
transmission were well established and widely known. CoCom restrictions had not yet been
aggressively targeted on TC technology and equipment. In this environment CMEA TCMIs
were able to obtain licenses from leading western firms as well as develop their own



-41-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
equipment more or less in line with world standards. Quality, cost, and delivery times, were
not on world levels, but the gap was not enormous. Indeed, one CMEA country (Hungary)
was able to establish a fairly successful program of TC equipment exports to the west
(primarily to the third world) using price discounts to make up for the relatively small gap in
quality and technology between them and the best western suppliers. While the CSFR TCMI
exported very little to the west, the equipment it produced was very similar in quality and
technology to that produced in Hungary (and in Poland, Romania and Bulgaria).
By the early 1980's, however, the digital electronic revolution was in full
swing in the world TCMI. This is a totally different technology from the electro-mechanical
analogue technology which proceeded it--as different as mechanical typewriters are from
computer-based word processing. Since this new technology had enormous significance for
military applications, capability, intelligence, CoCom restrictions were aggressively applied
and the CSFR, like the rest of the CMEA, was effectively locked out. (Even today, when
CoCom restrictions are being rapidly relaxed, TC technology remains one of the two or three
most sensitive issues and one of the last to be relaxed. Experience in the Gulf war has only
heightened and reinforced the importance and sensitivity of this technology.) An attempt was
made by the CMEA to develop modern electronic digital switching and transmission
capability but was abandoned as impossible or impractical within a realistic time frame and
realistic cost. From then on the gap between CMEA (including CSFR) TCMIs and their
westem counterparts widened dramatically.
Today all the CEE countries (including the former CSFR) and their TCMIs
face a similar situation and a similar set of dilemmas the main features of which are:
* The domestic TCMI is large, politically and economically important but also
hopelessly obsolete. The equipment produced and the facilities for producing it are,
in terms of what the market now demands, virtually useless;
* Nevertheless, the TCMI is not the worst industry in the country: it faces a large and
rapidly growing domestic demand and has a strong base of skilled workers,
technicians, engineers etc.;
* Given that many other industries will have to be closed because they are both
obsolete and have no market, CMEA govemments are loathe to see their TCMIs,
which are relatively less badly off, closed as well;
*   Modemizing and expanding the TC network will require modem electronic equipment
starting immediately. There is no economic or technological justification for
continuing to install obsolete analogue equipment now that CoCom relaxation permits
purchase of digital equipment. If such equipment cannot be obtained domestically, it
can and should be imported. On the other hand, hard currency is scarce; if CEE



-42-                              ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
countries are forced to import the bulk of their required TC equipment it will almost
certainly slow down the rate of TC network expansion and modernization;
* The domestic TCMI cannot be modernized entirely from within quickly enough to
meet this demand so association of some form with foreign firms is essential;
* Each CEE country (including the former CSFR) has a domestic market which is too
small to sustain efficient production of the main types of TC equipment. Further: (a)
there is overcapacity in the world TCMI, hence foreign firms will attempt to restrict
their CMEA partners from re-exporting licensed products into the parent company's
world markets; and, (b) neither the mechanisms nor the will yet exists to attempt to
co-ordinate TCMI investment between CEE countries so as to build a larger and
(potentially) more viable market base.
In the face of this set of circumstances and dilemmas, each CEE country,
including the former CSFR, is attempting to implement the same strategy, i.e: use guaranteed
and protected access to the domestic market to induce foreign firms to enter into JVs with
domestic TCMI firms to upgrade and maintain all lines of domestic TC manufacturing
capacity. All countries seem to be still counting on continuing to export substantial amounts
to the USSR. There are, obviously, major questions whether this strategy can succeed.
Most questionable is the likelihood of major exports to the USSR. The same western
manufacturers who are entering into JVs in CEE are doing the same in the USSR--not to
mention seeking direct exports there. There is no obvious reason why the USSR should
prefer to import from CEE rather than build its own JVs and/or import direct from the West.
The only possible incentive would have been hard currency savings but trade between former
CMEA countries is now on a hard currency basis as well. If CEE TCMIs attempted to
retain USSR markets by price discounts (or "soft-currency" options, barter etc.) they would
probably lose money since: (a) it is unlikely that they will be low-cost producers compared
to their best, most efficient western competitors; and (b) an extremely high proportion of
their own costs (initially 70 - 80% and probably never less than 50%) will be in hard
currency for components, material etc. It is highly likely, in fact, that the TCMI strategy
being followed in all CEE countries will fail in one or more of its objectives; either: (a) the
new JVs will succeed in delivering high quality products at competitive prices but will not
produce much value-added in the CEE country; or (b) they will produce substantial value-
added domestically but the equipment will not be the most modern, cheapest or best possible.



-43-
ANNEX 5
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
Telecommunications Project
Physical Investment Data, 1993 - 1995
ITEM                        UN1T       QTY.              MUSS
local   foreign    total
Buildings                  site           89      24.0        ..      24.0
Transit switching          1000 trunk    20        2.1       8.6      10.7
Local switching
Analog                    1000 line      33       6.9       ..        6.9
Digital                   1000 line     410      32.4     92.7    125.1
Transmission
Optical Cable             km          2,820      20.5     30.8      51.3
Microwave                 system         35       2.5       9.8     12.3
Coax. Cable               km            150       0.4       1.4       1.8
Copper Cable               1000 pair   690        99.7      26.7     126.4
Operation Support                                  1.0       9.0      10.0
System
TA & Training                                      6.9       6.9      13.8
Other                                             17.0       2.7      19.7
BASE COST                                        213.4    188.6    402.0
Contingencies
Physical                                          5.8      14.3     20.1
Price                                            11.6      28.6      40.2
TOTAL                                       t   230.8    231.5    462.3



-44-
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 7
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PROGRAM OBJECTIVE AND SCOPE
1.          The main objective of the Institutional Development Program (IDP) is to assist
Slovak's ST in a restructuring process which will involve: (i) the transition from analog to
digital systems and the introduction of modern technology; (ii) the separation of posts and
telecommunications; (iii) the transition from a centrally planned system to a market economy;
(iv) the introduction of competition and the reduction of the basic telephone monopoly; and
(v) the eventual privatization and transformation of ST into a joint stock company. In
summary, the IDP will enable the transformation of ST from a government agency into an
independent and autonomous company run in a commercial fashion. The IDP will include
direct assistance for the execution of the Project as well as for the overall institutional
development of ST.
2.          The IDP will be executed by way of technical assistance which will focus on
the design, development and implementation aspects of management systems, as well as in-
house training involving the transfer of technology, know-how and hands-on skills. In
house-training will consist of both on-the-job training and classroom lecturing, and may
include study visits abroad.
The IDP is comprised of six main components:
-     Corporate Strategy, Service Planning and Organizational Development
-     Human Resources Development
-     Accounting and Finance
-     Auditing
-     Technical Expertise
-     Project Implementation



-45-
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 7
3.    Detailed Terms of Reference for each component are described below.
I.    Corporate Strategy, Service Planning and Organizational Development
Component
This component will cover all aspects of assistance for ST related to undertaking the
privatization process. It includes designing and implementing a business plan and an
operating approach, and developing a market plan to meet new marketing and sales
objectives. The responsibilities of the technical assistance component is as follows:
(i)    Conduct a strategic and organizational diagnostic study with the aim of
defining a global corporate strategy and recommending a new organizational
structure for ST.
(ii)   Assist ST in chosing the most desirable option(s) for its transformation into a
commercially-oriented organization.
(iii)   Assist ST in any bidding process, negotiations, definition of roles and
responsibilities, business/financial agreements and selection of eventual private
sector participants.
(iv)   Assist ST in developing an operating vision, including: translating business
into key functional strategies and priorities, detailing key operating processes
and decisions, setting attainable and measurable goals.
(v)   Assist ST in formulating a Business Plan, including: market analysis,
investment program, asset utilization targets, revenue/profit target and tariff
policies, and quality of service performance targets.
(vi)   Assist ST in the design and implementation of service planning activities,
including:
demand forecasting techniques and models
market/service segmentation techniques
user needs assessment techniques (quantitative surveys).



-46-
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 7
II.   Human Resources Development Component
This component will cover all aspects of assistance to ST in designing and
implementing a human resource development system and procedure to meet its needs
and respond to its new strategic direction. Specific tasks include:
Diagnose ST's existing capabilities as compared with required capabilities,
especially in the areas of managerial and technical capabilities, in order to
identify any gaps.
Prepare a Human Resources Master Plan.
Assist ST in the design and implementation of a capabilities-based
organization, including productivity enhancement measures, performance-
related incentives and rewards, empowerment down to the lowest levels in the
organization, measures contributing to required changes to corporate culture,
desired skill mix, manpower/human resources development plan, training
requirements, and design and implementation of a human resources databank.
Provide ST with technical assistance in designing and implementing personnel
management systems related to recruitment and placement, training,
compensation and motivation, appraisal and career management, and social
policy.
III.   Accounting and Finance Component
This component will cover all aspects of assistance for ST in the design and
implementation of accounting and financial systems and procedures and of
management information systems, in order to meet changing needs and respond to
new strategic approaches. Responsibilities include:
-     Assist ST staff in designing, developing and implementing West European
accounting standards and procedures.
-     Assist ST staff in designing, developing and implementing cost analysis
techniques and in establishing financial ratios.
-     Provide ST staff with debt management and cash flow planning and monitoring
tools and systems.
-     Assist ST staff in preparing a 3-year Financial Plan, to be incorporated in the
annually updated Business Plan.



-47-
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 7
IV.   Audit Component
The audit must cover all aspects of performing an external audit based on generally
accepted accounting principles and standards (GAAP/GAAS). The prime objective
being to ensure that all Fiscal 1993 opening Balance Sheet items (i.e., assets and
liabilities) have been subjected to a thorough audit based on West European standards.
Related spinoff benefits may include helping ST: (i) to meet its accounting and
finance responsibilities; (ii) to satisfy the requirements of institutional lenders; (iii) to
help prepare for eventual joint stock company privatization; and (iv) to move
progressively towards West European standards.
Auditing activities to be performed include:
A review of the financial and management information systems and controls
within ST as compared to best practice in the industry.
A review of the accounting policies and principles followed by ST as
compared with those generally accepted in the industry.
A long form report including a discussion of the main issues is to be presented
to ST management at the end of the audit.
V.   Technical Component
The Technical Component will actually be made up of three related areas of training
and assistance related to the following:
Network Planning and Engineering
Project Planning and Management
Operations and Maintenance
A.   Network Planning and Engineering
This area will cover all aspects of assistance to ST in the design and implementation
of network planning and engineering tools and techniques, and related training. The
assistance should be of such a nature as to enable ST's staff to prepare a network
plan, including: provisioning forecasts, forecast monitoring and analysis, planning
stage. This assistance should cover the following areas;
-     capacity planning
-     network routing
-     facilities assignment (switch, trunk, plant)
-     intemational network planning



-48-
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 7
direction of CCITT Working Groups
international affairs issues
assistance in establishing a Traffic Engineering Unit and a Systems
Engineering Unit.
B.    Project Planning/Management
This component will cover all aspects of assistance to ST in the area of project
planning and management, and related training. The assistance should be of such a
nature as to enable to ST staff to prepare a Project Plan and Procedures Manual
covering the following generic areas, and to implement these procedures thereafter:
-     capital budgeting
-     project planning/sequencing/monitoring techniques
-     project appropriation
-     tendering and evaluation of bids
-     installation/testing/commissioning logistics and procedures.
C.    Operations and Maintenance
This area will cover all aspects of training and assistance to ST in implementing an
Operations and Maintenance (OAM) system, excluding those aspects already covered
by the telephone switching systems vendors and foreign operators (if any). The
training will cover the following areas:
-     customer-oriented objectives and performance standards
-     OAM managerial and technical supervision systems
-     traffic management system
-     preventive and corrective maintenance procedures
-     network simulation models
-     customer trouble report and inquiry handling procedures
-     design of a network status and service quality database
-     emergency fault intervention/repair procedures
-     OAM training related to operations with West European standards.
VI.   Project Implementation Component
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established in order to coordinate,
monitor, evaluate and manage all aspects of the Development Program, including the
physical investment program and the IDP. This component of the IDP will assist ST
with the overall project implementation by providing the following services:
detailed project planning



-49-
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 7
-     preparation of technical specifications and tender documents, issuing bidding
documents, evaluation of proposals and contracts negotiations.
-     supervision of contracts execution
-     definition of acceptance tests
-     coordination of procurement activities
-     synchronization of activities of ST and suppliers
-     project implementation scheduling using PERTCPM computer techniques
-     ensuring continuous cost control and time schedule adherence
-     coordination and supervision of installation by local companies, foreign
suppliers and own staff
-     project benefit, monitoring and evaluation (PBME)
-     day-to-day management
-     project reports and project financial statements.
Program Costs and Fnancing Plan
The total cost of the IDP is estimated at 4,725,000 ECU, as detailed in the following
table:



-50-
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 7
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROGRAM COSTS
IDP Cost (ECU 000)
Program Component           Person        ST
Months
Corporate Strategy, Service          32            480
Planning and Organizational
Development
Human Resource Development            18           270
Accounting and Finance*              54            810
Audit                                40            480
Technical -Total                     54            810
-Network Planning                    30            450
-Project Planning                     9            135
-u&M                                  15           225
Project Implementation               70            840
Sub-Total                           322          4,500
Contingencies (5.0%)                               225
TOTAL                                            4,725
*Tentative amount subject to further evaluation.



-51-
ANNEX 7
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENS
Person    Cost/Day      Total     Foreign      Local       Total
Days       (KCs)    (MKCs)         (M $)       (M $)      (M $)
Training      15,200       8,000         121.6         1.9        1.9         3.8
Tech. Asst.                                           6.5         6.5        13.0
Total                                                 8.4         8.4        16.8
Notes:
Training
The investment requirements for training are based on the number of person days of training,
calculated by the ST as being necessary to meet the requirements of the program. The costs have
been allocated equally between local and foreign currency as a best estimate of where the costs will
occur.
Technical Assistance
It was considered and agreed during technical discussions between the banks and the ST that it
would be prudent for the ST to match in local currency the financing provided by the banks for
technical assistance.



Slovak Republic
Slovak Telecommunications Project
Total Project Cost, 1993 - 1995
(in millions of US$)
1993                        1994                        1995        TOTAL 1993-95
Item                       LOC      FOR       TOT       LOC      FOR      TOT       LOC      FOR       LOC      FOR      TOT
Bulidings                  9.9       0.0      9.9       7.2      0.0      7.2       6.9      0.0      24.0      0.0     24.0
Transit switching          1.2       4.8      6.0       0.1      0.4      0.5       0.8      3.4       2.1      8.6      10.7
Local's'iltbhing          15.2      35.8     51.0      12.9     30:5     43.4      11.2     26.4      39.3     92.7    132.0
LlDTransmisslon           11.1      20.0     31.1       5.7     10.2     15.9       6.6     11.8      23.4     42.0     65.4
Local network             25.9       6.9     32.8      36.9      9.9     46.8      36.9      9.9      99.7     26.7    126.4
T.A and Tralning           2.1       2.1      4.2       2.4      2.4      4.8       2.4      2.4       6.9      6.9      13.8
Miscellaneots              6.4      10.8     17.2       4.0      9.4     13.4       2.4      7.7      12.7     27.9     40.6
TOTAL BASE COST            71.8      80.4    152.2      69.2     62.8    132.0      67.2     61.6    2081      204.8    412.9
CONTINGENCIES
Physlcal                   4.5       6.8     11.3       4.1      5.1      9.2       3.9      5.2      12.6     17.0     29.6
Price                      1.4       1.7      3.1       3.5      3.2      6.8       5.1      4.8      10.1      9.7     19.8
TOTAL                      6.0       8.4     14.4       7.6      83      16.0       9.1     10.0      22.7     26.7     49.4
PROJECT COST               77.7      88.8    166.5      76.8     71.1    147.9      76.3     71.6    230.8    231.5    462.3
I.



-53-
ANNEX 9
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
PROJECTED SCHEDULE
IBRD Fiscal Year                  Disbursement Per              Cumulative
Semester                          Semester                  Through Semester
FY 1994
December 1993                                 2                            2
June 1994                                     2                            4
FY 1995
December 1994                                 5                           9
June 1995                                     6                           15
FY 1996
December 1995                                 7                           22
June 1996                                     7                           29
FY 1997
December 1996                                 6                           35
June 1997                                     6                           41
FY 1998
December 1997                                 4                           45
June 1998                                     4                           49
FY 1999
December 1998                                 3                           52
June 1999                                     3                           55



SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Bid Packages                   1993              1994              1995             1996        1997
1  2  3  4   1  2   3  4   1  2          3  4   1    2   3  4   1  2
1.  Local Digital               B  O       -   --  -1             -   -  -    2   -  -  -  CC
Exchanges (94-95)
2.   Optical                    B  O   C    -   1---              --   2    -   -  -  -  CC
Transmission
3.  Microwave                   B  0   C   -   1  -  -  2         -   -  CC
Transmission
4.  Digitalization of           B  0   C   -   1  -  -  CC
cax. cables
5.  Local Copper                B   O  C    -   I  -  -  -        2  -  -      -3--            CC
Networks
6.   Operational                    B   0   C  -   1  -  -        -  -  -    -   -  -  -   CC
Support Systems
7.   PCN2, PCM4,                    BO C-   1--                   -  -  -    -   -  -  -  CC
Dig. Con.
8.  Tech. Assist.               BOC-   -  -  -  -                 -  -  -    -  -   -  -  CC
and Training
Abbreviations:
B   =   Bid Invitation
0   =   Opening of Bids
C   =   6Contract Signature
1   =   First Commissioning
2,3   =   Second, Third Commissioning
CC   =   Contract Completion



Slovak Republic
Slovak Telecommunications
Performance Indicators, 1989 - 1995
1989         1990            1991            1992         1993          1994           1995
(actual)     (actual)        (actual)        (actual)   (projected)    (projected)  (projected)
CAPACITY
local switching cap. (total)
(linesx 1,000)                               785.5          809            870              935         1056        1136.9           1231
no. DEL(x 1,000)                             676.6           717            757             800           864           955          1046
exchange fill ratio                             --          88.7             87             85.6          81.8           84            85
no.businesswaiters                          90,644       109,400         125,000         146,000       155,000      141,000        132,000
DELs per 100 pop.                              12.6         13.6            14.4            15.2          16.3           18           19.7
no. internat. circuits                         100           130            150             300          1,200        1,600          1,800
no. interurban trunks                           --        33,000          33,500          42,000       51,000        55,000         61,000
no. oflocal exchanges                         1,336        1,337           1,337           1,357         1,365        1,335          1,300
no. of transit exchanges                        --             7              7                8           11            11             11
digital exch.                                                 0              0                1            4             4             4
telex subscribers                               --         3,250           3,200           3,100         3,000        2,800          2,700
packet aw. netwk. subscribers                   --             0             80              160          320           640          1,280  1-n
cellular mobile subs.                           --           150            350              700         1,400        2,800          5,600
OUALITY OF SERVICE
No. faults/100 DELsWmonth                       --             6              6               6             6           5.5             5
avg. dur. of faults (days)                      --           3.1            3.05             3.2            3           2.7            2.4
downtime
(hours/DEUyear)                                --           2.2             2.2             2.2           2.2            2            1.8
call completion rates (9)
analogue transit                               --            36             35               35           36            37            38
analogue International                         --            37             35               35           36            37            38
digital local                                                - -             _               35           37            39             41
digital transit                                --            --                              40           43            46            49
digital International                          --            --                              40           43            46             49
EFFICIENCY
no. staff/1,000 DELs                            --           13.9            14             14.7          14.3         13.5           12.4
revenue per DEL (Kcs)                           --          3,649          3,821           4,125         5,067        5,537          5,953
operational costs per
DEL (Kcs)                                      --          2,309          2,708           2,861         3,089        3,130          3,130



SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Slovak Telecoms
107-ce Esitinad FIgue.; 10N- I NO Proledid fgures      Income Statements
1967 - 02 Curnt Pce.; 1003 - 1990 Consant Jan 93 Prie
Kcs. MI.                            1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995     1996
Revenue:
Connectlon Charges                 70       81        87       85       133      189      220       243      258       259
Telephone Rental Revenue          275      291       308      327       351      379       399      426      467       500
Telephone Call Revenue          1,739     1.888    1.997    2,224    2,857      3,262    4.234    5.411     6,248    7,168
Leased Unes                       398      399       408      401      375       353      357       361      364       364
Other Services                      0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Telegraph &Telex                  138      138       160      160       131       94        94       94       94        94
NewServices                        71       71       115      213       72       130       130      130      130       130
PABXandolhertermlnalequlpm.       183      195       199      257      223       221      221       221      221       221
BuIldIngNAKUS                                                          832       860      860       860      860       860
Intra-company ellminationstadjustments                                 309      (675)    (675)    (675)    (675)    (675)
Tolal Operating Revenue             2,874    3.063     3.274    3.667    5,283    4,813    5.839    7,071    7,967    8,920
Operatlng Expensew
Salarles & Soclal Costs           427      450       482      725    1.126      1.248    1,48     1.672    1.931    2,036
MaterIals                         385      420       424      464    1,236      1,469    1,668    1.817    1.988    2.172 4
SubsidytoPost                      92       96        35      167      625       500        0         0        0         0
Overhead                           15       15        18      167       44         0       80       119      167       234
Marketing                           0        0         0        0        0         0       61        74       84        94
Intra-company elimination           0        0         0        0        0      -675     -675      -675     -675      -675
Postal Costs Incurred by Telecrom  0         0         0        0        0       -60      -60       -60      -60       -60
Depreciation                       360       370      460       560    1.138     1.160    1.271     1,404    1.566    1.736
Total Operallng Expenses            1.279    1.351     1.419    2,083    4.169     3,642    3,794    4,350    5.001    5,537
Net Operallng Income                1.594    1,712     1,855    1.584    1.114     1.171    2.045    2,721     2,966    3.384
Interest Charges                      39       41        43        86      132       127      135      133       244      373
0        0         0        0        0         0        0         a        0         0
Income Before Tax                   1,555    1,670     1,812    1,499      982     1.044    1,910    2,581    2.722    3.010
Taxation                            1.319    1,462     1,598    1,268      536       611      860     1.164    1,225    1,355
Others                                 0         0        0         0       52         0        0        0         0        0
Net Income                           236       208      214       231      498       433    1.051     1,423    1,497    1,656
(At~



SLOVAK REPLIUC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Slovak Telboonm
Balance Shoot
1S - a E_dmad FRae Irn - IM Pt r_ 
S7- a MCa  rw;    low - 1i     cnsC _im  a Pdmg.
Kos M.
1967     1968     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996
Fixed Assets:
Gross Fbted Assets            14.307   14.893   15.626   16.377   16.156   18.163   19,788   22,128   24.624   27.185
Accumulated Dpreclation       (6.523)  (6.893)  (7.353)  (7.913)  (9.051)  (10,211)  (11.482)  (12,887)  (14.453)  (16.188)
Net Fixed Assets               7.784    8.000    8,273    8.464    7.705    7.952    8.306    9.241   10.171   10.997
Work In Progress                459       524      606      689    1,492    1,598    2.473    3.733    5,077    6.456
Othems                            0        0         0        0      213         0        0        0        0         0
Total                          8.243    8.524    8,878    9.153    9.410    9.550   10,779   12,974   15,248   17.453
Cunenl1'Asts:
Receivables                     350       446      465      720      705       911      993    1.202    1,354    1.516
Inventories                     538       589      650      790      858       793    2.001    2.180    2.386    2,606
Cash and Bank Balances          388       255      273      306      377       533      222      835    1,281    1.813
Other Current Assets              0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0
Total                          1,276    1.290    1,388    1.816    1,940    2.237    3,216    4,217    5.022    5,936
ul
Total assets                      9,519    9.814   10.266   10.969   11,350   11.787   13.995   17,191   20,270   23,388
Currend Uabtllles:
Accounts Payable                160       176      217      229      442       129      497      553      616      687
Shou Term Debt                   78       135      243      387        0       264       (0)       0        (0)      0
Current Posltlon of Long Term De  0         0        0        0      145         0        0        0        0        0
Other                             0         0        0        0        0       258        0        0        0        0
Total                            238      311      460      616     .587       651      497      553      615       688
Long-Term IabIlMlles
LongTerm Debt                   608       622      711    1.027      938       879    2.190    3.909    5,427    6.818
Prowvsions                        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0
Tobl                             608      622      711    1.027       938      879    2.190    3.909    5.427    6.818
Shareholders' Funds
State Equity                   8,239    8.239    8.239    8.239    8.239    8,239    823        823      B.239    8.239
Foreign CapHal                     0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0
Revaluatlon Reserve                0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0
BalanclngReserve                  0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0
Retained Earnings                434      642      856    1,087    1.585    2.018    3,068    4.491    5.988    7,644
Soclal Reserve                     -        -        -        -        -         0        0        0        0        0                ii
Total                          8.673    8.881     9.095    9.326    9,824   10.257   11.307   12,730   14,227   15.883                 0
Total liabilitles and equlty       9,519    9,814   10.266   10,969   11,349   11.787   13,995   17,191   20,270   23,388



SLOVAK REPUBUC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Slovak Telecoms
1967 - 2 E_ma.d Figum; 1913 -66 Prnoad FigumeR         Changes In Financial Position
1907 -  Gurre. Pd..; 103 - S CaauV Jau. 03 Pd..
Kau M.
1987     1988      1989     1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996
Sources:
Ilernm Sources:
TotalOperatingIncome          1.594    1.712     1.855     1,584    1.114    1,171    2,045      2,721    2.966    3,384
DeprecIatIn                     360      370       460      560    1.138      1,160    1,271     1.404    1.566    1.736
Total                         1,954   2082      2.315   2144    2,252    2331       3.317    4.125    4,532    5.119
UcencaEurdoel                     0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
Long Term Debt                   0        14        89      316       69         0     1.311    1,896    1,696    1.568
DomnutkcDebt                      0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
Equity
Total                             0       14        89      316        69        0     1.311     1,896    1,696    1.568
Total Sources                 1.954    2.096    2.404    2.460    2,321       2,331    4.628    6,020    6.228    6,687
Appilatons
Caplla Expendiures:
Core Program                    587      651       814      835    1.182      1S513    2,500    3.600    3,840    3.940
Other Program                    0         0         0        0      213      (213)       0         0        0         0
CapltallsedInterest               0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Total                           587      651       814      835    1,395      1.300    2,500    3,600    3,840    3,940
RepaymentofLongTermLoans         13        0         0        0       158       59        0       177       177      177
Interest Costs                   39       41        43       86       132      127       135      133      244       373
Taxation                      1.319    1,462     1,598     1.268      536      611       860     1,164    1,225    1.355
Working Capital                  28       74       (69)     239        82       77    1.444       333       296      310
Others                            0        0         0        0       -52        0        0         0        0         0
Total Uses                    1,986    2.229     2,387    2.428    2.251      2,174    4.938    5,407    5,782    6,155
ChangeinCash                    (32)    (133)       18       33       70       157      (311)     613      446       532
o w



TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Slovak Telecoms
Key Ratios
1087 - 92 Eedmated Fla.ur; INS - 996 Projeed FRguro
1987 - 92 Cufwnt Proes:, 1993- 190 Condant Jan 93 Pdces
Kcs Mill.                           1987     1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      1995     1998
Key Covenants
Operating Ratio (nci Taxes)    90.4%    91.9%     92.2%    91.4%    89.1%    88.4%    79.7%      78.0%    78.1%    77.3%
Operaling Ratio (Exci Taxes)    44.5%    44.1%    43.3%    56.8%    78.9%    75.7%    65.0%      61.5%    62.8%    62.1%
Internal Generatlon Funds (3yr av    95.9%    73.6%  96.9%    54.4%   114.2%    84.1%    35.6%    69.9%    68.3%    68.2%
Debt Service Ratio              12.1      15.0     16.6      10.2      5.9      9.2      18.2      9.5      7.9       6.8
Other Key Ratlos
Operating Revenue per DEL (Kcs    4.929    4,976  5.014    5,276    7.168    6.180    7,073    8,022    8.422    8.806
Operailno Expenses per DEL (Kc    2,194    2,195  2,173    2,997    5,657    4.677    4.595      4,935    5,287    5.466
Operating income per DEL (Kcs)    2,735    2,781  2.841     2,280    1,512    1,504    2.478     3.086    3,135    3.340
Operating Revenue per DEL (US    360      347       333      294       252      217      248       281      296      309
Operating Expenses per DEL (US   160      153       144      167       198      164      161       173      186       192
OperatinglncomeperDEL(US$)       200      194       189      127        53       53       87       108      110       117
Exchange Rate 0(cs per DEL)    13.68    14.36     15.05    17.95      28.5     28.5      28.5     28.5     28.5      28.5
Return on Net Fixed Assets      20.0%    20.9%    21.9%    17.7%    12.7%    13.1%    23.0%    28.0%    26.8%    27.4%
Return on Total Assets (ROA)    17.0%    17.7%    18.5%    14.9%    10.0%    10.1%    15.9%      17.4%    15.8%    15.5%
Return on Debt (ROD)            4.7%      4.7%     4.1%      6.1%     8.3%      8.3%     6.4%     3.7%      4.6%     5.5%
DebtVEqulty (D/E)               0.10      0.10     0.12     0.15      0.17     0.15      0.20     0.30     0.39      0.45
RelumonCommonEqulty(ROE)        2.8%      2.4%     2.4%      2.5%     4.7%      4.3%     9.7%    11.8%    11.1%    11.0%
[ROE - (1-t) * (ROA . (ROA - ROD)'D/E)j
co
LA tsj



-60-
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 5
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Slovak Telecoms
Assumptions
Main assumptions used in the Financial Projections
1.    Call charges are projected to be raised on July 1, 1993 by 50% to Kcs 1.50.
2.    Increase in number of pulses per DEL: 4% per year.
3.    Exchange rate: US$1 = 28.50 Kcs.
4.    Annual salary increase: 20% in 1993; 15% in 1994/95; thereafter 5%. Salaries
include basic salaries plus 38% social costs.
5.    Increase in material cost per DEL: 2% per year.
6.    No subsides to POST after 1992.
7.    Depreciation rate as percent at Gross Fixed Assets: 6.7%



SLOVAK REPUBUC
SLOVAK TI-LECOMMUNICATIONS
INTERNATIONAL COMPARISON:
Number of Employees per 1000 Del
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984      1985      1986     1987     1988      1989
ST/Slovakia      -       -       -       -        -        -       16.9      16.4     15.9     15.4
Poland         30.4    29.7    28.4    27.7    26.5       25.3     24.1      23.0     21.8       -
Hungary          -       -       -       -        -        -         -        -        -       22.9
Greece         13.3    13.2    12.3    11.1    10.5       9.8       9.0      8.5      8.4       7.5
Spain           9.8    10.5    8.9      8.5      8.0      7.7       6.4      6.2      6.0       6.0
Portugal       23.1    21.7    20.7    19.1    17.6       16.6     15.4      13.8     12.7     11.1
Turkey           -       -       -       -        -        -         -       20.4     17.5     15.2
Ireland        40.8    33.6    32.6    29.7    26.2       23.0     20.4      18.3     17.0     15.2
Germany         9.5     9.2     8.9     8.7      8.4      8.3       8.1      7.9      7.7        -
France         10.1    9.1      8.5     8.0      7.6      7.2       6.9      6.6      6.2       5.8
U.K.             -      13.3    12.9    12.6    12.0      11.2     10.5      10.1      -        -
Netherlands     5.7     5.5     5.2     5.1      4.9      4.9       4.9      4.8      4.5       -
Finland        11.7    11.4    10.9    10.4      9.9      9.6       9.2      8.8      8.4      8.0
Sweden          8.3     8.2     8.1     8.0      7.8      8.0       8.1      7.9      7.7      7.3
Canada         10.8    10.5   .10.7    10.9      8.8      8.4       8.1  .   7.8      7.5      7.4
USA            10.1    10.2      -       -        -        -         -        -        -        -
Japan            -      8.3     8.1     7.8      7.4      7.1       6.9      6.6      6.2       5.7
Source: Yearbook of Common Carrier, ITU (18th E-dition).



-62-
SLOVAK RiUWBLIC                                                  ANNEX 14
SLOVAK TELECOMUNICATIONS
TARI:FF SCEEDULE
Existina Tariffs        Procosed Tariffs
Local Calls:                              1 Kcs per call           Peak           1.50 Crown per 6 minutes
Off-Peak      1.50 Crown per 6 minutes
Payphones:                            1 Kc.s per call                        2 Crown per 6 minutes
Long Distance:
Area 1:                               1 Kcs per minute         Peak          1.50 Kcs per minute
(within node)                                                  Off-Peak      0.75 Kcs per minute
Area 2:                               2 Kcs per minute         Peak:         3.00 Kcs per minute
(neighbouring node)                                            Off-Peak      1.50 Kcs per minute
Area 3:                               3 K_s per minute         Peak:         4.50 Kcs per minute
(non-neighbouring node)                                        Off-Peak:     2.25 Kcs per minute
Area 4:                               4 Kcs per minute
(ncn-neighbouring over 300 km)
Rentals:
DEL                                   50 Kcs per month                        50 Kcs per month
Partyline                             30 Kcs per month                        30 Kcs per month
(for 2 phones)
Partyline                             30 Kcs per month                        30 Kcs per month
(for 5 phones)
Connection Charges:
Business subscribers:                 5,000 Kcs                               5000 Kcs
Residential subscribers:              2,0C0 Kcs                               2,000 Kcs
c D,,,,,,' . --  4 .



-63-
Annex 15
SLOVAK REPUBUC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Slovak Telecom
Calculation of Intemal Rate of Retum
(Total Investment Program, 1993 - 1996)
Conint Januny 30, 193 Prices
Year nvestrn. Maint.    Conn    Rental    Call Net Cash    Disc.      Disc.
Fee      Fee   Charge      Flow    Factor  Net Cash
Flow
1993  2,500     250    220        36      377   (2,117)  0.7080      (1,499)
1994  3,600     610    243        74    1,438   (2,454)  0.5013      (1,230)
1995  3,840     994    258       112    2,308   (2,156)  0.3549       (765)
1996  3,940    1,388    259      149    5,506      586   0.2513        147
1997           1,388             149    5,926    4,687   0.1779        834
1998           1,388             149    6,367    5,128   0.1260        646
1999           1,388             149    6,829    5,590   0.0892        499
2000           1,388             149    7,314    6,075   0.0631        384
2001           1,388             149    7,446    6,207   0.0447        277
2002           1,388             149    7,583    6,344   0.0317        201
2003           1,388             149    7,727    6,488   0.0224        145
2004           1,388             149    7,878    6,639   0.0159        105
2005           1,388             149    8,036    6,797   0.0112         76
2006           1,388             149    8,202    6,962   0.0080         55
2007           1,388             149    8,375    7,136   0.0056         40
2008           1,388             149    8,556    7,317   0.0040         29
2009           1,388             149    8,746    7,507   0.0028         21
2010           1,388             149    8,945    7,706   0.0020         15
2011           1,388             149    9,154    7,915   0.0014         11
2012           2,317             149    9,372    7,204   0.0010          7
(0)
....    ....  1.24



-64-                           ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECTS
PA CONSULTANTS
ABSTRACT OF KEY FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
We list below the most important recommendations from the study on
telecommunications Sector Structure, Regulatory Framework and Tarification, carried out
during 1992 by PA and its team of subcontractors for the Federal Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic. The Study was funded by
the PHARE program of the European Community.
The recommendations from this study need to actioned as soon as possible. Issues of
competences, and more recently constitutional change, have already significantly delayed
planned improvements. For telecommunications to provide effective support for the
continuing transition to a market economy, further delay should be kept to an absolute
minimum.
Sector Structure
Competition in provision of telecommunications services and equipment should be
considered the normal state. Competition should therefore be allowed as soon as possible in
all areas of equipment supply and in provision of value added services.
However, we recommend that competition in the provision of network infrastructure
and voice telephony services should be deferred in each Republic for five years (i.e. until the
end of 1997). Exclusive licenses should be granted for this period to new main network
operators evolved from the present SPTs and the telecommunications activities of the SRs,
subject to the safeguards below.
These new main network operators should be constituted as soon as possible. We
recommend that this is done as part of the separation of posts and telecommunications prior
to de-statistician and privatization. The new operators could be called, for example, 'Czech
Telecom' and 'Slovak Telecom'.
The deferral of competition is necessary because of the need to attract external
investment funding for network development more rapidly than would occur otherwise.
Introduction of competition too early would slow down the process of attracting such
funding. Open competition should be permitted after this five year period.
A range of safeguards should be implemented to ensure performance of the new main
network operators. These are:



-65-                             ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3
*     negotiation of 'Service Obligation Agreements' with the operators to provide
incentives and sanctions against agreed performance targets;
*     organization and management changes to move the business cultures of the
operators from their present positions towards that appropriate to modem,
highly efficient telecommunications operators; and
*     change programs to improve the performance of the operators in a number of
functional areas.
Involvement on a partnership basis of foreign telecommunications operators with the
future operators should be sought as soon as possible. Such partnership, based on substantial
equity participation (at the 30-40% level), is needed to ensure commitment of appropriate
management and technical skills to the development of the operators. Such commitment will
be essential.
Entrepreneurial initiatives to speed up network development should be encouraged.
These should be undertaken jointly with the future operators, under their licenses. Such
initiatives could include rapid roll-out of business services (building on work already done by
the SRs) and a variety of initiatives to speed up local loop development in particular areas
(e.g. with cable television companies).
Iegislative and Regulatory Framework
In the light of the new constitutional position since the June General Elections, new
Republican laws for telecommunications should be developed, based on existing Federal law.
Generally binding regulations should be issued in each Republic by Ministerial decree
as soon as possible. These regulations should cover key areas such as licensing and type
approval procedures.
A regulatory body should be established for telecommunications in each Republic.
Each body should be headed by a Director General, who will be the telecommunications
Regulator for the Republic. The Regulator should act so as to support govemment policy but
should not be unduly influenced by day-to-day Ministerial concerns. The Regulator should
be independent and should derive this independence from the terms of his or her
appointment. He or she should be appointed for a fixed term of 5 years, renewable for 3
years once only and should not be removable by Ministerial decree alone.
The Directors General should be supported by small regulatory units, initially of 15-
20 senior staff plus appropriate supporting staffs (perhaps 50-75 staff in total in each
Republic). These units could be within or outside the competent Ministries. The regulatory
bodies should be funded by license fees. The activities of the Directors General should
follow 'due process', with appropriate accountability to Parliament.



-66-                              ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
Regulation of the radio frequency spectrum should be carried out by a separate body,
with a remit covering all users of spectrum, not just telecommunications operators.
Type approval should be organized at two levels. Type approval policies should be
set by the Regulators. Equipment certification should be organized via appropriate test
laboratories. Advantage should be taken of opportunities for mutual recognition, so as to
minimize the cost of such test laboratories.
Major licenses for operators should be granted by the competent Ministers on the
advice of the respective Regulators (who may in practice, with their staffs, carry out much of
the work of drafting and issuing the licenses). 'General' licenses should be used where
appropriate to minimize the need for individual licensing. General licenses should be issued
by the Regulators under delegated authority from their respective Ministers. Licenses should
be granted to legitimize existing network operators as soon as possible.
Tarification
Current tariffs are a long way from being cost-based and are too low to attract
necessary investment into the telecommunications sector. The currently proposed tariff
changes should be implemented as soon as possible. These proposals are at a level
appropriate to attract foreign investment.
Price control on telecommunications tariffs to end-users should be on a 'price cap'
basis applied to 'baskets' of services using the widely accepted 'CPI-X' formula. Price
controls should be applied and regulated by the Regulators in each Republic. The SPTs
themselves should set their own prices on a service by service basis within the overall
controls.
The future operators should develop programs of tariff rebalancing to move towards
cost oriented tariffs. Leased line rentals should be reduced as quickly as possible, as part of
this program, to encourage the development of value added services.
The future operators should set up internal procedures for tariff setting and approval
of tariff changes. For such procedures to be effective, better cost data will be needed and
this will require improved management accounting systems, which should be a priority.
Improved billing and collection systems are also needed urgently to allow sufficient
flexibility for the future operators in tariff setting, and to improve cash flows.



IBRD 24626
20                                22
SLOVAK  RE PUB LI C
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Proposed Backbone Network, 1 995
PROPOSED BACKBONE         EXISTING
NETWORK INCLUDED          AS OF 1992:
IN THE PROJECT:
OPTICAL FIBER CABLES
% _tZ                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MICROWAVE LINKS
f        )      Og                     *~~~~ EXCHANGES
0      50          100         15'IV0
_                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIO NAL BO UN DARI ES
ETSRIVERS
C Z E C H                                   Pf-J   9
RE  ~              Zilin L I C~~                                                         r. X;
-   ,9slavo                 C      ~~~~    rONtro     4z
50            1 00        1 50,',,  ","                                            ''
1 8202
JUNE I1993



