Document of
the World Bank
Report No: 17862 UG
STAFF APPRZAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING FOR PROTECTED AREAS
MANAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABLE USE PROJECT
(ICB-PAMSU PROJECT)
June 3, 1998
Country Department 4
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling (UgSh)
US$1.00 = 1050 UgSh at appraisal
SDR 1.00 = US$1.35 as of May 1998
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
DD                        Deputy Director
EC                        European Commission
ED                        Executive Director (Uganda Wildlife Authority)
EIA                       Environmental Impact Assessment
EMCBP                     Environment Management Capacity Building Project
EU                        European Union
FD                        Forestry Department (Ministry of Natural Resources)
GEF                       Global Environment Facility
GOU                       Government of Uganda
HR                        Human Resources
HTTI                      Hotel and Tourism Training Institute
HQ                        Headquarters
IA                       Implementing Agency
ICB                       International Competetive Bidding
ICB-PAMSU                 Institutional Capacity Building Project for Protected Areas Management and Sustainable tise
IDA                       International Development Association
IDF                       Institutional Development Facility
ITMP                      Integrated Tourism Master Plan
ITTI                      Ministry of Tourism. Trade and Industry
NCAM                      National Commission for Antiquities and Museums
NCB                       National Competitive Bidding
NEAP                      Nationial Environmental Action Plan
NGO                       Non-governmental Organization
NSP                       National Shopping Procedures
PAMSU                     Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
PA                        Protected Area
PCU                       Project Coordination Unit
PlF                      Project Preparation Facility
SDR                       Standard Drawing Rights
SOE                       Statement of Expense
TA                       'I'echnical Assistance
UAT1'T1                   Uganlda Association ol' Tourism 'I'raining Institutes
UJIA                      Uganda Investment Authority
UIE                       Uganda Institute of Ecology
UND]'                     United Nations Developmlient Program
UNI'                      Uganda National Parks
USAID                     UJnited States Agency for International Developmelnt
i ITB                     Uganda Tourism Board
lJWA                      UJgailda Wildlife Authiority
UWEC                      Uganlda Wildlife Educationi Ceniter
IJWI                      L Uganida Wildliie Tr-aininig Inshtitute
WD                        Wildlife Department (Ministry of l'oUI-isIll Wildlilf and Antiqlities)
Government Fiscal Year
.ItIv I - iune 30
Vice 1'residciell:   C'allislo F_ M9adavlo. AFIR
('ounl1ry l)irector:    Jim Adtamt, Al`('()4
I'ecliiiiciil manalger:  ('N tithial Ct. Cok. AFl''l''I
Teamll l.eadter:    Aoi liiss, AlF'l'l I



TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1. INTRODUCTION ............................................................................1
2. COUNTRY AND SECTOR CONTEXT ............................................................................3
3. THE PROJECT ............................................................................5
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................................................5
B. PROJECT SUMMARY ............................................................................6
C.  DETAILED  PROJECT COMPONENTS ............................................................................7
Component #1: UWA Capacity Building and Operations .........................................................................7
Component #2:  Capacity  Building for Other Conservation-related Institutions ..................................... 11
Component #3: Strengthening of the Department of Museums and Antiquities/National Commission for
Antiquities and Museums .......................................................................                                                             13
Component # 4 Capacity Strengthening Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry, and the Uganda
Tourism Board .......................................................................                                                                      14
Component # S  Strengthening  of In-Country  Tourism   Training  Capacity .............................................. 19
Project Coordination  and Implementation  Support .......................................................................                                    20
D.  PROJECT COSTS  AND FINANCI NG................................................................................I...................21
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...........................................................................                                                           25
A. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ...........................................................................                                                         25
B. DISBURSEMENT ...........................................................................                                                                    29
C. AUDITING AND  REPORTING  REQUIREMENTS ...........................................................................                                            30
D. SUPERVISION PLAN ...........................................................................                                                                 30
5. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................................................................                                                      33
A. PROJECT BENEFITS ............................................................................                                                                33
B.  LESSONS LEARNED  FROM  PREVIOUS BANK/IDA  EXPERIENCE ................................................................. 33
C. RATIONALE FOR BANK/IDA INVOLVEMENT .....................................                                                                                     34
D. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS .....................................                                                                                        35
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .....................................                                                                                                  35
F. RISKS ..................................... 37
6. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................................                                                                                         39
RECOMMENDATION .....................................                                                                                                            40
List of Annexes
1.           Cost Tables
2.           Performance Indicators and Targets
3.           Implementation Schedule
4.           Executive Director of the Uganda Wildlife Authority Terms of Reference
5.           Financial Management Services for Uganda Wildlife Authority Terms of Reference



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR
PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABLE USE
(ICB-PAMSU PROJECT)
Credit, Grant, and Project Summary
Borrower:                         Republic of Uganda
Implementing Agency:              Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry
Beneficiaries:                    Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry; Uganda
Wildlife Authority; Selected Other
Wildlife/Tourism Sector Institutions
Poverty:                          Not Applicable
Amount:            IDA            SDR 9.1 million (US$12.37 equivalent)
GEF           SDR 1.5 million (US$2.0 equivalent)
Terms:             IDA            Standard with 40 year maturity
GEF           Grant
Net Present Value:                Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:           17862 UG
Map:                              IBRD 29597
Project Identification Number:    UG-PA-2941
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Uganda possesses a rich natural endowment of natural habitats, some of the
richest assemblages of biological diversity in Africa, and a unique cultural and historical
heritage. Until the early 1970's, these served as the basis for a well-established tourism
industry which was the country's third largest foreign exchange earner. Fifteen years of
political instability subsequently took a heavy toll on the country's economy and
resources, including its wildlife, protected areas and tourism infrastructure.
Rehabilitation and management of the wildlife and conservation areas, revitalization of
the tourism industry, and empowerment of local governments and communities to
manage and benefit from sustainable use of natural resources, are now high priorities for
the Government of Uganda (GOU), as demonstrated by a number of actions and policy
and institutional reforms it has taken over the past few years. For example, the GOU has
rehabilitated and upgraded the Entebbe international airport and waived visa requirements
for visitors from many countries, including the major tourism source markets. The GOU
also established a number of parastatal and mixed public/private sector entities
responsible for different facets of the conservation and tourism sectors, many of which
were previously the direct responsibility of government departments. These include the
Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA), the Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC), the
Uganda Wildlife Training Institute (UWTI), the Uganda Tourism Board (UTB), the
Hotel and Tourism Training Institute (HTTI) and, soon to be added, the National
Commission for Antiquities and Museums (NCAM)'. The restoration and development
of a sustainable nature-based tourism industry supports the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) objective of sustainable natural resource management and environmental
management.
1.2   A major objective of transferring these traditionally government functions to
semi-autonomous entities was to enhance their sustainability through generation and
retention of revenues, mainly from tourism-related activities. This is consistent with a
growing trend around the world to reduce the dependence of such bodies (e.g. national
parks and wildlife authorities, museums, etc.) on increasingly stretched national budgets.
They are also intended to provide a synergistic linkage between the public and private
sectors, to facilitate the development and growth of the tourism industry. Thus they
represent an important model for public/private cooperation for private sector
development, also an important element of the Uganda CAS. The Ministry of Tourism,
Trade and Industry (MTTI) retains an important role, ensuring a supportive policy
Being developed with the assistance of an Institutional Development Fund grant
1



environment for development in the sector as well as appropriate regulation to ensure that
valuable national resources are conserved and managed in the public interest. This
includes setting and ensuring adherence to appropriate environmental and safety
standards, as well as measures to promote a broader distribution of the positive economic
impacts of tourism development.
1.3   The UWA, UTB, UWEC, UWTI, HTTI and NCAM are all relatively new, and
have a variety of institutional weaknesses which need to be addressed if they are to fulfill
their roles effectively and achieve sustainability. The main areas where institutional
capacity building is required are financial management, human resources management
and development, project implementation, and strategic, business and financial planning.
This capacity must be strengthened as a prerequisite to undertaking their respective
expansion and development plans and to enable them to make effective use of investment
resources. The capacity of the MTTI to plan, guide, regulate and promote development
in the sector also needs to be strengthened, along with the development of a skilled and
trained work force for conservation activities and to provide essential services for the
tourism industry. Building capacity within the individual institutions and strengthening
the overall institutional framework will help ensure that Uganda is able to conserve,
manage and develop its valuable natural resources and reclaim its place as a major
international tourism destination.
2



2. COUNTRY AND SECTOR CONTEXT
2.1   Due to its location in a zone of overlap between the dry East African savannah
and the West African rain forest, Uganda possesses a rich natural endowment of forests,
mountains, and waterways, as well as some of the richest assemblages of biological
diversity in Africa. Its wide geographical and altitudinal range, spanning from 600
meters to 5100 meters, has resulted in a unique diversity of ecosystems and species.
These include extensive wetlands and swamp areas, grass and woodland savannahs,
tropical high forests, and Afroalpine forest areas. For its size, Uganda is one of the most
species- rich countries in Africa. For example, Uganda has more than 11% of the world's
bird species and more than 7% of total world mammals.
2.2   Uganda has an extensive system of protected areas (PAs), including ten national
parks, and twenty-nine game reserves, sanctuaries, and controlled hunting areas. But
because of the breakdown of law and order over the past two decades, a significant
portion of Uganda's protected area system has deteriorated and severe encroachment has
occurred. A national Integrated Tourism Master Plan (ITMP), which was completed
three years ago with assistance from UNDP and the World Tourism Organization,
identifies priority needs and areas for rehabilitation and development. The plan is based
on PAs as the primary attraction, with a secondary emphasis on cultural assets. It
emphasizes that growth in the sector must follow a modest pace corresponding to the rate
of recovery of the underlying natural assets and the rehabilitation and expansion of the
supporting infrastructure.
2.3   In 1996, the parastatal UWA was established through the consolidation of the
responsibilities, personnel and assets of the former Game Department and the parastatal
Uganda National Parks (UNP). The UWA has overall responsibility for all parks and
game reserves and also for all wildlife in the country. The UWA is empowered to retain
all revenues it earns (from park entrance fees, Gorilla trekking fees, concession leases,
etc.) and is intended to become increasingly self-sustaining. However, the revenue from
these sources is relatively low at present, due to the small scale of the tourism industry
and to ongoing problems of access and security in key wildlife areas. In recognition of
the essential service the UWA provides to the nation, the GOU is committed to
continuing to provide a substantial annual subvention until the organization can become
financially self-sufficient. UNP, and its successor UWA, have also enjoyed substantial
support from multilateral, bilateral and Non-Governmental (NGO) sources, particularly
for the rehabilitation and improved management of a number of individual parks.
However, the long-term sustainability of UWA will depend upon its fumctioning
3



effectively and efficiently, with a business-like management approach. This will require
building greater institutional capacity and improving staff skills throughout the
organization, particularly in relation to planning and to financial and human resources
management.
2.4   The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) serves as the framework for
improving environmental protection, including conservation of biodiversity and other
natural resources, through sustainable use including tourism. Empowerment of
communities for natural resource management, as called for in the NEAP, is being
promoted through a decentralization policy, supported by the Decentralization Act.
4



3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The "Conservation and Sustainable Use" program is the GOU's umbrella program
to support conservation of the country's wildlife and cultural heritage and assets, and to
implement the Integrated Tourism Master Plan. Some activities are already underway
with support from donors such as the European Commission (EC) and USAID. This
includes a detailed assessment and rationalization of the existing PA estate to ensure it
encompasses high quality representation of the country's varied natural habitats and
provides a sound basis for development of nature-based tourism, while being logistically
and financially sustainable. The Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use
(PAMSU) project, which was prepared with World Bank assistance, aims to support high
priority capital investment in rehabilitation and improved operation of the PAs,
implementation of the Wildlife Act, and investment in other, complementary aspects of
tourism development. However, in view of the current weaknesses in the institutional
framework in the sector, the "Institutional Capacity Building for PAMSU" (ICB-
PAMSU) project has been identified as a necessary precursor to such investment. The
ICB-PAMSU project aims to establish the institutional capacity within the sector needed
to plan and implement future investment programs, including the proposed PAMSU
project.
3.2   The main objective of the ICB-PAMSU project is to establish effective
institutional capacity within the wildlife and tourism sectors for strategic planning,
program development and implementation, and to promote long-term sustainability.
Capacity building activities will be focused at three levels:
(i) ensuring an effective and efficient overall institutional framework, in which
the roles of the various sectoral institutions are well coordinated and their
functions and capabilities are complementary. This includes promoting an
effective partnership among the public and private sectors and NGOs;
(ii) strengthening the planning, management and implementation capacity, and
ensuring the sustainability and accountability, of the individual institutions; and
(iii) strengthening overall human resources capacity and promoting
professionalism within the sector.
5



3.3    A second important objective of the ICB-PAMSU project is to secure the vital
natural resource base, particularly the Protected Areas (PAs) estate and wildlife resources,
during the period that the institutional capacity is being strengthened. It is also expected
that the revenue base (e.g. PA entry fees and concession fees) will grow during this
period, providing a basis for long-term sustainability.
B. PROJECT SUMMARY
3.4   The project will provide technical assistance, contractual services, training,
essential equipment and supplies, and incremental operating costs to support the
following main components:
(1) Strengthening the organizational structure, management systems and
operational capacity of UWA, and the managerial and technical capacity of staff
at Headquarters and Field Levels. This will include support for developing a
"planning culture" and accountability within the organization, and carrying out
strategic, business and management planning at all levels from organization-wide
to individual PAs and programs. As a first step, it will provide support for
completion of the ongoing "Protected Areas System Assessment and
Rationalization" process aimed at developing a representative and sustainable PA
system (complementing existing EC support for this exercise). To ensure that
existing wildlife and PA assets are protected and managed during this capacity
building phase, the project would contribute to non-salary operational
expenditures, supplementing the limited funds available from UWA's current
revenues and GOU subvention;
(2) Strengthening institutional capacity of other selected conservation-related
institutions, complementing the role of UWA, including: (i) the Wildlife
Department (WD); (ii) the Uganda Wildlife Education Centre; and (iii) the
Forestry Department (FD) for development of forest ecotourism. Support to
UWEC will include limited civil works and equipment to facilitate ongoing
upgrading of animal holding facilities2 and educational exhibits. The Uganda
Wildlife Training Institute (UWTI) will receive technical assistance for strategic
planning and analysis to assist it to identify a market niche and develop an
operational strategy and business plan. In addition, UWA may decide to use
UWTI as a service provider for some aspects of its staff training program, to be
supported under the project;
(3) Strengthening of the National Commission for Antiquities and Museums
(expected successor to the existing Department of Museums and Antiquities),
including: institutional development and capacity building, including assistance
in developing a business plan and short- and long-term investment strategies. The
2Including facilities required for Uganda to meet its obligations under CITES and other international
conventions, i.e. to handle animals confiscated in illegal trade
6



project will also support urgent maintenance and modest rehabilitation of key
facilities to better protect and manage valuable artifacts and to promote the growth
of responsible cultural tourism, and a survey of cultural and historical sites around
the country.
(4) Strengthening the Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry and the Uganda
Tourism Board, to promote the development of a broad-based, competitive, well-
regulated and sustainable tourism industry; and
(5) Strengthening capacity for Human resources development within the tourism
sector, through a "Train-the-Trainer" program benefiting both public sector Hotel
Tourism and Training Institute (HTTI) and private sector training institutions.
3.5   The project will also provide support for the MTTI Project Coordination Unit, to
which will be responsible for coordination and implementation of all project components
and activities.
C. DETAILED PROJECT COMPONENTS
Component #1: UWA Capacity Building and Operations
Background
3.6   The Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) was established in August, 1996, through
a consolidation of the personnel, assets and responsibilities of the parastatal Uganda
National Parks (UNP) and the GOU Game Department. Prior to this consolidation, UNP
was responsible for management of the National Parks, and retained all revenue from
park entry fees and related activities, such as "Gorilla trekking." The Game Department
was responsible for management of the Game Reserves and Game Controlled areas, many
of which are adjacent to National Parks, and for all wildlife management and protection
activity (anti-poaching, problem animal control, etc.) outside the national parks. Due to
inadequate budgetary allocations, the Game Department was unable to maintain an
effective presence or activities in most of the areas for which it was responsible.
3.7   The purpose of the consolidation of UNP and Game Department was to increase
efficiency and effectiveness of conservation efforts, by bringing the responsibility for
adjacent Protected Areas (PAs) with similar management objectives under one
institutional roof. Since its creation, however, UWA has been unable to meet this
challenge, despite having a substantial cadre of capable and committed staff. The
problem has been mainly at the management level, particularly inadequacies in the areas
of financial management and accounting, Human Resources management and planning.
Overall, UWA was launched without adequate attention to the need for institutional
development. Management staff, structures and processes were in effect transferred from
the smaller and more limited UNP, without the preparation or adjustments needed to
address the needs of the larger, more complex new institution or to adapt to the changing
7



state of the art in PA and wildlife management. As a result, UWA has not been able to
collect and allocate revenues efficiently or to develop and implement PA management
plans, and conditions in the field have deteriorated, with reports of increased poaching
and deteriorating morale. While the Wildlife Policy and Wildlife Act call for UWA to be
pro-active in promoting community participation in wildlife and PA management, UWA
presently has neither a strategy for this purpose nor the capacity and resources to develop
one. UWA also does not currently have the capacity to undertake a major investment
program aimed at rehabilitating infrastructure and establishing conditions to promote
increased tourism in the PAs.
IDA and GEF support:
3.8   Under this component, the project will support Technical Assistance (TA),
training, equipment and incremental operating costs in order to:
(i) establish, as quickly as possible, management systems and operating
procedures that will enable UWA to function efficiently and in a business-like
manner, to manage its financial and human resources effectively and up to
accepted standards, and to develop sound strategic, business and operational plans
both organization-wide and for individual PAs;
(ii) strengthen the capacity of UWA staff at all levels through training aimed at
providing them with the managerial and other skills required to meet the changing
challenges of PA and wildlife management (e.g. community-oriented
conservation, tourism development and service, cost-efficiency and financial
management and planning, etc.); and
(iii) enable UWA to maintain an effective presence in the field to protect and
maintain the wildlife and PA assets during this capacity building phase.
Technical Assistance:
3.9   In view of the nature and scale of institutional change and strengthening required,
the limitations of current managerial capacity and the urgency of the deteriorating
situation in the field, the project will support long term Technical Assistance and the
"outsourcing" of some key managerial functions and services on a contract basis. This
will enable UWA to implement these critical functions immediately and allow UWA
Management and staff to focus initially on implementing high priority core activities such
as development and implementation of PA management plans. The individuals and firms
contracted will have the responsibility to establish, and begin implementation of,
effective management systems and operating procedures, while at the same time
providing in-service training for UWA counterparts in order to ensure sustainability of
the institutional strengthening measures they put in place. For other aspects of UWA's
operations, the project will support Technical Assistance and training to strengthen the
capacity of UWA staff in their respective positions.



3.10  The managerial functions to be contracted or "outsourced" include:
(a) Change Management and Executive Leadership: an individual with strong
management skills and experience in change management, will be recruited
internationally to serve as the Executive Director for a period of 3 years, to lead
the process of transforming UWA into an efficient, business-like organization
with modern management methods and systems. He/she will also be responsible
for building an effective management team to ensure the sustainability of these
institutional reforms. The ED, who is being selected with the assistance of a
consultant firm experienced in managerial recruitment, will be primarily
responsible for implementation of the UWA component of the project, including
overseeing the establishment of sound operating procedures at Headquarters and
in the field and overseeing the development of a strategic plan and business plan.
The project will also provide funds for short-term TA to assist the ED in various
aspects of his/her "change management" responsibilities, including strategic and
corporate planning, management information systems, team-building, etc. Use of
these short-term TA funds will be programmed through the Annual Work Plan,
with the approval of the PCU and IDA. The ED will be responsible to the UWA
Board of Trustees for implementation of UWA policies, and through the Board to
the MTTI for implementation of the national Wildlife Policy and Wildlife Act as
they relate to UWA's functions and responsibilities.
(b) Financial Management: a team of consultants from a well-established
financial services firm will be contracted to oversee all aspects of UWA's
financial management for an initial two year period, including revenue collection
and management, expenditure, accounting and budget management. During the
first two years, the consultant team will be responsible for developing effective
cash flow and tracking systems and budget management procedures, including the
selection and installation of appropriate software packages, and overseeing their
implementation by UWA financial staff at Headquarters and in the field. The
team will also provide in-service training in these systems, procedures and
software for UWA financial staff at all levels. During the third year of the project,
the UWA Financial Department will resume control of UWA's financial
management, and one member of the consultant team will continue to work with
UWA in a monitoring and advisory capacity. The qualifications and Terms of
Reference for the consultant team were agreed with the Bank prior to project
negotiations, and selection of a team acceptable to the Bank will be a condition of
effectiveness.
(c) Staff Training: During project preparation, a training needs assessment was
carried out and a draft training program was developed with an emphasis on skills
for PA management, wildlife management and community-oriented conservation.
The proposed program combines in-service training, short courses and a limited
amount of longer-term individual professional development and degree training in
Uganda and abroad. It also includes "Train-the Trainer" elements to strengthen
9



UWA's in-service training capacity. The project will fund a long-term
consultancy contract to refine this draft training program (in Year 1) and
coordinate its implementation (Years 2 and 3). The consultants, in coordination
with the UWA Deputy Director for Human Resources, will be responsible for
establishing specific training objectives, identifying and developing appropriate
training activities and courses (funds for short-term TA and sub-contracting will
be included in the contract) and for managing the training budget in coordination
with the Financial Management team. Proposed training activities will be
included in the relevant UWA Annual Work Plans, to be approved by IDA.
(d) Engineering and Technical Services: UWA has some capacity among its field
staff to undertake routine maintenance and rehabilitation of infrastructure and
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, as is also receiving some TA in this area
through bilateral and EC assistance. However, UWA lacks capacity at
Headquarters level to plan and coordinate infrastructure development and to
develop and oversee implementation of efficient systems for technical services.
Beginning in Year 2, the project will support a long-term (2 year) consultant
position to assist UWA to develop such systems and to oversee the
technical/engineering aspects of identification and design of infrastructure
development proposed to be financed under the anticipated follow-on investment
project (PAMSU). The project will also support complementary short-term TA,
including for design of a new UWA HQ building.
3.11  The project will also support short-term TA and associated training and
operational funds for:
(i) development and implementation of Human Resources management systems;
(ii) completion of the ongoing "PA System Rationalization" process, with
particular emphasis on ensuring effective participation of affected communities;
(iii) strengthening the capacity of the UWA Board of Trustees to carry out its
duties, including training and TA for development of a Procedural Manual; and
(iv) legal aspects of implementing the recommendations of the Ministerial
Committee on tourism concessions in the PAs.
Training:
3.12  The consultancy for development and implementation of a staff training program
will include support for costs incurred in carrying out the training activities covered by
the program, which will focus primarily on in-service training for PA management,
wildlife management and community-oriented conservation aspects. Other aspects of
training will be supported separately under the training category, including management-
related training, some long-term degree courses and training workshops for the UWA
Board of Trustees and Management.
10



Equipment and material:
3.13  Under this category, the project will provide essential materials for UWA field
staff, such as radios, uniforms and camping gear, equipment for the Planning Unit and
corresponding PA management activities, and computer equipment and accessories to
support the implementation of improved management systems at HQ and in the field.
Incremental Operating Costs:
3.14 The main purpose of this category is to ensure UWA staff in the field are able to
carry out their duties effectively to protect Uganda's wildlife and PA resources. The
project will provide 85% of these costs, including, i. a. vehicle maintenance and fuel,
routine repair and maintenance of facilities, field allowances, office supplies, etc.
3.15  The project will also cover 95% of the cost of rental of office facilities for UWA
HQ, in view of the fact that the old UWA HQ is not large enough to accommodate the
new UWA structure as well as personnel required implementation of this project (e.g.
several additional senior and mid-level managers have been recruited, several long-term
consultants will be recruited, new operational centers such as the Planning Unit will
require upgraded space, etc.). In the long term it is planned to build a new Headquarters
building for UWA, financed under the follow-on PAMSU investment project. Until
funding for construction of new HQ offices is assured, UWA is retaining its old HQ
building as a fall-back. This building is currently occupied by several conservation-
related organizations on a gratis basis. However, by the end of Project Year 1, it is
expected that UWA will begin to receive rent for the use of its old HQ offices, to help
meet its operating costs.
3.16  The GEF grant will contribute US$ 665,000 to the costs of materials, equipment
and operating costs of UWA.
Component #2: Capacity Building for Other Conservation-related Institutions
Background
3.17  Several other institutions in Uganda share responsibility with UWA for
conservation of wildlife and biodiversity, and related activities such as conservation
education and training. These include the Wildlife Department, the Uganda Wildlife
Education Center, the Forest Department which has responsibility for indigenous Forest
Reserves, and the Uganda Wildlife Training Institute. UWEC and the FD also have the
potential to contribute to and diversify Uganda's "ecotourism product," and are therefore
important to the long-term sustainability of conservation efforts and to realizing the
economic benefits from this resource. A comprehensive program to support conservation
and wildlife/nature-related tourism therefore must consider the role and the development
needs of these institutions.
11



IDA and GEF Support
3.18  The project will provide Technical Assistance, training, civil works, equipment
and incremental operating costs to support the following institutional development and
capacity strengthening activities of these institutions:
(1) WiIdlife Department (WD): The WD is responsible for wildlife policy and for
fulfilling functions mandated by the Wildlife Statute and by international
conventions to which Uganda is a signatory. Uganda has a recently adopted
Wildlife Policy and Wildlife Act, which serve as a sound foundation. However,
both the Policy and the Act require further refinement, particularly in relation to
specifying policy objectives and development of regulations relating to the
Community Wildlife Management Areas. Fulfilling its responsibilities vis a vis
intemational conservation-related agreements and conventions, such as the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species requires consultations
and policy development at the national level, participation in international
meetings, and enforcement actions such as confiscation and holding of animals
intercepted in illegal trade. The project will support short-term TA, training and
participatory workshops, travel and equipment to assist the WD in these functions,
and will also finance the construction of improved holding facilities for
confiscated animals at UWEC (see next section).
(2) Uganda Wildlife Education Center (UWEC): UWEC was established as a
Trust, with USAID assistance, to transform the run-down Entebbe Zoo into a
positive and effective center for conservation education, aimed at both the local
population and tourists. Since that time, UWEC has made substantial progress,
both with respect to management and physical infrastructure, under the leadership
of a dynamic and committed Board and management. Its needs at this time are
continuity of the existing management for another 2 years to maintain momentum
and consolidate the achievements to date, rehabilitation and modest expansion of
existing facilities and educational exhibits, and strategic and business planning
and feasibility studies aimed at identifying a realistic and sustainable larger scale
development plan. The project will provide long-term TA for management
support (continuation of the Director's contract for 2 years), short-term TA for
strategic and business planning and feasibility studies and for design of facilities
and exhibits, and funds to support ongoing physical rehabilitation and
development of educational exhibits on a modest scale.
(3) Uganda Wildlife Training Institute (UWTI): UWTI was established as a
parastatal with the aim of providing wildlife management training for UWA and
other clientele on a cost-recovery basis. Since then, however, the Institute has
languished in the absence of adequate funds to develop its infrastructure, although
it has been able to mount some courses using rented and borrowed facilities.
While there will be a continuing need in Uganda for wildlife management training
for UWA and other public and private sector clients (e.g. District and local
12



authorities, private game ranchers), the precise role and the appropriate nature and
structure of the UWTI will need to be identified, through market analysis and
feasibility studies emphasizing cost-recovery and sustainability aspects. The
project will support short-term TA for such feasibility studies and planning, to
enable UWTI to contribute effectively to a process, to be led by WD and UWA, of
identifying long-term training needs in the wildlife sector and evaluating options
(including the role of UWTI) for meeting those needs.
(4) Forestry Department (FD). The FD is responsible for protection and
management of the gazetted forest reserves, many of which have significant
biodiversity resources not found within the national parks and reserves managed
by UWA. The FD has been increasing its emphasis on the biodiversity
conservation aspects of its mandate, seeking ways to generate revenue from
indigenous forests in environmentally sustainable ways. Ecotourism, primarily
through private concessions, is one important approach. Therefore, the FD needs
to develop internal capacity to promote, manage and regulate ecotourism within
the forest reserves to ensure they are sustainable and environmentally sound, and
to promote local participation. The project will provide technical assistance,
training, minor civil works, a vehicle, other equipment and supplies, and
incremental operating costs to help FD build its capacity in this area and to
support the development and management of two pilot community-oriented
ecotourism activities which FD has initiated, in the Kasyoha-Kitomi and Mpanga
Forest Reserves respectively.
Component #3: Strengthening of the Department of Museums and
Antiquities/National Commission for Antiquities and Museums
Background
3.19  The Government of Uganda, with assistance from an Institutional Development
Facility (IDF) Grant, is in the process of transforming the MTTI Department of Museums
,and Antiquities into an independent parastal organization, the NCAM, responsible for
preserving, protecting and exhibiting Uganda's national cultural assets. The NCAM is
expected to be established by July, 1999. In addition to the national interest in preserving
cultural heritage, a well developed national system of museums and cultural/historical
sites will help to diversify Uganda's tourism "product" away from its current sole
reliance on nature/wildlife-based tourism. To the extent that cultural and historical
tourism sites can be developed in different parts of the country, some of which (e.g. the
Kasubi Tombs have been returned to the traditional rulers), it can also help generate
economic activity in those areas, benefiting local communities.
3.20  As with other government departments in the sector which have been converted to
parastatals over the past few years, it is expected that the NCAM will eventually cover a
substantial part of its recurrent operating costs through revenue generation. This will
require a well-planned development program, including rehabilitation and improvement
13



of existing facilities at the National Museum in Kampala, development of new facilities
and exhibits in Kampala and at other sites around the country, modern business-like
managemenit and a well-trained and motivated staff with up-to-date skills in both
curatorial and exhibition-related disciplines. The ongoing IDF Grant is providing TA and
training to support the process of establishing the NCAM, including preparation of
enabling legislation and development of an appropriate institutional structure, as well as
some training to fill urgent skills gaps in the curatorial staff.
IDA Support
3.21  The ICB-PAMSU project will complement the IDF Grant by supporting TA,
training, equipment and incremental operational costs for:
(i) urgent repair and rehabilitation of essential curation and exhibition facilities at
the National Museum,
(ii) improving public educational programs (audio-visual equipment),
(iii) preparation of a business plan and a development/investment plan, and
(iv) a regional survey and assessment to identify prospective sites for future
development of cultural tourism around the country, with participation of
traditional authorities and local communities.
3.22 The MTTI Commissioner for Museums and Antiquities will be primarily
responsible for implementation of this component, until the NCAM has been established,
at which point it will become the responsibility of the Executive Director of the NCAM.
Component # 4 Capacity Strengthening Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry,
and the Uganda Tourism Board
Background
3.23  Given the competition it faces from other countries in the region with well-
established wildlife tourism industries, Uganda's success will initially depend on
complementing their offerings and effectively targeting and capturing niche markets.
This requires the development of a policy framework to articulate a vision for the sector
and provide a unified direction and identify realistic sectoral objectives and targets at
both national and local levels. The policy framework should address questions such as:
(i) which sectors of the market to target and how, (ii) the extent to which foreign
investment will be encouraged and through what mechanisms, (iii) the respective roles of
the private and public sectors, and (iv) how tourism development can best promote
sustainable national economic development.
3.24  Following articulation of the overall policy objectives, a strategic plan should be
developed which would include, i.a: (i) specific policy measures and investments to
promote private investment in economically, environmentally and socially sound
14



development, (ii) targets and measures for human resources development, (iii) the
systematic collection and analysis of data to guide development planning and assess the
impacts of policies and investments; and (iv) setting, monitoring and enforcing standards
for tourism facilities and services to instill confidence in international tourism operators
and tourists.
IDA Support
3.25  The project will provide Technical Assistance, training, vehicles, equipment and
incremental operating costs to support the policy development and planning process and
to strengthen the capacity of MTTI and its key partners to fulfill their respective functions
and to implement specific activities on a cooperative basis.
(A) Strengthening MTTI capacity
(i) Policy and Planning
3.26 The existing Integrated Tourism Master Plan (ITMP) identifies geographical
priorities for development of tourism circuits and sites, and contains some useful
recommendations regarding the pace of development. However, it does not address
fundamental policy and strategic issues such as targeting of markets, product
development, identifying and alleviating constraints to development, providing incentives
for appropriate development, etc. The MTTI Department of Tourism Development will
play the key role in developing the policy framework and strategic plan, including
coordinating the contributions of key public and private sector stakeholders and partners.
In the public sector, the GOU has established a Tourism Coordinating Committee,
chaired by the Commissioner, which includes representation of relevant government
departments such as Customs and Immigration, Civil Aviation, Revenue, Labor etc. The
Uganda Investment Authority (UIA) is also a key player with respect to policy and action
to promote private sector investment, particularly foreign investment. Involvement of the
private sector will be coordinated through the Uganda Tourism Board (a parastatal with
mixed private and public sector membership) and a number of trade associations under
the umbrella of the Uganda Tourism Association.
3.27  The project will provide TA to assist the MTTI Tourism Development
Department undertake this policy development and planning process. The Department
currently consists of the Commissioner and a Statistician, while positions for an
Assistant Statistician and for a Senior and an Assistant Economist are currently vacant. It
is expected that the MTTI will establish and fill the position of Tourism Planner, who
together with the Commissioner will be primarily responsible for implementing the
policy and planning activities under the project, producing as outputs a comprehensive
national Tourism Policy and Strategic Plan.
15



(ii) Tourism Statistical Database
3.28  During project preparation the shortcomings of the existing data on the volume
and nature of tourism in Uganda became clear. Both the public and private sector require
much more specific, accurate and up-to-date data on arrival and departure figures,
accommodation occupancy rates, tourist expenditures and activities, etc. Efficient and
competitive operation of a modem tourism industry also requires regular and systematic
market analysis and "satisfaction" surveys, and the maintenance of a computerized
inventory of tourism service providers (e.g. accommodation and tour operators) to assist
in matching client demand with services available. Interest in these data and data
systems, and consequently the responsibility for their collection, analysis and
maintenance, is shared among the MTTI Tourism Development Department, the Bureau
of Statistics and the private sector trade associations.
3.29  The project will provide TA and some equipment, a vehicle and operational
support for: (i) strengthening the capacity of MTTI and Bureau of Statistics to fulfill
their respective roles in collection, analysis and dissemination of tourism data and
statistics, (ii) designing an overall tourism statistical data collection and management
system to meet fi   ' public and private sector needs; and (iii) carrying out four visitor
surveys. The Statistician in the Department of Tourism Development will have primary
responsibility for implementation of this sub-component, in cooperation with other
government and private sector partners.
(iii) Human Resources Development Planning and Oversight
3.30   One impact of the long hiatus in Uganda's tourism industry is that the majority of
the current and prospective tourism workforce has grown up with little or no exposure to
the requirements of servicing international clients. Front-line performance is presently
best characterized as erratic, for example with respect to tour guiding (i.e. a pressing
shortage of qualified driver/guides) and food service production and housekeeping that
frequently do not meet international standards or health and safety requirements.
Training should generally be primarily a private sector function, both because it generates
private benefits for employers and employees and because the private sector is best able
to ensure that the training provided meets its needs. At present, however, the private
sector in Uganda (i.e. hoteliers, tour operators) has demonstrated only a limited
willingness to take on the costs of training, perhaps due to lack of recognition of the
importance of this aspect of investment. This, coupled with the fact that there is also an
element of broader public benefit, justifies some level of government intervention and
support for human resources development in the sector. However, the old model of a
large-scale publicly-run tourism training institute is costly and not effective for meeting
the needs of the modern tourism industry. More appropriate roles for government are: (i)
strategic planning to help ensure that the evolving human resources needs of the sector
are met, (ii) promoting and facilitating the development of high quality private training
institutions, and (iii) supporting mechanisms (e.g. scholarships and loans) to broaden the
range of citizens able to participate in the opportunities and benefits of development.
16



3.31  The project will provide TA and training to strengthen the capacity of the MTTI's
Tourism Development Department--in collaboration with other interested public and
private sector partners such as the Uganda Tourism Board, Uganda Tourism Association
and the Uganda Association of Tourism Training Institutes (UATTI)--to: (i) undertake
needs assessments and strategic planning relating to Human Resources development for
the sector, and (ii) develop and implement (in cooperation with the Ministry of
Education, and in consultation with the Uganda Association of Tourism Training
Institutes) mechanisms to ensure the maintenance of quality standards at private training
institutions. The project will also help improve in-country training capacity through a
private sector-oriented "Train-the-Trainer" program (see Component #5).
(iv) Licensing of Tourism Facilities
3.32  Government has a role to play in ensuring that adequate safety and environmental
standards and overall quality standards are met, to avoid negative impacts and to instill
confidence among tourists and tourism operators regarding Uganda's tourism product.
This responsibility is often fulfilled through a system of licensing of service providers,
such as tour operators and hotels (including lodges, inns, guest houses, etc.). Licensing
can also be useful in conjunction with tourism planning, as it can influence the rate,
location and nature of development of new accommodations, which is a key factor in
promoting desirable tourism expansion as well as preventing over-development in a given
area or market. There is also the potential for abuse, however, with the risk of a licensing
process becoming a basis for rent-seeking by officials, presenting an obstacle to
development, and reducing competition. MTTI currently has in place a system for
licensing of tour operators, but implementation has been poor, with less than a third of the
107 existing operators having current licenses while over seventy are somewhere in the
application process. Licensing standards are vague and weak, and there is little if any
enforcement of the licensing requirement. There is also an issue of overlap of
responsibility and inconsistency with the Uganda Investment Authority and local
Districts. (For example, recently one foreign operator which would not have met
international safety standards was given a UIA license, denied an MTTI license, and
awarded a District license). There is currently no system for licensing of hotels,
restaurants or tour guides, and little capacity within MTTI to initiate licensing in these
areas.
3.33  The project will support TA, training, a vehicle and operational support to help
the MTTI Department of Licensing and Inspectorate: (i) develop appropriate licensing
standards for the main service sectors, i.e. accommodation (including associated
restaurants), tour operators and tour guides, (ii) design an improved licensing process,
and (iii) implement it on a pilot scale.
17



(B) Uganda Tourism Board:
Background
3.34 The UTB is a mixed public and private sector institution whose primary purpose
is the promotion and marketing of Uganda as a tourism destination. It also aims to
facilitate communication and cooperation among the different actors in the sector. The
most urgent challenges for UTB over the next 2-3 years are: (i) to overcome the negative
image of Uganda (as insecure and war-torn) which persist to a large extent in important
source markets, (ii) to diversify Uganda's tourism product, particularly targeting high-
value niche markets, and (iii) to improve professionalism and cooperation among
members of the tourism industry community in Uganda. At the same time, there is a
need for management strengthening of UTB itself, to enhance its capacity to undertake
strategic planning and the efficiency of its operations. At present UTB's activities, with
assistance from the European Commission, are focused on promotion and marketing
through participation in international trade fairs and diversification of Uganda's tourism
product.
IDA Support
3.35  The ICB-PAMSU project will provide Technical Assistance, Training and
equipment and materials for management strengthening and for broadening the scope of
promotional and marketing activities beyond participation in trade fairs. With respect to
management strengthening, the project will provide TA and training for members of the
UTB technical staff, which includes a General Manager, 4 Tourist Information Officers
presently on staff, and currently vacant positions for a Sales and Marketing Manager,
Sales and Marketing Officer and Public Relations Specialist. The project will also
provide a computer and accessories for the UTB Accounting Department.
3.36  With respect to promotion and marketing activities, the ICB-PAMSU project will
support TA and operating costs to facilitate UTB's exploration of avenues and
approaches which are commonly used by tourism industries worldwide, including: (i)
establishment and management of an Internet website; (ii) "familiarization tours" for
international travel agents and travel writers (beginning with a tour for selected Kenyan
operators)3; (iii) "sales calls" by delegations of tourism business representatives and some
government participants to visit source markets (beginning with one to Kenya); (iv)
placement of advertisements in trade journals; (v) preparation and dissemination of
general image publications and promotional materials for distribution, including to
Ugandan High Commissions overseas; and (vi) a small scale test case of contracting out
marketing to a public relations firm in a source market. The project will also support a
pilot cooperative initiative between UTB and the Uganda Investment Authority (UIA) for
development and dissemination of a professional prospectus to attract local and foreign
3 The budget allocation for this activity assumes industry cooperation in providing discounts and
complementary services, as is usual for familiarization tours
18



investments (tentatively, a prospectus for charter boats for fishing and excursions on Lake
Victoria and the Nile River).
Component # 5 Strengthening of In-Country Tourism Training Capacity
Background
3.37   The general expectation of rapid growth in the tourism sector has created a strong
demand for tourism-related training among young Ugandans. From a strategic
perspective, the highest priority at this time is training for entry-level positions, where
there is a significant shortage of people able to provide service up to international
standards. The emphasis in training can be shifted over time to increase training
opportunities at managerial level, where there is also a significant need for local capacity
development, but the immediate gap at that level is more likely to be filled through
recruitment from outside.
3.38   The main public sector (parastatal) training institution is the Hotel Tourism and
Training Institute (HTTI), which offers diploma courses in front office, food and
beverage production and service, accommodations/housekeeping and tourism operations.
The HTTI also maintains a working hotel (the Crested Crane, in Jinja) for on-the -job
training purposes and as a modest revenue source. However, the hotel's primary market
niche is small conferences and bar business for local clientele, and therefore does not
provide an appropriate work experience for trainees aiming for employment in the
international tourism sector. In addition to HTTI, there are a number of other public or
private tourism-related training institutions currently operating, but the quality of the
facilities and training offered is highly variable. There is presently no mechanism for
licensing or other quality control for these institutions. The Association of Tourism
Training Institutes (UATTI) which is represented on the Uganda Tourism Association
Board, was established to address the lack of standardized curriculum and quality control,
but it is currently non-functional. The Principals of several of the best institutions
identified a shortage of qualified and skilled instructors as the most important constraint.
IDA Support
3.39   The project will support: (i) TA, civil works, a vehicle, equipment and
operational support for development and implementation of a "Train-the-Trainer"
program in which international specialists will be brought in to develop and teach short
(ca. 2 month) courses in the priority hospitality areas, and (ii) training for the
Principals/Managers of the participating training institutions, to facilitate improved
professionalism and management of these institutions.
3.40 The "Train the Trainer" program will be implemented through a "Hospitality
Service Training" Executive Committee of the UATTI, chaired by the Principal of HTTI
and representing the five major hospitality specializations. An initial working group will
establish criteria for training institutions to become members of this Executive
19



Committee, and therefore to participate in the Train-the-Trainer program. The
participants in these training courses will be relevant faculty/instructors on the staffs of
the training institutions which have been approved for membership on the Executive
Committee. These short courses will be taught at different member institutions on a
rotating basis, based on the available facilities. As there is currently no institution with
adequate computer facilities or kitchen facilities to teach state-of-the-art "front office"
and food production courses, the project will provide funds for computer equipment and
for upgrading the kitchen facilities at HTTI, which will then serve as the locale for these
aspects of the training. The training equipment to be purchased will include videotape
production and playback equipment to facilitate future dissemination of the training
material. The project will also provide a vehicle for use by the Chairman of the
Executive Committee (initially the Principal of HTTI) to facilitate coordination of the
program. The end results of the "Train-the-Trainer" program will be the development of
up-to-date curricula and teaching materials in the key service areas, and a sizable cohort
of faculty/instructors who have undergone the training and are prepared to teach these
curricula through their respective training institutions.
Project Coordination and Implementation Support
3.41  The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the MTWA was established to coordinate
and oversee project preparation, including donor liaison, program identification,
prioritization and development, and all aspects of administration of the various project
preparation funds including procurement of goods and services and contract management.
To benefit from economies of scale, build on existing capacity and reduce the
administrative burden on the implementing agencies during this capacity building period,
the PCU will continue to play this role during the project implementation phase.
3.42  The PCU will have overall responsibility for procurement (planning and
implementation), disbursement, auditing and reporting, and also for ensuring that each
Implementing Agency (IA) submits acceptable Annual Work Plans and progress reports
in a timely fashion. The PCU will determine the best mechanisms for interacting with the
management of each IA for this purpose. Based on inputs from the lAs, prior to project
effectiveness, the PCU will prepare a Procurement Plan for the whole project, and a Work
Plan for the first six months of the project, to be reviewed and agreed by IDA. Every six
months thereafter, the PCU will obtain from the lAs and forward to IDA for review, a
Work Plan for the next six months and an update of the Procurement Plan if needed. The
PCU will also submit an annual progress report to the Government and the Bank,
covering both its own activities and those of each IA.
3.43  At its discretion, and with the prior agreement of the Bank, the PCU may delegate
selected administrative and implementation responsibilities to any given IA. This will be
based on the Project Coordinator's assessment that the agency is able to undertake this
activity in accordance with Government and World Bank requirements, and the PCU will
retain overall responsibility to ensure that these requirements are met.
20



3.44  The project will support TA, equipment, office rental and other operating costs for
the PCU. Under the TA category, the project will support the positions of Coordinator,
Deputy Coordinator and Accountant/Procurement Specialist along with support staff.
This is in recognition of the demands which the complexity of the program (numerous
lAs, each with its own objectives, program of activities and time frames) will put on the
PCU. The project will also support a modest allocation of unprogrammed short-term TA
funds to meet unforeseen needs of the PCU or any of the lAs. Equipment to be procured
includes a vehicle to be used by the PCU for project coordination purposes, and the PCU
will also make it available to the other lAs for project-related purposes as and when
required. Operating costs will include rental of office space as well as other routine costs
of vehicle operation, materials and supplies, travel, etc.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.45  The total project cost, including preparation, is estimated to be US$20.35 million
(see summary in Table I below, and Annex 1 for detailed costs), including IDA, GEF and
GOU contributions. Of this amount, key institutional strengthening of UWA, coupled
with operational support to maintain the protected area resource base intact, comprise
US$10.6 million ( 52%). Capacity building in other related organizations (Forestry
Department, Wildlife Department, UWEC and UWTI) will receive funding of US$2.3
million (11 %), institutional development for cultural heritage (DAM/NCAM) will
receive US$0.70 (3 %); support for MTTI and UTB for tourism policy, planning and
development total US$1.76 million (9%); support for strengthening of public and private
sector tourism training institutions totals US$1.7 million (8 %). Project coordination and
administration costs over the three-year project life represents US$1.05 million (5%) of
the total, US$1,100,000 (6 %) will be unallocated to provide flexibility during
implementation, and US$1.92 million (10 %) represents a refinancing of project
preparation costs that have been disbursed under a World Bank PPF since 1994.
3.46  World Bank IDA financing of US$ 12.37 million (57.0% of total project costs)
will be required over the project period. This will complement grant financing
(US$269,000) being provided independently under the IDF (for development of a
National Commission for Antiquities and Museums) and cofinancing under the GEF. In
this phase, the US$2.00 million GEF investments will go to: UWA to support core
institutional strengthening and enhanced operations (US$0.62 million), to other
conservation-related organizations (Forest Department, UWEC and Wildlife Department)
(US$1.14 million), and to the PCU for project coordination (US$0.39 million).4
3.47  Support from the GOU represents salaries, overheads, allowances, a portion of
operating costs, and taxes and duties. Taxes and duties are estimated at 0% for salaries,
technical assistance and training, 10% of other local costs and 25% of other foreign costs.
4 The GEF Board approved a US$ 10 million grant to the PAMSU program in April 1997. Portions of that
grant are being applied to the ICB-PAMSU project for selected GEF-eligible activities that have been
shifted to ICB-PAMSU.
21



The GOU contribution will be obtained through two primary mechanisms: (i) UWA's
revenues earned through the protected areas network5; and, (ii) GOU budgetary support.
5 And, to a much smaller extent, revenues earned by UWEC and NCAM
22



Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)
Component                   Local      Foreign      Total
Component
1. UWA Capacity Building and Operations       7.18        3.38      10.57
2. Capacity Building - other Conservation      1.29       0.98       2.27
Organizations
3. National Commission for Antiquities and     0.38       0.32       0.70
Museums
4. MTTI and UTB Capacity Building               .97       0.79       1.76
5. Tourism Training Capacity Building          0.48       0.59       1.07
Project Coordination                        0.44        0.61       1.05
Unallocated                                             1.10       1.10
Sub-total                                      9.83       7.74      17.57
PPF                                                        1.92      1.92
Total Baseline Costs
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs                           10.52       9.83       20.3
Notes:  1. Amounts are inclusive of duties and taxes
2. Totals may not add up due to rounding
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local    Foreign      Total
IDA                             3.54       8.83       12.37
GEF                             1.16       0.84        2.00
Government of Uganda            5.89       0.03        5.92
Total                          10.59       9.70       20.29
Notes: 1. Amounts are inclusive ofduties and taxes
2. Totals may not add up due to rounding
23






4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.1   To benefit from economies of scale and to reduce the administrative burden on the
implementing agencies during this capacity building phase, the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) of the MTWA, which oversaw and coordinated project preparation, will have
overall responsibility for project implementation, including procurement, disbursement,
auditing and reporting, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The M&E program will
be based upon achievement of agreed sectoral institutional performance indicators, as
outlined in the Project Implementation Plan to be approved as a condition of effectiveness
(see Annex 3). ..
4.2   At the beginning of the project, the PCU will prepare a Procurement Plan
covering the entire project. Twice a year the PCU will submit a Work Plan and Budget,
and will update the Procurement Plan for the following 6 months. The Work Plans and
Budgets will cover PCU activities and those of each IA, and will be reviewed and agreed
in advance with the World Bank6
A. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
4.3   All procurement will be in accordance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines
(January 1995, Revised January and August, 1996 and September, 1997), and the Bank's
standard bidding documents for goods, works and consultants will be used. All
consulting contracts will be awarded in accordance with Bank consultancy guidelines
(dated January, 1997 and revised September, 1997). Procurement of consultancy firms
for Technical Assistance contracts exceeding US$100,000 will be through Quality and
Cost-based Selection (in accordance with Section II of the Consultant Guidelines), those
between US$50,000 and US$100,000 in value will be through Least Cost Selection
procedures (paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines), those between
US$30,000 and US$50, through Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications (SBCQ)
procedures (paragraphs 3.1 through 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), and those under
US$30,000 through Single Source procedures (paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the
Consultant Guidelines). Individual consultants' services shall be procured in accordance
with provisions of paragraphs 5.1-5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Shortlists of
6 Submission of a plan for the first six months is a condition of effectiveness
25



consultants for services estimated to cost less than U$200,000 equivalent per contract
may comprise entirely national consultants, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.4   Contracts for consulting firms costing US$100,000 or more will be subject to
prior review of the shortlist, the Request for Proposal, and the evaluation report, in
accordance with paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of para. 2(a))and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Those costing between US$50,000 and
US$ 100,000 will be subject to prior review of the shortlist only, in accordance with
paragraphs 1, 2, (other than the second subparagraph of para. 2(a)) and 5 of the
Consultant Guidelines. For contracts for individuals estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of
employment of the consultants shall be subject to prior review by the Bank. Through the
Annual Work Plan process, training to be provided for individuals or groups of
individuals from the staff of the implementing agencies will be agreed upon for the
following six months. The training plans will identify the nature of the training, the
individual(s) to be trained and appropriate institutions or service providers for delivering
it. The PCU will be responsible for procurement of the service through direct costing,
and for ensuring that the selection of the service providers is done on a cost-effective
basis. For training to be carried out outside Uganda, the PCU will consult with the Bank
regarding the objectives, venue, costs and candidates to be trained.
4.5   The only works envisioned are minor repairs at the National Museums, minor
works to support forest ecotourism and rehabilitation of facilities and development of
educational exhibits at UWEC. There will be no contracts for works over US$200,000.
Works contracts over US$50,000 will be procured through NCB, and contracts under
US$50,000 will be procured by NSP or carried out by Force Account, at the discretion of
UWEC and Forest Dept. Management. There will be one contract for supply vehicles
and one for computers and accessories over US$100,000 and these will be procured on
the basis of ICB. All goods contracts between US$50,000 and US$100,000 will be
procured through NCB. Contracts for goods less than US$50,000, up to a total of
US$300,000, will be procured by International and National Shopping Procedures.
Details of procurement methods and prior review are in Tables 3A and 3B below:
26



Table 3A: Summary of proposed procurement Arrangements (in US$ million)"'
Item            ICB            NCB         SP2, or Other      Total
1. Civil Works                           0.48            0.11           0.59
2. Vehicles              0.30                                           0.30
3. Equipment             0.35            0.50            0.30            1.15
and Materials
4. Training                                              2.00            2.00
5. Consultants                                           4.04            4.04
6. Operating                             0.61            2.26            3.27
Costs
7. Unallocated                                           1.10            1.10
8. PPF Reimb.                                            1.92            1.92
Total                   0.650            1.59           12.13           14.37
1/ IDA and GEF contributions only
2/ International and National Shopping procedures
27



Table 3B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (in US$ million)
Expenditure        Contract Value       Procurement Method    Subject to   Estimated
Category           (Threshold)                                  Prior        Total
in US$                                   Review      Subject to
Prior
Review
(US$ mill)
1. Civil Works    >100,000               N/A                     N/A
<100,000 and >50,000    National Competitive   Yes                0.50
Bidding
<50,000                National Shopping or    No
Force Account
2. Vehicles       >200,000                International Competitive                  0.30
Bidding
3. Equipment      >100,000                International Competitive  Yes             0.35
Bidding
<100,000 and >50,000    National Competitive   Yes                0.65
Bidding
<50,000                National Shopping       No
4. Consultancy    FIRMS
Services, TA
Assistance &       >100,000              Quality and Cost-Based    SL & ER 1'        1.00
Training                                  Selection
<100,000 and >50,000   Least Cost Selection   SL                 0.70
<50,,000 and >30,000   Selection Based on     No                 0.90
consultant Qualifications
<30,000               Single Source          No
INDIVIDUALS
>50,000                                      TOR, SL,            0.95
CT 2
<50,000 and >30,000                            No
<30,000                                      No
Total                                                                               5.35
Notes:
1/ SL= Shortlist; ER= Evaluation Report
2/ TOR = Terms of Reference; CT = Contract Terms
28



B. DISBURSEMENT
4.6   The IDA Credit and GEF Grant are expected to be disbursed over three years, as
shown in the disbursement schedule (Appendix 2), with a project closing date of July 31,
2001. The disbursement schedules and estimates are indicated in Tables 4A and 4B
below:
TABLE 4A: Summary of Disbursement Schedule
ITEM              Allocation    DISBURSEMENT PERCENTAGE
(US$ mill.)
GEF IDA
1. Civil Works               0.40   0.19                90%
2. Vehicles                  0.05   0.25  100% of foreign costs and 90% of local
3. Materials & Equipment     0.24   0.88  100% of foreign costs and 90% of local
4. Consultancy Services and  0.44   5.60                100%
Training
5. Incremental Operating Costs
Office rental             0   0.61                85%
Other                   .69   1.99                95%
6. PPF Reimbursement                1.92               100%
7. Unallocated               0.20   0.90
TOTAL                        2.00  12.34
Note: Totals do not sum exactly due to rounding
Table 4B. Estimated IDA Disbursements (IDA and GEF) 1/
(US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year     98/99      99/00       00/01
Annual               5.12       4.90        4.32
Cumulative           5.12      10.02       14.34
Note: I/ the disbursement profile includes the PPF in FY99
4.7    Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation with the
following exceptions, for which certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be
used: (i) contracts for goods and civil works, less than US$ 50,000 equivalent; (ii)
consultant contracts, firms less than US$ 100,000, individuals less than US$50,000; (iii)
all local training; and (iv) operating costs. SOE's would be subject to review by IDA
supervision missions and interim and annual audits.
29



4.8  In order to facilitate the availability of funds for the Project when needed, two
Special Accounts (for IDA and GEF funds respectively) will be established in a
commercial bank and operated and maintained on terms satisfactory to IDA. The
authorized allocation is determined to be $ 1.0 million. The Special Accounts will be
replenished on the basis of satisfactory documentary evidence, to be provided to IDA, of
eligible payments made from the account for goods and services required for the project.
No limit will be set on the size of the payments to be made from the Special Accounts
other than that imposed by the balance remaining in the account.
C. AUDITING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
4.9   The Project Coordination Unit will have overall responsibility for administration
of project funds, under the oversight of the Project Coordinator. The PCU will maintain
accounts and records for project activities, including for the SOEs, in accordance with
sound accounting practices satisfactory to the World Bank, and will provide audit reports
on these accounts six months after the close of each fiscal year, including a separate
opinion on the special account and on the records and accounts used to support
disbursements against statement of expenditures. The PCU will put in place mechanisms
acceptable to the Bank for interacting with the management of each implementing agency
to ensure effective flow of funds and accountability.
4.10  During negotiations assurances will be sought that: (a) UWA, UWEC and
NCAM will maintain separate accounts for their operations in accordance with sound and
generally accepted accounting principles and practices; (b) financial statements of UWA,
UWEC and NCAM including a sources-and-uses -of-funds statement will be prepared at
the close of each fiscal year; and (c) a certified copy of the accounts, together with the
auditor's report, will be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal
year, including a separate opinion on the special account an on the records and accounts
used to support disbursements against statement of expenditures..
D. SUPERVISION PLAN
4.11  The project will be supervised by the MTTI and the World Bank approximately
twice a year, with particular focus on achievement of identified benchmarks of
institutional capacity relating to planning, management, human resources development
and implementation including monitoring and evaluation of implementation quality and
progress. Key performance indicators and benchmarks were agreed at negotiations (see
Annex 2), and will be the subjet of a side letter to be signed at the time of singing of the
Credit and Grant agreements. They will serve both as indicators of acceptable progress
on project implementation and, finally, as indicators of readiness enabling the GOU and
the Bank to resume appraisal and negotiation of the PAMSU investment project. It is
anticipated that the different implementing agencies may achieve these benchmarks at
different times. It is proposed that UWA's achievement of its agreed institutional
development indicators, along with acceptable progress by the MTTI with respect to
policy aspects, would be the essential requirement to trigger revival of the PAMSU
30



project. The extent to which PAMSU would include substantial support for the other
implementing agencies would depend upon the extent to which each has achieved its key
benchmarks at that time.
4.12   The essential indicators relate to development of institutional capacity at both the
overall sectoral and the specific agency levels. At the sectoral level, the objectives are:
(i) development and adoption of a coherent, realistic and environmentally and socially
sound policy framework for the tourism sector, developed in consultation with
stakeholders7; (ii) establishment of a well-coordinated institutional framework in which
the different organizations (public and private sector) effectively complement and support
one another, and (ii) a tourism industry which is developing and growing in accordance
with the strategy outlined in the Integrated Tourism Master Plan8. At the agency level,
the overall objectives are: (i) definition of a clear mission, (ii) a "planning culture" based
on development and implementation of well-targeted and realistic strategic, development
and operational plans, which are based on realistic financial analysis and planning for
sustainability, (iii) development of an effective and efficient human resource base, and
HR management systems to ensure appropriate skills mix and performance incentives;
and (iv) efficient and cost-effective implementation of development and operational
plans, including all aspects of financial and asset management (budgeting, accounting,
inventory control) and ongoing performance and impact assessment.
7An acceptable wildlife policy framework has already been adopted by GOU; the tourism policy must be
compatible and complementary to this and to other relevant policies, e.g. relating to private sector
promotion
8 Including a modest rate of growth in keeping with the rate of recovery of the resource base, and an
emphasis on high value/low volume ecologically and socially sustainable tourism
31






5. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
5.1   The project is expected to restore Uganda's capacity to conserve and manage its
biodiversity and its cultural and historical heritage assets, and to promote the
development of the tourism industry on an economically, environmentally and socially
sustainable basis. For the nation as a whole and for many rural communities, wildlife
resources and Protected Areas represent an important natural resource which, if
sustainably managed, can serve as a basis for economic development, often in areas
which ere not otherwise well endowed. Much of this will be related to tourism, which
currently is at a relatively low level, but which under the right circumstances can be a
major foreign exchange earner and generator of government revenues and employment.
Intangible benefits relating to conservation of biodiversity and natural habitats (e.g.
ecological services and existence value) cannot be quantified but nevertheless are
recognized to be of national and international significance. By focusing on institutional
and human capacity building, the project will alleviate what has been identified as a
major reason for poor performance and sustainability of biodiversity conservation
projects in Africa9
B. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK/IDA EXPERIENCE
5.2   The decision to proceed with an institutional capacity building project prior to
undertaking a major investment program is based on extensive experience in this and
other sectors. A particularly relevant example is that of the wildlife sector in Kenya,
which has received assistance from the Bank under the Wildlife and Tourism project
(1976-1986) and the "Protected Areas and Wildlife Service" (PAWS) project (1992-
ongoing). The Implementation Completion Report and Project Audit attributed the
failure of the project primarily to an inadequate policy framework, institutional failures
and a lack of Government commitment to the project's objectives, as well as to the
Bank's failure to hold firm on the agreed conditionalities. By contrast, the success of the
PAWS project, which has had a major positive impact in reducing commercial poaching
and improving the infrastructure and management of Kenya's PAs, demonstrates the
benefits of ensuring that these issues are addressed up front. At the same time, the slow
progress of the parastatal Kenya Wildlife Service in moving toward a business-like
9 (Based on the Quality Assurance Group Review of Biodiversity Projects in Africa, November, 1997)
33



organizational culture and financial sustainability, holds important lessons for the Uganda
Wildlife Authority, which is starting from a similar situation and aiming for similar
objectives. Experience to date with implementation of the GEF-funded "Mgahinga and
Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust" project also highlights the urgent need
for institutional strengthening of UWA if it is to function effectively, in that UWA has
had difficulty in accessing the funds allocated by the Trust for improving management of
the Mgahinga and Bwindi National Parks.
5.3    Wildlife sector projects under preparation in a number of other countries (e.g.
Ghana, Zimbabwe, Botswana) are also faced with similar challenges of inadequate
institutional structure and capacity, and are also opting to strengthen these prior to
moving into significant capital investment. Uganda presents a somewhat special case,
however, in that the legacy of years of civil war and continuing security problems mean
that the PA system and wildlife populations throughout the country are already greatly
degraded and reduced, and remain under serious threat. There is a good likelihood that
they will deteriorate beyond recovery over the next few years unless UWA can re-
establish and maintain an effective presence in the field while the organization-wide
problems are being addressed. Other lessons being taken from Bank-assisted projects and
other experiences around the world, include the importance of building support for
conservation at a political level and among communities adjacent to PAs, the need to
encourage collaboration among institutions rather than building parallel capacity in each,
and the need to ensure adequate planning and Environmental Assessment procedures and
capacity prior to launching into a program of infrastructure development, particularly in
PAs.
5.4   The IDA-financed Environment Management Capacity Building Project is also
influencing the approach being taken regarding efforts to involve decentralized authorities
and local communities in wildlife and Protected Areas management and related activities.
District Environment Committees are being established in all Districts, with the project
providing support on a pilot basis in six focal Districts. It is expected that these Committees
will eventually play an important role in the "community-based conservation" aspects of
wildlife management, but their development is constrained by the limited allocation of
financial, and the need to address major weaknesses in human resources at the District
Level. Another area where ongoing activities of IDA and other donors in Uganda provides
important lessons for the project is private sector promotion and development. Support for
the development of a vigorous and productive private sector represents one of the main
thrusts of IDA's assistance strategy in Uganda, and there is ongoing work in a number of
sectors (transport, power, etc.) aimed at identifying and supporting appropriate Government
roles and mechanisms to achieve this objective.
C. RATIONALE FOR BANK/IDA INVOLVEMENT
5.5   The Conservation and Sustainable Tourism program, of which the ICB-PAMSU
project is an essential first step, addresses directly two priorities of the Uganda CAS: (i)
environmental protection and sustainable natural resource management, including the
34



conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, and (ii) private sector development. It
is also expected to contribute to poverty alleviation through economic development, both
at a national level and in areas where nature-based and cultural tourism is expected to
grow. Tourism has the potential to be restored to the status of an important "export"
industry in Uganda and to provide significant levels of employment, much of it in rural
areas. It also complements the Bank-assisted Environmental Capacity Management
Building project, and thereby supports the objectives of the National Environment Action
Plan, by building capacity for sustainable use of natural biological resources.
5.6   Given the reduced state of the country's wildlife resources and the persistent
problems of security, growth in tourism is likely to be slow over the next few years, and
will only be possible if the Bank and other donors provide the necessary support to
protect the resource base in the short term and to gradually restore and improve it in the
longer term. Through its support for the Project Coordination Unit, and for a highly
participatory process of preparation of the PAMSU project, the World Bank has
established itself as one of the main donors in this sector, has played an important role in
promoting and facilitating policy and institutional reforms and served as a focal point for
donor coordination. It has also pioneered innovative mechanisms for supporting
conservation, through its role in establishing the GEF-funded "Mgahinga and Bwindi
Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust."
D. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
5.7   The project is expected to have positive environmental impacts in that it will
assist the GOU to maintain protection and management of its PAs and wildlife in the
short term, while at the same time helping to put in place an effective institutional
structure to ensure conservation in the long term. The civil works to be undertaken under
the project will be small scale, almost entirely rehabilitation of existing works, outside
PAs, and in sum not expected to require environmental assessment or mitigation. The
project is not expected to have any significant social impacts except insofar as more
effective protection of wildlife and PAs may reduce opportunities for illegal exploitation
of wildlife and indigenous plants by local communities. These impacts will be reduced
by the ongoing community-related programs supported by other donors in areas around
the major parks (e.g. Bwindi, Mgahinga, Semliki, Murchison Falls, Queen Elizabeth,
etc.). The institutional strengthening of UWA will include training and TA to help
integrate community conservation approaches within UWA, yielding positive social
impacts in the future. There will be no involuntary resettlement under the project. The
project will provide support to ensure that potentially affected communities are able to
participate in the ongoing process of assessing and rationalizing the PA system.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
5.8   The project is specifically aimed at ensuring sustainability of the implementing
agencies and the vital functions they perform, by establishing a solid institutional
framework and management capacity. The GOU has established the UWA, UWEC,
35



UTB, UWTI (and soon the NCAM) as autonomous parastatals in order to reduce their
dependence on government subventions and thereby promote their financial
sustainability. However, the process of transforming an organization from a bureaucratic
government department into an efficient, businesslike, self-sustaining public enterprise
requires more than new legislation and the establishment of a Board of Directors. It
requires a process of institutional "culture" change, strategic and business planning, and
development of appropriate management systems and staff with the skills and incentives
to implement them. By assisting these sectoral institutions to undertake this process of
institutional transformation and become capable of carrying out these functions
effectively, the project will contribute directly to their sustainability. In addition to
building capacity within individual sectoral institutions, the project will promote
investment in environmentally sustainable tourism through: (i) development of a positive
and supportive policy environment, (ii) effective government support and regulation to
ensure a high quality tourist experience, (iii) product development emphasizing the areas
in which Uganda has a competitive advantage (e.g. landscape, cultural/historical, water-
based activities and other specialty niche markets such as primate viewing and bird-
watching), and (iv) partnership between public and private sectors (and among private
sector players) for marketing and promotion.
5.9   The futures of PAs and wildlife resources and of the tourism industry are inter-
dependent, as the PAs and wildlife provide the main basis for tourism, while tourism
provides both direct financial resources and a strong economic justification for
conservation. Ensuring effective management of these resources (and of others, such as
the National Museum, which broaden the appeal of Uganda as a tourism attractions), is
essential to achieving both the conservation and economic objectives through the
development of a competitive and sustainable tourism industry. Box 1 below
summarizes the approximate revenue base of the UWA, which is expected to increase
through improved management and promotion. The project will also contribute to long-
term sustainability by supporting an ongoing process of assessment and rationalization of
the existing PA system, aimed at increasing operational efficiency and reducing costs.
The management of some adjacent Parks and Reserves is likely to be consolidated for
both ecological and cost-saving reasons, some PA boundaries may be redrawn and some
areas may be added or dropped from the system based on an assessment of their
biological and economic value and the social impacts'".
10 For example, for some heavily encroached area with little remaining biodiversity value, degazettement
may be a better option than resettlement.
36



Box 1. Project Financial Sustainability - Protected Area Revenue Estimates
Estimating the potential revenues from Uganda's protected area system
has been hampered by a number of factors. First, the lack of reliable
accounting systems in the field and at UWA headquarters has made it
difficult to track current revenue flows. Second, even where funds have
been recorded, it has not always been obvious whether these represent
gross receipts or net receipts from a particular protected area; individual   Unadjusted Annual Revenue
parks have on occasion used local gate receipts (and other sources of    Entrance Fees    US$  367 538
revenues) to pay local salary and operating costs before remitting balances  Camping Fees         51 962
to HQ. Third, no regular accounting of statutory remittances to local    Launch/Vehicle           84 623
districts has been evident at any of the protected areas; the UWA Act    Ferry Takings            67 925
requires that 20% of entrance fees are remitted to local districts. Finally,    Ranger Guide Fees  92 500
and perhaps most critically, continued security problems in Uganda and its  Chimp/Gorilla Viewing  566 877
neighbors have resulted in a general decrease in tourist flows.       Concession Fees            186 226
Fines                        4 783
From a project planning perspective, a conservative approach has been  Landing Fees                1 566
followed to err on the side of under-estimating receipts. The process for    Donations                 0
estimating revenues is: (i) best available unadjusted revenue estimates  Hostel and Resale Items  91 000
from all sources were made for the five month period commencing August    Sundry                  44 840
1996, for which some records were available; (ii) these unadjusted    Total                  $ 1 559 840
estimates were annualized to a 12 month period; (iii) a 20% reduction in
gate entrance fees was applied to reflect the statutory share to be remitted    Deductions
to local districts; and, (iv) the resultant 'base net revenue' estimate was  UIE                - 27 642
further discounted by 50% to reflect potential short-term declines in tourist    Local District Share  - 73 508
visits because of security concerns. As a result, an adjusted conservative    Base Net Revenue  $ 1 458 691
revenue estimate of $0.73 million/year was used in this appraisal.
50% Base Net Revenue   $ 729 345
F. RISKS
5.10   The project aims to help Uganda develop the institutional and human resources
capacity needed to restore effective management of its PA system and wildlife resources,
and to foster the development of a productive and sustainable nature-based tourism
industry. There is a risk that, by focusing on institutional capacity building at this time
and delaying capital investment in the sector, there may be further deterioration of the
resources and facilities, making it even more difficult to turn the situation around later.
This issue is addressed by the understanding that the major investment program
(PAMSU) could be launched as soon as the necessary institutional capacity has been
developed and demonstrated, without necessarily awaiting the completion of ICB-
PAMSU. In addition, the project would provide support for basic operations, particularly
at the field level, to enable UWA to function at a maintenance level. Even the relatively
modest resources to be provided, because they will be reliable, will represent a significant
improvement over the current situation and lead to improved morale and effectiveness of
field staff. The project will also provide support for strategic planning and development
of a "planning culture" within UWA, which will ensure that future investment is
mobilized and used more efficiently and cost-effectively, and that future development is
better conceived and more sustainable, than could be expected in the absence of the
37



project. The same considerations apply for the other sectoral institutions which will
benefit from the project. This will help to ensure that Uganda's efforts to rebuild a
positive image as a tourism destination and to become competitive in the regional and
international markets, are not undermined by hasty and perhaps ill-conceived expansion
of tourism facilities and a premature emphasis on marketing and promotion, in the
absence of an effective planning and regulatory capacity.
5.11  The main risks to successful project implementation relate to: (i) the current
limited capacity of the implementing agencies, and (ii) the relatively large number of
implementing agencies and components; and (iii) budgetary constraints of GOU. The
large number of agencies is the result of the GOU's commendable policy to devolve
many functions to private and parastatal bodies, with the aim of making them less subject
to bureaucratic limitations and less dependent on Government budgetary subventions, and
consequently more effective and sustainable. During the project preparation period, the
Project Coordination Unit established under the MTTI has proven very effective at
coordinating the diverse actors and elements of the program and at facilitating smooth
functioning of aspects such as disbursement, accounting and reporting, procurement and
timely release of GOU counterpart funds. To avoid overburdening the implementing
agencies during this capacity building phase, and to ensure continued effective
coordination among the GOU, the implementing agencies and the World Bank and other
donors, the PCU will be retained and strengthened to be able to manage the greater scope
of work under project implementation. The GOU budgetary support required totals US$
870,000 per year for all components, with the majority being salary support for the staff
of the implementing agencies. Demands on counterpart funds will be relatively small as
the majority of the project costs is for Technical Assistant and other items that are
reimbursable 100%, while support for incremental operating costs are to be reimbursed at
85% (95% for office rental) in recognition of the fact that it is being provided in support
of institutional capacity building activities.
38



6. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   In order to ensure the effectiveness of the institutional capacity building assistance
to be financed by the project, prior to negotiations, UWA initiated a number of measures
including institutional restructuring and re-recruitment of key managerial and technical
Headquarters positions, international recruitment of an Executive Director, international
recruitment of a Financial Management contractor, professionally assisted recruitment of
seven senior management/technical positions, and clarification of its financial "State of
Affairs" at inceptions. In addition, both UWA and GOU formally adopted a policy to
improve the procedures for award and management of concessions for tourism facilities
within the PAs. The proposed Conditions of Effectiveness for ICB-PAMSU relate to the
completion of these initiatives:
(1) A draft contract for financial management services, acceptable to the Bank,
with the contract to be signed upon effectiveness of the project (unless already
signed and underway through USAID funding)
(2) Shortlists for the seven senior UWA management/technical positions
(currently under recruitment with external assistance), acceptable to the Bank.
(3) Completion of a Project Implementation Plan, including Procurement Plan
and first six months' Work Plan, acceptable to IDA.
6.2   The following assurances were obtained from GOU at negotiations:
(1) That an internationally recruited UWA Executive Director, acceptable to the
Bank, will be selected and a contract signed within 3 months of the date of
effectiveness of the project;
(2) That the GOU will continue its annual budgetary subvention to UWA and
other implementing agencies at least at current levels in real terms;
(3) That UWA will implement the recommendations of the Concessions
Committee report, as outlined in the GOU policy lette, within one year of
project effectiveness; and
39



RECOMMENDATION
6.3   Based on the above agreements, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit to the
Republic of Uganda of US$12.37 million on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity,
and for a GEF Grant of US$2.0 million.
- 40



ANNEX 1
SUMMARY COST TABLES
1. Project Cost Summary by Component
2. Project Cost Summary by Financer
3. Detailed Tables
(1) UWA Capacity Building and Operations
(2) Capacity Building for Other Conservation Organizations
(3) Capacity Strengthening of Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Industry, and of
the Uganda Tourism Board
(4) Capacity Strengthening of the Department of Antiquities and Museums/
National Commission for Museums and Antiquities
(5) Strengthening of Tourism Training Institutions
(6) Project Coordination and Implementation
41



Summary Cost Table 1: Project Cost Summary by Component
UGANDA
ICB-PAMSU PROJECT                                                                                                             %     % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                                                                      (US 000)              Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign      Total   Exchange Costs
UWA Capacity Building and Operations                                                      7,184.6    3,383.8   10,568.4       36       52
Capacity Building for Other Conservation-related Institutions                             1,290.0      980.0    2,273.0       31       11
Strengthening of the DAM/National Commission for Antiquities and Museums                    375.9      320.5      696.4       43        3
Strengthening of MTTI & UTB                                                                971.9      790.0    1,761.9        44       9
Strengthening of Tourism Training Institutes                                                481.2      591.3     1,072.5      53        8
Project Coordination and Implementation                                                    440.8       610.5    1,051.3       52        5
Unallocated                                                                                          1,100.0    1,100.0      100        6
Refunding of PPF                                                                                -    1,915.0    1,915.0      100       10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                         10,744.4    9,691.1   20,438.5              104
.p     Summary Cost Table 2: Project Cost Summary by Financer
UGANDA
ICB-PAMSU PROJECT
Components by Financiers
(US$ 000)                                                                               IDA              GEF            GOU             Total
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount  %    Amount             %
UWA Capacity Building and Operations                                                  5,268.2  57.0     616.8  7.0   4,683.4 35.0   10,568.4    56.7
Capacity Building for Other Conservation-related Institutions                          741.0  27.0   1,144.6  37.0      294.5 40.0    2,180.1    10.2
Strengthening of the DAM/National Comm. forAntiquities And Museums                     574.4  73.0          -    -      121.9 11.0      696.4     1.6
Capacity Strengthening of MTTI and UTB                                                1,171.6  70.2         -    -      590.3 29.0    1,761.9    10.0
Strengthening of Tourism Training Institutes                                           776.1  79.9          -    -      296.4 16.0    1,072.5     4.9
Project Coordination and Implementation                                                986.8  93.0       38.6  36.0      25.9 4.0    1,051.3      4.9
Unallocated                                                                            900.0  100.0     200.0                          1,100.0
Refunding of PPF                                                                      1,915.0  100.0        -    -          -   -    1,915.0    11.7
Total Disbursement                                                                     12,333.1  63.0   2,000.0  10.0   6,012.4 27.0   20,345.6   100.0



Summary Cost Table 1: Project Cost Summary by Component
UGANDA
ICB-PAMSU PROJECT                                                                                                             %     %Total
Components Project Cost Summary                                                                       (US 000)              Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign      Total   Exchange Costs
UWA Capacity Building and Operations                                                      7,184.6     3,383.8   10,568.4       36      52
Capacity Building for Other Conservation-related Institutions                            1i290.0       980.0    2,273.0        31      11
Strengthening of the DAM/National Commission for Antiquities and Museums                    375.9      320.5       696.4       43       3
Strengthening of MTTI & UTB                                                                971.9       790.0    1,761.9       44       9
Strengthening of Tourism Training Institutes                                                481.2      591.3    1,072.5        53       8
Project Coordination and Implementation                                                     440.8      610.5    1,051.3        52       5
Unallocated                                                                                           1,100.0    1,100.0      100       6
Refunding of PPF                                                                                -    1,915.0     1,915.0      100      10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                         10,744.4    9,691.1   20,438.5               104
Summary Cost Table 2: Project Cost Summary by Financer
UGANDA
ICB-PAMSU PROJECT
Components by Financiers
(US$ 000)                                                                               IDA              GEF             GOU            Total
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount  %    Amount              %
UWA Capacity Building and Operations                                                  5,268.2  57.0     616.8  7.0   4,683.4 35.0   10,568.4    56.7
Capacity Building for Other Conservation-related Institutions                          741.0  27.0   1,144.6  37.0      294.5 40.0    2,180.1    10.2
Strengthening of the DAM/National Comm. for Antiquities And Museums                    574.4  73.0          -    -       121.9 11.0     696.4      1.6
Capacity Strengthening of MTTI and UTB                                                1,171.6  70.2         -    -      590.3 29.0    1,761.9    10.0
Strengthening of Tourism Training Institutes                                           776.1  79.9          -    -      296.4 16.0    1,072.5      4.9
Project Coordination and Implementation                                                986.8  93.0       38.6  36.0      25.9 4.0    1,051.3       4.9
Unallocated                                                                            900.0  100.0     200.0                          1,100.0
Refunding of PPF                                                                      1,915.0  100.0        -    -          -   -    1,915.0    11.7
Total Disbursement                                                                      12,333.1  63.0   2,000.0  10.0   6,012.4 27.0   20,345.6   100.0



Detailed Tables (1): UWA Capacity Building and Operations
UGANDA
ICB-PAMSU PROJECT
Table 2. UWA Capacity Building and Operations
Detailed Costs                                                     Base Cost (U$ 000)                % For.
1998     1999     2000      Total    Exch.
I. Investment Costs
A. HQ Operations
HQ Building Rent                                              182.0   182.0     182.0     546.0   100.0
HQ Office O&M                                                 253.0   253.0     253.0     759.0     0.0
ED Remuneration                                               180.0   180.0     180.0     540.0   100.0
Management Remuneration (3dds)                                108.0   108.0     108.0     324.0   100.0
Other HQ Base Salaries & Allocances                            78.0    78.0      78.0     234.0     0.0
Equipment ED Office                                            16.5    37.5         -      54.0   100.0
Equipment (Uniforms)                                           80.0       -         -      80.0     0.0
Engineering Services TA                                       100.0   100.0         -     200.0   100.0
Human Resources Development                                   150.0   150.0     150.0     450.0   100.0
Technical Assistance - Legal (Concessions)                    165.0                       165.0    80.0
TA-Short Term-Other                                           187.0   187.0     187.0     561.0    80.0
Training                                                      333.3   333.3     333.3     999.9    70.0
Field salaries & allows & overheads                           777.0   777.0     777.0   2,331.0     0.0
Parks-O&M                                                     394.0   394.0     394.0   1,182.0     0.0
Reserves - O&M                                                182.0   182.0     182.0     546.0     0.0
Equipment 1 DPMR                                              100.0    69.0         -     169.0   100.0
Equipment 2 DPMR                                               70.0       -         -      70.0   100.0
Equipment - Field                                              62.5    62.5      62.5     187.5   100.0
Equipment- HQ                                                  15.0    15.0      15.0      45.0   100.0
Subtotal HQ Operations                                        3,433.3  3,108.3   2,901.8   9,443.4
B. UWA Board Facilitation                                        50.0    25.0         -      75.0   100.0
C. Financial Services Contract
Fixed Programs and Hardware                                   125.0   250.0         -     375.0   100.0
Variable Expenses                                              40.0    40.0      40.0     120.0   100.0
Variable Fees - 2 Yrs Development & Implementation            165.0   330.0               495.0   100.0
Variable Fees - lYr Monitoring                                            -      60.0      60.0   100.0
Subtotal Financial Services Contract                            330.0   620.0     100.0   1,050.0
Total                                                            3,813.3  3,753.3   3,001.8  10,568.4
44



Detailed Table (2): CapacIty Strengthening of Other Conservation Organizations
U U UGANDA                          UGANDA  UGANDA
ICB-PAMSU
Table 4. Capacity Building for Other Conserv
Detailed Costs                            Base Cost (US 000)             % For.
1998    1999   2000    Total    Exch.
I. Investment Costs
A. UWEC
Animal Holding Pens - cw              40.0       -       -      40.0     0.0
Management - TA                      100.0   100.0       -     200.0   100.0
Planning TA                           30.0   30.0        -      60.0   100.0
Short Term TA - Other                 20.0   20.0   10.0        50.0
Training                              35.0   35.0   25.0       100.0
Civil Works                          100.0  200.0   100.0    400.0       0.0
Equipment                             15.0       -       -      15.0  100.0
Office O&M                            17.0    17.0    17.0      51.0    0.0
Local Staff                           19.0   19.0    19.0       57.0    0.0
Subtotal UWEC                          376.0   421.0   171.0     973.0
B. UWTI
Local Staff                           29.0   29.0   29.0        87.0     0.0
Business Plan TA                      30.0               -      30.0   100.0
Short-term TA - Other                 24.0    12.0    12.0      48.0    80.0
Training                              20.0    10.0    10.0      40.0
Subtotal UWTI                          103.0   51.0   51.0    205.0
C. Wildlife Department
TA (short-term)                       50.0   25.0   25.0       100.0   80.0
Training                              35.0   35.0   35.0       105.0   70.0
Equipment                             25.0    18.0       -      43.0   100.0
Salaries                              33.2   33.2    33.2       99.6     0.0
Subtotal Wildlife Department           143.2   111.2    93.2     347.6
D. Forestry Dept.
TA (short-term)                       50.0   50.0   48.0       148.0    80.0
Training                              35.0    35.0   35.0      105.0    70.0
Vehicle                               62.5       -       -      62.5   100.0
Equipment                             50.0   50.0   50.0       150.0   100.0
Civil Works                           11.0    11.0    11.0      33.0    0.0
Operating Costs                       83.0   83.0    83.0      249.0     0.0
Subtotal Forestry Dept.                291.5   229.0   227.0     747.5
Total                                    913.7  812.2   542.2   2,273.1
45



Detailed Tables (3): Capacity Strengthening for MTTI and Uganda Tourism Board
UGANDA
ICB-PAMSU PROJECT
Table 3. MTTI and UTB Capacity Strengthening
Detailed Costs                                                                  Base Cost (US 000)                % For.
1998     1999   2000    Total        Exch.
A. MTTI Policy/Planning
TA (Short term)                                                            25.0    25.0       -      50.0       80.0
Training                                                                   30.0    10.0       -      40.0       70.0
Subtotal MTTI PolicylPlanning                                                55.0   35.0        -      90.0
B. MTTI Tourism Statistical Database
TA (Short term)                                                            25.0   25.0   25.0        75.0       80.0
Training                                                                   30.0    30.0       -      60.0       70.0
Vehicle                                                                    62.5       -       -      62.5      100.0
Operational support                                                        50.0   50.0    50.0      150.0        0.0
Subtotal MTTI Tourism Statistical Database                                  167.5   105.0   75.0      347.5
C. MTTI Human Resources Oev. & needs assissement & planning
TA (short term)                                                            35.0    25.0    10.0      70.0       80.0
Training                                                                   20.0       -       -      20.0       70.0
Subtotal MTWA Human Resources Dev. & needs assissement & planning            55.0    25.0   10.0       90.0
D. MTTI Licensing Capacity
TA (Short term)                                                            60.0    20.0   20.0      100.0      100.0
Training                                                                   30.0    20.0       -      50.0       70.0
Vehicle                                                                    62.5       -       -      62.5      100.0
Equipment                                                                  26.0       -       -      26.0      100.0
Operational support                                                        39.0   39.0   39.0       117.0        0.0
Subtotal MTTI Licensing Capacity                                            217.5    79.0   59.0      355.5
E. UTB
Training                                                                   60.0    30.0   30.0      120.0       70.0
Equipment (Computer & acc.)                                                12.5       -       -      12.5      100.0
TA (short-term)                                                            30.0    20.0   20.0       70.0       80.0
UTB Salaries                                                              132.0   132.0   132.0     396.0        0.0
Materials                                                                  38.0    16.0       -      54.0      100.0
Operational costs (includ. travel & adv.)                                  38.0    38.0   38.0      114.0        0.0
Pilot Public relations contract                                            30.0       -       -      30.0      100.0
Subtotal UTB                                                                340.5   236.0   220.0     796.5
F. UIA/UTB Prospectus
TA                                                                         40.0       -       -      40.0      100.0
Materials                                                                  19.0       -       -      19.0      100.0
Subtotal UIA/UTB Prospectus                                                  59.0       -       -      59.0
G. MTTI Office Overheads (GOU)                                               12.0    12.0      12      36.0        0.0
Total                                                                          906.5   492.0  363.4   1,761.9
46



Detailed Table (4): Capacity Strengthening of the Dept. of Ant. & Museums/NCAM
UGANDA
ICB-PAMSU PROJECT
Table 6. National Commission for Antiquities and M
Detailed Costs                                  Base Cost (U$ 000)            % For.
1998    1999    2000    Total   Exch.
I. Investment Costs
A. Facilities rehab. - civil works           33.0    55.0    22.0   110.0      0.0
B. Audio Visual Equipment                     9.0       -        -     9.0   100.0
C Other Equipment                            11.0        -       -    11.0   100.0
D Short-term TA
Planning TA                                50.0                     50.0     0.0
Other TA                                   30.0    40.0    30.0   100.0    80.0
E Training                                   32.0    80.0    80.0   192.0    70.0
F Operating Costs                            21.0    21.0    21.0    63.0      0.0
SUBTOTAL                                  186.0  196.0   153.0   535.0
G Regional Sites Survey
Vehicle                                    62.5        -       -    62.5   100.0
Operating Costs                             9.0      9.0     9.0    27.0     0.0
Per diems and driver salary                 4.3     4.3      4.3    12.9     0.0
Meetings/workshops                          4.0     4.0      4.0    12.0     0.0
Salaries                                   47.0       -        -    47.0     0.0
Subtotal Regional Sites Survey              126.8    17.3    17.3   161.4
Total                                          312.8   213.3   170.3   696.4
47



Detailed Table (5): Strengthening of Tourism Training Institutions
UGANDA
ICB-PAMSU PROJECT
Table 5. Strengthening of Tourism T
Detailed Costs                   Base Cost (US 000)            % For.
1998    1999    2000   Total   Exch.
I. Investment Costs
TA (short-term)                70.0   108.0   108.0   286.0    80.0
Training Materials             46.0       -       -    46.0   100.0
Civil Works                    33.0    55.0    14.0   102.0     0.0
Equipment                     108.0   108.0   108.0   324.0   100.0
Vehicle                        62.5       -       -    62.5   100.0
Vehicle operating costs         9.0     9.0     9.0    27.0     0.0
Training                       25.0    25.0    25.0    75.0
Salaries                       50.0    50.0    50.0   150.0     0.0
Total                            403.5   355.0   314.0  1,072.5
Detailed Tables (6): Project Coordination and Implementation
UGANDA
ICB-PAMSU PROJECT
Table 1. Project Coordination and Imple
Detailed Costs                       Base Cost (US 000)            % For.
1998    1999    2000   Total   Exch.
I. Investment Costs
PCU Coordinator                      50    50.0    50.0   150.0   100.0
PCU Deputy Coordinator               25    25.0    25.0    75.0     0.0
PCU Staff                            68    67.6    67.6   202.7     0.0
Short-term TA                        45    45.0    45.0   135.0    80.0
Office Rental                       31    31.0    31.0    93.0   100.0
Vehicle                              63                    62.5   100.0
Office Equipment                     34       -       -    34.0   100.0
Training                             32    31.7    31.7    95.1    70.0
Incremental Operating Cost          68    68.0    68.0   204.0      0.0
415   318.3   318.3  1,051.3
Total
48



ANNEX 2
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TARGETS
OBJECTIVE          |IONITORABLE INDICATORS AND OUJTPUTS                            TARGETS AT MIIDTERM                         BENCHMARKS FOR INITIATING
APPRAISAL OF PAMSU PROJECT"
Government/Sectoral Level
Development of Tourism    Tourism Policy Paper and Strategic Plan, prepared   Completion of consultative workshops; preparation    GOU approval of Policy Paper;
policy and Strategic Plan    through stakeholder consultation process         of draft Policy Paper and draft Strategic Plan
(including clear roles of public & private sector and    Proposals for legislative revisions (as needed)
of respective sectoral institutions)              completed and submitted to Parliament
Strategic planning for    HR Development Plan and Training Needs              Training Needs Assessment completed               HR Development plan completed, adopted by
Human Resources           Assessment;                                                                                           MTWA
Development for Tourism
Sector                    Licensing standards (including standardized curricula    Draft licensing standards prepared           Licensing standards finalized, adopted
and examinations as appropriate) for tourism training
institutions -- developed in consultation with private
sector
Tourism Statistical       Tourism Database established, including collection,  Database designed; at least one visitor survey   Statistical Database fully operational; statistics for
Database                  analysis and dissemination mechanisms               completed and results disseminated                previous year published.
Licensing Systems for     Licensing standards adopted for Tour Operators and  Tour operators: licensing standards adopted, 10   Licensing and Inspectorate Dept. operational,
Tourism Services and      Hotels, with stakeholder consultation; trial        Operators licensed under new system;              handling applications with acceptable tum-around
Facilities                implementation completed                                                                             time.
Hotels: draft licensing standards prepared
ImplementingAgencyLeveli-General
4e     Clear mission/objectives   Each agency adopts a "Mission Statement" and policy   Draft mission statement/policy prepared, consistent    Final policy/mission statement adopted by
document, defining its short/medium/long-term      with GOU policies and through stakeholder         respective governing bodies
objectives, including relationship to and interactions  consultation process
with the private sector
Strategic, development and   Each agency develop: (i) an overall strategic   (i) Draft strategic and 5-year development plans   (i) Strategic and Development Plans finalized and
operational planning      ("corporate") plan, (ii) a proposed 5-year development  prepared; (ii) TORS completed for any studies  adopted by respective governing bodies (and
capacity                  plan (including financial analysis/feasibility studies of  required (e.g. financial analysis/feasibility studies for  approved by GOU as required); (ii) Draft
any proposed major investments, including specific  proposed investments)                            operational plans for following 2 years prepared
investment proposals for PAMSU support), and (iii) a                                                 (with completed financial analysis/feasibility
1-2 year operational plan                                                                            studies for any commercially-oriented
investments)
Development of human      Each agency has: (i) an efficient and appropriate staff  (i) Completed analysis of staff establishment, job  Any recommended restructuring or revisions
resource base and HR      establishment and structure, including clear        descriptions and remuneration systems, based on   approved by respective governing bodies; (ii) a 5-
management                implementation and reporting responsibilities; (ii) a  agency's mission statement and draft development/    year training strategy and first year training plan
training strategy to fill skills gaps internally and for  operational plans; any proposed revisions and their    developed; (iv) finalized performance indicators
personal development of staff; (iii) an affordable and   implications (e.g. redundancies, salary restructuring,   for all positions
equitable remuneration system; (iv) a performance  training needs, etc.) identified);
monitoring and management system;                  (ii) draft performance indicators for all staff positions
Effective financial       Each IA has: (i) a financial management system in   (i) implementation of improved financial          (i) an acceptable audit report by independent
management                place, including budgeting, accounting and reporting,   management systems begun (hardware and software    auditor for one financial year; (ii) evidence of
cost analysis, inventory control, internal audit, etc.;  purchased and installed; responsible staff  acceptable budget planning/management for one
identified/appointed and training begun; inventory  year; (iii) completed physical asset inventory and
tracking and internal audit procedures identified set    valuation, and inventory tracking and intemal audit
up);                                              systems operational



Environmental Impact      Environmental impact policy and procedures and      Draft EIA policies and procedures approved by     Evidence of implementation of EIA
Assessment Capacity       review mechanisms to incorporate the outputs in     governing body                                    policy/procedures
decision making (as appropriate given the nature of the
lAs activities)
Itpe"[t) gAgny Level - OtheSeiric
UWA
1. PA System              PA System revised to address need for: (i) coverage of  Technical proposals for PA boundary revisions  Revised PA System approved by GOU;
Rationalization           main ecosystems and biodiversity resources; (ii)    completed; community consultations completed or    implications for implementation (e.g. resettlement
management efficiency and sustainability           ongoing for at least 5 areas                      requirements if any, boundary demarcation and
infrastructure development) identified and costs
estimated
2. Concessions            Concessions for private sector tourism facilities within   Recommended actions initiated with respect to all  Recommended actions completed for all existing
management                PAs being awarded and managed in accordance with    existing concessions and informal agreements      concessions and informal agreements;
approved policies and procedures2"                                                                   demonstration that approved concessions award
and management procedures were/are being
followed in all cases.
3. UWA staff training     Comprehensive staff training plan refined and       2-year training plan finalized and first year under  2-year training plan completed; additional training
implemented                                       implementation                                     needs identified
4. UWA Board of Trustees  Board Procedural Manual articulating Board's        Procedural manual adopted by Board; training
capacity building         responsibilities and operational procedures         activities underway
5. Effective PA           (i) PA Management Plans developed/updated and      (i) Planning Unit equipped, staffed and operational; 5   5 PA Mgmt plans under implementation and
Management                implemented                                         PA Management Plans under preparation or being   investment needs incorporated in UWA Dev't and
updated;                                          Operational Plans; 5 additional PA Mgt. Plans
under preparation/being updated
t.n
(ii) Field staff equipped, trained to implement    (ii) Field equipment procured and distributed; field    (ii) 2-year field staff training plan completed,
effectively                                        staff training undervay                           additional training needs identified
Wildlife Dept.
Refinement of Wildlife     Amended WF Policy and amended legislation, or new    Draft Policy and legislation/regulation amendments    Proposed policy/legislation amendments and
Policy and Legislation    regulations developed as needed, particularly with  developed through stakeholder consultation process   regulations adopted, or submitted to Parliament, as
respect to Community Wildlife Management Areas                                                       approp.
Uganda Wildlife Education Center
1. Facilities rehabilitation   Improved physical facilities, including Animal  Priority rehabilitation completed (ca. half of total  All rehabilitation under allocated funds completed;
Holding facilities for WD and visitor facilities   allocated funds)                                  feasibility studies and designs completed for
further infrastructure rehabilitation/development
(per strategic/business plan)
2. Development of         New conservation education exhibits                 Designs for exhibits completed, BOQ prepared      Exhibits completed and open to visitors
educational exhibits
3. Strategic/ business    Strategic/business plan developed to ensure fulfillment  Strategic plan completed; draft business plan  Business plan completed, feasibility studies for
planning                  of educational mandate and sustainability          completed; feasibility studies required for proposed    proposed new developments completed.
I                                                  I new developments identified
Uganda Wildlife Training Institute
Strategic and business    Strategic and business plan developed, including   Strategic plan completed; business plan in        Business plan completed, including feasibility
planning                  market analysis --estimate of long-term WF sector  preparation                                        studies of any proposed infrastructure development
training needs in Uganda and the Region (public and                                                  or expansion
private sector) and assessment of UWTI's prospective
role in meeting those needs



Forestry Department
Develop capacity to       FD has policy and procedural guidelines   Policy/guidelines approved; pilot ecotourism project  Infrastructure complete; positive evaluation of environmental
promote and manage        for ecotourism development and       infrastructure designed                          and financial management of pilot activity
ecotourism in Forest      management; an ecotourism activity
Reserves                  underway in at least one Forest Reserve
Uganda Tourism Board (and Uganda Investment Authority)
1. Strengthen capacity and  (i) INTERNET Website (ii) a variety of  (i) Website designed and online; (ii) pilot  (i) second round of fam. trips and sales calls (European market)
broaden methods used for   promotion/marketing methods being   familiarization trip and sales calls completed (in  completed; (ii) investment prospectus completed and
tourism promotion and     pursued; (iii) model professional    Kenya); (iii) draft investment prospectus prepared;  distributed; (iii) pilot public relations contract underway
marketing                 prospectus prepared for a high priority    (iv) first set of new promotional pamphlets completed
tourism investment
2. Promote increased      UTB endorsed by stakeholders as: (i)                                                   Private sector tourism associations begin to contribute 10% of
professionalism in tourism    effective forum for public/private sector                                         UTB operating costs
sector                    liaison, e.g. for development and
implementation of licensing standards,
statistical database and a bookings
information system; (ii) effective
instrument for tourism promotion (e.g.
"welcome" services and production of
promotional literature
Hotel and Tourism Training Institute, and Uganda Assoc. of Tourism Training Institutes
Improve quality of tourism    HTTI kitchen and "front office" training   Equipment procured and facilities upgraded  At least 6 (3 additional) short courses held.
training through          facilities rehabilitated/upgraded;
institutional capacity
strengthening and         "Train-the-trainer" short courses held,    UATTI "Executive Committee" established and
Implement "Train-the-     output = trained instructors,        operational; at least 3 (1-2 month) short courses on
Trainer" program         recommended training curricula,       priority topics held
materials and aids.
Notes:             1/ May be revised at Midterm Review
2/ As outlined in Report of the Ministerial Committee and endorsed in the GOU Letter of Concessions Policy, dated April 15, 1998.



ANNEX 3
TABLE 1. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
COMPONENT                                               KEY ACTIVITIES                                               RESPONSIBILITY
Year 1                      Year 2                            Year 3
1. UWA Capacity   Establish Management Team    Strategic Plan Development        Corporate Plan Development         Interim Executive Director, with other
Strengthening                                                                                                        Managers
Put in place basic financial  Computerize financial management   Computerize financial management    IED, DD/Finance and Financial
management. Needs           at HQ                             in PAs. TA moves to "monitoring"    Management Contractor
assessment and procurement                                    phase
of computer equipment and
software
Stakeholder consultations on    Completion of PA system       GOU approval of final PA system    IED, DD/Res. Monit.&Planning,
PA system rationalization   rationalization recommendations,  plan; preparation of costed proposal    MTWA and Parliament
submission of proposal to        for implementation
Parliament as required.
Refinement of draft UWA     Implementation of training plan   Implementation of training plan    IED, DD-Human Resources, and
staff training plan                                                                              Training Contractor
en                       Orientation/training for UWA   Preparation and adoption of Board                                  PCU
IN.)                     Board                       Procedural Manual
2. UWA Field       Procurement of essential    Implementation of recommended    Implementation of PA Mgmt Plans      PCU, DD/Field Operations, Chief
Operations         equipment and supplies.     changes in field management                                           Wardens
Review of field management   structure. Begin implementation of
structure2/.                approved PA Mgmt. Plans.
Preparation/updating of # PA Mgmt.   DD/PM&R, Chief Wardens,
Procurement of equipment,    Preparation/updating of (#) PA   Plans. Preparation of designs/BOQ    Engineering TA; PCU
and training of HQ and field-  Management Plans. Preparation of   for infrastructure development for
based planning staff.       general infrastructure plans (e.g.  PAs based on Mgmt. Plans
Preparation/updating of up to  standards, standard designs).
() PA Management Plans                                       .



3. Capacity        Consultative workshops on   Submission of proposed revisions
Building of other    Wildlife Policy and       and regulations to Parliament
Conservation       Legislation
Organizations:
(A) Wildlife     Construction of Animal       Strategic/business planning                                         [Head] Wildlife Dept.
Dept.              Holding Facilities for
WD/CITES
(B) UWEC           Strategic planning          Construction of new educational  Complete construction of new       UWEC Director
Rehabilitation of existing  exhibits                         exhibits
facilities. Design of new
educational exhibits
(C) UWTI                                                                                                           UWEC Director
(D) Forestry Dept.  Strategic Planning
enl                       Community workshops, trail
development, purchase of
equ.& staff recruitment                                                                         Principal, UWTI
4. MTWA & UTB   Tourism Policy workshops,    Submission of Policy Paper to      Completion of Tourism Sector       MTWA Tourism Dev't Dept.--Tourism
Capacity Building   preparation of Policy Paper    Parliament. Tourism sector strategic  Strategic Plan            Planner) 3/
planning workshops.
Pilot implementation of statistical
Design of statistical database,  database
including survey instruments,                                Pilot implementation continues;   MTWA Tourism Dev't Dept. Statistician,
data collection and                                          evaluation of implementation to date  and Bureau of Statistics
dissemination systems
Pilot implementation of licensing
Tourism sector Human Resources    standards for tourism training
Tourism sector HR and       strategic planning. Pilot        institutions.
training needs assessment.    implementation of new Operator                                    MTWA: Dept. of Licensing and
Development of licensing    licensing standards.                                                Inspectorate, and Director/Human
standards for Tourism       Development of licensing standards                                 Resources4/i UATTI 5/
Operators                   for Tourism training institutions
UTB establish Internet      Carry out pilot fan trips and sales                                 UTB: Director, Sales and Marketing
I website.                   calls                                                              I Manager, Public Relations Specialist;



Identification/planning of
pilot "familiarization trips"
and "sales calls"
UTB Public Relations Specialist; Uganda
Pilot public relations contract in a                                   Investment Authority
source market country
UTB/UIA model prospectus
development
6. Tourism         Tourism sector HR Dev't and   Rehabilitation of HTTI kitchen &    Implementation of "Train the        Principal, HTTI; MTWA
Training Capacity   training needs assessment, and  front office training facilities.  Trainer" courses                  Director/Human Resources
Building            development of licensing     Implementation of "Train the
standards (see # 5).         Trainer" courses.
Establishment of UATTI
Executive Committee, and
identification of first years'
"Train-the-Trainer" courses.
Design rehabilitation of HTTI
kitchen and "front office"
training facilities
7. Project          Initiate M&E system          Mid-term Review                     Coordinate updating of PAMSU        Project Coordinator
Coordination                                    I                                   I project proposal                  I_I
NOTES: I/Activities continuing throughout the project period (e.g. UWA enhancedfield operations, Wildlife Department participation in international CITES-related meetings,
UTB general promotional activities, ongoing staff training, etc.) are not listed.
4>-             2/ e.g Consolidation ofmanagement of selected Parks and adjacent Reserves
3/ To be recruited (condition of disbursement for these activities)
4/ To be recruited (condition of disbursement for HR development-related activities)
S/Association of Tourism Training Institutes



ANNEX 4
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF
THE UGANDA WILDLIFE AUTHORITY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Job Description for an Interim Uganda Wildlife Executive Director
BACKGROUND
Responsibility for Uganda's natural protected areas was, historically, shared between
three different government agencies: Uganda National Parks had sole management
responsibility for all National Parks, while the Game Department was in charge of Game
Reserves, Animal Sanctuaries and Controlled Hunting Areas. Forest Reserves were the
responsibility of the Forest Department.
In July 1995, Game Department staff and functions were merged with those of Uganda
National Parks - a transitional arrangement pending the establishment of the new Uganda
Wildlife Authority (UWA). The Uganda Wildlife Authority came into being in August
1996, three months after the passing into law of The Uganda Wildlife Statute, 1996.
UWA is a parastatal organization governed by a Board of Trustees under the umbrella of
responsibility to the Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife, and Antiquities.
The UWA is now the leading organization charged with conserving and managing the
country's wildlife resources and protected areas. The organization is now responsible for
managing 22 protected areas, including national parks and wildlife reserves as well as
wildlife management areas, including wildlife sanctuaries and community wildlife areas.
From its establishment in 1996, UWA has functioned within a largely public sector
culture. UWA, from its inception, has been plagued with problems of mismanagement
and lack of adequate financial control and accountability. The organization has also had
to cope with significant revenue losses due to the drastic decline in tourism that has
occurred over the last several years due to instability within the country. Wildlife
populations are presently low due to the past war in the late 70s and early 80s. UWA has
done little to diversify its revenue potential and has relied on revenue from the Mountain
Gorilla parks for its main source of income.
UWA now has 70 headquarters staff and a larger dispersed field staff operation,
comprising approximately 1500 personnel total. With limited revenue, this number of
personnel has stressed the limits of the organization from its establishment. The Uganda
Wildlife Authority is in the process of restructuring its functions and processes in order to
ensure a more effective, efficient, and transparent organization.
55



THE POSITION
One major thrust to ensure proper management of UWA stems from the "Protected Areas
Management and Sustainable Use" (PAMSU) project. This World Bank $30 million
dollar project aims to assist the Government of Uganda (GOU) to protect, manage and
develop its protected area system, wildlife resources and associated assets, and to
promote their sustainable, environmentally sound use in order to ensure their long-term
survival.
As a prelude to PAMSU, an Institutional Capacity Building (ICB) project is underway
which is intended to strengthen the management capacity of UWA through a combination
of technical assistance, training and provision of special management services on a
contractual basis for a maximum of 3 years while internal capacity is being developed.
GOU anticipates obtaining a major package of investment assistance from the World
Bank and other donors as soon as UWA has achieved the institutional capacity required
to implement it effectively. The hiring of a new UWA Executive Director is one key
component of the ICB Project.
Consequently, the successful implementation of the ICB project with its goal of achieving
institutional capacity building willfacilitate initiation of the PAMSUproject. The
recruitment of a UWA Executive Director with the qualifications listed below is aimed at
enabling UWA to achieve these goals as soon as possible. This Executive Director
position will be for 3 years (non renewable). There will be a one year probationary
period with continuation based on a positive performance assessment. This is an
executive position with line responsibility. This position will be funded under a World
Bankfinanced project. The primary responsibility of the Executive Director will be to
transform UWA into a viable, functional, and transparent organization and to ensure
capacity building to provide long term sustainability of the organization.
The Executive Director (ED) who is also the Chief Executive Officer will be
primarily responsible for putting in place all the essential management components
to ensure that UWA becomes a viable, functional, sustainable, transparent, and
reputable organization. The primary goal is to develop an organization based on sound
business management practices that will be in concert with and promote biodiversity
protection through a sustainable system of protected areas. The ED will be responsible for
charting a new course for the organization. This is a rare and challenging position that
requires "solid" business and operational skills to drive the implementation of the
restructuring program through a strategic management process. Other responsibilities
include instituting creative and vigorous strategies to re-instill a sense of "esprit de corps"
in the organization at all levels; establishing UWA as a reputable and functional
organization with local, regional, and international partners; ensuring compliance with the
conditionalities as per the capacity building component of the PAMSU project;
implementing statutes, policies, regulations, plans, procedures, and guidelines as
56



approved by the UWA Board of Trustees and reviewing and reporting on the operations
and results of the organization; installing effective financial, procurement and human
resource management systems; implementing the concessions procedural process and
guidelines to ensure that the organization receives appropriate financial benefits through
an effective and transparent means of business contract management; leading and
motivating the organization to achieve high performance standards through developing
performance measures/ monitoring/ accountability strategies, especially in the areas of
park operations, revenue collection accounting, and tourism management/ services.
QUALIFICATIONS
Applicants should have an advanced degree and have proven experience (10 years or
more) as a senior level manager (Chief Executive Officer, General Manager, Deputy
Managing Director or Managing Director) in an organization or company where he/she
has supervised and managed at least 300 employees. The candidate must successfully
demonstrate that he/she has strong business/ management- related skill with a
demonstrated track record of accomplishment in strategic management, budgeting,
organizational restructuring and planning, organizational transformation, business process
reengineering, handling large budgets, developing and implementing performance
standards and continuous improvement of service quality. Candidates with a proven
record for creatively and successfully "turning an organization around from a poorly
functioning to well-functioning organizations" will have a strong advantage. Additional
experience and/or a background in conservation or environment is desirable but not
required.
THE PACKAGE
The position offers an internationally competitive and attractive remuneration package on
a 3 year (non renewable) fixed term contract. The salary (negotiable) is to be
commensurate with the expected contribution to the management of this key Ugandan
organization charged with the responsibility of managing Uganda's 22 protected areas.
SCOPE OF ASSIGNMENT
The Executive Director's role will be to provide good management leadership aimed at
transforming UWA into an effective and efficient organization based on sound
management practices and capable of undertaking its essential functions on a sustainable
basis. The targets and requirements associated with this position are as follows:
1. Develops within the first 3 months, with UWA personnel and partners, a 3 year Work
Plan with specific targets to be achieved in each year. The Work Plan will 1) identify
RESULTS, OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, TIME FRAMES, PARTNERS, AND
57



ASSUMPTIONS; 2) set indicators to determine when the investment phases of
PAMSU will be initiated; 3) serve as the basis for evaluating the "organization turn
around"; and 4) evaluate the Executive Director's performance.
2. Reexamines and directs the implementation of the organizational restructuring
process in terms of functions, work processes, staffing levels, devolution of authority
and decision-making as well as reevaluating the existing regional clustering concept
of protected areas to ensure the most effective and efficient management of the
protected area system.
3. Makes recommendations to the UWA Board of Trustees for any necessary
adjustments or refinements related to the UWA restructuring and position
descriptions.
4. Develops in collaboration with UWA personnel and partners and with assistance from
an external consultant, a Strategic Corporate Plan that will serve to reposition the
organization so it can play its critical role in the sustainable management and
conservation of Uganda's protected area resources. This activity is of high priority as
it will set a strategic direction to be followed in the installation of management
systems and in the implementation of major projects and programs.
5. Puts together and transfers skills (capacity building) to a strong Executive Teamn
composed of UWA Deputy Directors and other selected senior UWA staff to ensure
that a body of knowledge and experience is passed on to those who will continue to
play a major role in the organization's decision-making process.
6. Develops and implements an effective, efficient, sustainable, and transparent financial
management, procurement, budgeting and accounting systems and procedures.
Supervises the Financial Management Services contract, together with the Deputy
Director of Finance, to ensure achievement of both effective financial management
and accountability, and the building of UWA's internal capacity. The primary goal is
to ensure that UWA follows sound business practices.
7. Develops and implements human resource management systems aimed at improving
individual performance, increasing productivity and improving staff morale.
8. Develops effective Headquarters/ Field communications, support and management
systems.
9. Introduces a "planning culture" where decisions are based on input from plans,
research, and environmental impact assessments produced by interdisciplinary teams.
Institutes a policy whereby the Board of Trustees is required to have technical input
presentations prior to decision-making on issues of a technical nature.
58



10. Ensures an appropriate skills mix among Management and staff through training and
recruitment.
11. Supervises/ oversees all Technical Assistance Advisors and all outsourcing contracts.
12. Implements and requires compliance with approved Concession Contract Procedures
and Regulations to ensure that all levels of compliance are achieved and that contracts
are awarded through an efficient, effective, and transparent process.
13. Develops and implements UWA's public relations policy and strategy in order to
promote goodwill, develop credibility and create a favorable public image. Also
planning, budgeting, and coordinating fundraising activities as alternative long-term
funding sources that will complement traditional revenue streams to support national
biodiversity conservation efforts.
14. Meets with Board of Trustees, GOU, Donors, and other partners on a regular basis to
ensure continuing support to UWA policies and long-terrn goals.
15. Coordinates the proposals and activities of the various donors and partners to avoid
conflicts and duplication of efforts.
KEY DELIVERABLES
1. An effective, efficient, viable, functional, and transparent organization.
2. An organization with sustainable management components that is capable of
addressing the core responsibilities of conservation and management of wildlife and
protected areas, with progressively decreasing reliance on external and technical
assistance.
3. A three year Work Plan.
4. A Corporate Plan
REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS
The Executive Director will report to the UWA Board of Trustees.
59






ANNEX 5
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES CONTRACT
FOR THE UGANDA WILDLIFE AUTHORITY (UWA)
A professional financial management consulting firm (Contractor) will be contracted by
UWA to:
1. provide UWA with an immediate and functional financial management and
accounting capacity as required for day to day operations, and to manage
donor financial support;
2. initiate the development of the required financial management systems, and
start the capacity building process within UWA to enable it to implement
these systems and maintain effective financial management and
accountability in the longer term.
General Responsibilities
During this 6 month contract period, the firm is expected to:
I. initiate and begin implementation of a computerised, fully integrated
Financial Management Information System at Headquarters which
encompasses all the Protected Areas and UWA activities;
2. assist with the recruitment and training of UWA Financial Services
Department staff (with the exception of the UWA Deputy Director Financial
Services, DD/FS) who should be sufficient calibre to ensure that the
capacity building process can be initiated.
3. operate through the UWA financial staff (both Headquarters and the Field).
The UWA financial staff will be answerable both to the Contractor and to
the DD/FS.
4. provide sufficient support services to ensure that significant progress can be
made during this 6 month initiative to institute a transparent, effective, and
efficient system of financial management in UWA and to build capacity
within UWA to sustain these financial systems.
61



Time Period
The Contractor will have direct line authority responsibility during this 6 month time
period and will take over all the financial control functions, including countersigning
authorisation for cash and cheque payments, and preparation of capital and revenue
budgets for authorisation by the UWA Board of Trustees. During this period, the
Contractor will also be responsible for developing financial management and information
systems, including evaluation and installation of required hardware and software (to be
provided by UWA through USAID project support), and for in-service on-the-job training
of UWA staff in the implementation of these systems.
This USAID contract is for a 6 month period and is non renewable. The USAID contract
is designed to give immediate assistance to UWA as part of a bridging period to develop
firm financial controls over the organization from now until July 1998. It is obvious that
a comprehensive financial management system cannot be put in place during a 6 month
period; therefore, in July 1998, the World Bank is expected to provide funding for a 24
month continuation (separate contract) of this financial strengthening effort for UWA. To
maintain continuity, it is desirable that the same contractor be selected; however, this
determination will be made by the World Bank and will depend on satisfactory
performance and separate contract negotiation.
Specific Contractor Responsibilities
I. The Contractor will be directly responsible for operating all the budgetary, accounting
and financial management functions of UWA, including: collection and banking of
revenues (e.g. from Protected Areas and concessions); making payments; maintaining
adequate financial records; and submitting financial reports on a regular basis to the
UWA DD/FS and the UWA Executive Director. The Contractor will also assist the
DD/FS in preparing financial projections and budgets for annual work plans.
2. The Contractor will advise and assist in the recruitment of UWA financial staff, under
the ongoing UWA restructuring process (reviewing and advising on proposed UWA
job descriptions and qualifications, and participating on interview panels). The
Contractor will be able to make recommendations to the UWA Board of Trustees for
any necessary adjustments or refinements related to the UWA restructuring and
position descriptions related to UWA financial division.
3. The Contractor will prepare, within the first one month of the contract, a six month
Work Plan which itemises in detail the objectives, and all step actions, and products to
be achieved.
4. Within the first three months, the Contractor will propose to UWA on-the-job training
for UWA financial staff, based on an assessment of their current skills and potential.
62



5. The Contractor will initiate the design and begin implementation of a fully integrated,
computerised Management Information System, which will include: budget
management, cash flow management, accounting, and a tracking system for project
funds.
6. The Contractor will be expected to ensure effective collection and management of
commercial revenue (e.g. park entry fees, concession fees and rental), and to advise
UWA on commercial development and market-related issues.
7. The Contractor will provide in-service (on-the-job) training to ensure that all relevant
staff are trained along with the evolving development of the financial management
and information systems.
8. The Contractor will continuously evaluate the skills and potential of the UWA
financial staff and provide a detailed performance evaluation at the end of the 6 month
period. If, at any time, in the judgement of the Contractor, staff members prove
incapable or unwilling to learn and to operate effectively, UWA will be requested to
take appropriate actions.
Contracted Personnel
The Contracting Firm will provide the following full time staff:
1. A Chief Financial Officer an experienced and fully qualified accountant who will
act as the Team Leader and take over all financial control functions listed above,
and be responsible for the accounting of all UWA funds (including revenue, GOU
subvention, external donor funds, etc.). He/she will ensure that UWA financial
staff receive requisite in-service training in order to carry out their responsibilities
effectively. The UWA DD/FS will be his/her counterpart during this period of
capacity building.
2. Systems and Information Technology Officer: to assist in the evaluation or design,
acquisition and implementation of a fully integrated computerised Finance and
Management Information System which covers both Headquarters and Field
operations. The system will be centred at UWA Headquarters, and the feasibility of
extending the system to the field evaluated. The UWA Revenue Accountant will be
his/her counterpart.  He/she will advise UWA  on hardware and software
requirements (to be provided by UWA and ensure that UWA staff receive the
required training to be able to implement the systems.
63



r   *,30'                      rI        32'                                       3                                        36
SUDANDA
-4  \'>,,)   ,gJ  <\                        a              /   )r)                        INSTITUTIONAl CAPACITY 4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISTTUIONL APCIY 
i.)w t  '-..eMoyo~ j   (s  g   t1                                                                 BUILDING PROJECT FOR
M0$' AM  u an                                                                     PROTECTED AREAS
,AUAlDUMAN)                                  KO r <   ) OI D,             MANAGEMENT AND
G+4---/g  I-W/ ( Ut (JVtr                 otido                       SUSTAINABLE USE
. X c X 4sGulu     /                    (                   j0 > @         DISTRICT CAPITALS
DI  o*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
REPUBLIC                IfNebbi                                                      , !                                --'Z2 - RIVERS
OF                                            t          C                                M O R C) (1 C:- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-2        CONGO                                       SNI                                           I                               '  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES     2-
M.s,ndi      Kwan,         tI                       I50                                        100      150
logt   '                               I,s,I              I        I
Hasindi                   S<.XvsOsOh ,k  Kak                       )K? Op                          KILOMETERS
-v  g ffUM                /         i             This map was produced by the
Nakas  la  .1                (KAPCH                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
-' 11 18 -  akti) >     t5   - /  The boundaries, colors, denominations
j  o   ! AM\ull si  r RAllib sMbalse r*o         rand anyother information shown on
-~~~~~~~ ~~~this mop do not imply, an the part of
/>'5 . '      , i< i 1:,/  . 1:-  -:    Kibogrn l  \ ' . -    i  ?  (3 1i   {  '  9    , , I.i              The World Bank Group, any judgment
Kib.1                                                                         o~~~~~~Ij~<Th  oun  n the legal status of any territory, or
BI-dibugye                                                                                                       any endiorsement or acceptance of
/T93 ';   '/\< )  I\es tero X   i .i N . .A  >           such boundaries.
['Fort 'j   MIb JB,NiA J,-;                                                 Bugiri
Potl KA'iAROGI F   r
gJJ~~~~~~ ~~~ )                   NIil X<GAO - )u   U ii E N D. E \.Kamp\ala   v I/UK(>N';  C i "GRi,,    -  K   E  N   Y  A
"N  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I5Ol  7TA  C  '                                                                 \                        36'g
0~~~~~ ~~S'iA                                                                                                   0-DL.   <'.~o                       ETHIOPIA'
eSeubsle o   --    >                                                              t         S U U D A N
A   .-A,              I                                                                           A
0    T  . -                                                                                                        II    t ; ~~'-. .  KamJ,Ia     KENY
K I      \    fy    ''N( Nairobio
KiomABALPj                                                                                                               RWAND$J*        laNat*N
RWANDA  ~                                                         ...*.~            4                                 U    uNiumbura TAZNI                   0
30'                                                                                                                          J      T____A__N__Z__A___ N__I__A____ 



