                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 26179




                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (Cr. 3115-UG, TF020516)

                                       ON A CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.1 MILLION (US$12.37 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       AND A GRANT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.5 MILLION (US$2.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                          FOR AN

              INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING FOR PROTECTED AREAS

                      MANAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABLE USE PROJECT




                                        June 20, 2003




Environmental and Social Development Unit
Africa Regional Office

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective June 6, 2003)

                                  Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings
                                          UgSh 1 = US$ 0.0005
                                           US$ 1 = UgSh 1997



                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                       July 1 -  June 30


                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AOP       Annual Operating Plan                     NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
CITES     Convention on International Trade         NP         National Park
          of Endangered Species                     NSP        National Shopping Procedures
DAM       Department of Antiquities and Museums     PAMSU      Protected Areas Management
ED        Executive Director                                   and Sustainable Use Project
EU        European Union                            PA         Protected Area
FD        Forestry Department                       PCU        Project Coordination Unit
GD        Game Department                           PPF        Project Preparation Facility
GEF       Global Environment Facility               QAG        Quality Assurance Group
GOU       Government of Uganda                      QENP       Queen Elizabeth National Park
GTZ       German Cooperation Agency                 SDR        Standard Drawing Rights
HTTI      Hotel and Tourism Training Institute      TA         Technical Assistance
HQ        Headquarters                              TOR        Terms of Reference
IA        Implementing Agency                       UMMA       Uganda Ministry of Museums
ICB       International Competitive Bidding                    and Antiquities
ICB-PAMSU Institutional Capacity Building for       UNP        Uganda National Parks
          Protected Areas Management and            USAID      United States Agency for
          Sustainable Use                                      International Development
IDA       International Development Association     UTB        Uganda Tourism Board
IDF       Institutional Development Facility        UWA        Uganda Wildlife Authority
IUCN      World Conservation Union                  UWEC       Uganda Wildlife Education Center
MTR       Midterm Review                            UWTI       Uganda Wildlife Training Institute
MTTI      Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry   WD         Wildlife Department (Ministry of
NCB       National Competitive Bidding                         Tourism, Trade and Industry)




                                 Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
                              Country Director:    Judy M. O'Connor
                               Sector Manager:     Richard G. Scobey
                                  Team Leader:     Nathalie W. Johnson

                                               UGANDA
 INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING FOR PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT AND
                                  SUSTAINABLE USE PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
    6. Sustainability                                                                11
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
    9. Partner Comments                                                              14
    10. Additional Information                                                       15
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
    Annex 8. Project Evaluation by the Borrower                                      27

MAP
IBRD 29597

Project ID: P002941                                                      Project Name: Institutional Capacity Building for
                                                                         Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use
                                                                         Project
Team Leader: Nathalie Weier Johnson                                      TL Unit: AFTES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 20, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Institutional Capacity Building for Protected            L/C/TF Number: Cr. 3115-UG, TF020516
                            Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
   Country/Department: UGANDA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (77%); Other social services
                            (11%); Vocational training (7%); Other domestic and international
                            trade (5%)
                  Theme: Other environment and natural resources management (P); Other
                            financial and private sector development (P); Biodiversity (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    05/12/1995                                        Effective: 01/19/1999              03/25/1999
   Appraisal:    05/12/1997                                            MTR:                           02/26/2001
    Approval:    07/09/1998                                         Closing: 01/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOU/MIN OF TOURISM; GOU/WILDLIFE AND ANTIQUITIES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo                                  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Judy M. O'Connor                                    James W. Adams
Sector Manager:            Richard G. Scobey                                   Cynthia C. Cook
Team Leader at ICR:        Nathalie W. Johnson                                 Agi Kiss
ICR Primary Author(s): Karen Richardson and Jack
                           Ruitenbeek


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The PAMSU project concept was conceived in 1994 as an ambitious program of support that would
re-establish Uganda's wildlife and national parks estate, which had been all but decimated during years of
poaching, encroachment, civil wars and domestic unrest. The program supported a long-term vision that
included abundant wildlife numbers, protected habitats in diverse montane, savannah, and riparian settings,
a vibrant tourism industry that mirrored the experience of its East African neighbors, and a strong core of
governmental and civil society support. The vision was consistent with country priorities to revitalize
stagnant economic sectors, and with GEF global priorities that sought to reverse the downward trends in
biodiversity loss in critical ecosystems. Uganda ­ bordered by Africa's largest lake, its highest mountain
range, and the Rift valley, and containing the headwaters of the Nile ­ merited (and, indeed, demanded)
international attention. The situation and vision were a natural fit for the joint environmental and
development objectives espoused at the Rio Summit in 1992, and in the World Bank's subsequent project
work that supported "sustainable development."

Sustainable development was commonly depicted as an approach that supported the three dimensions of
social, ecological, and economic sustainability. But PAMSU also included within its vision a fourth
element ­ institutional sustainability ­ as a cornerstone to realizing and securing the positive longer term
impacts for conservation and human well-being. Without sustainable institutions, sustainable resource use
would be impossible. The Bank initially prepared the PAMSU project to support high priority capital
investment in rehabilitation and improved operations of the PAs, however at appraisal it was agreed that
the institutional framework was too weak to proceed without a precursor project to build instituitonal
capacity. That, in a nutshell, was the driving force behind the design of ICB-PAMSU's objectives.

ICB-PAMSU's objectives directly addressed the PAMSU vision, within the reality of conditions that
unfolded during almost three years of project preparation. This reality was a difficult one. National parks
staff had been unpaid for almost a year and were themselves poaching animals. Illegal encroachment
continued apace with no evident political will or regulatory power to enforce compliance. Staff morale was
miserable as corruption appeared to go unchecked at high levels of decision-making. Financial controls
were non-existent, with accounting standards in some cases so low that some institutions did not even
realize that they were insolvent. Moreover, ongoing risks were varied and real. As a project ­ it was clear
that the highest priority objectives would be to address the evident institutional weaknesses, while also
providing some safety net mechanisms that protected the resource base. And so emerged the ICB-PAMSU
objectives.

Specifically, the objectives of the ICB-PAMSU became: (i) to establish effective institutional capacity
within the wildlife and tourism sectors for strategic planning, program development and implementation,
and to promote long-term sustainability; and (ii) to secure the vital natural resource base, particularly the
protected area estate and wildlife resources, during the period that the institutional capacity is being
strengthened.

These objectives were suitable to the situation, and highlighted that ICB-PAMSU was very much intended
as a transitional project, focusing on institutional sustainability and risk management.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective remained unchanged throughout the project.




                                                       - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
The project consists of five components relating specifically to various institutions, plus a sixth component
to provide implementation and coordination support. Within all institutions, capacity building activities
focused at three levels: (i) ensuring an effective and efficient overall institutional framework, in which the
roles of the various sectoral institutions are well coordinated and their functions and capabilities are
complementary. This includes promoting an effective partnership among the public and private sectors and
NGOs; (ii) strengthening the planning, management and implementation capacity, and ensuring the
sustainability and accountability of the individual institutions; and (iii) strengthening overall human
resource capacity and promoting professionalism within the sector. The Ministry of Tourism, Trade and
Industry (MTTI) housed the primary coordinating functions.

Strengthen capacity of Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA): The aim was to establish UWA as an
effective and efficient organization that is able to ensure the conservation of a representative portion of
Uganda's biodiversity heritage. The project provided the basis for growth of sustainable nature-based
tourism, while generating revenues to cover an increasing proportion of its recurrent and capital costs.
Within this component, support was provided primarily to: (i) a transition management team and structure
at UWA central HQ to improve accountability over operations, while also reconciling past liabilities; and,
(ii) operations at the protected areas to protect the integrity of the resource base. Support was carefully
coordinated with other donors to ensure that all protected areas were covered without duplication.

Strengthen institutional capacity of other selected conservation-related institutions: This component
provided targeted support to a network of four institutions that complemented UWA's mandate.
Subcomponents included: (i) Wildlife Department (of MTTI), to enhance its capacity and support its core
functions within the national laws and international conventions to which Uganda is a signatory; (ii)
Uganda Wildlife Education Centre (UWEC), to facilitate the on-going transition of the old Entebbe Zoo
into a positive and effective center for conservation education, aimed at both the local population and
tourists; (iii) Forestry Department (of Ministry of Land, Water and Environment), to develop capacity in
forest ecotourism; and, (iv) Uganda Wildlife Training Institute (UWTI), to evaluate the overall financial
feasibility of UWTI and develop a strategic and general business plan.

Strengthen the Department of Antiquities and Museums (DAM): This component focused on the
cultural aspects of Uganda and their potential for tourism development as complementary products to
wildlife-based tourism. The component supported institutional development and capacity building,
including assistance in developing a business plan and modest maintenance and rehabilitation of existing
facilities at the museum in Kampala.

Strengthen the MTTI and the Uganda Tourism Board (UTB): This component focused its attention on
the relationships between the government and the private sector in tourism development. It sought to: (i)
develop a realistic and pro-active policy framework for the tourism sector, including an overall vision and
objectives and targets at the national and local levels; (ii) formulate a strategic plan to achieve these
objectives; and (iii) enhance the capacity of the MTTI and UTB to play their respective roles in
establishing an enabling environment for environmentally sustainable investment and private sector led
tourism development.

Strengthen Tourism Training Capacity: (1) To ensure the availability, quality and reliability of
tourism-related training in the country in order to increase the quality and professionalism of tourism
services; (ii) to ensure the availability of adequate well-qualified human resources to support increased
tourism investment and development; (iii) to enhance the opportunity for Ugandans to participate more
fully in employment and other economic benefits of tourism; and (iv) strengthing capacity for human


                                                       - 3 -

resources development through a "train-the-trainer" program.

Support a Project Coordination Unit (PCU): The aim was to coordinate and oversee the implementation
of all project components and activities. The PCU also provided support for donor coordination efforts
that were ongoing in the sector, ensuring transparency, reducing implementation risks, and providing
advisory services to MTTI in coordination. This coordination task was important because significant
ongoing support was being provided by European Union, USAID, the Netherlands Embassy, and
GTZ/KfW to the tourism sector. ICB-PAMSU was thus focusing on wildlife and habitats, but also
providing support in specific tourism niches that supported overall project objectives.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components remained unchanged throughout the project.

The Forestry Department Sub-component within the "Other Conservation Agencies" Component was
cancelled early in the project to avoid duplication with other donors. No Forestry Department activities
were funded under this project.

         Component                                                      Cost            Rating

         UGANDA WILDLIFE AUTHORITY                                  $ 10,600,000             HS
         OTHER CONSERVATION AGENCIES                                   2,300,000             S
         DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES/MUSEUMS                               700,000             S
         MTTI & UTB                                                    1,800,000             S
         TOURISM TRAINING INSTITUTE                                    1,100,000             S
         PROJECT COORDINATION & IMPLEMENTATION                         1,000,000             S

3.5 Quality at Entry:
A Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessment was carried out just prior to Effectiveness and rated the
Quality at Entry to be fully SATISFACTORY(S) overall, and noted that it contained many elements of
best practice. In particular, the QAG assessment supported the splitting of the larger PAMSU project into
two distinct and separate blocks, the first of which was the ICB-PAMSU project and the second of which
was the longer term PAMSU investment program. The QAG noted, "in short, the project team redesigned
the project in real time into an adaptable lending instrument, even before such loan types were formally
adopted by the Bank. The resulting product is a flexible, limited-scope operation which, with adequate
support by the Bank during implementation, should ensure an adequate foundation for investment."

The QAG Team thus supported the general theme of risk-management within a transitional project.
Regarding the largest (UWA) component of the project, the QAG further noted that: "One of the
consequences of the crisis of UWA's insolvency in May 1997 was the decision to strengthen the aspects of
the Project related to financial integrity and probity. Corruption all-too-often is like the weather: everybody
talks about it but nobody does anything about it. The ICB-PAMSU project is focused explicitly on
improving governance, financial integrity and honesty in contracting. It has strengthened project
components on the limits of power (defining the responsibilities of the Board of Trustees and relationships
with the Ministry and management of UWA, for example), merit-based staff recruitment, independent
financial management, and a transparent process for selecting concessionaires to manage Park facilities and
services. While it will take time to build capacity in these areas, the mechanisms and structures will be in
place to help ensure proper accountability and financial integrity of UWA."




                                                       - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The benchmark for ICB-PAMSU is taken as conditions that existed upon project start-up. At that time,
UWA had no financial management systems in place, had no operational principles, and was not audit
compliant. Staff in the field were poorly paid, with salaries in arrears of up to six months; morale was low
with very little operating equipment and no opportunities for training or personal improvement. Poaching
in the protected area estate was persistent, frequently involving rangers and other government and military
personnel. Encroachment in the parks was significant. Private sector and donor confidence in the sector
was at its nadir; existing concessions performed poorly and were often subject to political interference.
Most of the expenditures, decision-making, and management effort occurred at central headquarters, with
weak support for decentralized management. Capacity in other government institutions was similarly
weak, and civil society NGOs and the private sector had very little in the way of an enabling policy
environment in which to function. This lead the project team to set the following conditions for the project;
an externally recruited international Executive Director (for UWA) and outsourcing the management and
oversight of all financial matters at UWA.

By the close of ICB-PAMSU, this situation had been substantially reversed. The project achieved its
objectives and laid the foundation for the follow-on PAMSU investment project. Institutional capacity
development was substantial overall, although some of the activities related to tourism development fell
short of the initial expectations. A strong indicator of the improvement is that the self-assessment capacity
of key institutions had progressed profoundly, using such self-assessments as an objective and honest basis
for preparing the follow-on PAMSU investments. By project closing, UWA had prepared a Strategic Plan
for 2002-2007, including a self-assessment of progress against first year of 2001-2006 Strategic Plan. The
self assessment included separate departmental reviews of UWA progress by those in charge of Community
Conservation; Planning, Monitoring and Research; Tourism Development & Marketing; Financial
Services; and Field Operations. Similarly, UWEC conducted a self-assessment of 3 years of progress
under ICB-PAMSU, including separate departmental reviews.

Critical wildlife and their habitat were also protected. A rationalized Protected Area Systems Plan was
passed, enforcement capacity was improved, and poaching was reduced. A significant challenge to the
country and to the Project occurred in 1999 when a number of tourists were killed at the Bwindi
Impenetrable Reserve during a period of civil unrest and a lapse in security. The resultant international
reaction and drop in tourists, coupled with higher management and security costs, required rapid responses
by key implementing agencies and by project management to permit necessary funding reallocations that
addressed the short-term needs arising from that incident. The rapid and effective response exemplifies the
success of the project's approach for pro-active risk management. The immediate response was a
reallocation of funding towards some of UWA's critical operational costs, at the expense of some other
activities in the project that were either performing poorly or were judged of lower priority. While this
reduced the effectiveness of the outputs in some of the less critical components, the judicious reallocation
permitted the project to achieve its broad objectives.

In brief, the project's strategy of transition management using active risk mitigation proved successful,
placing key institutions and the resource base on a sound footing for future investments.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Strengthen capacity of Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA): The main UWA outputs were institutional
capacity building at UWA headquarters (HQ), and a series of outputs at the field level in the areas of
decentralized decision-making, financial systems and revenue collection, enforcement, human resource
development, monitoring and research, and community conservation.




                                                      - 5 -

UWA Capacity Building. In its most recent self-assessment of its 2001-2006 Strategic Plan, UWA
observed that it had successfully completed 49 out of 59 activities (83%) that it had planned to do.
Shortfalls occurred in the areas of infrastructure in the PAs, revenue collection from concessions (only 27%
efficiency), and completion of collaborative management agreements. Poaching and problem animal
incidents still remained an issue at some PAs, and the organization was hampered by negative media
perceptions. Mitigative actions were followed in all of these areas, and they do not detract from the
significant positive achievements of UWA over the project period. These include: (i) organizational
structure in place, establishment staffed including Management Team at HQ; (ii) Financial Management
and Executive Director contracts completed with good results; (iii) UWA Strategic Plan completed and
adopted and subsequently revised taking into consideration cost sharing mechanism as a result of HQ
restructuring; (iv) UWA Board TOR and Procedures Manual completed and adopted; (v) Financial
management system in place and functioning reliably (vis-a-vis budgeting, funds disbursement, accounting,
revenue collection). UWA staff trained to use it (Financial Management Manual completed and in use);
(vi) community-related policies approved relating to Revenue Sharing and Participation in PA
Management; (vii) Training Needs Assessment and Training Plan completed, training plan revised cutting
down on the original training program in view of the budgetary constraints and time availability.

Decentralized Decision-making. Perhaps the most noticeable and dramatic turnarounds have occurred at
the field level. A notable organizational innovation has been the adoption of a "zonal structure" in which
PAs close to each other are managed as a single conservation area. This structure improves administrative
efficiency and enhances decentralized decision-making without compromising the policy-making role of the
central offices or the on-the-ground effectiveness of individual PA management. There has been a
significant enhancement in field-based decision making regarding budget allocations, staffing decisions,
operational decisions, and general park management. Community collaboration initiatives and tourism
related activities are also seeing improvements; whereas in the past many operational decisions required
prior or ad hoc approval by HQ, field staff now have the capacity and authority to make such decisions
locally. This shift in responsibility is largely attributable to the planning process; 6 new PA General
Management Plans were completed under the project by the end of FY2001, and by project closure all PAs
were disbursing funds and conducting activities according to Annual Operating Plans (AOPs). The AOP
and other planning processes have involved significant input from local staff and stakeholders.

Financial Systems and Revenue Collection. Financial systems at the field are in place that permit reliable
financial control and minimize the prospects for leakages. Field staff have been trained in financial
systems. Each area has separate accounts for collected revenues (that are remitted to HQ after local
revenue sharing agreements are applied) and for disbursements for operational activities. Funds are
deposited monthly against AOP budgets. With the exception of some staff in remote parks, all staff now
have bank accounts into which salaries are deposited. Cash flow is sufficiently regular that local PA
offices have established routine supplier credit with local businesses and vendors.

Enforcement. Enforcement efforts have continued apace ­ with some successes ­ but poaching of animals
and forest products (e.g., trees for poles) persists in some PAs; encroachment by grazing animals and
community retaliations associated with problem animals also persist. Some capacity is now in place to deal
with such problems ­ staff have been trained, relationships are being developed with neighboring
communities, and communities are themselves becoming involved with enforcement ­ but infrastructure
and equipment constraints remain the greatest barrier to more effective enforcement. While basic
equipment is available, many PAs still suffer from transportation constraints, limited road access,
inadequate communications, and inadequate housing or outposts that would permit an ongoing presence in
those areas requiring enforcement.




                                                        - 6 -

Human Resource Development. Morale in the field has improved significantly. Salaries have increased
and are being paid on time against clear contracts, medical care is being provided, staff have uniforms, and
all staff have participated in various training programs that are intended to make them well-rounded in all
areas: community conservation, first aid, enforcement, tourism, and monitoring. Communications between
management and junior staff have improved through more regular contact, and staff are living in conditions
of greater certainty and personal security. They are no longer struggling to meet their basic needs.
Ongoing concerns of staff are related to the availability of adequate accommodation, and the provision of
transport allowances to facilitate home leaves during their time off.

Monitoring and Research. Most rangers have been trained in Ranger Based Data Collection techniques
and some experimentation has taken place using various information management systems. Some PAs are
starting to enter information into the MIST program developed for UWA as a pilot exercise under
GTZ/KfW funding, although reactions to MIST have been mixed. Some PAs find it useful, others find that
it lacks adequate feedback mechanisms and have adopted simpler systems locally while shipping the raw
data to HQ for entry into MIST. Some are concerned that MIST may not be supported over the longer
term. Notwithstanding this, the information systems have provided enough data to show that wildlife
numbers have been increasing in some PAs, and that poaching and encroachment are less pervasive.

Community Conservation. A number of initiatives have been started in this area, but capacity remains
rudimentary. It is acknowledged that such initiatives take a long time to generate tangible results, but some
of the basic building blocks have been put in place. Wardens and rangers have been trained, some revenue
sharing agreements have been put in place, and communities have been involved in specific conservation
activities (e.g., buffalo wall at Mgahinga NP, elephant trenches at Kibale NP).

Summary. The merger of the Uganda National Parks (UNP) and the Game Department (GD) to form the
UWA in 1996 was fraught with financial, management, morale and human resource problems. The
investment by the ICB-PAMSU project has promoted substantial changes in the institution, most notably
changes in the financial management, strategic planning, field capacity and overall morale. The transitional
strategy has been successful, and risks have been intelligently addressed and managed. The overall
performance is regarded as HIGHLY SATISFACTORY (HS).

Strengthen institutional capacity of other selected conservation-related institutions: Outputs associated
with this component were associated with the Wildlife Department, UWEC, and UWTI.

Wildlife Department (WD) of MTTI. WD has achieved most of its objectives set out under ICB-PAMSU.
Some of the planned training was not implemented because of lack of available staff, and the Wildlife
Policy prepared by WD remains unratified. Notwithstanding this, the most significant achievement of the
WD was its facilitation of the revised Protected Area System Plan that was put into force in early 2002.
The revised plan introduced changes that eliminated most of the boundary issues and historical
encroachment through redrawing park boundaries, while also improving the representativeness of the
overall protected area estate. In addition, the WD: (i) participated in meetings and workshops related to
international agreements; (ii) facilitated ratification of 2 new wildlife related conventions and selected
CITES regulations; and, (iii) established internet communication links between WD and other related
bodies. The overall performance is regarded as SATISFACTORY (S).

Uganda Wildlife Education Centre (UWEC). UWEC has achieved all of its objectives set out under
ICB-PAMSU. The UWEC Business Plan was rated satisfactory during the Midterm Review, and was
subsequently reviewed to address the issues of competitive strategy, pricing strategy, risk assessment and
controls over revenue collection as per the MTR recommendations. Civil works were completed including


                                                        - 7 -

animal holding facilities dormitory and classroom blocks, coffee shop and staff houses; some lower-priority
facilities were deferred during the MTR reallocation. The education and information program is ongoing,
which directly targets a growing number of visitors of all categories (total reached 132,000 in 2002). Five
new wildlife exhibits were established and one was expanded, and the project successfully supported
educational programs and linkages with schools and teacher volunteers. A closing achievement was that a
locally recruited Executive Director took over in 2001, phasing out the expatriate ED. In brief, the overall
performance is regarded as SATISFACTORY (S).

Uganda Wildlife Training Institute (UWTI). While a feasibility study was completed during the
ICB-PAMSU period, no further actions were taken. As Government did not remove UWTI from the
Ministry of Education and Sports and restore its standing as an autonomous parastatal under the MTTI,
the potential role of UWTI within the sector remains unclear; demand for its services is also not evident.
For example, UWA staff training occurred apace without significant reliance on UWTI. The overall
performance is regarded as SATISFACTORY (S).

Strengthen the Department of Antiquities and Museums (DAM): DAM has substantially achieved its
objectives set out under ICB-PAMSU, and has provided an important contribution to the cultural aspects
of the project's longer-term vision. The establishment of Ministry of Uganda Monuments and Museums
Agency (UMMA) was approved by the Ministry of Public Service under the Executive Agencies Bill. Just
before project closing, the Ministry of Public Service authorized the recruitment of the Executive Director
and appointment of an advisory Board. Civil works (minor rehabilitation of National Museums) were
completed, 2 graduate students were trained, and the project supported operational equipment purchases.
A preliminary Business Plan was commenced but was not completed because of funding reallocations at
mid-term. The overall performance is regarded as SATISFACTORY (S).

Strengthen the MTTI and the Uganda Tourism Board (UTB): MTTI has substantially achieved its
objectives set out under ICB-PAMSU. While MTTI completed several key activities, the impact of the
institutional capcaity buidling activities cannot be evaluated yet. MTTI developed a comprehensive
Tourism Policy and Strategy through a consultative process involving key Stakeholders. It also established
a Licensing and Grading system for tourism facilities, and a Tourism Statistical Database is fully
operational. A Human Resource Development Plan and Strategy for the sector were developed arising
from a manpower needs assessment. Finally, Uganda attended trade fairs to present itself as an emerging
tourism destination. Following the participation in the fairs, a number of enquiries have been made and
contacts established between a number of local and international operators. Delivery delays were
experienced for some activities, including: (i) dissemination of the tourism policy; (ii) support for zonal
tourism plans; and, (iii) strengthening the tourism statistical database system. It should be noted that a
number of these activities also complemented extensive EU support, which has taken the lead in the tourism
sector. The overall performance is regarded as SATISFACTORY (S).

Strengthen Tourism Training Capacity: All of the activities contemplated under ICB-PAMSU have been
undertaken and the component has contributed satisfactorily to building transitional capacity, consistent
with overall project objectives. This includes, for example: (i) Training Programme Executive Committee
established and a survey/assessment of tourism training facilities in the country undertaken; (ii) investment
in equipment and infrastructure at HTTI completed; (iii) computers and software purchased and training on
Fidellio front office system carried out; and, (iv) hospitality training curricular development was
kick-started to be completed by the Minister of Education. At project closing, however, the tourism policy
developed by MTTI has recommended that tourism training should be private sector led, and this calls for
the review of the role and future of HTTI. The overall performance is regarded as SATISFACTORY (S).




                                                      - 8 -

Support a Project Coordination Unit (PCU): Key tasks of the PCU included providing project-wide
procurement and coordination in a timely manner, preparing and adopting semi-annual work plans, and
producing a financial management procedures manual. Overall the PCU provided the necessary support to
the project with minor delays due to procurement of computer equipment and software. The PCU played a
critical role in ensuring financial management and delivery of outputs, and ensured an efficient delivery of
resources in a multi-donor environment. From a project perspective, the primary drawback of the PCU ­
not uncommon with such arrangements ­ is that its efficient operation and its presence as a safety net for
project management may have held up development of some of the internal capacity in the implementing
agencies it was supporting; notably, procurement capacity in many IAs lags that in the PCU. The overall
performance is regarded as SATISFACTORY (S).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as SUBSTANTIAL (SU). The main institution, UWA, came
into being in 1996 when operations were at a fairly low level and financial management was weak. The
project enabled the UWA to be transformed to an efficient, well-managed institution with proper financial
management, decentralized decision-making and clearly defined work programs and strategic plans. Other
conservation-related institutions benefited from the project interventions and the vast improvements in the
UWA to lift the level of institutional capacity well above the benchmark before project implementation.
Most significantly, the target institutions have fully internalized the PAMSU vision that calls for
sustainable use and management of the protected area estate using appropriate risk management methods.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Security was a key factor at several of the protected areas. Most notably, the tragic incident at Bwindi
(1999), the closure of Rwenzori NP, and security incidents at Murchison Falls NP and Queen Elizabeth NP
contributed to a dramatic decline in visitors to Uganda. This contributed to a decrease in the revenue
generating capacity of the UWA and the attraction of Uganda as a tourist destination. The decline in
tourism due to security issues was coupled with an industry still in its infancy following years of neglect
and political upheaval. Poor infrastructure and limited professional capacity have led to a low tourist base
(estimated at 3,000-5,000/year). The small tourist base cannot be expected to support the UWA in the
short-term and will have to be built up as security issues are addressed and political stability is assured.

Apart from the general impacts of such security concerns, some activities were directly impacted. Of 14
non-performing concessions that had been addressed in a Ministerial Report, recommendations for a few of
these could not be implemented because of on-going security concerns around the concession locations.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project performance was diminished because of factors relating to counterpart funding and divestiture of
government entities.




                                                      - 9 -

Counterpart Funding. The counterpart funding provided by the GOU amounted to 86% of the appraisal
amount. The project endured long delays in obtaining counterpart funding in its initial years, which
coupled with low level releases constrained project implementation, in particular UWA's component.

Divestiture. Many government parastatals and similar entities had been approved for divestiture or
reintegration into the mainstream of their Ministries. In 2000, these divestitures were suspended until new
policy frameworks were in place. This substantially delayed the conversion of the Department of
Antiquities and Museums into the Ministry of Uganda Monuments and Museums Agency. Similarly,
activities and support were reduced to the UWTI when the GOU transferred it to the Ministry of Education
and Sports from an autonomous parastatal under the MTTI. Fortunately, UWA staff training occurred
apace without significant reliance on UWTI. Last, the transfer of the HTTI to the Ministry of Education
and Sports seriously constrained the viability of the HTTI.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Performance of some of the implementing agencies was diminished by lags in filling staff vacancies,
reluctance to cut operational costs as a risk management strategy, and inadequate attention to
non-performing assets.

Unfilled Vacancies. Delays in implementation of the Wildlife Department sub-component were due to a
substantial number of vacancies that remained unfilled throughout the project. The lack of GOU action on
filling the vacancies raised questions about the Government's commitment to the proper functioning of this
department and ultimately to the prospects of further development of this department. Serious constraints
placed on the work program of this IA due to staff vacancies and delays in implementation meant that some
important synergies foreseen in the project design between strengthening the wildlife and tourism sectors in
tandem were not realized during the project life, thus delivery of certain outcomes had to be scaled back.

Excessive Operational Costs. While implementing agencies often spoke of cost reduction, such reductions
were often achieved through reducing services rather than reducing unit costs such as salaries or other
operational overheads. UWA's reluctance on this front was most pronounced. Recommendations to cut
HQ operating costs from 50% of the total budget to 30% of the budget were never implemented. By
contrast, UWA increased its salary scales significantly during the project life, in anticipation of a solid
revenue base that in some years never materialized. Related to this, UWA Board of Trustee expenses have
remained high, and the incentive structure of paying sitting fees without a cap has resulted in a proliferation
of meetings that might be regarded as excessive to management needs.

Non-performing Assets. The recommendations of the Ministerial Report on concessions, particularly
non-performing concessions under the mandate of UWA, were not implemented in a timely manner. The
issue of concessions was flagged at the start of the project as an important problem and remained an
outstanding issue at the end, even though UWA undertook to make this a high priority. A number of new
concessions were being negotiated at project-end using agreed guidelines and standard contracts developed
under the project. But in mid-2002, only 4 out of 14 concessions identified in the Ministerial Report had
been adequately addressed. Concerns at four operating concessions remain unaddressed in Queen
Elizabeth NP (Mweya, Ishasha) and Murchison Falls NP (Sambiya, Paraa). Two concessions (Paraa
Camp in MFNP; Sunshine in QENP) have been abandoned but remain potential outstanding liabilities and
should have been legally cancelled. As noted previously, four concessions may continue to be untenable
because security issues prevent renegotiation. The delay by the GOU to adopt the recommendations
undermined the development of UWA's business plan and revenue generating projections, and has exposed
it unnecessarily to financial and other risks.




                                                     - 10 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project cost of US$14.3 million at appraisal was financed by an IDA Credit and GEF Grant. The
disbursement of the IDA Credit and the GEF Grant was rated satisfactory (97% and 98% for the IDA
Credit and GEF Grant respectively). Several minor reallocations of funds were made during the project to
reflect changes in project activities, consistent with the risk management approach adopted by the project.
Most notably, more funds were allocated to UWA from other components that under-performed to support
the lag and decrease in counterpart funding. Procurement of consulting services, training and equipment
was rated satisfactory, with minor delays in procurement of initial equipment for the financial management
system.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the project is rated as LIKELY (L).

As a transitional project, the primary basis for assessing the sustainability of the project rests on the degree
to which lessons and good practice have been internalized within the culture of the implementing agencies,
and the degree to which these can be carried forward to subsequent project phases or related activities.

A major strategy within ICB-PAMSU has been one of responsive adaptive risk management, coupled with
institutional structures that are willing and able to put in place contingency planning and safety net
mechanisms that protect critical habitats and the institutions that support them. By project closing, there
was strong evidence that this approach had been partially internalized within some of the key agencies. In
UWEC, for example, a share of each quarter's gate receipts were being placed into an endowment fund.
The endowment had been originally launched through a US$100,000 pledge by the President.

But UWA showed the most impressive advances in this arena. By late 2001, it had set aside an
accumulated surplus of UgSh 1 billion, representing an operating budget cushion of about 3-6 months for
vital needs in the event of operational revenue interruptions. Also, through the use of the new zonal
structures for PA operations, it had successfully introduced a management technique that decreased overall
unit costs while building in some redundancy to cope with unforeseen circumstances at the field level.
Finally, just after project closing, political pressure came to bear on UWA to degazette one of the protected
areas in favor of a cotton-growing scheme; taking a constructive proactive problem-solving approach,
UWA has been able to identify and mediate potential compromises that would permit realizing some of the
development objectives of the scheme, while still maintaining the critical parts of the ecosystem intact.

In spite of these highly positive implications for sustainability, there remain a number of concerns that in
effect downgrade a potentially very high rating. Specifically, operational costs remain high. This comes
from two factors: the large extent of the protected area estate; and, mismatch between operating costs and
revenue generation capacity in the medium turn. The 10 National Parks and 12 Wildlife Reserves that
form part of the current PA system are an asset to Uganda, but it still remains to be seen whether the
system is itself too large to be sustained using current management structures. More adaptation in such
structures may be called for as more experience is gained. Second, the cost/revenue mismatch remains a
concern, and was identified by at least one donor in the ICB-PAMSU wrap-up meetings as a cause for
skepticism regarding the long-term financial sustainability of the organization. To overcome this will
require ongoing reductions in head office costs (including Board overheads) and increased efficiency in
concession management. It may also require some innovation (and good luck) in terms of capturing
Uganda's rightful share of a volatile international tourism trade.




                                                       - 11 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The follow-on project from ICB-PAMSU is the Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
(PAMSU). ICB-PAMSU closed about two weeks after the follow-on PAMSU project became effective on
December 14, 2002. The ICB-PAMSU PCU continued uninterrupted during the transition and will be
phased out by PAMSU mid-term.

PAMSU is a fully blended IDA Credit/GEF Grant in the amount of US$27 million Credit and US$8
million GEF Grant. PAMSU is under implementation with satisfactory ratings in all categories. The
project has four implementing agencies: Uganda Wildlife Authority; Uganda Wildlife Education Centre;
Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry; and the Department of Antiquities and Museums. UWA and
UWEC have separate project agreements and are responsible for reporting directly to the Bank. The
development objective of the PAMSU project is as follows: The sustainable and cost-effective management
of Uganda's wildlife and cultural resources. Sustainability is promoted through a combination of: (i)
providing funds for improving Uganda's ability to attract tourists to it's wildlife and cultural heritage,
while (ii) encouraging cost-effective management strategies so as to reduce overall operating costs of the
institutions managing these resources. The aim of the project is to capitalize on the capacity built in these
institutions under ICB-PAMSU, and provide a basis for long-term sustainability for each institution
through investment in necessary infrastructure and equipment, training and strategic planning.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank is rated SATISFACTORY (S).

The Bank designed the project in full consultation with the Borrower in response to the umbrella
"Conservation and Sustainable Tourism" program of the GOU. The Bank initially prepared the PAMSU
project to support high priority capital investment in rehabilitation and improved operations of the PAs,
however at appraisal it was agreed that the institutional framework was too weak to proceed without a
precursor project (ICB-PAMSU).

Relating to this redesign, the QAG found "... that the task team and management had demonstrated a
number of behaviors and attitudes which should be commended and encouraged: (i) intelligent and
transparent risk-taking and risk-management; (ii) focus on demonstrated results rather than plans or
promises; (iii) task manager tenacity and determination and strong management support; (iv) commitment
to genuine partnership with other donors; (v) the application of good governance principles through
practical action." The primary criticism by the QAG team was that some of the early warning signs had
not been properly read that might have permitted the project to be restructured at an earlier point in the
preparation process. Although the ICB-PAMU was prepared very rapidly once it was agreed to start with
a project consisting of only the capacity building elements, the total preparation time for both the initial
PAMSU project and the ICB-PAMSU project was 48 months.

GEF showed flexibility in allowing the previously allocated GEF grant of US$10 million for PAMSU, to
be split, allocating US$2 million to ICB-PAMSU and reserving the remaining US$8 million for PAMSU.

7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the Bank is rated SATISFACTORY (S).




                                                     - 12 -

In total, seven supervision missions took place. A Quality Assurance Group (QAG) Quality of Supervision
Assessment was carried out for FY00 and the project was rated as Satisfactory (S) overall. Active
sub-categories of supervision (development effectiveness, safeguards, supervision of inputs) were assessed
as Satisfactory, while Reporting was assessed as Marginal. The lower rating on reporting provided an
impetus for designing a more streamlined and relevant set of qualitative performance indicators during the
Midterm Review, which was carried out in March 2001.
The Bank remained very proactive and responsive during the project and responded rapidly to requests for
minor reallocations of funds, extension of the closing date by six months to December 31, 2002 and
implementation queries. In summary, it fulfilled its commitment to active and constructive risk
management in the interests of meeting project objectives.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
SATISFACTORY (S).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At preparation, the borrower's performance was rated SATISFACTORY (S). The Government of Uganda
had prepared an umbrella program to support conservation of the country's wildlife and cultural heritage
and assets (the Conservation and Sustainable Tourism Program) and was keen to implement its Integrated
Tourism Master Plan. The GOU had secured parallel financing from the EU and USAID and sought Bank
funding for capital investment. The main hurdle at preparation was the general weakness of the
implementing institutions, which lead to the development of the ICB-PAMSU project as a precursor to
larger investment by the Bank.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated SATISFACTORY (S). The GOU had a shortfall
of counterpart funding, which initially was significant (53% at mid-term) and impacted project
implementation. By project end, however the shortfall was just over 10% and the GOU contributed an
additional UgSh 500 million towards Bwindi following the tragic events and US$100,000 towards the
UWEC endowment. To date UWA has received UgSh 262 million for security purposes. Several audits
were not carried out in a timely manner, however the GOU rectified the problem by project's end. The
transfer of established entities, most notably the UWTI and the HTTI, back under the Ministry of
Education and Sports forced the project to suspend further disbursement to planned project activities for
those entities. Lastly, the GOU delays in filling staff vacancies at MTTI, transferring the DAM to the
UMMA and in reviewing non-performing concessions caused implementation delays and some re-allocation
of funds.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the seven implementing agencies is rated SATISFACTORY (S). The
performance of UWA, in particular, is rated HIGHLY SATISFACTORY (HS). Procurement, financial
management and reporting functions were performed well throughout the project period and a "corporate
climate" was established at the UWA. The Project Coordination Unit provided timely support and
oversight for all IAs. Several of the other IAs suffered delays or cutbacks due to government actions
outside their control, however these did not seem to impact the overall performance of the IAs themselves.
After project closing, unqualified institutional audits were available for all IAs. The experience gained by
the PCU team and UWA in the execution of this project made it possible for the larger PAMSU investment
project to proceed.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated SATISFACTORY (S).


                                                     - 13 -

8. Lessons Learned

The project provided some generalized lessons that are of relevance to other projects.

Phased Institutional Capacity Building. An explicit separation between institutional capacity building and
substantial field investment provides opportunities to reduce risks in the follow-on investments. First, it
permits the policy framework to be placed on a sound footing. Second, it permits the identification and
correction of existing institutional weaknesses. Third, where weaknesses can not be corrected in certain
institutions, it provides an opportunity to exclude those institutions from subsequent investments. This
latter lesson was ably demonstrated in this project whereby the most successful institutions ­ UWA and
UWEC ­ received proportionately larger follow-on investment support, as well as greater independence in
managing their own project.

Decentralized Decision-making. Decentralized institutional support is critical when protecting a
vulnerable resource base. The decentralization of the decision-making process from UWA headquarters to
the field, empowered the previously disenfranchised field-based staff and allowed some autonomy for each
protected area in terms of the development of management plans, the disbursement of funds against annual
operating plan and the evaluation of the revenue-generating potential of each PA. The phased capacity
building of the financial management system at HQ and then in the field allowed for HQ to have careful
control over the financial management system while vastly improving financial reporting from the field. All
of these factors in turn contributed to more effective protection during a transition period.

Adaptive Management as a Risk Mitigation Strategy. Adaptive management can be learned and, when
learned successfully, can provide an effective means for mitigating risks. UWA demonstrated through
"trial-by-fire" ­ when faced with dysfunctional Boards, insolvency, kidnapping and murder of international
tourists, and media censure ­ that a professional approach to problem-solving and risk mitigation will
overcome many of these challenges.

Active and Flexible Bank Management Support. High risk projects can be implemented successfully if
Bank management is itself adaptive to situations and to potential solutions. Project experience, as well as
various QAG reviews, showed that many correct ­ if unpopular or risky ­ decisions could be implemented
effectively if there was strong management support for them. This started at the outset, when the abruptly
scaled down ICB-PAMSU project still received strong management support, and continued throughout the
project cycle. At times these decisions related to standing firm on conditions for effectiveness, through to
with-holding non-objections until other capacity targets had been met, through to approving necessary
reallocations after the Bwindi incident.

Donor Coordination. Effective donor coordination is itself an effective risk mitigation strategy. The focus
of the EU and others on tourism permitted ICB-PAMSU to focus more effectively on its specific objectives
relating to institutional capacity and protecting the critical habitats during the transition period.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower prepared its own implementation completion report (see Annex 8). The Government rated
the overall project as SATISFACTORY (S).

The report recognizes the downsizing of the originally planned PAMSU project to the ICB-PAMSU as
necessary for institutional capacity building and notes that after the ICB-PAMSU the management and



                                                      - 14 -

sustainability of the institutions was sufficiently in place to warrant further investment by the Bank. The
Government noted that the actions of the UWA increased its capacity to develop and implement good
financial and human resource management systems, and significantly improve planning and field capacity.
With regard to the other conservation-related institutions, the Government noted that most of the
components fully achieved the objectives intended under the project, with notable exception for the Wildlife
Department, due to late recruitment and lack of training; and the delayed transfer of the DAM to the
UMMA. The Government commended the Bank's performance in providing advice and guidance and
noted the consistency of task managers. The Government rated its own performance as satisfactory despite
its slow start and problems with counterpart funding. The Government also provided several important
lessons learned, most notably that project design should allow for flexibility to adapt to unforeseen
circumstances (e.g. the Bwindi tragedy); IAs should fully participate in project design to facilitate
implementation; and governance issues must be addressed at the project design stage to ensure
accountability and transparency of project management and implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                       - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate
All IAs: Sectoral agencies have effective      (i) Any recommended restructuring or              The main implementing agency, UWA, has a
human resource management systems in           revisions approved by respective governing        functioning human resource division and all
place, including staff establishment, job      bodies; (ii) a 5-year training strategy and first employees have current contracts with clear
descriptions, performance indicators, training year training plan developed; (iii) finalized job job descriptions. A training needs
needs assessment and training programs.        descriptions and performance indicators for       assessment was undertaken and a
                                               all positions; (iv) progress on                   comprehensive training program was
                                               developing/strengthening corporate culture.       developed. Corporate culture in all IAs has
                                                                                                 vastly improved due to improved HR
                                                                                                 management.

All IAs: Sectoral agencies have effective      (i) An acceptable audit report by independent All IAs have provided the necessary audits.
financial management system in place           auditor for one financial year; (ii) evidence of UWA has developed and implemented a
(including needed hardware/software, trained acceptable budget planning/management for financial management system. The
staff, etc.) as demonstrated by audit reports  one year; (iii) completed physical asset          necessary hardware and software have been
etc.                                           inventory and valuation, and inventory            installed and both HQ and field staff have
                                               tracking and internal audit systems               been trained. Annual operating plans have
                                               operational; (iv) completed, realistic business been developed for PAs. The PCU has
                                               plan.                                             provided financial management support to the
                                                                                                 other IAs.

All IAs: Developed, and effectively deployed, Management systems in place and being              Training needs have been established but,
capable staff and management systems;          effectively operated by Agency staff; Major       implementation was delayed and programs
external TA being replaced by internal         training activities completed and (most)          are not complete. All the major TA was
capacity, impact of training activities        trained staff retained and effectively            completed. Phasing out of UWEC and UWA
evaluated.                                     deployed; Major TA completed and                  expatriate ED began in 2001.
                                               responsibilities handed over.

UWA: PA System revised to address need         Revised PA System approved by GOU;                The PA rationalization plan was completed.
for: (i) coverage of main ecosystems and       implications for implementation (e.g.             A revised Protected Area System plan was
biodiversity resources; (ii) management        resettlement requirements if any, boundary        put into force in 2002 that eliminated most of
efficiency and sustainability.                 demarcation and infrastructure development) the boundary issues and historical
                                               identified and costs estimated.                   encroachment through redrawing park
                                                                                                 boundaries. The overall representation of
                                                                                                 major ecosystems was also improved. The
                                                                                                 PA planning process was decentralized,
                                                                                                 which lead to greater ownership by park
                                                                                                 management.

UWA: Concessions for private sector tourism Recommended actions completed for all                Recommendations of a Ministerial report on
facilities within PAs being awarded and        existing concessions and informal                 the status of the existing concessions were
managed in accordance with approved            agreements; management of concessions             adopted, however the implementation of the
policies and procedures.                       (and award of any new concessions)                recommendations remains slow. By
                                               following approved policies and procedures.       mid-2002, recommendations had been
                                                                                                 implemented in only 4 out of 14 pre-existing
                                                                                                 concessions.

UWA: (i) Composition of BOT revised as         (i) Changes to legislation made (as needed)       The BOT have clear TORs, and a procedural
needed for professionalism, effectiveness      and appropriately structured Board                manual endorsed by the GOU. The BOT
and efficiency; (ii) Appropriate Terms of      appointed; (ii) BOT operating effectively, in     was operating effectively at project end.
Reference/responsibilities and operating       accordance with TORs and PM;
procedures: documented, well understood        demonstration that it is taking informed
and being followed.                            decisions reflecting its responsibilities and
                                               the best interests of UWA and Uganda.

UWA: Management Structure appropriate to Effective and efficient management                      An appropriate management system was in
functions: appropriate deployment of staff     structure-- designed to meet UWA's mandate place at UWA comprising of a well-qualified
and resources (e.g. HQ vs. Field); effective   and operational needs identified and largely in executive director and several senior
senior management team; decision making at place; Evidence of progress towards                   managers. The decision-making process
appropriate levels; clear responsibilities,    "corporate culture" suitable to UWA               was decentralized to enhance the capacity in
accountability and reporting at all levels;    mandate, functions and strategies;                the field and 6 new PA general managers
good communication channels, mutual            Appointment of qualified Executive Director.      were recruited. A new "corporate culture"
confidence and respect between                                                                   was adopted and morale was greatly




                                                                    - 16 -

management and staff.                                                                            improved.

UWA: (i) PA Management Plans                     (i) 5 PA Mgmt plans under implementation        General management plans for 6 PAs and
developed/updated and being implemented          and investment needs incorporated in UWA        annual operating plans for PAs were
("planning culture" developed); (ii) Field staff Development and Operational Plans; 5            prepared. Disbursement of funds in all PAs
operating effectively, properly equipped and     additional PA Mgt. Plans under                  was approved against AOPs. Field staff
trained; (iii) Mechanisms in place for local     preparation/being updated; (ii) 2-year field    were trained and equipped, although
community consultation/participation; (iv)       staff training plan completed, additional       infrastructure and transportation constraints
Innovative PA management models (e.g.            training needs identified; (iii) 2-3 pilots of  still plagued certain PAs. Further training
involving private sector, NGO and community innovative PA management models identified needs assessment and training plan
partnerships) actively explored and              and under development.                          completed, however the scope of the training
encouraged.                                                                                      carried out was greatly reduced in scope due
                                                                                                 delays in preparing the program.
                                                                                                 Enforcement efforts were continued and
                                                                                                 improved upon. Revenue sharing and
                                                                                                 community participation policies were
                                                                                                 approved for 2 areas. Rudimentary
                                                                                                 community-led alternative income generating
                                                                                                 projects established (e.g. wild coffee at
                                                                                                 Kibale). Associated financing from GTZ
                                                                                                 helped establish a monitoring and research
                                                                                                 program.

UWEC: Improved physical facilities,              All rehabilitation under allocated funds        All civil works planned under the project for
including Animal Holding facilities for WD       completed; feasibility studies and designs      rehabilitation were carried out. A business
and visitor facilities                           completed for further infrastructure            plan was completed and rated satisfactory.
                                                 rehabilitation/development (per
                                                 strategic/business plan)

MTTI: Tourism Policy Paper and Strategic         GOU approval of Policy Paper;                   Tourism policy paper developed and put forth
Plan, prepared through stakeholder               Proposals for legislative revisions (as         for adoption by cabinet after several delays,
consultation process                             needed) completed and submitted to              through a consultative process involving key
                                                 Parliament                                      stakeholders.

MTTI: Licensing standards (including             Licensing standards finalized and adopted       Development of licensing standards and
standardized curricula and examinations as                                                       grading system established with participation
appropriate) for tourism training institutions                                                   of key stakeholders. Legal framework for
developed in consultation with private sector                                                    enforcement has been prepared and was
                                                                                                 submitted to Parliament.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
All IAs: Adopt a "Mission Statement" and         Final policy/mission statement adopted by       All IAs developed a mission statement and
policy document, defining its                    respective governing bodies.                    policy document consistent with GOU
short/medium/long-term objectives, including                                                     policies.
relationship to and interactions with the
private sector.


All IAs: Develop: (i) an overall strategic       (i) Strategic and Development Plans finalized The main implementing agency, UWA
("corporate") plan, (ii) a proposed 5-year       and adopted by respective governing bodies      prepared and adopted a Strategic Plan for the
development plan (including financial            (and approved by GOU as required); (ii) Draft organization. Draft operational plans were
analysis/feasibility studies of any proposed     operational plans for following 2 years         developed for most IAs.
major investments, including specific            prepared (with completed financial
investment proposals for PAMSU support),         analysis/feasibility studies for any
and (iii) a 1-2 year operational plan.           commercially-oriented investments).


UWA: Comprehensive staff training plan           2-year training plan completed; additional      A training needs assessment was
refined and implemented.                         training needs identified.                      undertaken and a comprehensive training
                                                                                                 program was developed.


UWA: Strategic Plan developed and adopted, (i) UWA Strategic Plan approved with                  UWA strategic plan completed and adopted
including business plan; prioritized and         substantial stakeholder acceptance; (ii)        with strong ownership throughout the UWA.
covering both ongoing operations and             Realistic short and medium-term business        Draft business plan completed to guide
proposed development.                            plan (including projections of internally       implementation of business plan.




                                                                     - 17 -

                                               generated revenue, GOU and donor support).


WD: Amended WF Policy and amended              Proposed policy/legislation amendments and A new wildlife policy was prepared but not
legislation, or new regulations developed as   regulations adopted, or submitted to                 ratified by project end. The WD facilitated
needed, particularly with respect to           Parliament, as appropriate.                          the ratification of 2 new wildlife related
Community Wildlife Management Areas.                                                                conventions and selected CITES regulations.


UWEC: New conservation education               Exhibits completed and open to visitors.             Expansion and improvement of conservation
exhibits.                                                                                           education program was completed.


UWEC: Strategic/business plan for UWEC         Business plan completed, feasibility studies         The UWEC business plan was completed
developed to ensure fulfillment of educational for proposed new developments completed.             and is under implementation.
mandate and sustainability.


UWTI: Development Strategic and business Business plan completed, including feasibility A feasibility study was completed. No further
plan for UWTI in progress, including market    studies of any proposed infrastructure               actions were taken after GOU transferred
analysis and estimate of long-term WF sector   development or expansion.                            UWTI responsibility from MTTI to Ministry of
training needs in Uganda and the Region                                                             Education and Sports.
(public and private sector) and assessment
of UWTI's prospective role in meeting those
needs.


MTTI: Tourism Database established,            Statistical Database fully operational;              Tourism statistical database established and
including collection, analysis and             statistics for previous year published.              fully operational.
dissemination mechanisms.


UTB: Uganda Tourism Board effectively          (i) second round of familiarization trips and        Focused trade fair participation was
promoting Uganda as a destination,             sales calls (European market) completed; (ii) undertaken where Uganda was promoted as
diversifying tourism products, and increasing investment prospectus completed and                   an emerging tourist destination. Contacts
professionalism in the local tourism sector.   distributed; (iii) public relations pilot initiative were established between local and
                                               underway; (iv) Private tourism operators and         international tour operators.
                                               associations identify UTB as a valuable
                                               resource and regularly benefiting from its
                                               services; (v) At least 20 well-established
                                               tourism operators in major source countries
                                               regularly accessing UTB website and
                                               including Uganda in their promotions and tour
                                               packages.


HTTI: (i) HTTI kitchen and "front office"      At least 6 (3 additional) short courses held.        Training program executive committee
training facilities rehabilitated/upgraded for Evaluation of Train-the-Trainer program              established and a survey/assessment of
use as a model training facility; (ii)         completed. Institutional structure for setting       tourism training facilities in the country
"Train-the-trainer" short courses held,        and maintaining standards of tourism training undertaken. Investment in equipment and
producing trained instructors, recommended (including certification/licensing process for           infrastructure at HTTI completed. No further
training curricula, materials and aids; (iii)  training institutions and graduates) identified training was carried out. The tourism policy
Mechanism for setting and maintaining          and agreed by participating agencies and             recommended that tourism training should be
standards for tourism training, including      stakeholders.                                        demand driven and led by the private sector
certifying/licensing tourism training                                                               and additional resources from the private
institutions and graduates.                                                                         sector were being sought.

1End of project




                                                                    - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                            US$ million  US$ million
UWA Capacity Building and Operations                         10.53           10.59            101
Capacity Building for Other Conservation-related              2.42            1.50             62
Institutions
Strengthening of the Department of Museums and                0.70            0.80            115
Antiquities/National Commission for Antiquities and
Museums
Capacity Strengthening Ministry of Tourism, Trade and         1.76            0.24             14
Industry and the Uganda Tourism Board
Strengthening of In-Country Tourism Training Capacity         1.07            0.84             78
Project Coordination and Implementation                       1.23            1.71            139
Unallocated                                                                   0.00              0
PPF Reimbursement                                                                             102


Total Baseline Cost                                          17.71           15.68
                         Total Project Costs                 17.71           15.68
                  Total Financing Required                   17.71           15.68


Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ milllion equivalent)

             Expenditure Category                          Procurement Method            Total Cost
                                                      ICB         NCB          Other
(1) Civil Works                                                    0.48         0.11        0.59
(2) Equipment and Vehicles                            0.65         0.50         0.30        1.45
(3) Consultants' Services and Training                                          6.04        6.04
(4) Operating Costs                                                0.61         2.26        2.87
(5) Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                                    1.92        1.92
(6) Unallocated                                                                 1.10        1.10
Total                                                 0.65         1.59        11.73        13.97




                                                 - 19 -

   Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Actual) (US$ milllion equivalent)

                  Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method                 Total Cost
                                                        ICB           NCB            Other
    (1) Civil Works                                     0.58          0.20            0.03           0.81
    (2) Equipment and Vehicles                          0.50                          0.68           1.18
    (3) Consultants' Services and Training              0.50          2.00            5.03           7.53
    (4) Operating Costs                                               0.33            2.17           2.50
    (5) Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                                      1.95           1.95
    Total                                               1.58          2.53            9.86          13.97

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                         Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                            Bank        Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
UWA Capacity Building        4.75       4.68      1.10      6.47       3.10       1.04    136.2   66.2    94.5
and Operations
Capacity Building for        1.32       0.39      0.71      0.57       0.22       0.71    43.2    56.4   100.0
Other Conservation-
related Institutions
Strengthening of the         0.57       0.12                0.74       0.06               129.8   50.0
Department of Museums
and Antiquities/National
Commission for Antiquities
and Museums
Capacity Strengthening       1.18       0.59                0.22       0.02               18.6    3.4
Ministry of Tourism, Trade
and Industry and the
Uganda Tourism Board
Strengthening of             0.78       0.30                0.80       0.04               102.6   13.3
In-Country Tourism
Training Capacity
Project Coordination and     1.03       0.03      0.18      1.30       0.24       0.18    126.2  800.0   100.0
Implementation
Unallocated                  1.10                                                         0.0
PPF Reimbursement            1.92                           1.95                          101.6




                                                   - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

It was not possible or practical to calculate the economic costs and benefits for such a project which by
nature does not aim directly at economic benefits, but rather capacity building for further investment
opportunities. Therefore, no economic analysis was prepared.




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/1994                   7    Sr. Ecologist, Biodiversity
                                             Specialist, Institutional and
                                             Organizational Management
                                             Specialist, Protected Area
                                             Management and Associated
                                             Tourism Development Specialist,
                                             Economic and Financial Analysis
                                             Specialists (2), Private
                                             Investment Development and
                                             Financial Services Specialist.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/12/1997              10     Sr. ecologist, Biodiversity
                                             Specialist, Institutional
                                             Specialist (2), Tourism
                                             Policy and Development
                                             Specialist, Tourism Business
                                             Development Specialist,
                                             Financial Management
                                             Systems Specialist,
                                             Economic Specialist,
                                             Wildlife Conservation
                                             Specialist, Project Assistant
              05/26/1998              10     "                                     S               S

 Supervision
              05/27/1999                2    Sr. Ecologist, Natural                S               S
                                             Resource Management
                                             Specialist
              12/21/1999                2    Sr. Ecologist, Natural Resource       S               S
                                             Management Specialist
              03/15/2000 and            2    Sr. Ecologist, Natural Resource       S               S
              04/30/2000                     Management Specialist
              06/12/2000                6    Sr. Ecologist, Biodiversity           S               S
                                             Specialist, Institutional
                                             Specialist, Financial
                                             Management Specialist,
                                             Financial Specialist, Procurement
                                             Specialist.
              10/10/2000 and            3    Sr. Ecologist, Natural Resource       S               S
              12/12/2000                     Management Specialist,
                                             Biodiversity Specialist
              03/16/2001                8    Sr. Ecologist, Biodiversity           S               S
                                             Specialist, Natural Resource
                                             Management Specialist,
                                             Institutional and Organizational



                                              - 22 -

                                            Management Specialist, Tourism
                                            Specialist, Protected Areas
                                            Management Specialist,
                                            Financial Management
                                            Specialist, Procurement
                                            Specialist
               07/05/2002              3    Senior Environmental Specialist,    S    S
                                            Economic Specialist, Financial
                                            Management Specialist

 ICR
               02/10/2003             3     Senior Environmental                S    S
                                            Specialist, Biodiversity
                                            Specialist, Economic
                                            Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           145.6                           424.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 44.3                             49.3
  Supervision                           80.2                           412.0
  ICR                                     4.2                            46.5
  Total                                274.3                           931.7




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Uganda Institutional Capacity Building for Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project Staff
Appraisal Report.

Uganda Institutional Capacity Building for Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
Development Credit Agreement (IDA 3115-UG).

Uganda Institutional Capacity Building for Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project GEF
Grant Agreement (GEF TF020516-UG).

Statement of mission objectives, back-to-office reports, supervision reports and aide-memoires 1998-2002.

Uganda Institutional Capacity Building for Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
Midterm Review, March 2001.

Project Status Reports 1999-2002.

Disbursement database and reports Uganda Institutional Capacity Building for Protected Areas
Management and Sustainable Use Project ­ World Bank's Integrated Controller's System 1999-2002.

Quality of Supervision Assessment Report 6/2000.




                                                   - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Project Evaluation by the Borrower

INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING FOR PROTECTED AREAS AND SUSTAINABLE
USE (ICB-PAMSU) PROJECT

1.0      INTRODUCTION

Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use (PAMSU) Project was designed as part of a
comprehensive study conducted for a period of over two years with support from the World Bank (PPF)
covering the wildlife and tourism sectors in Uganda.

PAMSU project therefore aimed at supporting institutional development and capacity building of the then
Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities (MTWA) and its key agencies and associated institutions, to
enable them fulfill their roles of policy development, planning, promotion, regulations and human resource
development in the wildlife and tourism sectors, and to maintain and manage the country's natural and
cultural assets.

The project also aimed at supporting rehabilitation and improvement of high priority infrastructure and
facilities in Protected Areas (PAs), and of relevant educational facilities and cultural attractions. The level
and rate of investment in each aspect was to be based on the absorptive capacity of implementing
institution and on the sustainability of the proposed development, as would be demonstrated by vigorous
financial and other feasibility studies. IDA funds would be targeted primarily at general institutional and
sectoral support and those PAs, which could be expected to yield a return on such investments through
increased tourism revenues. While the GEF funds would be sought particularly for rehabilitation,
restoration and management of PAs, which are of high international priority from the biodiversity
perspective but are expected to provide less direct economic value to Uganda, at least in the near future.

The project would also catalyze greater private sector investment in tourism enterprises by: - supporting the
Uganda Tourist Board's promotional activities, strengthening governmental support services such as
collection of tourism statistics and hotel classifications, helping to ensure a conducive environment for
investment in sustainable tourism enterprises, providing technical and other assistance to encourage the
development of small and medium scale tourism related enterprises. A parallel program funded by the
European Union would compliment these efforts.

In keeping with Government of Uganda policy, the project would promote the participation of District
Governments and Local Communities in conservation and economic development activities, both by
supporting the development of Uganda Wildlife Authority's (UWA) Policy of "Collaborative Management"
of the PAs and by assisting Districts to incorporate tourism in their development plans and programs.

It was however, established in May 1997 that the PAMSU Project could not be appraised in the form it
was due to the lack of adequate institutional capacity of the agency responsible for implementing the main
component, the UWA. MTWA had recognized the serious nature of the problems prior to the arrival of the
World Bank Mission Team, and outlined a plan of action intended to address them. The Plan of Action,
which was endorsed by the Mission, formed the basis of the "Change Process" expected to result in a
strong more sustainable UWA. The change process consisted of two steps:

(i)    an independent review of organizational structure of UWA, including a review of the job descriptions
       and qualifications for all technical and management staff.



                                                       - 27 -

(ii)  A recruitment of all management and technical staff against the job descriptions and qualifications to
      be undertaken by a professional Human Resource Consultants i.e. a " Change Management team".

Since PAMSU was designed as an integrated programme for support of the wildlife and related tourism
sectors, major investments in other sectoral institutions could not be justified in the absence of UWA
component because their technical and economic justification largely depended upon there being in place a
well-developed and effectively management Protected Areas System. In addition, the sectoral institutions
also had institutional weaknesses, which needed to be addressed. It was therefore agreed that the first
priority would be to establish a strong and effective institution framework, through institution capacity
building. This would include much of the institutional capacity building elements of the initially proposed
PAMSU Project, with modification to reflect additional needs, thus the Institutional Capacity Building
Project (ICB-PAMSU)

The realization of institutional capacity targets under ICB-PAMSU Project would trigger the launch of the
rest of the PAMSU Project, which would be the follow-on investment phase.

However, this report outlines an assessment of the ICB-PAMSU Project objectives, design and
implementation as well as operational experience. It also outlines an evaluation of the borrower's own
performance during the implementation of the project and an evaluation of the World Bank's performance
during project implementation.

2.0      PROJECT OBJECTIVES

The objectives of the project were:-

(a)   to assist the borrower to establish effective institutional capacity for strategic planning, program
      development and implementation within the wildlife and tourism sectors;

(b)   promote sustainability of the wildlife and tourism sectors, and

(c)   protect the borrowers natural resource base.

The project consisted of the following parts, which were subject to such modifications as the Borrower and
Association agreed from time to time: -

PART A: UGANDA WILDLIFE AUTHORITY(UWA)

1)    Strengthening UWA's capacity to:

      (a)    develop a strategic plan and a business plan;

      (b)    develop and implement a financial management system;

      (c)    develop and implement human resources management systems;

      (d)    refine and implement a comprehensive training program to enhance staff skills in modern
             organisation and management of Protected Areas;

      (e)    design, construct, rehabilitate and maintain physical infrastructure




                                                     - 28 -

      (f)     complete the process of rationalisation of the Protected Areas system with an emphasis on the
              effective participation of affected communities through the provision of technical advisory
              services.

2)    Strengthening the capacity of UWA's Board of Trustees to carry out its duties under its statutes
      through the provision of training, team building workshops and refinement of its procedural manual.

3)    Transformation of UWA into an organisation operating on a commercial basis through the provision
      of technical advisory services.

4)    Strengthening UWA's field operations through the acquisition of equipment including computers,
      communication equipment, uniforms, camping gear and the provision of maintenance of vehicles and
      equipment.

PART B: CAPACITY BUILDING OF OTHER CONSERVATION- RELATED INSTITUTIONS

1)    Strengthening the operational and managerial capacities of MTTI's Wildlife Department to carry out
      its statutory responsibilities through the provision of technical advisory services, training and
      workshops, and the acquisition of equipment.

2)    Strengthening the capacity of Uganda Wildlife Education Centre (UWEC) to serve as a centre for
      conservation education through (a) the provision of technical advisory services for the management
      of the centre and the design of business planning and facilities, and (b) the physical rehabilitation and
      development of facilities and educational exhibits.

3)    Strengthening the operational capacity of the Uganda Wildlife Training Institute so as to (identify the
      borrower's long term human resource needs in the wildlife sector, and (b) develop a strategy for
      training services to meet those needs.

4)    Strengthening the capacity of the Forestry Department to support eco-tourism conservation activities
      in forestry reserves through (a) provision of technical advisory services (b) training (c) civil works,
      and (d) the acquisition of vehicles and equipment.

PART C: DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES AND MUSEUMS (DAM)

Strengthening DAM's capacity to preserve and protect Uganda's cultural assets through (a) the repair and
rehabilitation of essential curation and exhibition facilities at the National Museum; (b) acquisition of
equipment; (c) provision of technical advisory services; (d) carrying out a survey to identify and assess
prospective sites for future development of cultural tourism.

PART D: STRENGTHENING THE CAPACITY OF MTTI

Strengthening the MTTI's capability to: 1(a) develop a tourism policy and Strategic plan; (b) fulfill its role
in the collection, analysis and dissemination of tourism data statistics; (c) develop a tourism statistical
database; (d) carry out visitors surveys through the provision of technical advisory services; (e) develop
and implement appropriate schemes to ensure the maintenance of quality standard at private training
institutions; (f) develop appropriate licensing standards for the main service sectors. (2) strengthening The
Tourist Board's (UTB) management, promotional and marketing capacities through the provision of
technical advisory services, training of staff and acquisition of equipment and materials.


                                                     - 29 -

PART E: HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING FOR THE TOURISM
SECTOR

Strengthening the training capacity of training institutions in the tourism sector through; (a) the
development and implementation of a program for the training of trainers, and (b) the rehabilitation of
Hotel Tourism and Training Institute (HTTI) in Jinja, for use as a facility for training in food preparation,
and the provision of computer facilities for training staff to acquire appropriate skills in reservations and
reception.

3.0     ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES

The Project has by and large achieved its major objectives. Following is a summary of achievements by
component.

PART A: UGANDA WILDLIFE AUTHORITY

1)    Under the very able leadership of a dynamic expatriate Executive Director, the UWA Strategic Plan
      was completed and adopted (with strong `ownership' throughout UWA) The Strategic Plan has been
      revised taking into consideration cost sharing mechanism which has led to the establishment of two
      approved community-related policies i.e. Revenue Sharing and Participation in Protected Areas
      Management. Due to inadequate financing under this phase of the Project, a Business Plan has not
      yet been drawn up. It is anticipated that this will be achieved during the follow-on project.

2)    The new organisational structure at the Headquarters has increased UWA's capacity to develop and
      implement a good financial and human resources management system. There has been significant
      improvements in financial management, planning, field capacity and operations and overall
      "corporate culture" and "morale". However, UWA has to further improve financial management by
      completing the physical asset inventory.

3)    A training needs assessment and training plan were completed. A pilot training programme for the
      rangers in First Aid management, Basic Community skills and Basic Principles in tourism has also
      been accomplished. A number of staff have been trained in financial management. What is not so
      clear is whether or not the improvements so far made are sustainable especially in the face of other
      competing organisations for trained personnel.

4)    The murdering of eight foreign tourists in Bwindi National Park in March 1999, had a negative effect
      on visitors and consequently a negative impact on the number of tourists visiting the parks. This did
      not only reduce the level of actual and expected revenue to UWA, but it also delayed the start of
      implementation of the Project. Re-allocations had to be effected at the beginning of the project to
      basically support UWA's operational budget line especially with respect to salaries. However, with
      the implementation of the Project, there is some recovery of UWA revenues following the inevitable
      precipitous decline, needless to mention that low revenue (due in large part to low overall tourism
      rates due to external factors) continues to be a significant constraint on UWA operations and
      development, which in turn is a threat to its sustainability. There are also some significant
      improvements in the UWA-run tourism facilities, although substantially more could be achieved with
      well-targeted, modest facilities and less political interference in the area of concessions management.
      To obtain revenue for UWA and create economic benefits for Uganda, while maintaining the
      conservation value, there was need for concessions to be awarded on a competitive and transparent


                                                      - 30 -

      basis. UWA's ability to approve and adopt standardised procedures for soliciting proposals,
      granting and over-seeing concessions, consistent with the recommendations of the GoU Concessions
      Committee Reports, was largely faced with political interference.

5)    A new Board of Trustees comprising of nine members was inaugurated. The capacity to efficiently
      and effectively carry out its duties is strengthened by the refinement of the Procedurals manual

6)    Transformation of UWA into an organisation operating on a relatively commercial basis has been
      attained by initially recruiting an expatriate Executive Director coupled with the recruitment of
      PricewaterhouseCoopers in the area of financial management. Appointment of a National Executive
      Director in March 2002 facilitated the smooth hand-over from the Expatriate Director who left in
      April 2002.

7)    UWA's field operations have been strengthened through the acquisition of equipment, including
      computers, communication equipment, uniforms, camping gear and the provision of maintenance of
      vehicles and equipment. This has resulted in significant improvement in operational effectiveness
      and morale.

In general, insecurity, continues to be one of the biggest threats to the achievements and progress gained in
UWA. However, with the appointment of a sensitised Board of Trustees and a competent Executive
Director, the organisation will be steered to a sphere where appropriate levels of operations can be
maintained making room for (i) sustaining the substantial improvements that have been achieved especially
in terms of establishing management systems and a `Planning culture', (ii) improved PA Protection, (iii)
readiness to absorb future investment by UWA.

In addition UWA needs to identify and pilot measures to provide incentives for continuous improved
management of the PA level (e.g. setting and achieving specific performance targets through the Annual
Operation Planning (AOP) process, improving cost effectiveness, increasing revenue generation), drawing
upon models from Uganda and other countries especially those in the region. Continued well targeted
external support over the next few years will be essential to achieving these objectives and thus putting
UWA on tract towards long-term objectives of financial viability.

PART B: OTHER CONSERVATION ORGANISATIONS

(a)   Uganda Wildlife Education Centre

      1)     A Business Plan that addresses the issues of competitive strategy, pricing strategy, risk
             assessment and controls over revenue collection was developed and is operational.

      2)     As part of a deliberate effort to strengthen the capacity of UWEC to serve as a centre for
             conservation education, modest physical rehabilitation has been done by setting up an office
             block, dormitory, classroom and educational animal exhibits.

      3)     Financial Sustainability initiatives have been launched. H.E The President inaugurated the
             fundraising for the endowment by pledging US$ 100,000 towards the endowment fund

      In general this component has fully achieved the objectives it was intended under this Project. Its'
      focus is now on achieving financial sustainability through increased emphasis on revenue generation
      and fund raising including seeking donor support for a modest endowment fund.


                                                      - 31 -

(b)  Wildlife Department

     1)     The Protected Areas Rationalisation Plan has been completed and has been approved by
            Parliament. This activity was largely funded by EU (i.e approximately $92,000), which also
            contributed to some temporary demarcation of Protected Areas boundaries. The Division
            coordinated the completion and Parliamentary approval of the plan.

     2)     The operational and managerial capacity of the Wildlife Division has been greatly enhanced
            through the provision of office equipment, a well-maintained vehicle and communication links
            through the provision of inter-net facilities. However, its ability to carry out its statutory
            obligations in relation to adherence by the Borrower to all its international obligations under
            wildlife related conventions, has greatly been impaired by the lack of adequate staffing for the
            bigger part of the lifespan of the project. Therefore, there has been limited participation in
            International meetings and workshops.

     3)     A Draft Wildlife Policy was prepared

     On the whole, the Wildlife Division has not achieved all its objectives. Training of the Division staff
     was not undertaken under the Project due to late recruitment of additional staff. GoU has not yet
     ratified the revised Wildlife Policy or enacted the revised Wildlife Act.

(c)  Uganda Wildlife Training Institute

     In view of a long term strategy of strengthening it's operational capacity, a feasibility study
     coordinated by IUCN was done to evaluate the financial viability of the Institute (including
     identifying an appropriate "market niche" for its services) and developing a general business plan.

     It was concluded that in the face of competitiveness with other similar but already well-established
     institutions in the region, the suitability of UWTI as a wildlife-training institute is not feasible. Its
     present standing as a semi-autonomous parastatal under the Ministry of Education does not make it
     eligible for further financing under the Tourism Sector.

(d)  Forestry Department

     This component was dropped on grounds that funding was available under the European Union (EU)
     Forestry Support Project.

PART C: DEPARTMENT OF ANTIQUITIES AND MUSEUMS

Some of the objectives of this component have been achieved while other critical ones have not been
achieved.

1)   As part of the strategy to strengthen the capacity of DAM to carry out its mandate; (a) a facelift of
     the National Museum in Kampala has been done; (b) the repair and modest rehabilitation of some of
     the essential curation and exhibition facilities has been done; (c) some of the audio visual equipment
     for improving public educational programs was purchased; (d) operations of the Department have
     been greatly enhanced through the provision of office equipment and a vehicle; (e) prospective sites
     for future development of cultural tourism were identified and assessed.


                                                     - 32 -

2)     On the other hand the objective of transforming the Department into a semi-autonomous body has not
       been attained under this Project. While the Ministry of Public Service has approved Uganda
       Monuments and Museums' (UMMA) establishment under the Executives Agencies Bill it has not
       been enacted by Parliament.

Therefore, enactment of the Executives Agencies Bill will lead to the formal establishment of UMMA and a
realistic business plan if accomplished, will form the basis of its operations and sustainability. Business,
development and investment plans have not yet been developed.

PART D: STRENGTHENING CAPACITY OF MINISTRY OF TOURISM, TRADE AND
INDUSTRY (MTTI) AND UGANDA TOURIST BOARD (UTB)

1)     (a) Using technical advisory services, a comprehensive Tourism Policy and Strategic Plan have been
       developed through a consultative process involving all the stake holders; (b) a Tourism Statistical
       Database has been established. This is enabling MTTI and the Bureau of Statistics to fulfill their
       respective roles in the collection, analysis and dissemination of tourism data and statistics. On the
       whole the project lead to significant improvements in availability of data for planning purposes
       particularly over the life span of the project. Tourist Expenditure surveys have been carried out with
       the assistance of more funding from the European Union What is not clear is whether or not the
       improvements so far made are sustainable in the face of shortage of staff to be trained on the use of
       the database. There is a need for MTTI to identify more than the one officer (the ministry
       statistician) to ensure sustainability of the capacity built; (c) the Human Resource Development Plan
       and Strategy for the sector have been developed arising from the manpower needs assessment
       undertaken. However, appropriate schemes to ensure the maintenance of quality standards at private
       training institutions could not be undertaken fully due to lack of a curricula whose development was
       only kick-started but not established under the project; (d) the licensing and grading system for
       tourism facilities has been agreed after a thorough a country-wide consultative process involving key
       stakeholders. The Legal Framework for enforcement of the system is yet to be submitted to
       Parliament for enactment.

2)     In view of promoting UTB's management, promotional and marketing capacities, focused trade fair
       participation in key source markets have been undertaken where Uganda has been presented as an
       emerging tourism destination. The acquisition of equipment and materials under the project has
       enhanced the operational capacity of UTB.

PART E: STRENGTHENING TOURISM TRAINING CAPACITY

In order to ensure availability, quality and rehabilitation of tourism training and as a result increase the
quality and professionalism of tourism services; (a) a train-the-trainer programme for all the hospitality
discipline was undertaken through a consultancy contract awarded to CHL Consultancy firm. A total of
103 people from various institutions all over the country were trained in customer care, Food & beverages,
Tourism Operations, Management Evaluation among others; (b) investment in both kitchen and office
equipment as well as modest rehabilitation of the kitchen and front office at the Hotel for Tourism and
Training Institute (HTTI) at Crested Crane Jinja, was completed and in essence provided the facilities for
the "Train-the-trainer" programme; (c) Curricula development to be accomplished by the mandated
National Curriculum Centre (Ministry of Education), was initiated under the Project.




                                                       - 33 -

4.0      PROJECT COST/ACTUAL EXPENDITURE

The Project was estimated to cost US$20.29million financed as follows: -

IDA US$12.37million; Government of Uganda (GoU) US$5.92; Global Environment Fund (GEF) US$
2.00million. Actual expenditure to-date has been contributed as follows: IDA US$ 12.03million; GoU US$
3.66million And GEF US$1.95million. The actual expenditure differs from the estimated expenditure
because, one, in the case of IDA/GEF the exchange rate between the US$ and the SDR did not favour the
borrower (i.e. IDA Credits are denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDR) and two, in the case of GoU,
the Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development failed to provide all resources necessary as
Government contribution.

5.0      BANK PERFORMANCE

On the whole, IDA's performance, in providing advice and guidance on project implementation was
excellent. The Project has had two Task Managers and since both of them were in the same sector, there
was no time lost in understanding the conceptual framework of the project. There were no delays in
providing "no objections" or other actions that was required from the Bank.

The frequent visits by the Task Managers provided opportunities for Government and IDA to discuss any
difficulties that were hindering project implementation and hence provided needed solutions. The
supervision missions also provided assistance at component level.

6.0      BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

    ·    The Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry's performance in the implementation of the
         ICB-PAMSU Project can be considered satisfactory despite the slow star in some components of
         the Project especially the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA), it took a bit of time for the expatriate
         Executive Director to settle down to work, but once settled, the Executive Director was able to
         steer the UWA component to the realisation of all the outputs.

    ·    While the adoption of the Terms of reference and Procedures Manual for the Board of Trustees of
         UWA clarified the role of the board and Management, the composition and size of the Board
         remained a constraint to effective operation of the UWA until when the reduction of the Board size
         was made by Parliament towards the end of the Project.

    ·    Late filling of key vacancies within the MTTI resulted in inadequate participation in the capacity
         building, training of the Wildlife Division staff was not undertaken as part of the capacity building
         process due to late recruitment of additional staff.

    ·    The Borrower did not make available some of the counterpart funds agreed upon with the World
         Bank.

Despite these shortcomings, there were no serious effects on Project Implementation and achievement of
most of the set objectives. Therefore the Borrower's performance was, in the borrower's view,
satisfactory.




                                                     - 34 -

7.0     LESSONS LEARNED

    ·   Project design should allow for flexibility during implementation so as to take care of the
        unforeseeable circumstances, a case in point was the tragic Bwindi incident which together with the
        other security related problems resulted in a precipitous decline in UWA's internally generated
        revenues, project funds had to be re-allocated to address the critical UWA salary shortfalls. This
        however should be done without compromising with the need to achieve project objectives.

    ·   It is of critical importance for the Implementing Agencies to fully participate in the design stage of
        the project, this facilitates the project implementation.

    ·   Governance issues must be addressed at the project design stage to ensure accountability and
        transparency of project management and implementation. For example, the lack of terms of
        reference and clear guidelines for Boards can undermine the effectiveness if the institution.

8.0     CONCLUSIONS

During the mid-term review of the ICB-PAMSU and the appraisal of PAMSU, the institutional, financial
and management capability of the key Implementing Agencies; the Uganda Wildlife Authority and the
Uganda Wildlife Education Centre was evaluated and determined to be satisfactorily improved and
adequately developed to proceed with PAMSU project. Other components were also evaluated and found
to have substantially attained the institutional capacity targets. In order to sustain the achievements made
in these institutions, further assistance will need to be provided in selected areas.

In view of the foregoing, Government is grateful to the World Bank and Global Environment Facility
(GEF) who provided funding for the project.




                                                       - 35 -

- 36 -

