Report No. PID5793
Project Name         Uganda-Institutional Capacity Building for Protected 
Areas Management and Sustainable Use (ICB-PAMSU)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       UGPA2941
Borrower                         Government of Uganda
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife and
Antiquities
Contact: David Abura-Ogwang,
Project Coordinator
Ministry of Tourism,
Wildlife and Antiquities
P.O. Box 4241
Kampala, Uganda
FAX: 256-41-241247
Phone: 256-41-254827
Date of initial PID              April 15, 1996   (PID for the PAMSU
Investment Project)(See 1/)
Date of this PID                 November 19, 1997
Project Appraisal Date           May 12, 1997
Project Board Date               February 12, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background:   Uganda has a rich natural
endowment of natural habitats and some of the richest assemblages of
biological diversity in Africa. The protected areas (PAs) consist
of ten national parks and twenty nine game reserves, sanctuaries and
controlled hunting areas, totaling about 56,000 km2, in addition to
14,900 km2 of gazetted forests. Because of the breakdown of law and
order over the past two decades, a significant portion of Uganda's
protected area system has deteriorated and severe encroachment has
occurred. Until the early 1970s, these protected areas served as the
basis for a well-established tourism industry that was the country's
third largest foreign exchange earner. Fifteen years of political
instability subsequently took a heavy toll on the country's economy
and resources, including its wildlife, protected areas and tourism
infrastructure. A national Integrated Tourism Master Plan (ITMP),
completed with assistance from UNDP and the World Tourism
Organization (WTO), identifies priority needs and areas for
rehabilitation and development. The plan is based on PAs as the
primary attraction, with a secondary emphasis on cultural assets. It
emphasizes that growth in the sector must follow a modest pace
corresponding to the rate of recovery of the underlying natural
assets and the rehabilitation and expansion of the supporting
infrastructure.
2.      Rehabilitation and management of conservation areas,
revitalization of the tourism industry, and empowerment of local



governments and communities to manage and benefit from sustainable
use of natural resources, are now high priorities for the Government
of Uganda (GOU), as demonstrated by the important policy and
institutional reforms already completed or underway. One
significant reform was the merging of the functions of the former
Game Department and the parastatal Uganda National Parks under a new
parastatal organization, the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA). The
UWA has overall responsibility for all parks and game reserves and
also for all wildlife in the country. In keeping with the new
Wildlife Act, the UWA has an explicit policy of promoting community
participation in wildlife management and benefits.
3.      The UWA is empowered to retain all revenues it earns (from park
entrance fees, Gorilla trekking fees, concession leases, etc.) and
is intended to become increasingly self-sustaining. However, the
revenue from these sources is low at present, due to the small scale
of the tourism industry and to ongoing problems of access and
security in key wildlife areas. In recognition of the essential
service the UWA provides to the nation, the GOU is commited to
continuing to provide a substantial annual subvention until the
organization can become financially self-sufficient. Multilateral,
bilateral and NGO sources have also contributed significantly,
particularly for the rehabilitation and improved management of
several individual parks (including a grant from the Global
Environment Facility for conservation of the Mgahinga Gorilla NP and
the Bwindi Impenetrable Forest NP).    However, the long-term
sustainability of will depend upon its functioning effectively and
efficiently, with a business-like management approach. This will
require building greater institutional capacity and improving staff
skills throughout the organization, particularly in relation to
planning and to financial and human resources management.
Improvement of managerial and implementation capacity within UWA is
also recognized as a necessary precursor to initiation of a
proposed multi-donor investment project for UWA (PAMSU).
4.      The long-term sustainability of UWA and its conservation
activities will depend on the restoration and growth of a successful
nature-based tourism sector. The GOU has taken a number of
important steps to facilitate and promote tourism, including
upgrading of the Entebbe international airport and waiving visa
requirements for 33 countries. GOU has also established a number of
parastatal institutions, such as the Uganda Tourism Board (UTB), the
Hotel and Tourism Training Institute (HTTI) and the Uganda Wildlife
Education Center (UWEC). These are autonomous bodies intended to
link and support public and private sector interests to help
develop, promote and market Uganda as a tourist destination and to
encourage local and international investment. Like the UWA,
however, these institutions are new and need assistance to to define
their complementary roles within the sector and to develop the
capacity to carry them out.
5.      The recently adopted National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
serves as the framework for improving environmental protection,
including conservation of biodiversity and other natural resources,
through sustainable use including tourism. Empowerment of
-2 -



communities for natural resource management, as called for in the
NEAP, is being promoted through a decentralization policy, supported
by a recently enacted Decentralization Act.
6.      Project Objectives:      The main objective of the ICB-PAMSU project
is to establish effective institutional capacity within the wildlife
and tourism sectors for strategic planning, program development and
implementation, laying the groundwork for a proposed follow-up
investment program (PAMSU). The project aims to strengthen the
capacity of the Uganda Wildlife Authority to protect, manage and
develop Uganda's protected areas (PA) system, wildlife resources and
associated assets, and to establish the basis for sustainability
through revenue generation and effective management.     It also aims
to promote the development of sustainable tourism, based primarily
on nature and wildlife and complemented by cultural and historical
aspects, as an important economic sector at national and local
levels, and as a means to ensure sustainable conservation of
biodiversity and the national cultural heritage.     Capacity building
activities will include:    development of an effective and efficient
overall institutional framework for the sector, strengthening the
planning, management and implementation capacity of key sectoral
institutions and ensuring their sustainability, and strengthening
human resources capacity and promoting professionalism.     The
project will also help to secure the PAs and wildlife resources, as
well as important cultural and historical artifacts, while this
institutional capacity is being developed.
7.      Project Description:     The project will provide technical
assistance, training, essential equipment and supplies, modest
rehabilitation of essential facilities, and incremental operating
costs to support the following components:
(1) Strengthening the organizational structure and management
systems of UWA, and the managerial and technical capacity of staff
at Headquarters and Field levels. This will include support for
developing a "planning culture" within the organization, and for
carrying out strategic, business and management planning at all
levels, and for development and implementation of financial, human
resources and other management systems.    It will also support the
completion of a "Protected Areas System Assessment and
Rationalization" process aimed at reviewing the existing PA estate
and developing a representative and sustainable PA system;
(2) Ensuring the continuation of essential UWA field operations,
and related Headquarters support services, for conservation and
management of the Pas and wildlife. The project would contribute to
non-salary operational expenditures, supplementing the limited funds
available from UWA's current revenues and GOU subvention;
(3) Strengthening institutional capacity of other selected
conservation-related institutions, complementing the role of UWA,
including: (i) the Wildlife Department; (ii) the Uganda Wildlife
Education Centre (UWEC); and (iii) the Forestry Department (for
development of forest ecotourism). Support to UWEC will include
limited civil works and equipment to facilitate ongoing upgrading of
-3 -



animal holding facilities (See 2/) and educational exhibits. The Uganda
Wildlife Training Institute will receive technical assistance for
strategic planning and analysis to assist it to identify a market
niche and develop an operational strategy and business plan. In
addition, UWA may decide to use UWTI as a service provider for some
aspects of its staff training program, to be supported under the
project;
(4) Development of the National Commission for Antiquities and
Museums (being established through the conversion of the existing
Government Department of Museums and Antiquities into an autonomous,
revenue-earning parastatal, with the support of a grant from the
Institutional Development Fund), including maintenance and modest
rehabilitation of physical facilities and upgrading of staff skills;
(5) Strengthening the Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities
and the Uganda Tourism Board, to promote the development of a broad-
based, competitive, well-regulated and sustainable tourism industry;
(6) Strengthening capacity for Human resources development within
the tourism sector, through a "Train-the-Trainer" program
benefiting both public (Hotel Tourism and Training Institute) and
private sector training institutions; and
(7) Coordination and implementation support for all project
activities, through operational support for the Project Coordination
Unit responsible for coordination of the CAST program
8.      In view of the fact that tourism levels are currently extremely
low and are initially expected to grow slowly, an associated Global
Environment Facility (GEF) project is being prepared in parallel
with the IDA-financed project, to help Uganda meet the immediate
costs of protecting its biodiversity resources, as well as to help
lay the foundation for conservation in the long-term. GEF grant
support will thus enable the GOU to extend protection to areas which
are of high biodiversity significance, but have limited immediate
prospects for revenue-earning through tourism or other sustainable
uses.
9.      Project Financing:       The project will be financed with an IDA
Credit of $7.1 million, with co-financing from the GEF of US$ 2.0
million.. The GOU contribution is estimated at US$ 4.8 million, in
the form of counterpart funds, taxes and in-kind contribution of
salary support and operating costs.    It is anticipated that other
donors currently active in the sector (USAID, European Union, and
GTZ in particular) will continue to support complementary
activities, including rehabilitation of park access roads and
promotion of community-based sustainable wildlife enterprises. The
private sector will contribute to project objectives through
investment in tourism facilities and marketing, and their support
for activities of the Uganda Tourism Board and private sector
tourism associations. The level of private sector and other donors'
participation will be determined during project preparation.
10.     Project Implementation: Project implementation will be
- 4 -



coordinated by the Planning Section, Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife
and Antiquities, with the assistance of a Project Coordination Unit.
The main implementing agencies will be relevant departments and
parastatals of the MTWA and associated bodies (e.g. MTWA Planning
Section, Tourism Commission, Uganda Wildlife Authority, Uganda
Tourism Board, Uganda Tourist Association , National Commission for
Antiquities and Museums, Uganda Hotel and Catering Training
Institute).   Community-related wildlife activities will be
implemented by UWA in coordination with District and local level
planning bodies
11.     Project Sustainability:   The project aims to establish the UWA
as an effective organization with the financial and technical
capacity to maintain Uganda's protected areas system and its
biodiversity resources.    While it is not expected that the UWA can
become fully self-sustaining financially in the near or medium term,
it is anticipated that it will be able to cover a significant
proportion of its recurrent costs through revenue generation (park
entrance fees, concession fees, etc.) after a few years.     The same
is true for some of the other institutions that will receive support
under the project, including the Uganda Wildlife Education Center
and the National Commission for Antiquities and Museums, which are
intended to become increasingly self-sufficient.    The project also
aims to promote professionalism and cohesion in the private sector
tourism industry, and to support the development of appropriate
regulatory capacity within the Ministry, to support the principles
of the Integrated Tourism Master Plan, which emphasizes
environmentally sustainable tourism development.     The Ministry will
be encouraged to identify and focus on key responsibilities and
activities such as licensing and statistical services, which can
become largely self-sustaining through fees, and to collaborate with
the private sector on marketing and promotion aspects.
12.     Project benefits:    The project will signficantly benefit
Uganda by restoring its capacity to protect, manage and derive
economic benefit from one of its major natural resources: the PAs
and wildlife which in the past served as the basis for a highly
successful tourism industry. It also represents a potential
alternative source of income and economic development for
communities in wildlife areas, many of which are unsuitable for
other forms of development due to soil or other conditions or to
their relative inaccessibility.   The ICB-PAMSU project   represents
the first and necessary step in the process of rehabilitation and
development of the sector, by establishing an effective
institutional and human resource capacity to ensure that future
investment is well planned and carried out, and provides sustainable
benefits for the country. The project will also assist the nascent
private industry in this sector to develop the professionalism and
human capacity to compete effectively in an increasingly competitive
market.
13.     Project risks:   The project aims to help  Uganda develop   the
institutional and human resources capacity needed to restore
effective management of its PA system and wildlife resources, and to
foster the development of a productive and sustainable nature-based
- 5 -



tourism industry.    There is a risk that, by focusing on
institutional capacity building at this time and delaying capital
investment in the sector, there may be further deterioration of the
resources and facilities, making it even more difficult to turn the
situation around later. This issue is addressed by the
understanding that the major investment program (PAMSU) could be
launched as soon as the necessary institutional capacity has been
developed and demonstrated, without necessarily awaiting the
completion of   ICB-PAMSU.   In addition, the project would provide
support for basic operations, particularly at the field level, to
enable UWA to function at a maintenance level. Even the relatively
modest resources to be provided, because they will be reliable, will
represent a significant improvement over the current situation and
lead to improved morale and effectiveness of field staff. The
project will also provide support for strategic planning and
development of a "planning culture" within UWA, which will ensure
that future investment is mobilized and used more efficiently and
cost-effectively, and that future development is better conceived
and more sustainable, than could be expected in the absence of the
project. The same considerations apply for the other sectoral
institutions which will benefit from the project.    This will help
to ensure that Uganda's efforts to rebuild a positive image as a
tourism destination and to become competitive in the regional and
international markets, are not undermined by hasty and perhaps ill-
conceived expansion of tourism facilities and a premature emphasis
on marketing and promotion, in the absence of an effective planning
and regulatory capacity.
14.     The main risks to successful project implementation relate to:
(i) the current limited capacity of the implementing agencies, and
(ii) the relatively large number of implementing agencies and
components. The latter is a result of the GOU's commendable policy
to devolve many functions to private and parastatal bodies, with the
aim of making them less subject to bureaucratic limitations and less
dependent on Government budgetary subventions, and consequently more
effective and sustainable.    During the project preparation period,
the Project Coordination Unit established under the MTWA has proven
very effective at coordinating the diverse actors and elements of
the program and at facilitating smooth functioning of aspects such
as disbursement, accounting and reporting, procurement and timely
release of GOU counterpart funds. To avoid overburdening the
implementing agencies during this capacity building phase, and to
ensure continued effective coordination among the GOU, the
implementing agencies and the World Bank and other donors, it is
proposed that the PCU be retained and strengthened to be able to
manage the greater scope of work under project implementation.
15.     Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement:       The Bank-assisted
Kenya "Protected Areas and Wildlife Service" (PAWS) project provides
valuable lessons regarding policy and legislative environment,
institutional framework, nature and scale of investment, donor
integration, the need for prioritization of conservation efforts,
etc., which are highly relevant to the proposed project. These
lessons have been applied, for example in that a new and forward-
looking Wildlife Policy and enabling legislation have been put in
- 6 -



place prior to preparation of the project. The Implementation
Completion Report and the Project Audit for the 1976 Kenya Wildlife
and Tourism project also provided cautionary lessons concerning
pitfalls to be avoided, particularly the importance of ensuring that
the implementing agency has credibility and capacity prior to
initiating a major investment project, and the need to ensure that
the necessary political will exists to support institutional reform
in the sector.
16.     The Bank is also assisting many other projects in Africa and
elsewhere in support of community-based conservation and sustainable
use and management of natural resources. Experience from these
projects underlines the importance of ensuring that an "enabling
environment" exists for effective local participation in
conservation of biodiversity and protected areas, including the
empowerment and involvement of district and local authorities.
Uganda's forward-looking policies on decentralization create a
positive environment
17..    Poverty Category:        The project objectives include a poverty
orientation (20%), in view of the fact that the project aims to
promote wildlife and nature-based tourism, which represents an
economic opportunity for rural communities living in remote areas.
18.     Environmental Aspects:   The project falls into Environmental
Impact Assessment category C, as it involves primarily Technical
Assistance and operational support for improved management of PAs
and protection of biodiversity. There will be no significant
infrastructure development or other activities with potential for
negative environmental impacts. (Note: the PAMSU investment
project, which has now been replaced in the lending pipeline by the
present ICB-PAMSU project, was designated EIA category B as it was
expected to involve significant infrastructure development inside
PAs and possibly resettlement as a result of the PA system
rationalization.)
19.     Program Objective Categories:    The project will support the
objectives of sustainable natural resource management and
environmental protection, community consultation and participation,
and promotion of the indigenous private sector. The project will
contribute to poverty alleviation by promoting the development of
tourism as a source of sustainable economic benefit to rural
communities in the areas around parks and reserves (including Forest
Reserves on a pilot basis), which include some of the least
developed and most marginalized in the country.
1/   The ICB-PAMSU project replaced the PAMSU project in the
lending pipeline in May, 1997, following the Appraisal
mission's assessment that the Uganda Wildlife Authority was not yet
prepared to implement the proposed large investment project.
It was agreed with GOU that an institutional capacity building
project should be carried out first, after which the proposed
investment project would be reconsidered.
-7-



2/   Including   facilities required for Uganda to meet its
obligations under CITES and other international conventions, i.e.
to handle animals confiscated in illegal trade
Contact Point:           The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending November 28, 1997.
- 8 -



