Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24411
PRAOtECT APPA ISAL DOCATUTMENT
ONA
PRPOPOSED CRPTsDTr
IN THE AIMAOTUNT OF SDR 11.7 MILI!ON
(US$14.50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
BANQUE DES ETATS DE L AFRIQUE CENTRALE
FOR A
BEAC REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM
July 9, 2002
Francai Sector Ufic
Africa Regionali Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
I = US$.00141
US$1 = CFAF 704.64
FISCAL YEAR
Tarnerst __nr.rnmhcr
BVTIONS         TJ ACROI=\L,SCI
II ivi          r  luL  IaLIL, x ami  ivLa%,lu_i
BCEAO           Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'Afrique de l 'Ouest
Central Bank of Western African States
BEAC            Banque Des Etats de l 'Afrique Centrale
Bank of Central African States
BGFI            Banque Gabonaise Financiere Internationale
BIDC            Banque Internationale du Congo
Congolese Commercial Bank
BIS             Bank for International Settlement
CAIC            Credit Dour I 'Agriculture et l 'industrie du Congo
Congolese Commercial Bank
CAMEMU          Central Afiica Pconomc and iMonetairy Union
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CEMlAvitIOX.   oummrunaute~ Econim.que etL 11UOn6tairue de Ul 'Afiqu-u Centrleutc
COBAC           Commission Bancaire de l 'Afrique Central
Central Afrcan Banking Commission
CORONOFI        Comite Regional de Normalisation Bancaire
CPAR            Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPL             Component Project Leader
CPSS            Core Principles For Systemically Important Payment Systems
CQ              Consultant Qualification
EBPCS           Electronic Bulk Payment Clearance System
P C15           Fportrnniro C'lnr nnrP Rictpm
FMR             Financial Management Report
FM FV inancial Mar.agemient Specialist
FSAP            Financial Sector Assessment Program
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GPM             Global Project Management
GPN             General Procurement Notice
IBCC            Inter Bank Card System
IBCG            Inter Bank Card Group
IBCS            Inter Bank Card System
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IC             Infividual Consutant



JCB             international Competitive Bidding
IDA             International Development Association
IMF             International Monetary Fund
LCS             Least Cost Selection
NBF             Non Bank Financing
NBFI            Non Bank Financial Intermediary
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NMC             National Monitoring Committee
OHADA           Organisation pour 1 'harmonisation du Droit des Affaires
PCD*            P   cnnn'.nf Docume.t
PIP             Project Implementation Plan
1- I                  lUIT1
PMUi           ProIject MaVage1erV1ULL UnitL
POS             Point Of Sale
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PRMS            Payment Risk Management System
PS              Procurement Specialist
QBS             Quality Based Selection
QCDS            Quality and Cost Based Selection
RSC             Regional Steering Committee
RTGS            Real Time Gross Settlement
SE              Stnterment of Fxpenditure
TL              Team Leader
V      I %_PL1     0111 VSR*erences
UCB             Union Congolaise de Banque
Congolese Coi-mercia; Bank
UMAC            Union Monetaire de l 'Afrique Centrale
Central Africa Monetary U nion
UNDB            United Nations Development Business
VSAT            Very Small Aperture Terminal
WAEMU           Western Africa Economic and Monetary Union
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Cniintrv Director:  Fmrnminiel MhM Robert Calderisi
Sector Manager:  Gerard Byam
Task Team Leader:  Andr& Ruyba






AFRICA
BEAC REGIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key jJo.XiiUiiUi'. 1Iindiators                                                  4t
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Countr) Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       6
3 Sector issues to he addressed by the proiect and strategic choices                9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   12
3. Benefits and target population                                                  12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangerments                                  13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       13
2. Major related projects tnanced by the Bank and other development agencies       14
3. Lessons learned and retlectec in the project design                             15
4. Indications of borrowericommitmenm and ownership                                15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     17
E. Summary Project Anaiysis
1. Econon-..                                                                       17
2. Financial                                                                       18
3. Technical                                                                       18
4. Institutional                                                                    18
5. Environmental                                                                   19
6. Social                                                                          19
7. Safeguard Policies:                                                             21



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  21
2. Critical risks                                                                   22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   22
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          23
2. Other                                                                            23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       60
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         61
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  63
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  66
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       78
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   84
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 85
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                86
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          87
MAP(S)
N. A.



AFRUCA
BEAC Regional Payment System
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTFS
IDate: July 9, 2002                               Team Leader: Andre Ryba
Sector Manager/Director: Gerard Byam              Sector(s): Lawandjustice(10%), Telecommunications
Country Director: Emmanuel Mbi, Robert Calderisi  (20%), Banking (40%), Payment systems, securities
Project ID: P072881                               clearance & settlement (30%)
|Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme(s): Regulation and competition policy (P),
Standards and financial reporting (S), Intemational
financial architecture,(P), Technology diffusion (S),
Trade facilitation and market access (S)
Project Financing Data
[ [1 Loan     [X] Credit   [ Grant      [ Guarantee      1 1 Other:
IFor Loans/Cfredits/OthIC.-s:
Amount (US$m): SDR 11.7 million (US$14.5 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Service charge: 0.75%
FinancinagPlan (US$ml,    Source                            LoIal         Foreinn         Total
BORROWER                                                       2.30           1.80          4.10
IDA                                                            2.20          12.30         ! 4.50
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                             2.20           1.80          4.00
It[__N_ _nP T__P                                               .          _
Total:                                                 |       6.70          15.90         22.60
Borrower: BEAC
Responsible agency: BEAC
BEAC
Address: B P: 1917 Yaounde, Republique du Cameroun
Contact Person: Mr. ;erment Mouameba
Tel: (237) 223 40 60/223 40 30        Fax: (237) 223 33 29          Email: beac@beac.int
Estimated Disbursements( Bank FY/US$m):
ImFY t          2003T2004             2005  1   2006                         1         I
Annual      3.10      5.60       3.00       2.80
Cumulative     3.10       8.70     11.70 I    14.50
| Project implementation period: 4
Fxnpcted effecti-n4  c rintp- (R/I3 1 D00?  Fvnprt r0 rlncinn tate :  12/3 /2006
CCS PAD Fw,, FlU U,  Z100



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The project aims at improving the efficiency and security of the payment system in the
Central African Economic and Monetary union. This will be achieved through establishing
and installing an appropriate set of regional payment mechanisms to satisfy the evolving
needs of all market sectors  - consumer, retail. industrial. commercial. financial and
government, - for making payments in a safe, sound, secure and timely manner with certainty
and at an a2ceptable cost.
Monre spcifically, the~t,, manobjective o te rvVtla o4,rr of t.he pan.n.nt sys.te.ms n +.hed su-e.1.
are to:
(i)   strengthen the financial sector and its support to the economic development of the
region; today it could take over two months to clear a check drawn on a Kousseri bank (in
Northern Cameroon) and deposited in Limbe (in the South of the country). By reducing such
delays, the reform should contribute to the development of banking activities. The reform will
provide the opportunity to increase retail banking activity through the introduction of new
fee-based products and services built on a widespread and convenient electronic access to the
banks.
(ii)  facilitate economic and trade relation- in the qub-repion with a view tn qtrenothenino
regional integration by contributing to avoid risky and costly transportation of large amounts
of cash ar.d nrov,uiAi.t.g fact, secure, easy ar.A ov cost nn ay'r-U1k --SJUULIt -Aotr
in the whole sub region. Currently, transfer of funds are even more difficult between states
IhaJI Liley are w.tinIi a silel' CouUIRIly. 11 III Lr1, LIIh LrUefo1L Will atlsU fLdcili,a-h LUr edcUULlUH 01
the risk of fraud and criminal activities in connection with cash transportation. These
improvements wiii aiso stimulate tne further development of the formai sector.
(iii)  develop the supply of basic banking services (payments, remittances and small credits)
to a significant share of the population and in particular in the low income segments. The
objective is that within almost four years after the start of project implementation 8% of the
population (an almost threefold increase compared to today's situation) will have developed a
regular client relationship with a deposit taking institution. A particular emphasis will be
placed on satisfving the needs of the low income ponulation in coniunction with the
development of micro-finance institutions and of electronic money (value stored on smart
cards fnr instanre). In this conteyt the project will facilitate the provision of prepaid services
for the purchase of water and electricity for low income people. The extension of service to
.isA cltorVLy VI thle popaUIoLLIVb uy ULIiILy coU1r.palniL is hLaIr.ijlpued by LI;' highI1 LsJtL 01 biiling
and collection. Prepaid services should remove a major obstacles to the provision of these
services to low income people.
-2 -



(iv)  increase the efficiency and safety of payment mechanisms available to govemments,
businesses and the general population by promoting electronic payment instruments and
electronic exchange of transactions. In particular, the costly and manual process of using cash
for the navrnent of salaries, pensions. utilities services. etc.. will be transformed into
electronic processes.
(v)   facilitate the implementation of monetary policy. Thanks to the centralization of the
iiqulUiLld VI 11f1firArcl instLiLULIVIln iII a biIrigl accour.IL dL LI.he s UU  1VrilV 1  kll LJ(Ln  3sAC
books) and the real time processing and accounting of large value transactions, BEAC's
managers in charge of monetary policy, will have an instant and overall view of the situation
and a better capability of implementing an effective monetary policy in the sub region.
(vi)  support the development of the financial market and the swift and safe settlement of
securities transactions. The new system's infrastructure has been designed in such a way as to
permit a linkage with financial markets, once established, to provide for swift and safe
settlement of all kinds of securities transactions.
(vii)  build a comprehensive and consistent payment system infrastructure that complies
with inter.nation2l standards and in particular with the BTR CPSS Cnre Principles (see box)\
Thle su.1-regional A. i  i ar. essertl elem.er.t o this prrvmojef.annomir ,4eoirplnnmp
and integration is suffering from the inadequacy of the current payment system, which was
cited as an importanit obstacle to economnic gro-wLh in t.he -reports of the -amICerVoon and Gabon
FSAP missions. Looking beyond the region's borders, the technical specifications of the
CAE-M- project is closely coordinated with that of the -WAENMU region so that the linkage
between the two infrastructures will be easy to organize without major additional investments
costs, should that be deemed appropriate.
-3 -



Box 1
Core Principles for systemically important payment systems
i.   The system shouid have a well-founded legal basis under all reievant jurisdictions.
II.  The system's rules and procedures should enable participants to have a clear understanding of the
system's impact on each of the financial risks they incur through participation in it.
III. The svstem should have clearlv defined Drocedures for the- management of credit risks and
liquidity risks, which specify the respective responsibilities of the system operator and the
participants and which provide appropriate incentives to manage and contain those risks.
IV.* The system should provide prompt final settlement on the day of value, preferably during the day
and at a minimum at the end of the day.
V.* A system in which multilateral netting takes place should, at a minimum, be capable of ensuring
th..e tir..ely com.&pl'eti - of dailyL*,..*LAter.ts ir the er1 of  ninabili to s.t.ey U 4,e p iciL
with the largest single settlement obligation.
vi. Assets used for settlement should preferably be a claim on the central bank; where other assets are
used, they should carry little or no credit risk and little or no liquidity risk.
VII. The system should ensure a high degree of security and operational reliability and should have
contingency arrangements for timely completion of daily processing.
VIII. The system should provide a means of making payments which is practical for its users and
efficient for the economy.
IX. The system should have objective and publicly disclosed criteria for participation, which permit
fair and open access.
X.   The system's governance arrangements should be effective, accountable and transparent.
* Systems should seek to exceed the minima included in these two Core Principles.
Responsibilities of the central bank in applying the Core Principles
A Tho ,m,,tral ho,,I, drnnlA AoMr,o ,'lso,.Is its ne,,m,t ew to  hont;,/o oA kh5..A A;PI< ..l .. t
k. -t-1 1-1, A .,]A A.4; ..-.      paytJ** sewr iSSS J  s w                  UshLLd dicosAepbi, vis
role and major policies with respect to systemically important payment systems.
B. The central bank should ensure that the systems it operates comply with the Core Principles.
C. The central bank should oversee compliance with the Core Principles by systems it does not operate
and it should have the ability to carry out this oversight.
D. The central bank, in promoting payment system safety and efficiency through the Core Principles,
should cooperate with other central banks and with any other relevant domestic or foreign
authorities.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key indicators include:
i)     Total number of deposit-taking institutions's customers has increased from 3 to 8% of
the population;
-4 -



11)     Total number ot deposit-taking institutions's customers has increased trom 3 to bu/o of
the population;
iii)    Transactions exchanged among financial institutions and clearing systems are fully
comnuterized:
iv)     Delays in payment clearing and settlement have been significantly reduced to a
max :   -   -f + A - - P=_AA{z\2 N A-  4 _ _ 1-1  r _  _1 + _ A_ _  'I  . _--. .  ArAA. A_
IMUaxmU      of thUre  (jj dayS foI uban-to-uban  utrasactions anU a mllallxuimum of seven
(7) days for client-to-client transactions;
v)      IBCS is operational;
vi)     Two inter-bank card centers operational after second year of the program, thereafter
the volume of card operations increases by 10% each year, commencing on June 30,
2004:
vii)    The implemented payment system is conform to the principles established by the BIS
tr payml-l-et systemsls.
B. Strategic Context
1. S-ector=-relatedtCoont  A' Assistance Strategy It (AS goa! --- ote Iby----  t.. he Iroec  se Ar.nex 
Document number:       Date of latest CAS discussion:
IDA/R2000-95                  | June 15, 2000
IDA/R99- 115/3                  May 23, 2000
IDA/R92-50                      May 19, 1992
IDA/R2000-210/1                 January 16, 2001
IDA/R92-15                      March 26, 1992
IDA/R98-236                     October 15, 1998
The six CAEMU countries (Cameroon, Chad, Central African Republic, Congo, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon)
share a common currency (the CFA franc) a common central bank (BEAC), a common bank supervisor
(COBAC), a common money market, a common external tariff, and a common set of business laws under the
OHADA initiative (OHADA, Organisation pour I'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaireg is the institutional set
up within Western and Central Africa to harmonize commercial law and its implementation). Although Country
Assistance Strategies have been prepared for individual countries, the Bank group is increasingly focusing on a
regional approach to their development. Forestry conservation and transport development, for example, are
being dealt with on a regional basis. The Bank has supported a single approach to bank restructuring in the
CAEMU countries. Microfinance regulation is established on a regional basis. A similar strategy for financial
sector restructuring and deepening has been developed in each country. A regional strategy is under preparation
for presentation to the Board by the end of the calendar year 2002. in this context, payment system reform
represents a high priority.
The International Development Agency (IDA), under its articles of agreement, may provide financing to public
international or regional organizations fuor the Uerielits of IDA -niemUers. BLcdUse BEAC UopFeris LIIC existing
payment system and will be largely responsible for project implementation and operation, it is the logical choice
ofI boirrow er to r t,hliis c r edi t. N-o counter-guarantees b vy  -  - toel-,en   a----  ---med neesay  in- fact   At' is -or
credit-worthy than any of the Governments of the six countries. Four of the six countries are IDA eligible. The
other t,vo, Gabon and EnuatoriaI! rGuinpn arP TIAPfr cn,,ntripe. It ic nviperthples nrnnnepoe that Bar.nec kistance be
in the form of an IDA credit:
-5 -



-  - ,,~~   I U-I~ flfl -r-- I'ThTh 7Cfl/                                -I1..~.,
mne i1A eligible couunties account ior 70%7 o0 totai GDjPir, I7J0 01 tIh uJUnCy supply anu
94% of the population;
*   T-hie two iBRD countries have high GDP per capita because of their oii prodtuction, but
their level of poverty is very high (incommensurate with their oil producing nature);
*   The payment system is of the nature of a public good, benefitting the economy at large
and in particular, the lower incomes categories. As noted earlier, the reform will
contribute to the development of banking activities; it will facilitate economic and trade
relations in the sub-region and strengthen regional integration. The reform will also
increase the supply of basic banking services to a significant share of the population and
in narticular the low income segments. The development of micro-finance institutions and
of prepaid cards for the purchase of water and electricity projects, resulting from this
project, w.ll have a dir.ert imnpact o.n the por;
*   Both the FSAP missions for Carneroon and Gabon, forcefully stressed that the existing
1uU1di l,ltaiy pajyinIit bysLeIlI iln thes cUUoLItri an1u Imore generally IIn Lthe  ZA U Lone, is a
serious impediment to the development of the financial sector and of financial
transactions. By ricochet, the current state of tine payment system impacis negatively on
private sector growth and economic development. The FSAP missions recommended the
immediate lauinching of a reform program.
*   It is clear that BEAC is unable to undertake all the needed investments with its own
resources. And at a time when major donors are substantially reducing the debt of
member countries through the HIPC initiative, there is no question to borrow at
commercial rates. Individual Governments are even less able to assume the funding of
such a proiect. In addition such a proiect must be realized at the regional level because of
all the cost savings resulting from economies of scale and economies of scope.
*   RBAC is not the benefiriarv of the prorect. The population of the six cnintrie- is .BEAC
is only a channel to make and coordinate the investment.
*   MI~UIT- i5 IOS;J- T term  will increase LIh fees I-edA  Lr.. +e clieL- of -a-ro andA oth er
deposit taking institutions and will go against the objective of financial deepening and
:             ____1 ___:.1__1___1______. T. _11  1__  _  ._ __.
InUcresin1g Uth nIUImIUbe Uo pUUple WiLLth UMa a acco-untI. IL W-ill 'IU s aIse hle cU-St U1
prepayment for water and electricity services.
*   Tle project does not cover normal operating expenses of the banking system. It funds
investment of common centers and equipment that will be shared by the central bank and
all commercial banks. Operational and maintenance costs of systems will be recovered by
fees paid by participants .
It has been established that BEAC can borrow from the World Bank. At its March 2002
meeting the Board of BEAC authorized the Governor to negotiate and sign the Development
Credit Aoreement fnr this nroiartw
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
T'nere are 32 banks and 12 non-bank financial institutions in the sub-region. Tney have a total
of 144 branches. Several of these banks have a common ownership. For instance there are
affiliates to Societe Generale of Paris in Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea and Chad. CBC of
- 6 -



Cameroon has affiliates in CAR and Chad. Afriland (formerly CCEI Bank), also of
Cameroon has an affiliate in Equatorial Guinea. BGFI of Gabon has a branch in Congo and
in Equatorial Guinea. Citihank has branches in Cameroon aind Gbhon.
In the late 1980s, poor mceornonnmic n    and mismanagement of banks, manof them
in the public sector, led to economic decline and a financial sector crisis in most member
coun.LLIUb. UuMni.lercial aib Urk- eatrLi- U.-lprVIItabe, ILsLWVULLt adL lilliquiu. iiie uevaluationL of
the CFA franc in January 1994, supported by economic reform programs, has restored a
healthy export-led growtn in most countries of the region. Most countries have aiso
implemented far-reaching reform programs in their financial sectors, including in-depth
restructuring, recapitalization and  privatization of banks as well as reinforcement of
supervision by the creation of a regional Banking Commission (COBAC).
Today, banks in Cameroon, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, Central African Republic and Gabon are
generally solvent, liquid and profitable. In the republic of Congo, the restructuring process has
not been completed vet. One bank remains to be restructured and privatized.
The present payment syste-m iosa constraint tn the development of the econom.y and banninkg
sector in the Central Africa sub-region. As appraised during the Cameroon FSAP mission in
eaily 2.00, r.dU LtIM GJaboVI one in JulIJy 2001I, auU and ,'u Jby aii paLI%:Lv a o tLh wLorsIhops
held in Douala, Libreville and Brazzaville, the system is slow, unreliable, cumbersome and
costly io all participants. Most retail transactions are in cash. The raiio oi cash io Mvii is a
very high 48.5% (compared to less than 13.5% on average in the Eurozone).
The number of bank accounts is small; it is estimated that less than 3 percent of the 16.2
million active population in the sub-region have a bank account compared to 90 to 95 percent
in developed countries.
Non cash paymnent instruments offered by banks are still based on paper with a predominance
of checks. (see table below providing information for the year 2000)
Total year 2000        Number      %      Value      %      Average value
(unit)  j _      (million)  j _      (thousand)
Che  ,30   1 98.3 _1  3,I;,,00  I 9,       2,4
Letter ofexchnn.ge (effets)  I! 19   I7  A !    T. 750n    7       ! 2, A45
Transfers (virements)    |     2,930 4  0.3 ±    16:900 1  0.5 1    5.750
Total                       1,322,200   10(   3,401,650   100
Checks represent more than 98%  of the number and 92%   of the value of non-cash
transactions. It is clear as well that checks, with an average value of F CFA 2.4 million, are
not used for day-to-day retail operations. In fact on average there are 2.7 checks written per
-7 -



year and per person with abank aconunt.
Clearing is still done maanually a bakers meet each morning at o^ffces of the central ban.k
throughout the six member countries (there are on average three clearing centers in each
counltry) to excha-nge --l ----I  chc'  The1 set_ lUl,r, is- _la onytenx lllln  di
couitry tot~x.i1iig UIIu i.iUdi LMUU. I lIr, bVLL1VL11VI1lL lb lilldi Villy LLIC; IIUAL 1LL1ULL111g 4AIU III
case of lack of liquidity an unwinding process is activated. These procedures are not
compliant with BIS principies mentioned above.
Large value transactions are still related to individual fund transfer orders sent by commercial
banks to BEAC, in order to cover debit balances resulting from pre-clearing sessions that
have to be settled in BEAC settlement accounts the following morning.
Cards have been introduced recently by some commercial banks in Cameroon and Gabon,
mainly for cash withdrawal. Altogether only six banks out of 32 have card operations. None
of the NBFIs has developed a credit card business. There are approximately 100,000 cards
fnr ttanl nouilatinn nf 32 million inhahitnntz Thev sre aenernalv yo-cleId "nrivqtive"rn;rrd
as they cannot be used with equipment other than that of the issuing bank. On debit cards,
theme aear on aeVC10rage 2) rnorthly witdr.h alv  - card for an - atera  -- .ourt ofr CAu 60,000o
L1itL~ai~  Ui  Y7.LU5.. It. AIJV   VYLF.U Vg.3 jJ  'C&L% IJL CU. "4V ~Lr   - ~4t~JAlL .I %.,A EA.L   tJt vt.
On payment cards, there is on average 0.3 transactions for an average amount of CFAF
70,0V0.
The telecommunications sector is a stumbling block to the development of an efficient
payment system. In most countries, the privatization process of this sector has been launched,
and private mobile companies are planning to provide to the banking industry sophisticated
services, such as secured mobile and internet communications. In recent years, banks have
invested in the development of information technology. BEAC is deploying its own satellite
network to connect its 6 national and 12 local branches in CAEMUJ countries. Some banks
are also developing telecommunication infrastructure to link their own branches. It is
expected that some of this infrastructure could be shared among financial institutions and
used for improving the payments system and other data transmission (MIS) at a low cost to
I-tort',',~~1-               -   .I -   -
hlie legal fram.e-work, including inter-baln rules and procedurLes to ensure that payllment
transactions processing is fully secured, automated and efficient, needs to be strengthened, in
particular with regards to non cash and electronic paymenis. Siandardization of paper and
electronic payment instruments (format, codification, security features) at the regional level is
urgent in order to prevent different commercial banks from developing differing  and
incompatible standards.
Dysfunctioning in the implementation of legal proceedings with respect to the settlement of
debts has been a concern in several countries. In Cameroon, in particular, commercial banks
have been the victims of an abusive use of the OHADA disnositions on assets seizures
(saisies attributions). Judges issue orders to seize bank accounts at the central bank and to
pay the plair.ti'ffevyer thoughniicrl! nll anpoal hairp nrt hbeen evhaiuted. Several ctf ifthep jiiPrpniPntc
F".Y  F**   .  ...... .*           *~*7-~                       ~~l
which led to the condemnation of the commercial bank were themselves questionable. This
- 8-



practice a negative some imnact on the canital of banks thus potentiallv threatenins the
positive results of the in-depth bank restructuring of the late nineties. Under pressure from
the bank-ing community, the IMF and the World Bank, the Gove-rmnen.t of Camrneoon looked
into the matter. Two independent audits of 48 actual cases were conducted, one under the
responlsiblt of4 the1 Minstr of +; Jusic  and  +.h oter unde A .h Miityo  ic   t was
110JI . 1WAI)mlJ  S IL% 11LL. Y WALILI   J1 1UOLL~%,. CaI%u LII. ULiI .i U eiUr  LUII LVLIIbIJOL  WLI I  XICIAIGtI-  IL WCL
found that too often the seizure is realized without the required executory title (titre
executoire) and that t1hrough the play of fines for nOn compliance (astreines), ihe banks
become the direct object of the seizures (rather than remaining a third party). The Prime
Minister approved a global pian of action contained in the Ministry ot Justice stuay. T his is a
first step. This plan needs now to be translated into concrete actions. Nonetheless, since the
authorities focused on these issues, the number of releases of seized funds (mains-levees) has
increased. In the first quarter of 2002, about four billion CFAF of seized funds have been
liberated. As a result commercial banks frozen deposits at the central bank declined during
the first quarter 2002 from CFAF 10.7 billion to 7.7 billion. For its part, BEAC has also
undertaken a number of measures. The Governor has held many meetings with bankers and
the authorities to sensitize them to the issues involved= During prolect preparation steps were
taken to insulate the payment system from the impact of a commercial bank experiencing
liqidiity nri4t m  (lin mitv nan      t hahit nAdt%n'tli2t car.In ira n up,by a hanrn1ru[th1tin fka "nAy2rn.t
system, establishment of a guarantee fund, etc.).
On the other side, there is clearly a large demand for the development of new payment
instruments as an aiternative to tne costly and risky use of cash. Firms would like to use
direct transfers to pay salaries; banks would like to see customers to use cards to withdraw
their salary rather than having long lines overcrowding the wickets at month-end. Individuals
and businesses alike would like to see a significant reduction in clearing delays, especially
outside large urban centers and cross-country; speedy settlement is also a key requirement for
the development of financial markets.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
By establishing a modern payment system, the project would increase opportunities for
transactions across the CAE0vU area for both baliks and their clients, thus fostering trade and
contributing to regional integration. It would increase security of payment and lower the cost
of transactions.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has eight main components to be developed and installed either at the regional or
national level:
(i) a Global Project Management (GPM) component that will coordinate and implement the
reform process. The GPM is also responsible for providing stakeholders with all necessary
information, communication and training programs;
-9-



(ii) an Electronic Bulk Payment Clearing Systems (EBPCS) managing the exchange and
clarng prroncss of bu".ll nnnran4..r,s.acin, 4rn,.tnc  .includng t.he 1ronfltffrl,,tinfl.  nof ppe
instruments into electronic data. Identical electronic clearing systems will be installed in each
countr-y;
(iii) a Real Time Gross Settlement mechanism    (RTGS) enabling instant and finai
irrevocable settlement of individual large value and other time critical transactions,
(cross-border and monetary policy operations for instance), the settlement of the payment leg
of securities transactions, and the settlement of the multilateral balances of the clearing
systems for bulk transactions (EBPCS);
(iv) an Inter-Bank Card System (IBCS) served by a dedicated network infrastructure; it will
also include a nre-naid svstem for the noor for the navment of their consumption of water and
electricity.
(v) a Payment Risk Management System (PRMS) collecting all infornation regarding
payi-iier,t incidcntbs f10L individual1s dand compdanles, Venabling a breterICUntroll over unrelliable
customers' operations, and providing access to critical information to credit institutions and
banks;
(vi) a Telecommunication infrastructure (TELECOM) in particular at the sub-regional
level, in order to ensure high-quality, low-cost transfers of data and payment transactions
among BEAC. offices and all financial institutions' locations (branches and head offices), and
implement standards and norms to facilitate the interoperability of all payment systems.
(vii) a Legal framework (LEGAL) comnonent, to provide a robust legal basis for navments
processing, clearing and settlement covering the rights and obligations of counterparts and
inteprI.eia.ripe at nll strep in the trancsactinn fl.ro incluiding the rmpthnfd fnr rpesolvxing diisuitpe
and claims;
(viii) a Training Program (TRAIN) will be aimed at BEAC and commercial bank operators.
Some training wiii be specific to the use of the RT GS, EBPCS and iBCS. Other wiii be
focused on the more generally issue of cash and liquidity management, etc.
- 10-



I- .-- 't .          -.L . I ..7
I.nuCati-e     .aanh  %0 of          T
Component                        Costs     % of     financing    Bank-
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          ~~~~~ l CttFuI  TOOS  f I  IIIICCI  fi n n nlnr
Project management support                             5.00       22.1      3.10       21.4
Electronic Bulk Payment System                         4.20       18.6      2.80       19.3
Large Value Payment System                             2.60       11.5      2.20       15.2
Baik Card System                                       4.00       17.7      1.30        9.0
Risk management                                        0.50        2.2      0.20        1.41
I eiecommumcations                                     i.801      5.U       U. /U      4.8
Training                                          I      .30 1         5.   1.00        6.9
Audits                                                 0.40        1.8      0.40        2.8
PPF                                                     1.10       4.9      1.10        7.6
Colntingency                                      j     1.40 |     6.2  |    1.40 j     9.7
Total Project Costs  22.60 1   100.0     14.50      100.0 3
Total Financing Required    22.60 1   100.0      14.50     100.0
Note: According to the detail content of each component and the level of public or private interest covered by the component, the share of the
investment cost covered by the Bank will vary.
The project will fund consultants to assist BEAC and commercial banks in putting into place
the new systems (the regulatory framework being a prime example), as well as some of the
investment costs, primarily those incurred by the Central Bank and those related to the
acquisition and installation of infrastructure that satisfies public interest objectives in a cost
effective manner.



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would complement financial sector reforns undertaken in most member countries
in recent years. It would introduce a modem institutional and legal framework for payment
services in the CAEMU area. It would establish norms and standards for payments across the
central African monetary zone. It would strengthen the initiative of BEAC to put in place a
system to track clients who have issued bad checks or defaulted on card based transactions and
loans. It would eliminate the settlement risk in the payments system for large value funds
transfers, including the settlement of net positions resulting from the bulk payment clearing
system.e Tt woruild facilitate _h nt-nca nnmpants andl- ontimi7P thP ucP nf aVailah1P liulidlity in
the financial system as a whole. It would reduce the vulnerability of the banking system
LlighlL,Ult U Ill LIl' FS^D. IL would fIIUloLe L. -1 --ment of an iILLed-bal illaIket. It
improve the marketability of government debt, and facilitate the development of a regional
stock exchange. it would enable the development of new means of paymenis for the poor.
3. Benefits and target popuiation:
A well designed and implemented set of national and regional payments systems should result
in tangible benefits to a wide range of stakeholders: governments, financial institutions,
enternprnkP.Q and thp ranid1v increasing nlirnhr of neonle uswing hbnik qervires, inbiidinr thronugh
the pilot e-money scheme, the poor. These would accrue to:
:   fyGnovemr.mr.nts, by reducing potential firaud, tax evasion, the cost of p-e.nt of sal-rms,
and the cost of maintaining excess liquidity.
*   Financial institutions, by improving the quality of their services, widening their
customer base, reducing processing and liquidity costs, and lowering risks.
*   Firms, by improving and accelerating financial flows and reducing risks, delays, and
costs.
*Bank clients, by providing them with better and more convenient banking services.
* Non- bank clients. by nroviding them with a means of practical and secure payment
and facilitating access to vital services, such as electricity and water, that require
promp,t pa, ..% rn Nim nt.
1e pIrJect WUUIU IIIpErUVv tlh qUia1lLy VI P4YI1ULL bUIVlBUb, ILUUM,11r, %UbLIY IlVUiL lI
enterprises and bank clients, speeding up the circulation of funds, and increasing the efficiency
of funds transfers. it would provide appropriate tools to financiai institutions to enhance the
monitoring of their treasury and cash management and mitigate credit and liquidity risks. It
would contribute to a deepening of the financial sector by enlarging its customer base. It
would facilitate the development of government debt markets. It would reduce transaction
costs and improve the environment for private sector development. It would establish the
conditions for an expansion of regional securities trading. Finally, it would facilitate regional
economic integration.
- 12 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. The project would be implemented over a four year period. The pace
of implementation will be flexible and progressive and take account of the degree of
development and preparedness of the financial sector and financial institutions in each
member country. A statistically valid baseline survey of beneficiaries experience and attitudes
would be conducted at the begimning of the project, and follow-up surveys would be carried
out when svstems are in place and operating to provide a basis for assessing both qualitative
and quantitative improvements.
Implementing agencies. Project implementation would be coordinated by a project
ml-anagemei-nt unit u-nder the Uvera;i responsibility of BEAC. Staff from existing departmelLts as
well as from commercial banks would be assigned to the special unit for the duration of the
project (see Annex 2). The unit would receive assistance from suitably experienced and
qualified consultants. Commercial banks have been very closely associated in the design of
the project anid would participate actively in its implementation. They would be responsible
for the installation of facilities required to make the systems work within their own institutions.
Monitoring and coordination. A Regional Steering Committee, with executive powers under
BEAC chairmanship, would monitor the implementation. It would review progress and make
decisions as appronriate during prniect implementation. It wo,uld meet at least on a niiarterlv
basis and report to BEAC's Governor. The Ministers of Finance of the six countries concerned
would rvie,- rog.e-si h context of rglrmeisofthe -...... mteial Coun.cil (Conseil
Minist6riel).
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements. A Financial Management
Speciaiist has analyzed BEAC management and accounting systems and has made specific
recommendations. (See Annex 6.A).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
During the identification mission, several individual projects in different countries in the sub
region were identified. Support for these initiatives was reiected. It was clear that technical,
financial and human resources were very limited in the region and that a country by country
annranr.h might lead to lenothv dpelasv high rcots nnd in somp cases, inardPmeate desion that
would raise obstacles to further regional integration and interoperability of national payment
c,r+tv  fl.n. IDeto lov volumes and the exi-ence of a rtonetor; union *n C'AEATTI n
integrated regional approach to improving payment systems is more effective and
cost-eiciIerILt L-han a couiLtr-y appr[oacl. IL woulu also [renIU-rce [egIOn  iutegRdLUiU. I neiio-re
it was decided to focus the proposed operation on the regional level instead of preparing
individuai country projects.
The BEAC project unit has already conducted a survey of payment system reforms in a few
countries (Tunisia, the WAEMU zone in West Africa, and South Africa) which has provided
excellent background and ideas for designing its own project and approach.
- 13 -



2. Maior related proiertq financed hv the Bank and/or other development agencies (colnpleted,
ongoing and planned).
The Bank has been closely involved in the restructuring of the financial sector in the CAEMU
region. In Cameroon, it supported an in-depth restructuring of commercial banks, as well as
the regulation and development of microfmance, the restructuring of insurance companies,
and social security reform. This has been done through two adjustment credits (SAC II and
SAC III) and two technical assistance projects (Cr 2882 CM and Cr. 3359 CM). In CAR, the
Bank has supported the restructuring/privatization of the two largest commercial banks
(representing close to 90% of the market). In Congo, the Bank is currently supporting the
restrLucturing/ privatizatinn of three banks, CAIC, UCB and BIDC.
The reform of the payments system would be an important adjunct to these other actions.
Indeed, as noted earlier, the weaknesses in the payment system are a retarding factor in the
development of these financial institutions.
Two recent AIDS proiects (Cameroon and Centrl Afnica Republic) would clearly benefit
from the improvement in the payment system, as this would facilitate the movement of funds
to sm.all communities.
In additi on the project wouldcr.;-     toIVUF L ua  fnrc-al  ermt,leaditon arnd Frua;
iLu aUUILIUI L1L jULAL WUUIUILUL          LU I1141 1Lutar1LiI~ 1i1Ii1I~iL UI1iH  u
development by facilitating rapid transfers of funds at lower costs.
Indirectly, the project supports ongoing PSD and financial sector work throughout the region
by lowering transaction costs and thereby increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of
both the financial and private sectors. It is consistent with the Bank's regional financial sector
strategy of supporting regional initiatives to attain critical mass in small financial sectors.
Finally, it supports the regional assistance strategy currently under development by fostering
regional integration and intra-regional trade.
I  I                      I    Latest SuDervision
sector issue         |         Project        |e(PSR) Ratings          l
i                   ~~~~~~~(Bank-financed priect8sontyl .]..........
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                            I Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Second Structural Adjustment   S            S
Credit (SAC 11) (P039856)
Third Structural Adjustment    U            U
Credit (SAC 111) (Po54443)     U
Privatization and Private Sector  S   |     S
|Technical Assistance Project   S     l
(Cr. 2882) (P041553)
Public/Private Partnership for  S           U
Growth and Poverty Re.
_Project (Cr 3359) (P065927)
Other development agencies      I 
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory). S (Satisfactoryv) U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Hiahlv Unsatisfactorvy
-14 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the nrniect design:
The first lesson drawn from experience is that the development and implementation of a
payment system is a complex process requirng the active involvement of all stakeholders. A
regional steering committee and national monitoring committees representing all stakeholders
have been set up-for the design of the project and stakeholders have been closely involved, in
all the phases of project preparation. These committees will continue to play a key role
throughout project implementation
The second lesson is that proper coordination in implementing individual components is
essential. Some overlapping in the developmrnnt and implem.entation phases of eanh
component will be carefully managed in order to save time. This is the reason why project
manage...er.t is a key component - f the p-Jet..
I e tniru lesson is that IL is essentiaI LU prUViUe a souna iegai iramework anu 1o ueveiop anu
enforce suitable standards covering all critical aspects of the payment system operation. The
proposed CEMAC legislation regarding the payment system will be caretully reviewed as a
prerequisite for project success. Standards would be developed in close consultation with
stakeholders, and will be enforced by BEAC. Rules and procedures will be developed under
the project.
The fourth lesson is that investment and changes in technology and organization within each
financial institution have to be identified in advance and carefully scheduled and budgeted.
Most banks have set un internally navment reform nroiect teams to deal with these issues.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownershin:
The proposed project is the result of a direct, request from BEAC's Governor to Vice-
President Madavo. BEAC is a key player in the CAEMU zone in promoting financial sector
and fiscal stability and economic reform, and has an explicit mandate to maintain an efficient
payment system in the sub-region. BEAC established a project team to work with the Bank
and the consultants who helped prepare the project. It set up Regional Steering Committee
("Conite regional de suivi").
Meetings of the steering committee were convened at regular intervals, and attendance by
stakeholder representatives has consistently been at a high level of responsibility. The
Ministerial Council, comprised of the Ministers of Finance from all member states, which
overseestO  . Ar, bas been infor.edof  p  - p ton. 'me Council - fully  -tted to
A. ,Os,  Jt,`I,..  110  LPA,I fhJflt.  W.J  J1J%t  JI.%jJaULaLbU1  AUll  Y...JUXAtkLL la iIU1" tAIUIIL.,A  i
the project, and supports its speedy implementation. Several visits and inquiries have been
condUuLLCU by BEACX- aIIU Lthe E)WiMk LU asUcerL I ain- views 01 iruiicrLai Ui±HKan iuOmpaflies
towards the project. Their response to the proposed project has been very positive. In fact,
they are eager to see it implemented quickly.
- 15 -



Participatory approach
The BEAC has agreed, with the full support of the World Bank team, to associate very closely
all stakeholders concerned by the reform in the design and implementation of the new
system's architecture. They include: BEAC's officials, representatives of the six Ministries of
Finance, staff of Telecom Regulatory Authorities, CEOs and managers of all commercial
banks, bankers associations, etc.
Each country has set up a National Monitoring Committee, "Comite National de Suivi",
chaired by the National Director of BEAC with the objective to facilitate collection of
information and review of working documents and draft renorts by stakeholders in each
country.
During 2001, three (full week) workshops were held. In Douala (March), the needs were
ientifedInLbeil      y,.hb.oddrcinan           opre,sohenw-stm were
IU ILL U. ILI J~ULIZVLIIIZ I1Viay), LUiV ULvuU UI1V LIUIlb WILL ~U11UMIJLVLL VI LUV, HUW byLFZII1
agreed upon. This was followed in September by a road show in each country carried out by
the project team and consultants. Finally, in Brazzavilie (iecember) tne detaliea arcnitecture
of the new payment infrastructure was validated by representatives of all commercial banks
and ministries of finance of the sub-region. Either the Govemor or the Deputy Governor of
BEAC were chairing the closing sessions of each workshop. Through this process, the
payment reform's objectives, the strategy, the conceptual and technical design, the legal
framework and technology issues were discussed in depth with more than 500 representatives
and experts from all stakeholders concerned in the sub region. Senior experts from other
Central Banks (Tunisia, France, BCEAO) were actively participating in the workshops and
chaired specific sessions; experts from the World Bank were acting as moderators of the
worishops; a senior ronsii1tqnt waS hired hy the IMF and posted fill time pn Yaounde to
accompany the process.
The Regional Steering Committee, chaired by BEAC's Govemor, met in June 2001 and in
January 20V0 2IU andt h icial',iy ValiUdaLtU Llt prJsUUL Uesigii and the impiumeltalion plan
agreed by all participants during the last seminar in Brazzaville.
A comprehensive document, "Documentation de base de la Reforme des Systemes de
Paiement et de Reglement de la zone CEMAC", presenting a user requirement analysis and a
detailed description of each project component has been issued and disseminated to all
participants and institutions concerned in the sub-region.
Such a large participatory approach is a first and has been able to bring about appropriation
by all stakeholders. It has raised a lot of interest and may he renlicated soon in pavment
reform processes underway in other countries. For instance, Algeria, Iran, and Armenia that
have shoI,mx interest in thi participatory approach.
- 16 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this proiect:
The Bank has supported the reform of the financial sector in five of the six countries
concerned, through adjustment lending, technical assistance and investment iending. The
Bank has been instrumental in mobilizing funds for project preparation. A Bank payment
system specialist has visited key stakeholders and, drawing lessons from experience around
the world, has provided critical input to help build a consensus on project approach, teclnical
and institutional issues.
Developing and maintaining a partnership with BEAC is paramount for the Bank's
macroeconomic and financial sector work in the Rix member countries This nroiect would
build on the ongoing dialogue and help BEAC build a modern payment system and develop
new basic bankinAng services with thle support of the banking commr- unimt  in the aea.
Te   iso1U  an d.11  1U1LMILL puLA11ic gUUUd aspec iII Lthe UUvULpmenLt oUi a well IUn.IcLiOnU11ng paymVentbs
system further justifying the Bank's participation. In addition, Bank involvement is mainly in
technical assistance, mobilization of expertise and transfer of Knowiedge. Bank involvement
will also contribute to bringing together partners with different (although complementary)
short and long term objectives and ensure that they work together in building a sustainable
project. For instance, some commercial banks have started developing their own card
systems and have had great difficulty in coordinating among themselves. This could lead to
costly incompatibilities, at the national and even more at the regional level. Bank presence
will ensure a standardized approach among institutions and between countries.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
i. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
) Other (specify)
Benefits from a modern payment system include:
i) financial sector development, including the development of new financial instruments,
products -n markrets, inc.-eaed com.petition am.. ia.i-t.intu.tions, e.rsrvcan
lower transaction costs to customers;
ii) improved efficiency in cash management, reduction of float, and a sharp decrease in delays
for participating banks and their clients; funds which are currently tied up in lengthy ciearing
and settlement processes will be available for more productive uses; and
iii) the reduction of risk exposure for the banking community because of the real-time gross
settlement process.
- 17 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Anunex 4)
Investment and recurrent cost estimates for the project reflect the professional judgment oI
experienced payment system design practitioners and are consistent with costs incurred in
establishing similar systems in other countries.
The banking community has been closely involved in the preparation of the project. Cost
estimates will be reviewed carefully by the steering and national monitoring committees on a
continuous basis. Annual fees levied on participating institutions are expected to amortize a
large share of common investment costs over a period of about ten years.
Fiscal lmpact:
None.
3. Technical:
The technical architecture and functional specifications of the proposed payment system have
been fully developed in documents prepared by the consultants at the end of the third
workshop. They are compatible with the present development of information technology in
the hankinq svRtem and with the ten RTS core nrincinals on navment svstems.
A               ttellte-based tlom.iw tirnc system  has b en etah1ed  tn lnitn BEFACr
headquarters with its national and local branches. It is expected that this system will be used,
unUer contLiacLual conditiuons WIc1 11have LU Ube areed uponi U   II, in LV1JU1iBAIUH WILLI corLuillercial
banks' own telecommunication equipment.  There will be no new landlines drawn. Only
satellite and existing land facilities will be used.
The changes in legal specifications necessary to implement the reform are being defined in
close coordination with the banking community and relevant stakeholders. A committee
composed of BEAC and commercial bank lawyers is at work.
Security and privacy of information are key concerns that will be consistently addressed
during proiect implementation.
4. Institutional:
BEAC will be responsible for coordinating physical implementation of the payments system.
It is expected that BEAC will operate directly the settlement in Central bank money whereas
shared solutions with commercial banks or private service providers could be found for other
components such as the low value bulk payment netting, the card and the telecommunication
componentS.
4.2 Project management:



See Annex 2 for a detailed description of the project management structure
4.3 Procurement issues:
See Annex 6
4.4 Financial managemen.t issues:
See Annex 6
Other issues:
The project will have an impact on existing institutions. Commercial banks will have to adapt
to new ways of doing business. For instance, real time settlement of large volume transactions
will require changes in liquidity management and treasurers will need to follow their position
on a continuous hasis= In addition; banks will need to rercganize to participate in the clenrinr
system including maintaining a presence in the office during national holidays when these are
not I0g^-J,ad n a' ti. l%5fl  - Ieve!.  EA,C A.a IO-l± will hae. LIJito  LIUJ'..j changes. Its
agencies, which currently conduct clearing operations on a daily basis, will loose this
function. hley w-ill have o bUe reoiga1iizeu adu possibly downsizeu. BErAC-. Will neeU tu
introduce new intra day facilities to assist banks that have a temporary liquidity shortage.
Botn, commercial banks ana bEAC have been fully sensitized to these issues during tte
workshops and are preparing to implement the needed changes.
5. Environmental:                EnvironTental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP nrenaration (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No significant issue.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators refiect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not aDolicable.
6. Social:
6.i Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project s sociai
development outcomes.
By improving the development of basic financial services , the project would have an indirect
impact on poverty alleviation. The increased security in the payments system would
encourage a large number of people to open bank accounts and utilize non-cash transactions,



thereby reducing risks related to the need to keep significant amounts of cash in hand. It
would also provide easier access to basic banking services such as short-term consumer
credit.
Furthermore, the pilot project on e-money systems for small payments, if successful, would
open up large opportunities for the poor to benefit from the satisfaction of basic needs such as
electricity and water. Indeed, the extension of services to this category of population by
utilities companies is hampered by the high cost of payment collection and of cuts in services
due to non navment of bills. In addition. the develonment of the card business would allow
banks to open accounts to a larger proportion of the low income population, by issuing cards
rnithpr than  heciIe thils ensuring ncainst A7-rmira.inO nntd limiting the inncidenc of bad
checks.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Thi- nrniwet iurn Awi,p1rnrPpA in A'nep r-neiAtt~irmn xxritl, mniarr etairphMAiPrce Ac ; Ua~taA
...- project  - developed in close ch               J    .          A   indicated
earlier the design of the project was made at three regional workshops bringing together all
The third workshop held in December 2001 in Brazzaville validated the proposed
architecture. Tne proposais were again validated by the General Managers of commerciai
banks from the six countries at a meeting held on January 8, 2002 in Yaounde and chaired by
the Governor of BEAC. The Regional Steering Committee and the National Monitoring
Committees composed of major stakeholders will closely monitor project implementation.
Information is distributed regularly to senior management of all banks in order to ensure that
the large consensus reached at the end of the preparatory phase regarding the content,
implementation plan and project budget is maintained.
U.3 riUW does the project involve co-.Usu: a4i1Is or collkaoLa'iLl With INGOs Ut otht ivil socieiy
organizations?
Througlh the participatory approach described above.
6.4 Whlat institutional arranmgeetfts have been provided to ensure thi e project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project management unit reports to BEAC, which in turn provides regular progress
updates to the CEMAC Ministerial Council. Bank and IMF staff will regularly assess
progress and the economic and social impact of the project.
6.5 Howv w.Ai1 thlep nrniopf rnnitor perforrnance- i terr,s ofcsoca! A,oIrnrnnt -outco,..e9
This is the responsibility of the project management unit which will provide regular reports to
BEAC. It will follow the log frame during project implementation and refer as well to the key
performance indicators.



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of thie following safeguard policies apply to the projet?
Policy                                  Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)  1J Yes W No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                U Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                         1       ( Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   U (9 Yes * No
|  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               (_ Yes * No
Indignnous Popnles AD 4.2)                          1       (9)vYes a Vo
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       (9Yes * No
Safery of uams Our 4.37, BP 4.37)                            9 Yes W No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     ( Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicabie.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The nroiect obiective is to install infrastructure which is technically and financially
sustainable.  Technicians required to operate and maintain the systems would receive
on-t2ejobtraininr. .fniv secaizd cinsltanmta a xr.dsyter.s suples   Eahpari,ptn
institution would ensure that its staff is fully conversant with the new technologies and
m.etLioUs. To this CLIet raive t.-masIainingir, co-lunuCu uInI LIVe t JIUJVt will UV proIUViU  tU
BEAC and commercial bank staff. This training will cover general aspects of the operations
of the new payment system as well as more technicai aspects, such as operating the RTGS
system or liquidity management.
Operating costs of the new systems would be recovered from participating institutions, which
would in turn charge their clients for the services. Overall cost of the new system are expected
to be lower than those of the existing payment systems.
- 21 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
'From Outputs   Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigatiori Measure
Irrum VulpUtIb Wu %VUUpGllVt
BEAC and the Ministerial Council are       N         The Regional Steering Committee and the
nIoL Iully coUriIIllLcVU LV incriaSdir. LUe         NialIUIlU MvoIILUIIItonng C-.UitLeLes Will il.LUUde
efficiency, security, and transparency of           representatives from Government and MOF
41-A ayne-+ Sys,o
Some countrv or institution may not be     N        Architecture design and implementation nian is
ready for implementing the new system                flexible and progressive, and does not depend
and delay imlementation                             Ion the adhesion of all institutions.
From Components to Outputs
Participating institutions do not feel     N         Financial institutions are keen on establishing a
adequately represented in the project                modem payments system, and are fully
decision-making process                             represented in the Regional Steering
Committee and national monitoring
I l              |committees. Senior management will be kept
informed on a regular basis.
|Systems operators have difficulties withI  M        |Vendors will be associated with on the job
new technology and methods                           training in the first year of operation.
I                                   I                |A specific regional card center will group and
develop skills in the six countries.- Training
I                                   I                lis provided under the project
Some banks delay investment needed to      M         Banks are fully aware of the cost effectiveness
make the system work                                 of investnent To be made
I0  1    A   -                      I      MI                        AI4,1     A-_ - __A
LJc.lia.'  n ,,uv *-v-  t  Llt. tU  t>J11 alalt, i   ,.aaaO   alt, a UrLecoviLncu Ul  t auLaLDtant.a Ul tit,
efficiently                                          new system for their bottom line.
[Overall Risk Rating               1       M                                                  |
Risk Rntina - H (Hinh RiskV S (SLihbtantial Riekl, M (MnMact Rick} NNAnliAnihIp- nr I nw Rickl
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Tix,O riss-c renuirp a enpcial atten1tion  Firct tlhe lack nf AdpndAahk1 tp1,obnnn o,xytamc in 1not
countries. This risk is greatly mitigated by the installation of the BEAC's VSAT network.
BEj2PAC, Ulu oUtaLIn all Ltle necessatry authLorizationbs IlUll LIth  siA UVVGLoUI11UIL.  evruldI
commercial banks have established their own communications systems, either through fixed
or mobile companies or through direct access to VSAT. Those who did not, wiii be able to
access BEAC's communications system. BEAC is fully aware that it may have to increase the
capacity of its VSAT network, particularly if it is also to be used for the regional stock
exchange. It is ready to do so.
- 22 -



The other riSk- resides with the dysffinctional iudiciarv system referred to in previous sections.
Both BEAC officials and the Cameroonian authorities (where over 90% of the cases
occ--ed) a        ,,ma, of the p,roe'm o.n.l hawp pitartpd dPc;imincg snlutions. r>mPrnnn will
take actions to ensure that seizure cannot occur without proper documents and to limit the
_- t:  .:_ _                  z _ 1 _ :_ _r) r.' A 4-  :   A1_:  ..o _ _s AslA
pUI1IIIVt; iiii VleiedU onI Lthe b4ILI. 1312,l%X Is WUIM1II% Vl 11.ILUULI1, III t11s uaLauuaIHI-IIL
agreements to be signed with the six member countries a clause providing some protection to
commerciai bank deposits. Tnese actions should reduce the judiciary risk.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1 EffPectivPnPeQ Cnndifinu
The credit will only become effective after:
(a) the Borrower has adopted: (i) the Manual of Procedures; (ii) a financial management
system; and (iii) a procurement plan for the first project year; all in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association;
(h) the Borrower has. emnloved a firm acceptable to the Association to be responsible for the
carrying out of Project audits; and
(c) the Borrower has appointed six key staff for the Project Inplementation Unit, including a
roUject mIanager, a per-buon rspuinailui 11 EB   a pJUonI rsonsJVIbLe 101 IBCS, a 1aWy%I, a
financial management specialist and a procurement specialist, under terms of reference,
quaiification and experience satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.)
H. Readiness for implementation
F0 I an Tli, Pnojnppr,ncyd, dip tin doiunpnte fnr the first vpnr's activitipe nre rmmnlptpe andi rpedv fnr tlae
start of project implementation.
M~ 1 b)~ Nont appicable
M 2 Th procuerner. docurents for t!:e first yar's actixr.ite  r o!-peea.dray.i  esato
project implementation.
M71 3 The Project hniplem-.etotin P!an h--- --pp---rai  and fond to be rPa1ioar. of sfactory
quality.
n A. Tbe following items are lacking andare discussed 1nder oan conditions (Section G):
-23-



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
L] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2. The followincg exceptions to Bank policie  ret r mmI'mended for apnnrnval The nroject compnies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Andrejy                           Gerard Byam     -                Emmianuel Mbi; Robert Calderisi
TeamkLeader                       Sector Manager/Di ttor           Country Director
-24-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
^RICA:.n B'^Cr Re.os     ismn,..t S,s'.em
Key Performance    | Data Collection Strategy,
Hirrhof Objectves I      Indl~iat       1       ..                 !&Ik   Aum.in
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:  Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Deepen financial sector  M2/GDP ratio in      BEAC annual reports and Macroeconomic stability
illip.Uve erIVV11UII1M.11L jul LtALdVlJ n er H.......IUtiiuil  s 'atidl  b4tlstlics.  Is mai-IL.;aIrIU Lil LtIhI
private sector         countries increases from                      CAEMU area.
development.           25/o in Luuu to 35/o in
2006.
Project Development    Outcome / Impact       Project reports:       (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:             Indicators:
Irnprove emiciency and  Large value Transactions BEAC's annual reports  Economic agents are
security of payments in  Settled in Real Time after                  increasingly confident
the CAEMU area.        three years.                                  that non-cash payments
Electronic Clearing                           l are secure and cost
System operational in the Baseline survey and  effective.
third year of the program. annual beneficiary
Beneficiaries are satisfied assessment.
with new system. Use of
non cash, instruments
increases hv 30 % after
the third year.
I  i5nif.^rnit rpditinrtion nf
delays in payment
clear1.ng aliu OVLLIV,,IUML LU
a maximum of three days
Dank to DanK ana seven
days client to client
Improvement in the value
for money in the delivery Beneficiary surveys
of payment services as
|perceived by the
beneficiaries (e.g: banks,
Ihouseholds, firms
Facilitate economic and
trade relations in the
sub-region
Develop the supply of  Within four years from  Survey                The economy in the six
UbasiicU LrIU  v ba,I'-n  'v LtIo I LaIL L  LAI, FpLVJect,           IC0u LLIIeS I,Iain 
a significant share of the  increase in the total                     even-keel.
lpopulaiion.           1numoer oI customem of
- 25-



|                [~~~~~deposit-takinglll
+n,e i      +.nn  Q n0/,. 
instiUtionS ftlom 30 -.8%,I ~
of the total population
rFaciliiaie implementation IBEAC has a real iime  iSurvey of BEAC   BEAC has computeLized
of monetary policy    Ivisibility on liquidity                      its internal structure to
position o0 ban'k.                           accompany tne payments
Liquidity of commercial                      system reform
banks has been
centralized.
Support the development The payment system   | Survey of securities  Will only come into play
of the financial markets  enables the settlement of Isettlement systems  lif the regional stock
securities transactions as                   exchange or the Douala
requiredr hv tfhe securnti                   stnrock .xcrhnnce are
settlement system                            established.
B:uild a              Io,rhlsv  t'L the endU of prJeVC;L, LIK; ReXview VI LIIhe systems
and consistent payment  implemented payment
system tnat complies   system is conform to ine
with international     core principles
standards              established by the BIS.
|Output from each     |Output Indicators:    |Project reports:      |(from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Well functioning large  Payment are made in real BEACs monthly progress BEAC and Council of
value payments system:  time (90 % ot        reports.                Ministers remain
transactions settled                          committed to increasing
within 30 minutes) and                        the efficiency, security,
.transactions volume                          and transparency of the
increases by 10 %                             payment system.
annually after the third
year of program.      l                      l                      l
Well flinntinnino' low  ITrqn-_ctinsn exchanged  I Annual survv, of  I___,tems oPrqtnrs b2ve 
value payments system: |among financial       participating banks    no difficulties with new
I                      I ns-i+i, i_ -nd clearing |                  |t.lnonie, nd   atl,nA  |
systems are fully
computeriZed alLLr-T ree l                   ll
I                      Iyears from start of
project.
|Well functioning      IBanks are satisfied with [Annual surveys of  I
inter-bank card system:  new system; two      participating banks
I                      |Inter-bank card centers                      I
operational after the
I second year of the                          I
program, thereafter,
I                      lan.n-min   i-nc-rease-zf-_ of   26           I



|volume of card
transactions
|Introduction of prepaid  I
card schemes for water or
electricitv for
low-income populations
Iin twon oniintri.:c nftpr
three years from thestart
IVAJ L11% L~ %JrLCULaL
Project Components I   FInputs: (budget for each  Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                      Outputs)
Global Project          See annex 3             BEAC's progress reports Regional Steering
Management             I                                                Committee continues to
include highly qualified
representatives from
participating institutions
I ni*o' va1iue npym.en.t
system
WLAW VdIUCi P4YlUU11L                                                   D4IlKb p[tUUru WILII
system                                                                  investment needed to
make the system work
Inter-bank card system                                                  BEAC is capable of
avoiding systemic
|defaults in the large value
payments system
IPayment Risk           I                       I                       IBanks manage their cash
Management Systems                                                      balances efficiently
ITel       e       com .                 ... unicati Ime  IBEIAC' reig11t.e cxictpm.s
facilities                                                              efficiently
T_ _-  _   _    __---_         _   _    _    _   I  _  _    _   _    _ "__     _    _   _    _
-27 -



MinexI2: L.etDULa-U rruJuut Liusliptiolr
AFRICA: BEAC Regional Payment System
The project aims at improving the efficiency and security of the payment system in the Central
African Economic and Monetary union. This will be achieved through establishing  and
installing an appropriate set of regional payment mechanisms to satisfy the evolving needs of all
market sectors - consumer, retail, industrial, commercial, financial and government, - for making
payments in a safe, sound, secure and timely manner with certainty and at an acceptable cost
More specifically, the main obiectives of the reform of the payment systems in the sub-region are
to: (i) strengthen the financial sector and its support to the economic development of the region;
(ii) facilitate economic and trade relations in the suh-region with a view to strengthening regional
integration; (iii) increase the availability of basic banking services to a more substantial
^r-nnrtin oif tfli "nnilatin" and4 in parrnlar tohe 1-o incon.e  -e..n-r.ts of +.h0 -nar-tl (;iv
increase the efficiency and safety of payment mechanisms available to governments, businesses
and .h'e general1 popualatlion bvy proi-mot n-g elULAIULonic ay.lien.L ins.rEu1ments ad elUUcironict exchan1ge
of transactions; (v) facilitate the implementation of  monetary policy; (vi) support the
development of the financial market and the swift and safe settiement of securities transactions
and, (vii) build a comprehensive and consistent payment system infrastructure that complies with
international standards especially those contained in the BIS CPSS Core Principles for
systemically important payment systems.
The sub-regional dimension is an essential element of this project. Economic development and
integration is suffering from the inadequacies of the current payment system. Looking beyond the
region's borders, the technical specifications of the CAEMU reform nroiect are closely
coordinated with those of the WAEMU region so that the linkage     between the two
infrastnrctures w.ill hpe easy to organize7w. ithout miajor additional investme.nts costs, should that be
appropriate.
OBJECTIVES:
(i) This reform will strengthen the financial sector by improving the safety of the payment
systems and increasing the speed of settlement; it wili provide the opportunity to increase retail
banking activity through the introduction of new fee based products and services based on
widespread and convenient electronic access to the banks.
(ii) This reform will have a positive impact on trading activities among merchants and companies
by reducing dependency on cash and thus avoiding risky and costly transportation of large
amounts of cash and providing fast, secure, easy and low cost payment instruments in each
countrv and in the whole uiih region In the medilum term, it will farilitate the reductinn of the
risk of fraud and criminal activities in connection with cash transportation. These improvements
vVill also sti-lufla.te the #,rtlher develope.enrt of the forr.aMl sectr.
kiii) lie reflorm1 Will increae thlle shl-alre of t1le p0pulation thlat alis acceSS to bDasic aniklg services
(payments, remittances and small credits), by extending the range of available payment
- 28 -



instruments. The objective is that within four years after project implementation more than 8% of
the population, (an aimost threefold increase compared to today's situation), will have developed
a regular client relationship with a deposit taking institution. A particular emphasis will be placed
on satisfying the needs of the low income population in conjunction with the development of
micro-finance institutions and of electronic money (value stored on smart cards for instance).
(iv) This reform will have a positive impact on governments, businesses, utilities companies,
pensions funds, and the general population day to day payment activity through the promotion of
electronic pavment instnrments and electronic clearing systems. In narticular, the costly and
manual process of using cash for payment of salaries, pensions, utilities services, etc., will be
replaced by elec-tronic processes.
(v) Comm.I11ercial daInk liquidies wIll tbe rnaLlialdiIeU il a single, 3.lL.er.t accoUI LL Ail '
books) thus facilitating intraday cash management by commercial bank treasurers as well as the
real time processing and accounting of iarge value transaciions, BEAC's managers, in cnarge of
monetary policy, will have an instant and overall view of the liquidity situation of the banking
system and a better capability of implementing an effective monetary policy in the sub region.
(vi) The new system's infrastructure has been designed in such a way as to permit a linkage with
financial markets, once established, and will provide opportunities for introducing delivery
versus payment (DvP) settlement mechanisms for both equity and government securities.
(vii) The comprehensive and consistent payment system infrastructure to be installed will comply
with internationn1 Qtqndqrdk ani in particuilar with the 5BIS CPSS Core Princinles in order to
provide the sub-region with an efficient, safe, and reliable system that will operate within a
.ntn,,t lani  ~   0A i,n,a n.rnnrl+a i-rAn  .annmrl  .'.nv -,n A -r.e 'T'h
robut -legal framexwork ard have ---orit tae-off be.t-enrs  I;iaio   dcs.TS
LUUaL i.~raL ILI AI±  VIM t UB.   II U Y~ iS4QJIJ.W9I"   UL  LI"U   S.Jit  ISS Y 51   . .... IIII5-UI  M LtA  I.
will contribute positively to the image of the financial sector in the sub-region and remove many
consiraints that mighT otherwise inhibit foreign investment.
PROJECT COMPONENTS:
The project has eight main components to be developed and installed either at the regional or
national level:
(i) a Global Project Management (GPM) component that will coordinate and implement the
reform process. The GPM is also responsible for nroviding stakeholders with all necessary
information, communication and training programs;
(ii) an Electronic Bulk Payment Clearing Systems (EBPCS), managing the exchange and
aclai-iig piuross of bu  paUyiiViiLb UtarIs.WLiVIl1b (11ncUU1i11 Lthe LLafLa iiiiaLi  of VA pape;
instruments into electronic data). Identical electronic clearing systems will be installed in each
country;
(iii) a Real Time Gross Settlement system (RTGS) enabling instant and final irrevocable
- 29 -



settlement of individual large value and other time critical transactions (cross-border and
monetary policy operations for instance), the settlement of the payment leg of securities
transactions, and the settlement of the multilateral balances of the clearing systems for bulk
transactions (EBPCS);
(iv) an Inter-Bank Card System (IBCS) served by a dedicated interconnected infrastructure; it
will also include a prepaid card system for the poor for the payment of their consumption of
water and electricity;
(v) a Payment Risk Management System (PRMS) collecting all information regarding
payment ILIclidLr,tUL fLo inUiviUuals anud commbaue, enablirg a better co  -1
customers' operations, and providing access to critical information to credit institutions and
banks;
(vi) a Telecommunication infrastructure (TELECOM) in particular at the sub-regional level,
in order to ensure high-quality, low-cost transfers of data and payment transactions among BEAC
offices and all financial institutions locations (branches and head offices), and implement
standards and norms to facilitate interoperability of all payment systems;
(vii) a Legal framework (LEGAL) component to provide a robust legal basis for payments
processing, clearing and settlement covering the rights and obligations of counterparties and
interm.ediairies 2t all steps n the transanction flow including the mAthtnd for resnlving disnutes
and claims;
(viii) a Training Program (TRAIN) will be aimed at BEAC and commercial bank operators.
Some traiftig Wlil bU SpeUiLMI LU LlWC Use 01t hL UI zJ3, LDr'_l ajiu lD% laiil will uC lUU V U
on the more generally issue of cash and liquidity management, etc..
Global Functional Architecture
The individual system components will be integrated to create an efficient and comprehensive
alobal (sub-reaional) architecture that ensures technical and legal consistency. This architecture
is represented in the schematic diagram below. Three different layers of infrastructures are
ide-ntified in the nrchitentiire
- t+he comn-mercial ban'- ' inA`siuc-ure,
- the inter-bank's infrastructure,
- ihe Central Bank's infrastructure,



Giooal runctionai Arciltecture                              ]
Ban  m ----- -_A-FLKu                Wdity.securities
In(er bank infawtructures
PRIS (Risk)          IEBPCSI IBCS
___ -  | |  ClearmgCards
FraudandA__        I    h. c  ',. -.:.JI          issuinu.ac$uisition
Nloney Launderin2                 o |ds otheS |     risks management
i           ---  -~~i I  -_                     _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ ---I-I- :-  -- ---- -- [   -- --  - -   -
Commercial Bank i-frtastintrF  F   7    Z                                   i
Brancb     !     Branch            Branch    I I    Branch
1  |   cqui&ition. con(lEO and authorizaion syslems
4-                     --__ ..., 
(._   Ciients           Clin                                   en
*   The nn-mre.rninl bnnks' infretiir,tiivrpe ic st the bott%M leve,pl nf the -ayirmp,t
pyramid. It supports inter-linking of clients, branches and head offices of the
UUIB.LI. T.he, Imp1jactL VI IUJeLV iIIvaliClmetaLlUil on thIIIn IIlLa0LIU%..,LULV Will UVjJC;iU Uln
the quality of the existing information system within each commercial bank as
well as on 'te coverage of the intemnal netWOrK connecting individual commercial
banks' branches with their Head Office. Although, it is difficult to evaluate the
work to be done to adapt the internal infrastructure of each commercial bank to
take maximum advantage of the new system, a decision has already been taken
that the associated commercial bank adjustment costs . will be financed by
individual banks and are thus not included in the project costs. The Global Project
Management team will coordinate the work to be done and assess continuously the
level of readiness of individual banks.
*   Inter-bank infrastructure covers three main fuinctions: the Electronic Bulk Pavment
Clearing, the Inter-Bank Card Services and the Payment Risk Management:
The Electronic Bulk Payments Clearing System      (EBPCS), processes
electronic bulk tLansactions generated by all low vaIue pa-ylmnent instrumnents
(checks, cards, credit orders, debit orders, etc). Identical systems (clones of one
another) will be installed in each country. Tnis implies that paper instruments
will be transformed by commercial banks into electronic data and "images"
prior to the submission into the exchange and clearing process.
The Inter Bank Card System (IBCS) includes one Inter-bank Card Group
- 31 -



(IBCG) in charge of defining and overseeing inter-bank cooperation and rules
in thli field. The tnrcrt iQ that f'.arlh cnmmenrcial bank will determine. during
implementation of the project, how its own card operations will be managed:
eith,er vvith its ow"n equipmer.t or t.-rou'2. ar. ante1-Ban1r Card CP-ntapr (iCC'.
The objective is to install one IBCC in each country. However, depending on
the cosL effectivelV-Ss cU1nstdaints L r1atilg LU Lo UhVeUdvelo1r.itL VI c.-aU dbaseU
business, the possibility that one IBCC will be used to serve banks operating in
more than one country is a distinct outcome and remains an open issue.
The project has included the development of a Payment Risk Management
System (PRMS) that will store information regarding rejection of payments
due to lack of funds in the clients account; The PRMS will store information
on indelicate clients and will provide corresponding information to banks and
merchants and will enable them to avoid acceptance of payment instruments
(checks, cards) that might not be honored.
T.h.e project has not, at this stage, included any specific fiunction dea1iing with
anti money laundering mechanism as no reliable method has been defined yet
t.he inrterr11ationadl IVVeI for pday111I n,L syystemS. Iu0w-vVI, in LIth. fuLure, it 1.
expected that a database will store information on suspicious transactions
regarding specific clients that could be generated from tne use of robust proven
automatic screening processes.
*   Central Bank's infrastructure: the main component is the Real Time Gross
Settlement System (RTGS) that is run by the Central Bank: ultimately, all
transactions between banks and financial institutions are settled through this
system that guaranty that the transfer of value between accounts held in central
bank books is final. As indicated earlier, the RTGS processes in real time
individually large value and other time sensitive transactions, arising from central
bank, money market; financial markets and large value customers' onerations.
,M.e DWT AIC!ill be. the ImS'"at.leLL toJ Osettle thef netl bai.ncsof L a sytems (in
particular the six national Electronic Bulk Payment Clearing Systems) in a fully
reliabie r[War.1ner.l l UoUIU[ Lt UUIUIC ,-de LLL bsLL1MLeeI,LL of LI4bAnIU U L Latte
regional level and for cost optimization due to a rather low volume of transactions
to be settled on average in a day, only one RTGS system will be installed in
Yaounde, at the Headquarters of the BEAC.
The Central Bank will also operate and manage the main VSAT system linking
BEAC offices, commercial banks headquarters, which could be extended to
commercial banks branches.
- 32 -



DESCRIPTION OF INDIVIDUAL COMPONENTS:
Components' design is based on the work carried out from the beginning of the participatory
approach pTocess Sta-ILVed III VIC.IWI M hVVI. ,ll UsVi spcifLaoLlUl, llhave UVlIl UldLsuseU ill UdLail Uy
participants in the three workshops and formerly approved by the Regional Steering Committee
on January 08, 2002, enlarged to include the general managers of ail the banks from tne six
CEMAC countries.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$5.00 million
Global Project Management (GPM): US$5.0 Million
(IDA US$3.1 M: BEAC US$1-8 M. commercial banks UJS$O I M)
The project.t managenmnt system has to cover twno main finctions: (i) a monitorilng finction
that ensures that the consensus obtained during the project definition phase, regarding project
useI reqUllrlemnts aullaU aItlllLFbLLUJL UVIlrll, l 1IallILdIlllU allViIr all bLaUbUVIbUbl, kIiJ An
executive function that coordinates the concrete and synchronized implementation of all
components of tne project.
Monitoring function
This function is accomplished through:
- a "Regional Steering Committee" (RSC), chaired by the Deputy-Governor and
composed of representatives of each National Monitoring Council representing Ministries
of Finance, Telecommunication Regulatory Authorities, National Direction of BEAC,
Bankprs Asscations and Federation individul commercial banks etc. It iq iin f-harge Of
ensuring that the project will be implemented according to the objectives, strategy,
b-At-,o Achedule, fn 4"iunctiona! scifatr.in ani uear  .u*emr.ts ,etorrn drrA.nr ti-jo
definition phase. It provides full political support to help the project team solve political
or strategic issues atL L.hIe reginl levVel. It needsU to Uiscuss and appl-rOve UpLULL prOg-esS
reports at least once every seme'ster. If necessary, an RSC meeting can be held to solve an
urgent question raised by BEAC's Govemor or any National Monitoring Councii. ine
RSC is already in existence.
six "National Monitoring Committees" (NMCs), installed in each country. NMCs are
chaired by the corresponding national Director of BEAC and composed of representative
of commercial banks, Ministries of finance, Telecommunication Regulatory Authorities,
representatives of industry, merchant and consumers associations, etc.. They are in charge
of reviewing on a auarterly basis, proiect progress reports and providing comments and
advice to the project management unit and to the RSC. NMCs will assist the project
mannagment init in farilitntingy thie formulntion of eslutions tro qnupestionn rnised st the
national level and in particular all issues regarding cooperation among stakeholders.
NTh%CC, are '.-eady, in n,,exitence asnd opelrational.
- 33 -



Executive function
a "Project Management Unit" (PMU) will be responsible for the execution of the
Project and will assume responsibilities as follows: components implementation, budget
and finance, procurement, human resources, training, reporting, planning, communication,
coordination, supervision of suppliers, etc.
A Proiect Director ( PD), a full time executive staff of BEAC, will chair the PMU .
Thp. nrfitjt mtnaprment unit will hp. comnnn-ed rof I10 filll time staff:
- four Compone,~nt fr.-ct Leaer (C'PTL)T-A, each bein  in a cha of a senac-i.
IV  JiCJiLP'* A LVJ%.Vl Ljt' LaU4   \t~k  -, t.a.4U  VV-.r,5tn%lfU5  J  OFJVVUAL   o,t%k
Electronic Bulk Payment Clearing Systems (EBPCS), Inter-Bank Card System
(IBCS), Meal I ime Gross Settlement s ystem (  U3), adu Paymlent RiSK iaiulgement
System (PRMS),
- one Theme Leader (TL) in charge of the coordination of the implementation of legal
framework reforms (LEGAL) necessary for the good functioning of the new payment
infrastructure. These include modifying existing regional legislation/regulation,
implementing new ones, drafting conventions, etc ...
- two Specialists: a Procurement Specialist (PS), in charge of implementing the
procurement rules to be applied in World Bank's projects, a Financial Management
Specialist (FMS), in charge of all financial and accounting procedures to be applied in
World Bank's projects,
- two assistants to perfnrm adminintrative finctions.
- BEAC may decide to h        igh level telecom specialist or to outsource the
management of its teleconmmunications network. This decision will come within the
first year oVI f-Le pIroUjct. il Lilt iIneanILI1IiU, LcICUILL LVllISUIl.1lL Will daistL WILuI LhU
development of the telecommunications component.
Members of the project management unit will be appointed full time to the project and
will be either permanent staff of BEAC (3 CPLs - EBPCS, RTGS, PRMS - the Legal
Theme Leader, the PS and FMS, and the two assistants), seconded from financial
institutions (CPL for IBCS), or specialists hired specifically for the duration of the project
or component implementation (Telecom Theme Leader).
Consultant sunnort: in order to assist the PMU. consultants will be hired as follows:
co nasr e Internatirnal expyert wxrith the   r1ino rnf -r%-nAiu-tiincr l,ra. annri rnmrilpv
projects will be hired for the duration of project's implementation to assist the Project
DJirector,
- 34 -



- short-term consultants will assist project team members if necessary to carry out specific
difficult tasks.
So far, only the Project Director is in place. In addition, BEAC has provided, on an as
required basis, officers to deal with procurement and disbursement issues, as well as
lawyers and staff dealing with RTGS and EBPCS.
BEAC is working on the detachment of the CPTs for RTGS and EBPCS as well as on an
Assistant. It has contacted commercial banks for the CPL for IBCS. As a condition of
"rorr,at affortixronoes tA.e (  s fnr the Electro niic lIr Parmn0nte C'le.s;rnn Sytrctm. nd for
the Inter Bank Card System, the Theme Leader for legal component, the Financial
Manage,,ler,t Specialist dIU LtIh P.ocuren^,er,tL 3SpcI1L lIUbL ULb iIl pIMAc.
Project team in each participant institution:
Each financial institution (mostly commercial banks) involved in the project will
constitute its own internal "Payment Reform Project Team" to carry out the tasks required
prior to and during the implementation of the components. This team will have to take
care in particular of the revision of internal administrative procedures and the upgrading
of internal information systems and networks of each institution. Such teams are already
in place within several commercial banks.
Regular meetings and exchange of information will ensure the coordination of the work
rnrried niut at the Proiert level and in ecrh financial inqtitiition
T          4.'ormation and communication:
Tne preparatory phase has demonstrated the interest oI maintaining ciose working relaiions
among all stakeholders. Maintaining a great motivation and cooperation among all actors
concerned   is  a      key   factor  for  project  implementation  success.  An
information/sensitization/communications campaign will be organized, including inter-alia,
four to five workshops during the implementation period, similar to those organized during
project preparation.
Cost estimates:
a) Cost of BEAC's staff will be covered directly by BEAC: it amounts to annroximately
CFAF 1.3 billion for the permanent staff of the project team.
b) Each stakeholder (BEAC, Co.mmPercial Banrks, Professional assoiation, Ministries,
etc... ) will bear the cost of the time spent by its personnel in working groups and
bU11ir1aiD. 1No estin^i,a Lani UV, pLoLviUdU up fronIL.
c) Office space for the PMU will be rented and financed under the Project. Office space
r ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~     -_ -_  -  _ ^n  *  r   .   I r-   -  -  - .- - - s -  1  _ -  -   A
necessary for a team oI abouI 2-0 persons will oe rented ior the duration oI the project (4
years). Cost has been estimated at CFAF 100 Million.
d) Office equipment: all core members of the PM-L will be equipped with portable



computers; a local network with a common server will be installed in the office to ensure
swift communication among team members. They will share a fax, internet links and
printing and copying equipment. Cost has been estimated at CFAF 60 Million.
e) Seminars and meetings (travel, hotel accommodation and per diem) are estimated at
CFAF 200 Million.
f) Compensation cost for the Theme Leader of the ICBS component recruited from the
kanlrino i,nmmilinitv k Petimated nt CFAF 200 Million (for a two year neriod after which
teams from IBGC and IBCC will take over).
g). ConuLallLa. a O rIIUL  iFl .,1uL JonsuCL(41 wil ist thpr,et Director during the
whole project implementation. A consultant will assume the leadership of the telecom
component. Other sinr tenL Itocal or inter-mational consultaIL- wits  be hired- to: Lasi
component leaders or theme leaders during the course of project implementation. Need
and costs are summarized in the table below. It is estimated that the total cost of
consultants will be CFAF 1.500 Million (rounded).
Mission         J  Consultant   Duration      Costs (Million CFAF)
Project Director's Assistant  International  48 m    fees/house: 10 M* 48 = 480 M
(permanent)              travel 4*2,5         10 M
Component and Themes       lnternational  8bm =      S Mb 4           = .34 M
leaders' international assistance  (short term)  48m*  travel 18*2.5   = 45 M
:8 Luajvla
Component and Themes       Local          6*24 = 144*  4 M* 144        = 580 M
leaders' technical local
assistance                l              l          l                           l
* uatin f ite..aionl cnslta.tand local assistar-.ce .nzission could v.;regardung each componen.t, according
to needs.
h) communication and information: a specific plan will be designed at the beginning of
the project and implemeted by a cormpany hihred for this puirnnepo  It ic epynetied that this
company will be hired locally. The total cost of this action is estimated at CFAF 100
i) evaluation and monitoring of results: it is of major imporiance tnat resulits obtained
through the project implementation be measured and appraised regularly. A study will
define a methodology regarding the assessment of performance indicators. A baseline
study will be carried out to provide quantitative results before the project starts. This study
will be replicated one, three and five years after the installation of the systems is
completed. The method proposed will define how to assess the impact of new payment
systems on end- users (industry, SMEs and merchants, general population, government).
- 36 -



Item               |    Cost    I   BEAC     | Cial Banks |  IDA
r . - CFAF   Million CFA- A  Million    tFAFion
a) ProJectai                            ,.U      I 300  ; 3w
b) Working group costs                   NA        NA      NA
LI) PIVILJ o.lc" sac ldu operatior,al   :00                                  100
costs ( 3 years)
I) P1'M T MTf;-                          r kUAn
T,  . -  f  -f i - .. .  _  sr  ..  
e) Seininar and meetings                 200                                200
f) Theme Leader from commercial banks    200 |            |      100         100
Ie) Communication and information  I    100 I            I           I      100
h) Consultant assistance               1,500                               1,500
i) Evaluation and monitoring             100                                 100
Total                                  3, 560     1,300         100        2,160
$US (million rounded)                    5.0       1.8    |      0.1  |      3.1
In order to sunnort actinns described above that are key to nroiect success and of mnaior
importance to ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are taken into account, IDA
finanrcing w1Ai! cover 100 %/.~ osfthe local. and n ...e,tional 5ost , -eated by a   dsrb
in paragraphs c, d, e, f, g, h, and i. The management component accounts for 22% of the total
UosL U1 Lt'le p1rJeLc. 1UWWVV1, ZUUIlV 01 Lll V1U111U11iiI U pId,L.VU 1HLUM WUU llVs UrUII JU. IL LII 
various components (eg, the component project leaders, the theme leader, the consultant for
R T GS, etc..) T ney have been included here to ensure consistency oetween components.
Project Component 2 - US$4.20 million
Electronic Bulk Payment C!earing System (EBPCS)Q' US4. JQ r.il
(IDA US$2:8 M; BEAC US$0.8 M, Banks US$0.6 M)
The project includes the installation in each country of an Electronic Bulk Payments Clearing
System (EJsCS), tnat pr6cesses bulk transactions generated by all payment instruments
(checks, card, credit orders, debit orders, etc). This implies that paper instruments will be
transformed by commercial banks into electronic data and "images" before the clearing
process.
Objectives
The Electronic Bulk Payment Clearing System main objectives are as follows:
*   te%Ar, d.Iun1n i~nft, e-.h r%nrpipnt inttni'.rto rn ewlriy,* tn% fa,-il;tChtp Pf..nr1¶1inePrPl%%t 
I todvlpnncahky.e. isrne.si order to -..-ltate eco-n-mi de-1-1 ...en.t,
to rediuce risks and coRts of transactions hv -mhstitiitina other inqtnimentq to cash-
* to increase the safety of pavment instruments by the use of electronic data transfers
and exchanges among banks,



*   to cut dramaticaily the time required for cneck clearing and settlement Dooin
domestically and between CAEMU countries),
*   to reduce the time frame, risk of loss, and costs associated with handling and
transporting paper instruments,
*   to prepare and enabie te uevelopment anu automation of new electL1o11 pa-ymInenI
instruments and e-banking,
*   to reduce financial institutions need for liquidity in BEAC books, by centralizing their
settlement accounts at the national level (and tnus eliminating tne obligation to
maintain credit balances at each BEAC's branch office).
Principles
The main principles underlying the new clearing and settlement system are as follows:
   three tvyes of transactions are exchanged and processed in the EBPCS: within the
country, inter-regionally, and in the future, extra-regionally (international
transactions);
*   ani upperLd lirliLk, for iIItLance,L 0 VUV  IVII . C WA, will be Lfxed101 iiLuf v iuual
transactions to limit the amount of a debit position for a participant at the end of the
cleanrng cycle;
*   in the case of paper instruments like checks or letters of exchange (debit orders), a
digitized image is attached to the clearing data (MICR line standard) in order to
facilitate and accelerate control procedures by the payer's bank (e.g. verification of
signature and availability of funds);
*   all other electronic transactions, for instance credit orders, direct debit and cards
transactions (cash-withdrawal or card payments) are prepared in electronic files by
each narticinating hank and sent to the national EBPCS- as far as nossible on a
continuous flow;
*   these electronic files are presented electronically through a participant technical
ptLIa[Ll LUto  e nearest access poUIntL ofthe LBEAC's PiaylllerIIL IIVLWULr, kV.Iah ofUI ice or
national office);
*   access points transfer these files on a continuous basis to the EBPCS installed at the
national office of BEAC;
*   upon receipt of each file, an electronic calculation occurs in the EBPCS to determine
the net position of each participant, in order to apply the protection rules (limits of
debit position should be fixed for each participant); if a limit is reached, the file is



rejected and returned to the sender;
*   at the end of the clearing session, the EBPCS calculates net (credit or debit)
multilateral balances resulting from all realized transactions, and value dates are
anplied for transactions to be settled in the following davs with corresnonding net
balances;
*   each participant's treasurer is informed of the overall balance that results and must
ensure ELMhL, IL it iC case, t llam oJIIUUIIL LU UV diUtILdU LU iLL  settlen-.ent account
(at value date) will be covered when settlement will occur at a specific time of the
day;
*   in the case of insufficient funds for one participant, the entire settlement of the
clearing session is temporarily halted and the EBPCS' operator will invoke the rules
(coverage, injection of liquidity through, for instance, intra-day credit by the central
bank, guarantees, etc.) so that all debit balances are covered, and the entire batch can
be settled (debit and credit) upon a second presentation to the settlement system;
*   the settlement system informs the EBPCS' operator of the result and the latter will
inform all pnrticipants regarding the successfil comnpletion of the process;
A-* duin .h -hole -1chage seson -eciing ba-1- will .-ceive regula-.ly zll relevant
-  '.Ull-r, LLI%.  "A&WJflV .a.Il.15VO~O~Il, %.lA.,IV r  UOIIfO  YVIII LL,tAflVs L%,.5UIO.Iy  allj.IS,UI
files (electronic transactions, clearing data and images of checks, etc.) that will allow
tiemi t mtonior transactilonbs Mad daccep or reject tiiem in a swirL maniiier.
Note: the final settlement will be carried out in the RT1GS system wlich receives the
individual net multilateral balances (see component 3). However, if the EBPCS is operational
before the RTGS becomes functional, the settlement of each national ECS will be posted
directly by the national BEAC office in the participants' accounts held in each country using
BEAC's existing accounting system.
Participants
Financial institutions will be able to participate in the system in three different modes:
- a direct participant will have a settlement account with the RTGS (at the central bank),
e financuially respolelUiv for all LLai-nsacLLiorlIs sent,  eccived, arulud fIo ijuiuity
management, and will be connected on-line to the system through a participant's platform;
- an illlUCt palbIdcilant will have -a senflemlent alcAouInit and flull finlancial rVespons"iblity Out
will use the technical equipment of a direct participant (or a BEAC platform) for sending
and receiving financial transaction files processed by tne EBPCS;
- a sub-participant will have no settlement account nor technical equipment and will have
- 39-



access to the clearing system through a direct or indirect participant. The participant that
represents it takes full financial responsibility for all transactions on behalf of the
sub-participant.
The following Diagram represents the EBPCS functional architecture in a simnlified form:
Payee or Presenting                                Payor or Receiving
BANK                                            k  DA AM? 
t I I sw ~kfrv         . tR. -ndngxh).,..... 
u | ndethrelIp~'pnji' renawwtinnq 
BEAC's Access point of the payment
network (branch or main office)
infonation                                                   i
I BEAC National Office I          I         I
i                             | d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nfornarton   j
j^ ........ . | EB P C S                  ......... .. . ..  ..   .. ..... .........................   ............... 
.~~ ~    ~      ~    ~     ~    ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .. .... ..... .......
-  - -C ---
Imnortant Note: Paper instruments storage.
It has been agreed that the presenting bank (the bank of the payee for a check) will keep the
nriginal papir iirn timpentc aindi storp them for a npriodl of lf0 iiears ThI, AirBtal ,na"ae 
1-'* - 1---   Jr-r-      .    E'  __ 1 W              *7-      -  * *   *   '- 
electronic data archived by the EBPCS, will be considered as proof by agreement in the
lW.i.CULl1, Lla1,iL1UWLJL.9 ILAL LLVV1 V1 C   vi SUMINCIVII VI LaUU vI IVLuly LJaL ilaU
occurred before the digitalization (image and data). In any event, the payee bank will have to
produce the pnysical instrument (see legal framework) io respond To claims.
Cost and financing:
a) It is estimated that 6 months of an international consultant and 24 months of locally hired
experts will be required to assist the project team with the call for bids and system installation
in BEAC National Offices. (Costs are included in the budget of the PMU).
b) Development, installation, test and integration of a pilot EBPCS system (hardware and
so.fwarel in two countries, (licenqse us fnr siy Annmtinnal instAviatinn and one to hp iiuedi ns
back up): the vendor will be required to supply hardware and offer a full user licence of its
product .W   all sites; how eVeVL it-iL i11LstLa direcly A. IloJItLs siLte fLVI Ltesing, adiu a.A.
purposes and will train the project team that will later on install and test the other sites,
c) Development, installation, test and integration of participants' platform software for 12
- 40-



pilot participants in 2 pilot countries, (license use for all participants in the region); the
vendor will be required to offer a full user licence of its product for all sites, however it will
install directly 12 pilots sites (12 commercial banks located in the two test countries) for
testing and acceptance purposes. The project team will install and test all the other sites;
hardware will he provided hy each commercial bank in cnnfnrmity uwith vendor's technical
specification,
d) Supply a full EBCS participant software platform licence for all participants: the vendor will
inclueU iII iL. ofCf a lull User liUUlLc 01 its proIUUULcL1 1 fi I comlnnlrl1e l lUl  s,Lts, iI a rew
commercial bank is created, the licence will cover the new installation,
e) Close monitoring of EBPCS daily operations for a period of three months,
f) Maintenance of the EBPCS system(s), that will be identical in the six sites, for a period of five
years
g) A check digitalization platform will be installed in each of BEAC National Offices and will
serve for BEAC transactions as well as a back up for all narticipants,
h) cnmnmercial hr-nkq will insta!l check digritaliz7tinn Pn,iinmpnt in monqt if nnt all hrn-nchp--
tem               M   Cost         BEAC       Ciml Banksa     IDA
I M-  2 il an (1AIp  m rlinn (WAM     lh' Mflflnn:(?l4 ifMilarnCFAIh'
a)EBPCS six sites (software and      1 800          400                     1 400
hardware)                                      (hardware)
)EBPCS commercial banks platfonrn     200                       100          100
ksoftware and hardware)       l             l I               (50%)    I    (50%)
)maintenance                 ;       300           150                      150
(50%)                    (50%1.)
) equipment for check digitalization  650                      350          300
(scanners)
Trotal                               2,950          550         450         1,950
PUS (rillion rounded)         j       4.2           0.8         0.6           2.8
In order to support actions described above that are key to project success and of major
importance to ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are taken into account, IDA will
cover 100 % of the local cost and international costs generated by actions described in Para
a,b, c. d, and identified in the last right column.
RBAC will cover other cost- and in partimular the adaptation qnd upgrade of its internal
information system, and its own staff expenses.
Financial institutions participating in the EBPCS will finance 50 % of their own equipment
aru sofLwaiC, ar,u 10070 01 Elie evenLUal adaptUativonv oftheir*01 11 ow  1-100111oat11011 syste,r,.
- 41 -



The project will finance 50% of one standard platform (hardware and software) for each
participant, Each participant will finance 100% of any other platform it will require due to
drecntrali7zatinn nr fnr hbck-piin nipmsn .
The  Th b A of -o. hd-A-- .-A -s4-nof arenuirred by. r.nmnpr.ocl barQ ic
jIl, LA-111L15U) JL.C1  VI O'4I-It  AUIV J. - an. ... OJLVA% ~".   - hiI.-t  '.2) IfhlJIf  tn.
justified on the ground that the introduction of the new system provides benefits that extend
LO lHe who'le ecornorLIiy, welI beyond-h LIe coUI-t1erci-a4l baL'1s themIse'lve. Thle benefits accruin
to the economy as a whole on a national and regional bases render this investment of a
public good nature.
Volumes
An estimate of the number of transactions per origin is detailed as follows (in each year after the
operationalization of the system).
Year  | Checks   Credit orders | Direct debit | Letter of | Cards cash I Cards j  Total
Exchange  withdrawal  payments
S    I  7tU  UJUIJ  C .JVU  VVV  JS JVVVV UI VUIJ  *  J  _.2  ~'VVV~  j s JV  V  tJ I  V-V  |' 
3    1 2300000   8 700000  42200000     1 8500 r5 760000 3100000 162078000
I- I11        o  nnn2')     CA   AAA   ,,r, An  I ')AAA  i  1. IA.  qA   nl
ine oiiirng structure for Services provided Dy L*h DrIAk., w-hich is respUoIsibie 1or opUainlg
the EBPCS system(s), will vary depending on the mode of participation and the volume of
operations.  The fees for these services will be defined over the course of project
implementation.
Simulations carried out by the consultant at the time of the preparatory work show that, given
the anticipated volumes, the cost per operation should be acceptable to participants (from
CFA 0.15 to 0.50 per transaction according to volumes of transactions in each country) .
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.60 million
Real-Time Gross Settlement System (RT-GS): US$2.6 Million
(IDA US$2.2 M; BEAC US$0.3 M, banks and financial institutions US$0.1 M)
This component is the core system of the whole infrastructure: ultimately, all transactions among
banks and financial institutions should be settled through a system that guaranties that the
transfer of value is final. This guarantee is provided by the Central Bank that run the settlement
system and posts ,simultaneously in its books corresponding debit and credit transactions in the
settlement accounts of participants. The Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS) will
process in real time individual large value or critical transactions, corresponding to operations
initotirat  bya thp CrPint-rl Banlr molnnpu mnrVPt financial marrlpt and larape valuie n1iitnmFerQ'
operations. The RTGS, installed at the regional level, will provide the mechanism to settle the
net balances ofi th six naioa -- e..ni Bu-11 D_-__. Clarn  -Ssems in a fulyreial
11~L  u~.d'iL  LII LlL  A  .iauuiviai j.I,PLUi L J IUUL I a)iII1%,1L  s..-A%,aLL1r  U)yaL~l.  in  a  iuii1y  ICHLauLC
manner.
- 42 -



Ob u,ectinl:_+ves
I Ile ria-IrJ UUJULAVUS ul ULU 1gional 1R1TG  systeIII ar
*   to eliminate systemic risks associated with high value or critical operations in
accordance with BIS recommendations. The possible failure of a participant due to
lack of liquidity at the time of settlement is eliminated. Without RTGS, when
settlement occurs on a net basis at the end of the day, a failure of a participant may
compromise all operations presented that day,
*   to optimize the liquidity of participants who will have all their liquidities centralized
in a single settlement account.
*   to eliminate any reversal. of transaction: once settlerment is rr.ade, the transfer of value
is final and the beneficiary can dispose immediately of the funds,
*   to ensure the speed, finality and security of fund transfers throughout the sub-region,
*   to facilitate the development of financial markets in the sub-region by making the
settlement of the "cash" payment leg of securities transactions easier,
*   to decrease processing costs by installing one single system for the six countries.
Principles
The principles underlying the new clearing and settlement system are as follows:
*   eight main types of operation are processed in the RTGS: monetary policy operations,
rr.oney mnarkt,a i-ntprjb,onl rnarLnt r.custonmersre f-onoforo aoltve, a lirnit od fl 10 nillion
CFAF, customers' urgent transactions, payment of the "cash settlement" of securities
trari-sacLions, coverage o01 operations in 10f-rei-g1I Cu[,UI sI, ar.U 5CLUCLUILeL 01 HIL
balances of the bulk clearing systems; participants operations are credit orders; only
BEAC can generate debit transaction for specific operations;
*   each individual operation is processed on a gross basis and according to a FIFO rule:
if funds are available, the system debits the participant that has sent the operation and
credits the beneficiary; credits and debits are posted simultaneously in real time in
both participant's settlement accounts; if funds are not available, the operation is put
in a queue, until enough funds are available in the settlement account to be debited;
*   to optimize the settlement of critical transactions, the RTGS system includes several
nricritipc FTFC) nilp ic Snnlipd nnnrnrdinoa tr nrinritipcp RVAC trnncrnntinne h1vp thP
highest priority (1) and non urgent customers transactions the lowest (5), see table
-43-



Type of transaction      BESender                       nori
Monetary policy operations           B                                1
Mvroney mnarKet                     IIIwl
Net balances                        1 Net systems (ECS,...)           2   1
SecuritiUs UidI1 palylelt legL"g    j ;:UUCS SCLUMII;ICIIL bystelris  _____
Coverage of foreign currency         Participant or BEAC        4-
| bUbLUII;I a ULI5,1I1L U0PV1410II  rJ 41Lilu4IIL 0l DKat" 
Customer's non urgent operation     J Participant or BEAC             5
* in order to enable a smooth functioning of the RTGS, a liquidity mechanism, managed
by the BEAC will provide intra-day liquidity to commercial banks. This liquidity will
be fully collateralized and will be reimbursed at the end of the day by the participant;
*   in case of "gridlock",  where many transactions are blocked in the queuing
mechanism, due to the FIFO and gross settlement rules, and lack of liquidity in one or
several participants' accounts, a resolution mechanism will enable to check how to
settle simultaneously (on a net basis) a group of transactions that could be processed
withniot creating any liquidity shnrtae -
Pa.-ticipants
rui~icii 11~L1ULIVI1b Will UU 4Uir, Pd.LIUIPULU Ill LIIU sySieii uIIuC LlIfUf uii1i1rmsL InOUes
Finiaricia'l -instiL itionsz -wi'll be able- pa.iiaei h  -ytn'udr-re if-etmds
- a direct participant will have a settlement account held in tne EBPCS. He will be
financially responsible for all transactions sent, received, and for liquidity management,
and will be connected on line to the system through a participant's platform;
- an indirect participant will have a settlement account and full financial responsibility but
will use the technical equipment of a direct participant (or a BEAC platform) for sending
and receiving financial transaction files processed by the RTGS;
- a sub-participant will have no settlement account nor technical equipment and the
participan.t (either direct or indirect) that represe.nts it takes fiull financial responsibility for
it.
The RTGS system is installed at BEAC headquarters (with a back-up site), and technical
platforms (including software and hardware) are instailed at the head offices of each participant.
The system's software functions include in particular the following modules: exchange interface
(receiving and sending transactions and information with participants), management of
settlement accounts, management of queued-up transactions, BEAC transactions interface, net
systems' interface, BEAC general accounting system interface.
The following Diagram represents the system in a simplified form:
-44-



Read Office                                       Head Office
'Participant A                                        P -.. - , -articipant B
.RTGS          3 m_                                        BJEAC H-
O|  Sttt  "%t"'     Settlement Acn nnt 44*        14fIj             I
|_ M anagemi e n.t  ~I. .
~~~~~~~~~~ _
Costs and financInig
z) DRnqureor.enr,tsof +1fae co,.mponennt an+  foll-r-w  6 n,aongl,- -f an ir,terr.ntional consltan+
a;  XejuIItI.1Lt,fLO1  VI tLl.   l.JiU1 ..11tOl.  4  IUIIIJ V. U  IIIURILLIO  M.l (ILfi%IAaILa  IJ1(I
and 24 months of locally hired experts to assist BEAC project team in all the
~~~2                 flfl_ VTI A Cl  ---  -_   _    Y -
pr-ocurerfierit process ari'd system -1 irSt.11atliOn iII BEAC0 aIIU Wcor{1Mldlerl barl'is HeaLdU
Offices (this is already included in the budget of the GPM),
b) development, installation, test and integration of the RTGS system (hardware software),
(license use for one operational installation and one back up),
c) development, installation, test and integration of participants' platform software and
hardware for 2 pilot participants in each of the 6 countries, (license use for all participants
in the region),
d) supply of one complete RTGS's platform per participant,
e) close monitoring of RTGS daily operations for a period of three months,
f) maintenance of the RTGS central system and participants plate-form software, for a
period oI five years.
- 45 -



Item            Cost     [      BEAC           CialBanks        _ IDA     |
Million CFAF     Millon CFAF     Milion CFAF     Million CFAF'
RTGS central            1,400            100                            1,300
-YbLCrl  kb1LW4L9- aI
ardware)
b) RTGS nr.Q n'.o          200                               I      00
banks platform                                             (50%)         (50%)
(software and
Sardware)lllll
c) inaintenance (per       I200 | 
year)                      (2 001)                                       (50% 10
Total:                    1,800            200   [100                    1, 500
PUS (miillion               2.6             0.3             U.U             2.2
rounded)                                         l               l               l
In order to support the actions described above that are key to project success and of major
importance to ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are taken into account, IDA will cover
100 % of the local and international costs generated by actions described in Paras a, b, and c, and
identified in the last right column.
BEAC will cover its other costs and in particular the adaptation or upgrade of its internal
informnationsystevttm ndi its nwn staffPexnsm-es.
Financial instiVtutons participating to the PRTGS will finance the even.tual. adaptation of their ol,,n~
information system and the back-up equipment.
The project will finance 50% of one standard platform (hardware and software) for each
participant. Each participant will finance 100% of any other platform it will require due to
decentralization or for back-up purposes.
Important note: It may be envisaged to merge the participants' platforms for the EBPCS and the
RTGS. However, this decision cannot be made in advance as suppliers and technical details of
systems to be selected and installed are unknown.
Voluiimes
An estim.ate of the nrumber of trnsacrtions per origin is detailed as follows:
I ear  Dl!At         ritZer-batns  4tbLUMwICeS  JVDJr%O kluLc  r VI eig ;s  Uuta    l
balances)                I           I
iI          60           50          260           40          120          530
2           60           60          310           40          140          610
3           60           70          3 80              1       1       1  720
A             A n          o 0         1450           M          ?I ) 2!0     85
5   1       601 10                   540    1      40    1     250   1     1000
-46 -



It is expected that these figures will increase dramatically as soon as the system is operational
and new payments services become available to bank customers and to the financial market.
Billing
The billing stnrcture for services provided by the BEAC , which is resnsirehi for opertincg the
RTGS system, will vary depending on the mode of participation and the volume of operations.
1  ~~ I.L L  L11 '.A VIL4.'   vYAII   UL,I1U1.,U UVV1,  L1LI. %,ULak VI jIJiLJ VI.L LIiJ1VJI1Ii1L1LaL1VL1.
In aiiy case, ue LO cridcaI functions performed by ine RiGS, inis sysiem snould be put in piace.
According to the billing policy envisaged (a share of the cost would be borne by BEAC), the
cost per operation should be acceptable to participants (from CFA 500 to 1 000).
Project Component 4- US$4.00 miiiion
Inter Bardk C1ard LIyster. (IlBCQ) TC k%  yWAkA0 US3,.0 Mi::ioIn
(IDA US$1.3 M; BEAC US$0 M, banks and financial institutions US$2.7 M)
The Inter Bank Card System (IBCS) includes one Inter-bank Card Group (IBCG) in charge
of defining and overseeing inter-bank cooperation and rules in this field and Inter-bank card
centers (IBCC) to effect card operations on behalf of some institutions. It is expected that
each commercial bank will determine, during implementation of the project, how its own card
operations functions will be managed: either on its own equipment or in an IBCC. The
objective is to install one IBCC in each country. However, according to the cost effectiveness
constraints related to development of the business. the possibility that one IBCC serves banks
installed in more than one country is left open.
Objectives
The main objectives of setting up an inter-bank card system at the level of CAEMU are the
*   to strengthen the cohesion and the image of the sub-region's financiai sector by
creating a CAEMU logo, which would be imprinted on the cards and would be the
object ofjoint promotional efforts;
*   to promote the use of electronic means of payment to replace fiduciary payment
methods;
*   to strengthen the ne2otiating nosition of sub-regional card issuers vis-a-vis the
international card networks (such as VISA, MasterCard, etc.);
*   to reduce commissions and transaction processing costs (i.e., acquisition, transfers,
authorization. settlement) by ontimizing the necessary technical infrastrucrure
(equipment, networks and software), for the benefit of the banks in the sub-region;
- 47-



*   to control the risks associated with electronic payments;
* to prepare the development of e-banking and electronic money; and
*   to facilitate access to the poor to water and electricity consumption.
Principles
Each acquiring bank will accept to offer a basic card service (cash withdrawal and payment)
to all card holders that have been provided by their bank (the issuing bank) with an
"inter-bank card" materialized by a specific service code embedded in the magnetic stripe
and/or the chip of the card, and a logo imprinted on the card. In consequence the cardholder
can use its card on any ATM machine or any merchant terminal (POS) belonging to a member
of the Inter-bank Card community. All ATMs accepting the inter-bank regional card will
show the -orm-repnnnding ltogo qimiThrlv Tnrr.hqrnt will difnlnv the ntnte Inoo.
An inter -bar. wr.an.tian vill determn.i the righ,ts and duti,,es  acquir.ng banks ar.d issuing
banks and in particular all inter-bank fees to be paid or received by banks for services
pid'edu to .ihe clientL by the 4LcqULUiIr VI o isUUilg bUar. PILAoULUii LU tLo i4LLLie dl Iules: fvr
cash withdrawal, fees are paid to the owner of the ATM by the issuing bank and for payment,
fees are paid by the merchant's bank to the issuing bank.
Fees paid by clients (card holders and merchants) are not concemed by the inter-bank
agreement and are managed on a purely private commercial basis between each bank and its
own clients.
- 48-



General card system architecture
XaSE~~~~~~~~~~~ .b 
This architecture has been specifically designed to enable banks to choose their best solutioi
(that is invest or use a shared installation) according to their sDecific situation and stratev.
The architecture is thus able to accommo'date bank~s without any infrastructure and banks
havina Ari--wiy a fiil! fledgetd nird nopration crntr qnd their own nenv.orkc of ATMs ancd
POSs.
It is envisaged that a few banks having already installed a full fledged card system could offer
to ouler 'o-aIKs to 'ouild uponl this equipmteii une IBC-C. r nis could signiiifuicaL-ty accezlerate Litt:
establishment of these, centers.
Sub components
Three distinct groups of actions need to be impleme-nted:
- the definition of a common rangze of inter-bank card services (cash withdrawal a-nd
payment) that w'ill be offered to eligible card holders through any acquiring bank's
equipiment (ATM for cash withdrawal or POS for pavment ). This will be based on an
-49-



inter-bank convention sianed by all members of the Inter-bank Card Group. Each bank
will select eligible cardholders among its reliable clients, the level of services to be
offered (e.g. w.ithdirawal only, payment etc=.=); and fees to he naid for those services.
- the establishment of a regional er.tity, the T.terban"tk Crard Crouin (MTRCf that .u 1! be iin
charge of system oversight and strategic decisions to be made on behalf of all members of
ehe IIIL[R-UUIIr, LtIPrge1l1ertL. LLIUAegl L11 111LcUUio  include, legal rIUe, 1eVe1 VI inter-barb
commissions, operating procedures, certification, technical standards ensuring multilateral
compatibility of systems, etc.
- the installation and management of Inter-Bank Card Operation Center(s) (lBCC), that
will be used by several banks. This common installation and service provider is intended
to reduce costs and ensure a high quality of products and services offered. One key
function of this center is to manage risks associated with card activity for both
participating banks and clients. The objective is to install one IBCC in each country.
However- according to the develonment of card business and profitability directly linked
to the volume of business, the possibility that one IBCC may serve banks installed in
n.ore  r. o  neuintv is nn.n
RfJ%  1 A*  J *V       *  r r Jt             s     .     ..    .  t J  
L til~ ILVI -LPURU %-,A U XIkY PUP kIIJ%~.Y)
Tne iBCG will be directly responsIole Ior oversIgnt and collaboraIve actLiviLies In uefluIng
card services, common procedures, as well as representation, on behalf of its members, to the
financial authorities and to the international card networks.
The IBCG will have five main specific missions:
(i) in the beginning of the project, it will promote inter-bank card services to the public in
close coordination with commercial banks and without interfering with issues regarding
marketing and commercial strategy of each individual institution;
(ii) it will lead discussions among banks and facilitate the establishment of a consensus
Lt5ULtUfl.. Air.ter-barfees to%0 be pai for seIcsofferaed byA issui.ngV or a1qiuir..ncy ba.--
(iii)    it will r-epresete its mem-lerbers in, intern,ational organizations like Visa,
MasterCard, and other international card networks;
(iv) it will organize training sessions, workshops and conferences for card operators in' the
region;
(v) it will monitor the risk and fraud specific to card transactions, and a specific risk
management system will be installed in order to enable the IBCG to collect information
from commercial banks and international networks and build in particular a
comprehensive regonal  hiack list of regional and international cards. that will be
distributed to all authorization centers and black list management systems.
- 50 -



Cost and Financing
Costs of this component will be composed mainly of staff and studies for item (i) to (iv) and
the installation of a system (hardware and software) for item (v) and support to statistics,
accounting, etc.
IBCG                   Cost           BEAC        Cial Banks    IDA
Item                Million CFAF     Million CFAF  Million CFAF  Million CFAF
a) staff                              300          C       i    100 an100
b! office eauipment and  I             sO    I            i      25   i    25
server            t       estimntion including one LAN
c) risk management sy.stem             30                                  30
(software)              l           _       l            l       1
d)l m ninfenanne (npr vpr)  I          20    I            I      !0   I    I n
Total:                  |             300    |            |     135   1   165
$US (million rounded)   |             0.4    |                   0.2      0.2
The Bank will provide full financing for implementation studies, the risk management system
nnd training. tnff cnct will hp siinnnrted by ,-Ammprr-il hbank.c Traiinincy nff'cep Pnqinrnpent
and maintenance cost will be shared between commercial banks and the Bank (50/50) for the
fi;s year-, -an susqetly    --e au 1-eb +.h CO Com-.rc-ia b-1-
The hiiter-Bank Card Center kiBCC)
The iCC will be in charge of operational functions and will provide services to commercial
banks that could subscribe to individual services according to their needs and policies. It will
perform three broad type of functions.
(i) Issuer functions: services directed at cardholders, plastic card personalization, card
holder management, authorizations management;
(ii) Acauiring functions: functions nrovided to sunnort ATMs and POSs (merchants
equipment): transaction acquisition (for authorization request, clearing and settlement),
A TM monagempnt POSZ monoGapmpnt, merrthnt mnana ipm.n.t;
(iii)     1IL.I-va1lm iUMin L1U,1O. IlL.atUFo3 thfat theu Uubia. cUommuF,ity la aflufrig inL orduer IV
enable each card holder to use his card in any ATM or POS belonging to any acquiring
bank. authorization routing, biack iist management, preparation of ciearing files to be sent
to acquiring banks and/or directly to the Clearing Center (EBPCS).
Cost and Financing
The project will support the construction of the first two pilot centers in order to launch the
process, and of two other ones if and as needed. It will ensure that a minimum of processing
- 51 -



capacity is available at the regional level.
Costc of this component are comprosed mainly of staff and stidies that could be used for a!l
centers and the installation of a system (hardware and software) and specific equipment and
SorlwaI- tL 3U-poiLcoperaional  JunctiIn.
iBCC           T         CUSt           BEI~AC       LCiai BanKs    iiA
Item                 Million CFAF      Million CFAF  Million CFAF  Million CFAF
a) starr                               900                          900
b) consultant
(impiementation studies)
c) office equipment and                120                           60         60
servers                  j         LAN included  l           l            l    _l
d) software and hardware               500                          250        250
covering all operating
functions (turnkey for two  hardwa 5012, software 200,
pilot center)                     engineerng 200
e) software and hardware for           500                          500
two other centers
Af maintenance (one vear)              100                   1       50   |     50
| Total:                 1           2120                          1760        360
$US (mnillion rounded)   1             3.0      1            1_2.5        1    0.5
(1) Two otner centers would be installed oeyond ine iife of tne
project if economicallyjustified.
2j Thi's assumes thatfour center have been built.
Note: Costs of ATM and POS, financed directly by commercial banks are not included in the
table; at this stage, it is difficult to make reliable forecasts because, decision and financing of
this equipment are in the hands of the commercial banks and not yet fully defined.
One aspect that should be covered by the monitoring functions of the IBCC and IBCG is to
semure monthly monitoring reports showing the Quality of Service (OS) provided hv each
bank network and to react if the QS is not acceptable and may put at risk the development of
t.he card activity an.d custme.- cnidnce,,c in t.he i+r.~.er=ar. ser.,ice.
.._,  _    .        -. _. .  _A.               . k.   - ,.
Year  iarus     ui whicn paymen  I ui wicn internatonai  caras casn  isaras paymenis I   oeaI
l_______e l            card      |      cards     | withdrawal  l          l         l
__I      1   75 000 1    30 000         3 000     1   1800 000  1 400 000  I 2200000
2    1    90 0001    45 000         9 000         3 240 000  1 1 300 000   4 540
3    1 _120 000      72 000  1     14 400         5 760 000   3 100 000  J  8 860
4    1   1800001    126000   1     25200          8640000     7200000  1 158400001
It is expected that in each country, more detailed forecasts will be made in order to appraise
the reliability of these estimates prior to deciding to create an IBCC Center.
- 52-



Billing
Investments costs indicated above are based on the creation of a new center. Cost will be very
sensitive to the possibility of using existing installations. Costs of hardware should be
adjusted to volumes to be processed, however most of these costs can be considered as fixed
costs at least for the first three years.' Operating costs are mainly based on staff, maintenance
and communications expenses.
Each year the management of each IBCC will present to its members a detailed budget
including nev' in.ve-ve-t operating costs, vollur.s to be processed andfe  .c.r  li
-   .    vF.ULI   .J3~  UUIL L"JU'     J u~ U  aLU '10   ~LLU, L4UI r. I11
budget will have to be agreed by the users (banks) with the constraint that incomes (annual
subscription and tLrasaction or services fees) must cover expenses. Budgets will be sent to tne
IBCG for information and comments. If, during the year, actual volumes are below target,
fees will be increased to cover the costs (most of costs are fixed); they will be lowered in case
of higher volumes than expected.
In the creation phase of a new IBCC, a business plan, covering three years at least, will be
produced to assess if the economic sustainability of the Center is realistic. The IBCG will
review the business plan and provide advice to the members prior to the decision to create
this new IBCC.
The business plan will be sent as well to the World Bank for information and comments.
Card for prepayment of electricity and water consumption
Access to consumption of water and electricity by the poor is hampered by the high cost of
the meter and tne hign cost of collection and of interruption of service in case of nonpayment
of the bill. A system of prepayment, like that introduced throughout the region by the mobile
phone companies, would reduce the cost of collection and of interruption of service. As an
incentive to introduce such a practice, the project will cover the cost of the purchase and
installation of meters (including rechargeable cards) for each poor newly connected over a
period of time. This will be an incentive for the utility companies to extend service. The cost
to be assumed by IDA is estimated at CFAF 400 million or US$0.6 million
Project Component 5 - US$0.50 million
Payment Risk Management System (PRMS) US$0.5 million
(IDA US$0.2 M; BEAC US$0.3 M, banks and financial institutions US$0)
The design of a Payment Risk Management System (PRMS) has not been finalized during the
preparatory work. A law is under preparation and it is expected that this system will be installed
in parallel with the implementation of other components.
Such a system exists in WAEMUJ, and it is envisaged to start discussions with BCPAO with the
view to benefit from its experience and software development in this field.



Objectives
The main objectives of the PRMS are as follows:
*   to increase the confidence of the population and in particular beneficiaries in non cash
pay-met-s ILstLUiIerits li'ke ci'iecks, cards, and 1eCL1tonic paymenerts;
*   to collect ail information regarding payment incidents for each instrument regarding
clients of any banks or financial institution;
*   to provide access to information regarding payment incidents to all banks and credit
establishments in order to avoid that a customer can access payment services without
having resolved pending issues with other banks or beneficiaries;
*   to provide information to merchants enabling them to appraise the potential risk of a
payment instrument (check, card) presented by a customer for payment (face to face or
distant paym.ent);
*   to monitor tlhe level of f1raud adU rLisk o0 each payniLent ins.11nUamentL and presen an
annual report with proposals of improvement of procedures and operating
mecnanisms.
Principles
The main principles underlying the organization and functioning of the PRMS are as follows:
*   each payment system (cards, EBPCS) will provide a list of payments rejected for
reasons such as lack of funds, fraud, forgery, etc... and the data (including customer
identification data) will be transferred on a daily basis to the PRMS;
*   each bank will send to the PRMS a file of customers that have issued payment
instrume t1t3 1t'd for la1c 1ffunds, f-Ad, forger1, et..., as vvlfl as a lisof lost or
stolen payment instruments (checks, cards, etc);
*   the PRMS, will organize and store all this information in a data base that will be
updated in real time and checked regularly for consistency among all information
received;
*   the PRMS will provide financial institutions with automatic access to the data base
giving answers either on or off line, (internet or file transfer for instance) to process
individual or groups of requests regarding either customers or payment instruments
data;
- 54 -



*   the rli¶VL.) Will IlHIUIII LII- IlllrcLLllUIL if Ulhe clientor ciiecK is in hLILe U"liak listL Uof LIt
PRMS, without any detailed or confidential information. This service will NOT
correspond to a guarantee of payment by tne payer's bank.
Cost and Financing
PRMS                     Cost            BEAC         Cial Banks    IDA
Item                Million CFAF         Million   Million CFAF  Million CFAF
a) staff                                N.A.
b) office equipment and WEB               60           60
server                              estimation,  I                        I
c) DVILwatV anu Aiwm L                   2:V -2                                   120
covering all operating functions
(turnkey for one nilot center)
hardware 30, software
60,
Engineering 30  l      4                 1
d) maintenance (per year)                 40           40
Total:                                   340          220                         120
$US m'rniion rounded)                    0.5    1      0.3   1            1   1    0   1
Billing
Billing will be based on a fee per request. It is expected that the BEAC will assume the operating
costs of the system when the system will be mature.
Project Component 6 - US$1.80 million,
Telecommunication TELECOM - US$1.8 Million
(IDA US$0.7 M; BEAC US$0.9 M, banks and financial institutions US$0.2 M)
The successful development and deployment of the RTGS, EBPCS and IBCS presuppose that
an efficient telecommunication network is available at the regional level.
Objectives
To provide adequate communication services to support the payment infrastructure three
t-es of.n4 evhro.,nr'Sl v.11 havyr+e to be stra.inghened or -re.ateA
b.yF%. Wn*SLVfXOVII1U~U)S~OkjlUI*.U           ---'%C4A
- - 2  I-A                 -    t   2  Pf~~~~~  2  ~~L..  1~~T! A I£--- 
*   a network oextween commercial bank' heaud    onllLes aun U e BEC     NaiLonlll
Directions;
*   a network between BEAC National Directions and BEAC Headquarter in Yaounde;
- 55 -



* a network between all BEAC offices in the region that will enable to transfer BEAC's
data related to payment transaction processing and other services. This network will
be made available to commercial banks when the internal communication system of a
commercial bank does not cover its whole branch network;
These three categories of networks will be conceived with the view to optimize costs and
efficiency of telecommunication services required by the financial sector and in particular
payment activity.
Principles:
The architecture will be based on the following principles
*   to strengthen the VSAT network that has been put in place by BEAC for its own use
and increase its capacity, reliability and security for processing payment data and
transfers;
*   to hire adequate communication links in the six capital cities in order to connect
commercial banks head offices and BEAC National Directions using already existing
landlines (and possibly in the future, mobile connections).
Cost and financing
A study will be carried out in order to define in detail the futlure commu_nication requirements
to support payment activity and prepare the documents for a sole source contract for the
s.lergthenng o +.heII VAT' ne.- A,- ar.d ar. irtrn-oal bid for al  terc,U,,_ic
3LLV4iaLLl1AILin  VI  LIlC .  -V  I  L., LJ .  %A  I  IUL LlVJI   IJI VL  CLIL .LW.,L .   V UULL WU. dLLJLj
equipm ent,                   _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ __  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
TELECOM            T      cost              BEnr AC      ClI  Irs       v
Item                Million CFAF        Million CFAF Mitlion CFAF   Million
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __I  I  I   r A
a) staff                                N.A.         100%                      _  _
b) VSAT strengthening including         1 000         500                      500
security                   l                      l     0     1       5
I c) cormmunications between  1100                 1    50     1       50    11
Commercial banks and BEAC's
National Directorate
d) Communication within
commercial banks
e) maintenance (per year)                110           55             55 
estimation 10% de   l           l
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   J        ~~~ ~~c+d ] _ _     _ ]   _    _ __          _
Total:                                  1 210         605
aUS (mrrilionrounded)                    i.8      1     .9    1       0.2       U.7 
(1) Most banks have already established some internal communication links.
- =aJU-



Billing
BEAC will create a special unit that will run the telecommunication network and services and
act as a service provider off^ering the best quality of serv-Iics wih tuhe objeciive Lu cuver its
operational costs.
Project Component 7 - US'30.30 ,n!!mo-
LEGAL - USSO.3 Million
(IDA US$0.3 M)
Preparatory work has included the definition of a legal framework that will support the
1UnctionUi1r of 01 LIe; pa-YRIiL 1In1LL.cLUUL4U1vD baLs oncal . iaws aLW u lugulaUly; rLU1LFZ gVVerII111ng
all parties and operations concerned.
Objectives:
Main objectives are to ensure observance of international standards based on relevant CPSS
(BIS) Core principles:
*   the system should have a well-founded legal basis under all relevant jurisdictions;
*   the system's rules and procedures should enable participants to have a clear
understanding of the system's impact on ecih nf the finrncial ri:ks the inlicur thrniigrh
participation in it;
*   The system should have clearly defined procedures for the management of credit and
liquiUdLy Lisks, WiclhI bpVAeIy -uhe repetLiVe LUbpo1Z1U11i1bU01 VI zuhe sysL UoJp.aLUL dliu
the participants and which provide appropriate incentives to manage and contain those
risks;
*   The syste-m should provide prompt final settlemer.t on the day nf valmue, prefer_bly
during the day and at a minimum at the end of the day;
*   A system in which multilateral netting takes place should, at a minimum, be capable
of ensuring the timely completion of daily settlements in the event of an inability to
settle by the participant with the largest single settlement obligation;
*   Assets used for settiement should preferably be a claim on the central bank; where
other assets are used, they should carry little or no credit risk and little or no liquidity
risk;
I 1 syaLva11l sihouiu hiave, UJeLtivv aiiu puulicLy ULdislU c.;LLLea d1 l 1  pacLLL.JiaLtion,
which permit fair and open access.
- 57-



Principles:
Three categories of texts have been prepared and have to be finalized through specialized
working groups:
*   "Projet de reglement CEMAC sur les instruments de paiement" (Law on payment
instruments to be enacted at the regional level);
*   Regulations dealing with standards and norms: a permanent regional normalization
committee "Comite Regional de Normalisation Bancaire" (CORENOFI) has been
created and will take care of standardization of payments instruments and processing
nrocedures:
*        Contracts governing rights an.d obligations for each systpem (RTGS, 1PCSP(q TPC4r
among BEAC, financial institutions, service providers and final users,
A working schedule has been established with the objective to finalize all texts before the end
Cost and financing
Total cost for meetings expenses and travels is estimated at CFAF 200 Million and will be
financed by the project. (Consultancy costs are already included under GPM)
Project Component 8 - US$1.30 million
~ ''~A frTh WTTW 1  IL/ 11!fUon.
ITralining (T  41 US$iL3 Mi::ionII
(IDA US$1.0 M; banks and financial institution US$03 M)
This will include technical training of BEAC and commercial bank staff on the functioning of
EBPCS, RTGS and the card system. Training will also cover less technical aspects of the
payment system as well as cash and liquidity management. The PMU will determine the kinds
of training required.
Financing:
The cost of the training linked to the technical aspects is evaluated at CFAF 500 million and
the less tprehnieal tr&nilnin is petimatpd at CPFAF AN4 million tn hp PeiqllV charePd bthpen
IDA and the banks Total cost is CFAF 900 million US$1.3 million.
Implementation Plan
It is expected that components will be installed as follows:



*   PMU:                                             July/August 2002,
* Electronic Bulk Payment Clearing System:
i. procurement and selection:                 December 2002
ii. pilot installation                         September 2003
iii. opertion                                  Febrnurv 2004
:   Real Time  -.os Settlemnt System
procurement and selection:                  January 2003
piloeL lir,sw,latioI                        Decel-liber 2003.
operation                                   March 2004
*   Card Systems:
IBCG:                                       December 2002.
IBCC pilot installations                    May/June 2003
full operation                              2003/2004
*   Telecom
procurement and selection:                  January 2003
installation and test                       September 2003
nnpr,atl(on,                                Thp.'pi.1ber 2003
A                      *L          r.               -
AI LqUesLt1iIo li,y ariLs as LA Ltil, LcapacLiy UL L.le sixA LJUILILIU andU UIVeI1 i,iiai%L,iai i ttiloLnLULIU11 LU
implement all the systems simultaneously. So far BEAC and commercial bank representatives
assured Bank stIaI oI their aDiiity to implement thie program and expressed ineir need and
determination to forge ahead quickly. In any event, the system has sufficient flexibility that
banks can adhere to it at their own pace. This is true of the card component which does not
require all banks to participate. But even for the large value and bulk payment systems, banks
have the option to become sub-participants before becoming indirect or direct ones.
- 59 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
AFRICA: BEAC Regional Payment System
Local    |  Foreign   |    Total
Proiect Cost Bv ComDonent             | US $million | US $million .  US $million
1. Overall project support and management                 2.50         2.50         5.00
12 R1T G-S.                                               0.40          2.20         2.60
3. Electronic Bulk Payment                                0.50         3.70         4.20
4 Card System                                             20     1     200          4.00
5. Payment Risk Management System                         0.00         0.50         0.50
6. Teleco,ms                                              0.00         1.80         1.80
7. Legal                                                  0.00         0.30         0.30
O" Ton, on                                                              In IE -1 r% 
0. lilalIllIg                                             J.Ju         I.VV          I.JJ
9. Audit                                                  0.40         0.00         0.40
10. PPF                                                   02            .0;;
I U. rrr                                   ~~~~    ~    ~~~~~~U.LU  U.YU  j  .1U
Total Baseline Cost                                       6.30        14.90         21.20
Physicai Contingencies                                   0.40          1.00         1.40
Price Contingencies                                      0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs              6.70         15.90        22.60
Total Financing Required              6.70         15.90        22.60
______________________________________I                    Local  i_Forigon i      Total
Project Cost By Category'              US $milln     US$md        US $rnillion
.- l        ..O .. .                                   .V.I
Consultant, training & Seminars                             0.80          3.70         4.50
Operating costs and Salaries                                1 .;0         0.60 dI. /U
Audits                                                      0.40          0.00         0.40
iPPF reflnancing                                    I       0.20          0.90          i. 
Unallocated                                        4        0.40          1.00         1.40
Total Project Costs '    6.70         15.90 I       22.60
Total Financing Required !    6.70  !      15.90        22.60
M c nt:ifia--b 1 ta- xe s ar. d du t:ies &-re O ,1- J $ m) a,r.d t,h: e f ta!- p -1;e ct cocst1, n etI of c s, i s 2 2 6 f, JTS S '). Th erefLore, t-he p -oje ct costI s h411,g tio i0s 6 4. !6%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 60 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
VVHIIII Lle1b ipVJVL6ts UbenefILt d.L quite U1ifL.fULL tv qU4HL1iy WILII d.lly UwiIaU VI ofLUprecViso, Llth
following points should help in assessing the cost effectiveness of the project.
Summary of benefits and costs:
1  in 
1. P romotLion o ecor.o..ic activiy. r ay1iFA.IL sysLtems proIV1VLA oe econo1V,ic activity, pal .Liu1a11y
commerce and trade (both domestic and international). Without reliable and efficient payment
mechanisms, companies have dififcuity acquiring raw materiais and supplies, paying wages,
and receiving payment for delivery of goods and services. Funds which are tied up in clearing
and settlement are not available for more productive uses. Furthermore, a reliable and
efficient payment system is a prerequisite for economic players to switch progressively from
the informal economy and risks associated with it to the use of financial sector services.
2. Improved monetary policy. Large and unpredictable levels of float influence short-term
liquiditv in the economy and create uncertainty in controlling monetary aggregates. The
ability of the BEAC to manage the global liquidity of the financial sector in real time, adjust
reserve reniiirements efficientlv and isRe indirect noliev instriments throuigh onen market
operations depends on a reliable regional payment system.
3. Financial sector development. Efficient payments systems facilitate the development of
new   flinancia'; instruIumerits, proUucts ardi marKet-, such1 as UdbL adIU equiLy marketLS. I The
current inefficient and unreliable payment system represents an obstacle to efforts to develop
banking activities as well as a capitai market. Improved payments should also lead to
increased competition, better service, and lower transaction costs in financial institutions and
enable them to develop new products and sources of fee income (card services, bank
remittances).
4. Improved efficiency and cash management. The current payment system in CAEMU
does not allow banks and businesses to manage their treasury operations efficiently. For
example banks mrust maintain extra liquidity in the Central Bank  for clearing nurmoses
(clearing is done at the level of each BEAC agency). A unique and centralized settlement
accournt hbeld *n BEAC'" books til allov kott.er treasury rnanagernert by, f:nar.i;a
institutions.
5. Regional integration. Despite the existence of a monetary union in the region, markets
remain fragmented and progress towards effective economic and financial integraiion nas
been slow. Significant uncertainty and delays for intra-regional payments represent an
important obstacle to the development of intra-regional trade. Given the small size of the
economies of CAEMU member states, increased integration is a prerequisite to improving
economic efficiency and achieving economies of scale. The sub-regional dimension of the
project in its various components will strengthen financial and economic integration.
6. Credit risk management. Delays in payment settlements create credit risk between the
- 61 -



two parties to the transaction, between their two banks, and possibly between the Central
Banlk ar-ld onec orr mrneo bantls  1-^ inte--te   A r--A-ll p- -+lw. systeml sacih the one
LFOIN GIIU J11 UII1IUt.~LJain. L LIP. OJYOL~IL. r-. 11UUU-,IIj payliLLU1L  one11~U.,1d~bi~LIL
proposed by the BEAC minimizes these risks.
7. Systemic risk: One key objective of modem payment systems is to mitigate the risk that a
failure of a single financiai institution puts at risk the entire sector by a domino effect: this
may happen when clearing and settlement mechanisms allow that at the end of the day a large
debit position of one participant caTinot be covered and all transactions of this participant
have to be reversed. The architecture of BEAC's payment system through the protection of
bulk transaction netting systems and the RTGS used for settlement of large value transactions
is designed in compliance with the BIS payment systems core principles to address this issue.
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
The design of an efficient payment system should guarantee the lowest cost to all parties
subject to appropriate standards on speed, certainty, reliability, safety and convenience and
not just the lowest cost system available. These competing considerations often lead to
multiple systems to respond to different transaction requirements. A system for handling time
critical, high value payment requires higher speed and security (at a greater cost) than a
system for handling bill payments or small checks.
Based on an analysis of renuirements in the CAFMIT regrion- and in consultatinn with the
financial community and end-users, the proposed three-pronged payment system (RTGS,
lowv-vat.ue, ar.d ir.ter-bark card . co%ovnJ.-.t I) -va Adeeme  to be the most Jo+ trtive
strategy. The active participation of private commercial banks in the design and
1i1lereI11VULat4ioU UI LUI.h 0ysLZ  shovuiu alsu help enIurI  a coUsL effLeLVi oU1UL1ioLI, as barb
ultimately will bear most of the cost of the system, either through up-front investment or
througn user iees based on fui1 cost recovery.
The proposed costs for the various components are in line with costs of similar on-going
payment system projects in other emerging countries (BCEAO, Mauritius, Moldova), and are
in fact lower than they would have been a few years ago as costs for payment system
technology have been declining. The regional approach adopted in this proiect further
enhances cost effectiveness, as a number of smaller national payment systems would have
been significantly more costlv.
The choice of an electrovni clearinrg anrd settlemtent process is a guarantee thaft the sys-tem wirjll
be able to respond to modernization of commercial banks' operations and networks.
EIA~I.41UUILeUctroic Vj'1iperations WVUIU Ua IIILIUUU  CU ds tar,dUarU yIp Uo oeVItLIII iII LtI
future without the need to modify the design and architecture of the proposed systems.
- 62-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
r-r-CAM: BEAC Regiona. rayment System
Years Ending
.JMPLUANTAT11ON PERIOI0
Year I  I Year 2     Year 3    Year 4  | Year 5    Year 6     Year 7
'Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0 0       0 0       0 0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0 0        0 0      0.0
Total Projec-t Gnots                   0.0       0.0                  0.0       0.0       0.0
|Total Financing             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  3.1        5.6       3.0       2.8       0.0       0.0        0.0
Govemment                 0.9        1.7       0.8       0.7       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.8        1.7       0.8        0.7       0.0      0.0        0.0
Other                       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       00        0.0
Total Project Financing     4.8       9.0       4.6        4.2       0.0       0.0       0.0
OPERATIO'NAL PEOD.
Y.ar I    Year 2     Year3  ! Year4    I Yea!r5    vear6 A    Vganr 7
Total Financing Required
Proiect Costs
Investment Costs         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs          0 0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0 0       0 0
Total Project Costs         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
,Total Finanrinn                 0      .0       0 .0      0 .0       0 .0  0.0      0.0
|Financing
iBRDiiDA                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Govemment                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 63 -



Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Years Ending: through
(In Millions of Current)
Year'                                                              Average
Annual
Growth
Income Statemnent !.terns (000 s)
Revenues
Operating Exnanses
Cost of Production
Administration & Office
Overheads
Operating Income
Net income
Funds Statermennt lrns
Sources of Funds:
Intemal Sources
IBRD Loans
IDA Credits
Sources
Equity Investments
Total Sources
Annpications:
Capital Expenditures
Redurina Costs
Working Capital Increase
(Decrease)
Total Applications
Balance Sheet items
Assets
Current Assets
Less Current Liabilities
LI-t Curient Asse.s or IAri--I:_
Capital
Net Fixed R Other L on Tefrm
Assets
Total Net Assets
Debt and Equity
Long Term Debt
Equity
Total LIT Debt and Equity
Financial Ratios"
Onerating Income as a % of Revenue
Net Income as a % of Revenue
Retum on Average Invested Capital
Debt Service Coverage
- 64 -



Percent of Total Capital
Expenditures financed by Internal
Sources
Cu,enteF FaUiU
Debt as % of Total Capitallization
Main assumptions:
Data for each year should be defined as Actual or Forecast.
SelectA key yearsL afte tF.e s'.t of VIr..LLLal uoperaLionI VI UIF.e VVJVL (e,.g. wher. U,V debt eVAIir.g bU.der. laFg.e')
3When feasible, comparative data on other enterprises in the same industry should be shown.
4Guidance on financiai ratios for financial intermediaries is given in OD8.30 Annex A and in an FSD note on
perfornance indicators ("The Use of Sectoral and Project Performance Indicators in Bank-Financed Sector Operations,"
N4arch 19OOC
-65 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
AiRiCA: BEAC Regional Payment System
Procurement
Gierneral
1.  BEAC is tne common ceniral banr for '[Ceniral African Economic anu ivionetary uniuu
(CEMAC) member countries. It is an international financial public institution governed by the
convention of Monetary Union of Central Africa (UIvAC), the monetary cooperation convention
between France and the six UMAC members states, and its statutes. A Country Procurement
Assessment Review (CPAR) for two countries from the six member states is under way in Chad
and Cameroon. The other 4 (four) countries have not carried out a CPAR since 1987. Their
national procurement system and laws need a major reform to lay a good foundation for
international business. Procedures for procurement of works, goods, and services experienced a
lot of weaknesses in several areas. The Governments of Cameroon and Chad seems to be ready
to make changes in this regard and are  considering the Bank's assistance to heln in the
preparation of a new procurement code which is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2002
for the two countries mve entioned abe In the meantime, ,ro-remetnt Th.i;s and regu.la.tions -n
not conflict with IDA Guidelines. No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified
Iin .hI-e -Credlt s1n MX  sIUI11  po aULcUr.111rkL pLdraL1kce aliUw 1JDA procdure.s LU  t '-e pi-e encc
over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
2. Several members of BEAC' staff are reportedly not familiar with the Bank's guidelines for
procurement and disbursement procedures. it would be necessary for BEAC' staff to receive
procurement training. The coordinator and the project preparation's team have not had previous
procurement training and experience in the execution of IDA financed projects; in addition, they
have not been exposed to recent developments in Bank financed procurement and would in any
event not be able to handle the many detailed procurement procedures under the project. A
procurement Specialist will, therefore, be recruited to assist with the preparation of reauest for
proposals, proposal evaluation and contract management. The procurement specialist will be
iunder the sznnervision of the head of the PM1 T
Gf uI-ide:i-nes
WorKs and w.rouUs:
3. Contracts financed by !DA will be procured in accordance with Baniks Guidelines under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, and Standard
Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally
in all member countries would be carried out in accordance with Central African Region's
procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that they assure economy,
efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank Guidelines.
Under NCB, the procedures should ensure thnt:  (i)' methods used in evaluation of bids and the
-66-



award of contracts are made known to all bidders and not applied arbitrarily; (ii) any bidder is
cgiven adequat.te repolnsen tirnep (foulr weeks-) for prepnratio-n ar.dc subiit%micen of birds; (iii) bit
evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference
lb rlCn1tedU Lt UUULlLst lllalUla4.,LULZ (v) eligtUrV LriutJl s areL not p1reIL 1udu 1113111U pLic LiCpaLtng, (vi)
award will be made to the lowest economically evaluated bidder in accordance with
pre-determined and transparent metnods; (vii) bia evaiuation reports wlin cieardy state tne reasons
for rejecting any non-responsive bid; and (viii) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft
standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) are
submitted to IDA and found acceptable before the Credit effectiveness.
Consultant Services
4. Contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Selection and employment of Consultants by World Bank borrowers published in January 1997
revised in September 1997, and Januarv 1 99. The Rtandard Request for Prnnnqn! as develonped
by the Bank, will be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for
rhart=tor,, .c. sig.trnts, i.e those noat exceedngrm sx, rn..nth., car.ioed out b..y fr...s or -n----
consultants. BEAC officials and PMU Staff have been briefed during appraisal and received
aUUUitial V 1ariWfJiLd-iOs duruing negIotia-LionS about tlIle fieatures ol Lhe new  ConsultaIits
Guidelines, particularly in regards to advertisement and bid opening.
Advertising
5. Given the urgency of the project, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the first year of
operations has been prepared during the appraisal and will be issued in the United Nations
Development Business (UNDB) web site without the need for hard-copy publication, as well as
in the local newspapers to advertise for any ICB for Goods and major consulting assignments to
obtain expression of interest. The renuirement for printed piublication of GPN has been waived
by the RPA office. The GPN will also be issued in the national press of member countries for
t to belet under NCB. The detailed GPN for ..he subsequernt ,ears _ill be prepared fir
the project and published in UNDB. It will be updated annually for all outstanding procurement.
Sapecifi frocuremenIL Notices, (SPN) allU Ex:pressiorVns of UI1LLUZL kJUs/1) LVf ladrg  WUlaU1I4 IUr
consultants services(above US$200,000 equivalent) will also be advertised in Development
business and sufficient time wiii be aliowed for responses to such specific notices (minimum 30
days) before preparing the short-list.
6. In order to accelerate project implementation, the PMU wish to proceed with the initial steps
of procurement. The procurement procedures, including advertising, will be done in accordance
with the Guidelines in order for the eventual contracts to be eligible for Bank financing, and the
normal review process by the Bank will be followed in accordance with the Procurement
Guidelines for Goods and Consultants mentioned above.
- 67 -



Procurement Implementation Arrangements
7. For project management the client agreed the need of an autonomous structure. The overall
rVesporIsliUili.Y foL tIh 1Iim1pIi1I,eLLaLVI vi LAW t J1he  .BAU-1,IoLai Aai wyit SL7ytLC.ii A IVJt rs,OL
the Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMUJ is responsible for carrying out the procurement
for ail the Project Components. To ensure proper implementation, the PMivu will inciude a project
coordinator, four specialists, to coordinate implementation of project components, one
Procurement Specialist (PS) and one Financial Management Specialist (FMS). Ihe PIM (Project
Implementation Manual) will define and specify the procedures for the internal control of
procurement actions, the technical specifications in each case, as well as reference to the model
contracts as per the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. The proposed project will build on that
strength and on the fact that the PMU will be in charge of all procurement matters shall be
familiar with IDA procedures. The procurement specialist at the PMU will act as a service
provider; he will receive the terms of reference, short-lists or specification for consultant'
cervices to he hired civil works goods or enuinment to he rnirchaqed and will prepare the letters
of invitation including in the Request of proposals, Specific Procurement Notice, Bidding's
A C,ain., __+, .-.t  ,A  A,.P-  .-f  ....,a- - A, o,   maa1-. o,r.  thkat tloi p.,  a r % ec,t.'it xt.Ath  'Jr.rlA  tiailr
docur.., an. draft. of cont-JltU   ar., rr.ake sure that thej are consistent fl%flA  World Ba.k
guidelines.
Procurement Capacity Assessment of the BEAC to implement procurement
8. An assessment of procurement capacity of the BEAC to verify whether it will be able to
handle the procurement workload under the project, and to help set parameters for prior review
limits and the frequency of procurement supervision has been performed. BEAC, current
management procedures are in force for more than ten years. BEAC procedures and systems are
not efficient for project management as required by the Bank's Procurement procedures. They
are either summarily treated in the existing procurement manuals or not treated at all (Work
program  and budgeting, procurement, administration, contracts monitoring, etc.).  BEAC
procedures and systems are not sufficiently developed in such area as:
< Step by step description of procurement operation to guarantee the efficiency of the
rtechalk--
< the administrative management (chain of information, fixed assets and equity management,
goods, contract monitoring, etc.)
< the follow up procedures of fixed assets insufficiently described to guarantee an efficient
use and the security per category of assets
< most of the main procedures to be regulated through internal notices not included in the
manual of procedures mentioned above.
9. Given the workload in procurement during the first year and the life of the project, an action
plan has been prepared to reinforce the BEAC with the PMU. This action plan has been adopted
during negotiations. It includes: (i) recruitment of an additional procurement proficient staff to
ensure the efficiencyv and effectiveness in the procurement process= Its selention will he a
condition of effectiveness of the project; (ii) procurement training workshop under supervision of
f-l.1 procuremen..t specialists t   at 1+.h C eon--- r-i i -tr; ofg ar.A/or HQ;TT  (ii pror.trn
- 68-



training at the .Regional nrocurement center Dakar (Senegal); (iv) Creation of an ad-hoc tender
board at the PMUJ to finance the project ( this ad-hoc tender board will be in charge of opening
of the tenders, nnivl1isc natnd cr,vxrr of cn.traetc for tkh "roJct It shoud1A be  m~cm osed of at leas
three and a maximum of five persons. The secretariat of this commission shall be under the
^ tv l +.. ts~~~~~~~~~1n1r         T_ _:: , 'TL_  - %W A _s ,_J_ __A   --..I1 _.3  ---
respon-L)ul IIuLy o1 11  ylle procuremen ospeilistw at L I'le; riVu. lllt; LItolU%;l VUdLIU L;UULU bVXK UNNIbLdller,
from a specialist possessing the relevant competent technicals skills in the subject under studies);
and (v) under exceptional circumstances, hiring of short-term consuitants.
RISKS
10. The risks identified in the assessment include: lack of a procurement specialist clearly
responsible for project procurement; lack of procurement planning and lack of staff with
planning skills; some external influence on the appointment of individual consultants. The PMU
will take actions to mitigate these risks. such as: revise PMU staff's resnonsibilities and
functions; hire a qualified procurement specialist to provide further assistance through short-term
visits during project implementation; and favor the appoirntm..ent of oenulidting fir,ic over
individual consultants. In addition, the technical specialists in the PMUJ will submit a six-month
procurement plan each semester to the PAVfU' a tJIVcUr1JIIVILL poiVcliet staffLU tofaiLaLt project
implementation.
Procurement Plan
11. A draft procurement plan for the first year was prepared during appraisal, adjusted during
negotiation and will be finalized soon before credit effectiveness. It is based on the initial needs
of the project's components. At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower will update the
Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year. The procurement
plan will be part of the Manual of Financial Management and Accounting Procedures and Project
Implementation Manual.
Procurenment Methods
12. The methods to be used for the procurement described below and the estimated amounts for
eachI ir;ml,etho  ared , UUILIlrari u in T aui- A. lThe tUlUL. lU cI.LrLcL ValUes LUo b Used Ior each
method are fixed and shown in Table B.
Works
13. Civil works contracts financed by IDA would be for small rehabilitation of the PMU's office.
These small civil works estimated to cost US$30,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate of
US$50,000, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The
invitation shall include a detailed descrintion of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings
where annlinchle  The swards will be made to the contractors .who offer the lowest price
quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and
- 69 -



resources to comnlete the contract successfi1lyv
1IA   r- ,1  t.  - -_.-  _  ..2A -_;A __ + . ;1 1;                   - A.  .+-_A. ._~ _+L_. ._vL..A;
1. %JVUU JJLU.LILU U1IU.L L111 V pIUJAL9 Will ALIVl,UUS %.UI1JULbl -LjUIPlIlIlL, lilUWd.t; aiiu UUbIllbb
application software, electronic information systems, other office equipment and materials,
training material and publications, office equipment, aithough in limited numbers it wouid be
preferably carried out under ICB. Procurement through IAPSO may be envisaged for small items
up to aggregate amount of US$ 100.000. Other goods (mainly furniture, office supplies and small
equipment) locally available at economical price and costing less than US$30.000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of US$0.60 million will be procured through National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) under procedures acceptable to IDA. Equipment and software for the
management of computerizing system of monitoring contracts, other goods to cost less than
US$30,000 per contract will be procured through the shopping methods (National/Intemational)
by comparing at least three quotations obtained from reliable suppliers up to an aggregate amount
of US$I65,0. This procedure would hp hbasd on a mndel request for quotantins satisfactory to
the Association. National and International Shopping, solicitations would: (a) be issued in
vet,;tiDg -o at eUIUVI%, OUjFjJLlal liL (mlay be bLetLteL LU aFppracih five Uo siA Zupplir1-
because not all three suppliers may respond, so that at least three competitive quotations are
received; (U) include specifications, and if goods are not immediately available, the deiivery time;
(c) give the estimated cost, including cost of inland transportation and insurance; (d) be opened
at thie same time for evaluation (to avoid abuse); and (e) in the case of International Shopping
quotations, be solicited from at least three suppliers in two difJerent countries.
15. Aggregate values for NCB or other non-ICB procurement methods for goods are limitative
and cannot be exceeded without the prior no-objection of the Bank. The procurement specialist
will maintain a tracking system to monitor such procurement in order to alert the Bank timely
when the limits are attained.
Consultants Services and Training
16. Consulting services financed by IDA would be for: (i) Consultancies on technical assistance
LU trLenrLSI,e BLA  IfL (i) LVtechnical sLUUdis, preLCridIrUll Uo ULUUbid g UUVUt11ULS, dUCoUnting
systems, financial management support and External's Audit and, (ii) technical assistance and
consuitancies on iecinicai matters and training--skills gap analysis and skiiis development.
Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$3.5 million, would be hired in accordance with
Guidelines (with the exception of the consultant proposed by the commercial banks to head the
inter-bank card team): Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
January 1997 revised September 1997, January 1999 (Consultant Guidelines). Selection would
be based on competition among qualified short-listed firms through Quality-and cost-Based
selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and cost
evaluation hy weighting and adding the q,uality and cost scores The PMTT wmild pns1.rp widelpy
publicized procurement notice to get candidacy from consultants. Based on agreed upon criteria,
the i.mplemnentation uni vil-l -,,,aintain and.+ upat 1a~ lis ofd con-utt which will be usedAt
nt~  fl±fpi~fhIt~lf...  .......t  V   I fflflfl Ufl I am   iApUaLt...   a  IOL  VI  ~.U1UL JLa  Will.Li  WILI  VL  Ub   LU
establish short-lists.
- 70-



17. Other methods would also apply. For audits and other services of a standard nature not
exceeding S50-;00- the TLeat-Cost Selectinn (LCS) wnuld ehp the. m-ost annrnnri2te mnethod The
firm with the lowest price would be selected provided its technical proposal received the
milnim.m. mnl.i.ftAng mnrl. r  n   seVices for small and sir.less   e0stima-+.d to cost
less than US$30.000 per contract would be based on consultants Qualifications (CQ), according
to on the consultants' experience and competence relevanLt to the assignment.
Firms
18. All contracts entered into with any firm mush be on the basis of QCBS or LCS except for
small and simple contracts that would be procured using CQ.
Individuals
19. Snecialized advisorv services (services foa lecturers and small studiesR which can be
delivered by individuals, would be selected through comparison of qualifications among
Whdiidual. Consult_nt (IC) expressing int.eres in ...e asi_.m..ert Mr appro ached directly alld
hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5 of the Bank's Guidelines.
20. Short-Lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised
entirely olf national consultants, iI a sufricient numDer of qualTifea firms (at least tnree) are
locally available at competitive costs. This would particularly apply to contracts for auditing
services. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest for those contracts, they will not be
excluded from consideration.
IDA Reviews.
21. Contracts financed by IDA above the threshold value of US$100.000 eauivalent for Goods
will be subject to Ida's prior review procedures. The review process would cover about 65% of
the cmntrart amounts for goods and consu+ltants (see Table B below). Selective post-review of
contracts awarded below the threshold level will be applied to about one in three contracts and
-vill k bearroA ot bI,y floni staff or TUsin Crnc,-,l.+mn' fi,s zs. nafacrrh, (zAud  -t A d o+*r
VTff J...   -IfA%l   JU  J  --lJIE   .LUJ.  W.  W-'01,  *...AIIUILXIfLr  iJLL a 0  tLO 1.AA,OaaIY  I,auu,LO,  OXuU  L1
consultants.....). In addition, the first three contracts below the Prior review threshold for goods
of Va1UV0,0UU shall bU sbjUUctLLU L p[ior [eview as a mitigating measures ior tne risK associateu
with a new Implementing agency with no prior experience with Bank procurement procedures
22. Bank staff will also review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the
Borrower.
23. Prior IDA review for the selection of consultants will include the review of budgets,
short-lists, selection procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract awards, and
negotiated contracts. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of
cansulting firms and individuals estimrated to cost les than IUS100.00Q and IJS$50.000
equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior IDA review will not apply to the Terms
- 71 -



of Reference of such contracts, regardless of their value, to single-source hiring, to assignments
of a critical nature as determined by IDA, or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value ahnve the ahove-mantioned prior revipw threshiolds. For all cmn-miltint contracIts subject to
prior review (estimated above US$100.000), opening the financial envelopes will not take place
prior to reivng;,,.n *k. th a-1r'c no=ob,ection an at,2. tm+-hn;ica  mu-ala+.in. Contr.+t. fo,r fnanca
audits will be subject to prior review independently of their amount.
24. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by
the borrowers for ex-post review by auditors and by iDA supervision missions.
25. For training abroad, the program, containing names of candidates, costs estimates, content of
courses, periods of training and selection of training institutions- will be reviewed by IDA
annually.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
26. Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed. One supervision mission to be
ca^rrised mit hv thp A Qnreiatinin every filr mrtntl'he xiAill inAitup crpecial prrourement upenrvision
for post-review/audits in addition to the prior review supervision. This proposal is based on the
capaci.Ly aSsesIcL10Lent of11 the AVJ inL AAordLuance WILII LJUh oVeL,aI l ri dZkVbbImULL. I 111s reVIeW
should cover a sample of not less than 1 in 5 contracts signed.
27. Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any
material extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that would
increase aggregate cost by more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower should specify the
reasons thereof and seek IDA' s prior non-objection for the proposed modification.
Status of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
28. As a condition for effectiveness, the PMU will finalize and submit to IDA: (a) a Project
Tmnlemnenttinn Manua!1 with a specific qsction nn nri remernt.t, dptailing (i) nroePdurPC for
planning, calling for bids, selecting contractors, suppliers and consultants, and (b) a Project
Tn,nor.p nantat.n  Plan ar.A a Prac.-..-.n+ Plan for th,e frc.+ ye-ar -o f opratior ar.d (c)\ crat-onf
n±.J..fl%..La.t...l.l Ifl  AIJLLJA.11'.,IL  fljiJAi  Sl.   Allot 7LL O .Y L  WX WjJVLCbLLULO. OIum  k%,;. %.lt,aLIVLI VI
an ad-hoc tender board by the BEAC. The Procedures Manual will be examined and adopted
befo-re credit effectivUsS. ite urait ProJect Implementation Plan (PIP) developed by tie
borrower will be sent to the Bank and approved before the credit effectiveness.
29. A first draft of the Project Implementation Manual has been completed taking as a model the
Project Implementation Manual adopted by the BCEAO regional payment system project which
is almost identical to this project. The procedure to hire a consultant to assist with the
finalization of this document is under way and it is expected that the consultant will be on board
by end June and the manual revised by end July. A preliminarv draft of a proiect implementation
plan has also been prepared and will be revised by BEAC with the assistance of the consultant
and the Bank team. The process for hiring the procuirement speri2!ist within the PMTT has ^lso
started.
-72-



30. After negotiations and before effectiveness, the BEAC will review and agree with IDA on:
(aN a 4raA. nrocuretr,.t fplr £%r +the firs+ phase --.pa-Ae Adurin -pp -sl'1 nissin;- (b) a Ar-4
U I± p..lfllalL fUf JJ* ... *fUO . iluot JL,FcLL.jU LA Lr uu±±n5 aj,uU a.a0 "~ULOOLU1, kw/UIJUI
version of the Request for Proposals Project Consultants; (c) standard bidding documents to be
useu unuderI CBi procedumebs foU  WorK 4UdU oUUs; adUU (U) a plar, 1o0 LIrLUiUg f0r L-.h 117AL phase U1
project's life.
31. BEAC will also give assurance that it will (a) use the Project Implementation Manual; (b)
use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the
selection and employment of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Reports; (c) apply the
procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above; (d) update the procurement plan on a
regular basis during annual reviews with IDA, to compare target times and actual completion,
and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with all procurement-related documents; and (e)
carry out, during quarterly reviews, an assessment of the effectiveness of bidding nrocedures and
performance, as they relate to the program's procurement experience, and propose to IDA for
cnsniderati-^n anv modification t. the                              .      .rr.nt .r.cecAur.e to the exter.t that wuild accelerate
procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and
auw.uaLw wvLAJ1LsJ Uve.I wAJiLIa,L avvaiuo U11U jJayJliuLw:..
32. m auuitiun, BcA., has given assurwices during negotiations mhat it will iaKe the necessary
measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Procurement Plhases                    Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents       4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders         4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation                         2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts         :       2
I Payments                             !3 
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 73-



33. The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity
assessment of the project implementing unit and are summarized in Table B.
Annoy A Tahb! A- Prnia,4 t'ncfc hu Preurefmernton Arrtanntmeanf
(in US$ million equivalent)
| _   _          |           | ~~~~~~~~~Prnetirement  - - . 2 
Expenditure Category        ICB        -N----      Other      N.B.F.   Total
B~~~~~ Cost
|[1. Works                        0.00      m (3)       0.00  |   0.00     m (3)
I __________________________  I _____(_n) I  (0n00)   (fl0 0   I  (0n00)  (00nn  I
2. Goods                           6.0        0.8      00.00      3.70      10.5
ICA\  I    /AO    I (6.0)   I (0 8   ( - °  I ( -( .8
3. Consultant Services     f      0.00     __0.00      __2.4      0.20       2.6|
I__ _ _ _ __   (O.OO)jI  (U.UU)  (2.4)  ]  (0.00)  (2.4)
4. AUDITS                  |     00.00      00.00       0.40  |   0.00      0.40
_ 1                              (0.00) j   (00.0)  j  (0.40) J  (0.00)  1  (0.40)
15. Trainina & Seminars    I     00.00 I    00.00   1   1=60  1   o=30  1    1 90 
(00.00)    (00.00)     (1 .60)  (00.0)     (1 .60)
6.      11lneou-/Ope-3ting     0.00V      V.00        0.8      3.9        4.7
,A AAN     'A lAA      (A O\ o  n AAN      In ON
_____ _____ _____ _____ ____  \ UV .~v ;j  kV.'J. U   k y.0 j  I  WV .V V )  -V.   0)
|7.PPF Refinancing               00.001     00.00       1.10    00.00   |    1.10 1
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (UU.UU)  (00.00)  (1.10)  1(00.00)  1 (1.10)
8. Unallocated             I     00.00 |    00.00  |    1.40  | 00.00   r    1.40
(00.00) [  (00.00)     (1.40) 1(00.00)  J   (1.40)
Total                           6 n        n R        7 7       R 1  I 
____________________________  | (6.0) [  (0.8)  |  (6. j  (0.00)  | (14-5) 
- 74 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant       I QCBS I QBS 1 SFB      I Selection [ Methodi Other 1 N.B.F. I Total
Services                                    LCS      CCQ                      Cost'
Expenditure
Category
A- Firms                0.40 I000       0.00 I     0.20     0.00 -  0.00     0.00    0=60
Vn  | _ J : .! 0. . _ _   | ( .40) | (0.00)  (0.00)  (020)  (0.00) I (0.00)  (0.00) | (0.
D. inuiviUdLld        I U.LV     U.UU I V.UU       U.OU     U.0U1   v.UU    V.-U    I -.UU
(0.20)  (0.00)  (0.00)     (0.80)   (0.80)  (0.00)  (0.00) I (1.80)
Total                   0.60     0.00 I 0.00 1      1.00    0.80 1 0.00      2.40 1   2.60
[(0.60)   (0.00)  (0.00) I  (1.00) ! (0.80) 1 (0.00) I (0.00) I (2.40) 1
1\ InclIudinn onntinennines
Note:         QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individuai consuitants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-finannc
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
- 75 -



Annex 6 - Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
|Expenditure         IContract Value     |Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)          Method              Prior Review /
1 Goods             More than 100,000   ICB                  All contrits eynppedjino the.
equivalent                               thresholds
US$4.1 million
Between US$25,U0   rNCB                  T he first three contracts in
and  US$100,000                          an amount of less than
US$100,000 every year
Expected amount; US$1. 2
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                ~      ~ 1 million 
|[Less than US$25,000  |National/Intemational I See above
shopping
Pxpnctedl smnint: US$300I
|              |~~~~thousands
2. Consultants /                                              Ithuad                  l
Training            h                    K                    K _
a. Firms             in excess of        Quaiity-Cost Based   All T ORS, short lists, dratts
I                    IUS$100,000          ISelection -        Icontracts,  and  Selection|
And Least Cost       reports
I  Selection        I expected amount: US$400
I__ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _   ithousands
Less than US$100,000  Consultant's       All TORS, short
Qualification and Least contracts,  and  selection
ICot qelectinn      Ireports
Expected amount: US$200
I     I                   I                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+.h,ousands
___________________ I__I                                 LII I~ aI               I
Routine/staidard    |Less than US$50,000  Least cost          All TORS, short lists, drafts|
contracts                                                     contracts, and Selection
reports and;            I
[b. Individuals      |Less than US$50,000  [ComParison of 3 CVs |AII TORs, First three Drafts|
of contracts Equal and more
than 30, 000 for individuals
Expected amounts: US$800
I_______________________________                              th Ifousan.d 
lAbove US$50,000     |Quality cost based  All TORS, short lists, drafts
selection           Icontrcts,  and  selection
reports
I________________ i________I                                  millionExpected amount: US$1.6
I  76 I-||million
-76 -



Prior review is required for:
(a) all terms of referefice fori consultants, studies, and training with the exception of the
matching fund sub-component
(hl shnrt list selectiafi rennrt mnd conntract with consiltingi firms of an t.n1iivqI1eint valuei of
US$50,000 or more ( for contracts of an equivalent value of US$100,000 or more, technical
evalua-ion report artt--.dA c^py-f ropoals, iA -ru 1,s11 be A-rrchA-A to- -.   A)
.Vfl1-UuLl-wi1 fl-jJJL   WJ StF'w%FwIJOQ ,  iiI U%1L.L  011011  U%  tUtflIfl   LSJ LIIAJ  -.JaI
(e) short list, selection report, and contract with individuals of an equivalent value of
UaS$2/,000V or Iriiore
(f) sole source selection of indivfdual consultants and -firms
(g) amendments to contracts with consuiting firms that bring the totai value of the contract to
US$50,000    equivalet-T or above, and individuals that bring the total value of the contract to
US$25,000 or above.
Frequency of procurement suDervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes
special procurement supervisiontor-post-review/audits)
Overall Risk Procurement Assessment: Average
- 77 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
AFRICA: BEAC Regional Payment System
Financial Manaaement
1. Summarv of the Fingnpial Monagamant AQDe&sm.en*
General
1. A financial manragem.e.nt system, acceptable to e xri11 be etEHlihe  for the Paym..en.t
System Project. The financial management system will provide accurate and timely information
regardingL reoVUrces ad exU AJed1U1LU1res. IL Will 1lJlUde a4LvulLilirg, finLalcial IrfiJULLiir anLU dUUditiln
elements as well as procurement monitoring. As required by Bank's policies and procedures
(OP`BP 1 U .u), a iinanciai management specialist was involvea in tme project from tne
pre-appraisal stage to ensure that financial management requirements are correctly addressed.
This involved an assessment of the project's financial management capacity to identify any need
of improvement in order to fully comply with Bank's requirements and project needs.
2. Based on the assessment of management procedures and systems of BEAC, project's
implementing agency, it is agreed with the client that an autonomous structure should be set up
for the follow up of proiect transactions. This structure should be eauipped with management
procedures and systems, an operational software and a financial specialist completely
independent frAm B FAC'q system hut iunder ite cnnint1 Th. svytem.. npePdPd f;or thep nrno,r-t ,vll
include accounting, internal control, procurement monitoring, financial reporting, auditing,
bUUdgetin1g,, 1I4I.mS.LO 1iAJLoiLLIL  etL. B.Pasu eilA Llivav aoLn VIA1e6LIL, a deLil aLctioi pidal wao UueinedU
with the client to correct all the identified weaknesses prior to project effectiveness.
Financial Management Capacity Assessment
3. Implementation arrangements: The project implementation over four years would be
coordinated by a special unit (PMU) composed of staff from existing departments assigned to the
special unit for the duration and staff detached from the commercial banks or recruited among
specialized consultants (the MRSMP). A financial management Specialist will be attached to the
project unit.
Description of the existing accounting system!
4. BEAC accounts are mair.tained by tlhe DTp& ment of A ,-.unts and,A B t .4-.-l which
includes four services: General Accounts, Treasury, Budget Control, Statistics and Accounts
1A__ _1  A r%:- ____t_.______._                                   _  ___r    ._ 
diIalybl:. tl L-IIVctUr a11U LWU assistlaLs a[e -in lWare5 of thisb Ut;pa-rtHent WlnUSt mami IunctCIus
are:
- keeping BEAC accounts in respect of generally accepted accounting standards and rules;
- budget control over headquarters' expenses;
- planning and monitoring of receipts;
- monitoring BEAC's Operation Account with French Treasury.
-78-



Accounting
BEAC accounts comply with commercial bank accounting regulations. Transactions are recorded
in a budgetary manner .where each subaccounr t corresponds to a budget line, each arcount to an
article of the budget and each general account to a chapter or group of chapters of the budget. It is
art engagVe-ILIC-t a-CCournLing .lehns1--Assel..egnelacu.igsevc            ucin
an ~I~G4EIUL 1IAAUIIII1 LiLnv,%t.aIai1Ii UaO.,LU OYZL41U1. I 1L, rVIAVLid Wa.,Uu1iLiilr ,
are:
- validation and centralization of supporting documents of headquarters services;
- monitoring of agencies accounts;
- centralization of agencies accounting situations;
- preparation of monthly accounting situations;
- preparation of-financial statements with details.
With data collected from headquarters services and agencies. the general accounting service
performs the required analysis and consolidation to produce the financial statements of the
institntion
Bookkeeping mechanism is decentralized in a computerized environment. Agencies accounts are
-e-iA at headquarters onn drlsclrtt cr  "on-r suppon-rt documer,ts. hAA^t"+16  cai-ot  aOr
prepared by the department of Accounts and Budget Control on extra-accountability basis. An
integLradLu LconoHUidLUt U acoUULILIIIg sILUaLionI is plurLUmu ovi,y atL L-er,dUIU Vof LIIe fiscad perioU.
Budget Control
Budget control mainly concerns the following aspects aspects:
- the reality of expenses, the verification of supporting documents;
- the regularity and opportunity of expenses: choice of supplier, the respect of the budget line
entry, the analysis of differences between forecasts and realizations, the respect of various
authorizations governing purchases, etc.
- the validation of budget expenses;
- the monitoring of engagements;
- the validation of draft accounting entries prepared by headquarters services;
tli..  I aflflishilJit sA ishA-I ts8.i  1.fnlCitiso,
-   a0acs-s"l--, v- ^f =ww s"-AsaisaA
- the monitoring of budget consumption;
- cornments and reporLs on budget consumption;
- etc.
The budget control is prior review at the level of agencies and external services while it is
post-review at headquarters. Most of control operations are automatic.
The budget
Budgetary management is performed by the Department of Budget attached to the Secretary
- 79 -



General and budgetary control by the Department of Accounts and Budget Control.
The Department of Budget takes care of:
- budget preparation (centralization of budget propositions) and its presentation for approval
to theo Bloard4. afir accepntonrce by the Budge.t Committee;~pp
- the delegation of budgeted funds after approval;
- ImorlltilUlu  of VI UUUrUL ecAUUtiVII. IIIULLUIy dalUybis ar,dU erHUdaILLaL1UI VI  bUUdgL
consumption with comments to the agencies and services;
- budget corrections based on infiation consequences;
- middle term review of budget realizations (after the six first months)
- budget verification at the end of period, the reconciliation of planning and realization.
A monthly consolidated summary of budget consumption is prepared within the days following
the end of each month. This summary presents a comparison between consumption at the end of
the month and budget allocations. A global situation is prepared at the end of the period along
with the financial statements.
.Mnnnoemepni nronpdurpm
BEAC  urret r.5.agm-1tpoedrshv        bee. .nfocefo more tha    ten yar. .^.e-
procedures and systems are presented in three sets of manuals. Most of these documents present
* . A..A AAtl  s 1 : -   _.  ---  A-.   ._-_A_ - At  _  . I  --t_   __A --A _ 
LIU llbL VI XWWUUII UbVU aILU Ume llIiU1 V i WVUULUI aIkU UUUoLUl5 LLLIU5 dU1U pVbLU1b.
They are mostly accounting and budgeting oriented procedures. The administrative, procurement
and most of internal control aspects are either summarily presented or not treatea. BESAC
procedures and systems are not efficient enough for project management as required by the
Bank's Financial Management Initiative. The specific aspects relating to Bank supported projects
are only slightly or not treated at all in the manuals (Work program and budgeting, procurement,
loan monitoring, administration, statement of expenses, special account, contracts monitoring,
etc.)
BEAC nrocedures and systems are not sufficiently developed and explained. Such is the case of:
- administrative management (out and in mail. Dersonnel and pay system, missions. chain of
information, fixed assets and equity management, stocks and goods, contract monitoring,
etc )
- procurement operations are not described step by step to guarantee the efficiency of the
meChcu.is=-
- the follow up procedures of fixed assets are not precisely described to guarantee an efficient
use andu ule secu[ity Cer category of asse-s; and
- most of the main procedures and systems generally accepted might be regulated through
internal notices not included in the manuai of procedures mentioned above.
In view of these results, BEAC has agreed on the need of an autonomous structure. This will be
the Project Management Unit.
- 80-



The nroiect would be en,uinned with a multi-curren.y Gncvninting softwafre capable of recording
and reporting the project's operations by component, sub-component, activity, and expenditure
cate.go-t rpcarilpoe nf thp nrrilmn o"f firntd Thl k r  ch^w,il ac nff w e l.A.-ft ,lrAnnhnA nat
monitoring module, a contract monitoring module and a reporting module, capable of generating
LMh, periodic% project ruaIarV,111.ment reporZ Lequiredune .heU LI Fialcjloial iManagC11erILt 1Initiaivez,
formerly known as LACI. The software should be installed and functioning satisfactorily to IDA
prior to effeciiveness.
Financial reporting:
Separate financial statements will be prepared for the project. They will comprise: i) a statement
of Source and Application of Funds for the project during the current financial year and
cumulatively since the start of the project, and ii) a balance sheet. These two financial statements
will be prepared annually. In addition, it was agreed during negotiations that the PMU will
submit biannual report using the FMR (Project management Report) models including financial
renorts; nhvsical nrogress renorts and pronuremenfon/coitrmcts report.s within 45 days of the end of
the reporting period. BEAC will also provide it own annual reports to IDA.
It was agreed to begin with traditional disbursement arrangements through a Special Account and
LateLmIerL VI eAxnitU1LUrs (OEJLs). IL is exped Lil.hL i.ILI ae   aperIU VI six () LIIUIILIIS of
implementation, the project's financial management capacity will be strengthened enough to
prepare accurate FviRs tnat could be used as a basis of disbursement as required under Financial
Management Initiative. A new financial management system assessment will be necessary by
January 2003 to determine compatibility with FMI and to propose the use of FMR-based
disbursements method or any strengthening action plan necessary to meet the FMI requirements.
The supporting documentation required for report based disbursement is different from the
documentation required for transaction based disbursement. To be eligible for report based
disbursement, borrowers must: (a) have an acceptable financial management system; and (b) be
capable of oroducing FMR Dlus additional disbursement information (schedules)-
ProjieCt Acconting Srtaffing:
Irle project undAe p.eparation is impler.-nted- by appoir.te 1BEAC A  --U-L--. .1ese persons zre
generally well trained but have very weak knowledge of Bank directives and principles. They
neeu complernte-ary trraining sessions to iamiiiarize witn w oriu BanK practices. I ne iinancial
management specialist within that team is still in charge of his previous responsibilities with
BEAC. In such a situation he will not be as efficient as expected. BEAC should discharge this
specialist of his former responsibilities, appoint or recruit a financial specialist who will be
exclusively in charge of project management. Whatever the case, the person to be employed
needs a training to familiarize with Bank directives in general and with procedures and systems
implemented for the project. The choice of a financial management specialist and his training to
Bank directives and project procedures and systems will be a condition for proiect effectiveness.
The functions of this specialist will be well clarified under the manual of procedures.
- 81 -



2. Audit Arrangements
Auditing: The financial statements of the proiect will be audited for each fiscal year by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable
to IDA Audit repnnrts of rePaonsh-le scpne and detail will he suhmitted to IDA within six months
of the end of the audited period. The auditor will provide an opinion on: i) the project financial
stat..ements (ctarniennt of Snou.-ce .-A Applmca+tin of  -. d-A 1lQ^-r.'a seet.); ii) the crtatomoert nf
expenditures (SOE); iii) the special account (SA).
The auditor will also issue a separate management report on internal and operational procedures
outlining any recommendations for improving internai accounting controis and operationai
procedures identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
The appointment of an auditor for the project acceptable to IDA according to terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of project effectiveness.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Categoiy      Amount in US$million       Financing Percentage
Wa rk                                  0(05                        100%
IGoods and equipment                     6.80                      100%
It--- Su  -4-1         IIAn                                I OAnOL
Training                                 1.60                      100%
loperating costs                 _I UU7/o
|Refunding of Project Preparation  1.10              I Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02 of 1
Advance                                   I                    this Agreement
Unallocated                    |        1.35
Total Project Costs             |       14.50        4                                l
|Total                          |       14.50        l
NB: BEAC is a non profit making organization exempt from all taxes and duties in Member states
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
JiburseDlelrILs for1 a'll exprlditlUes WUUUl bUe dargaist full GIocum11Mentatlion, re-xcept 1  con11Ltracts
below the value of US$100,000 equivalent for goods, US$100,000 for consulting firms, and
US$50,000 for individual consultants, training, and incremental operating costs for whicn
disbursements would be based on Statements of Expenditures (SOE's). Supporting
documentation for SOE's would be retained by the borrower (PMU) for review by IDA missions
and external auditors. All expenditures above the thresholds indicated above would be eligible
for direct payment.
Special account:
Under Traditional Procedures. In order to facilitate proiect implementation, BEAC will open a
- 82 -



Spec-ial Aconunt. The authorized allocation wih cov.em four months of eligible expenditures will
be CFAF 450.000.000. Upon effectiveness, an amount representing 50% of the authorized
alflocation (i.e. iGVAr 22.00.00 will beA depoite into4- ;+ +,he Specia Account 'M n.aiu
alnl~.,Ln~s  ,~ .t....   mu  . WVV.VuV.V J  Will  Ut.. %VFVOLL%U  ZUIL%  LILt.  L,jJVXLs*.IO  rflL.UUZ L.  A li,lfUfiiUl
amount in the special account will remain at this level until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from ith CredUIL AccoU1lL Will be equa;l o or exceed the equivalent oi SlDR 1,60,00.
Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly or more frequently as needed. The
applications will include details identifying the amounts withdrawn.
Under FMR Disbursements. Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of
the Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, deposit into the Special Account an
amount equal to the lesser of: a) the amount requested; and b) the amount which IDA has
determined, based on the Financial Monitoring Report accompanving the application, is required
in order to finance eligible expenditures during the following six-month period, provided the
total account balance does not exceed the equivalent of US$TJ00f0f00-
- 83 -



A---- 7: PrJc      ------n   Schdul
IfuI*W- I * 1 I WJJWI.L FE %.D,WOEIE I  SJ%.9 1UIUIW
AFRICA: BEAC Regional Payment System
lPro'ect Schedule                                -Planned .                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             .
Appraisal misslion depariure                    043iOi2002                  04/U i/UU2
Negotiations                                    04/10/2002                  04/17/2002
Planned Date ot Effectiveness                   08/31/2002
Prepared by:
RBAC
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Andre Ryba                        Task Team Leader - Lead Banking Sector Specialist, AFTFS
Charlie Garrigues                 Senior Payment System Specialist, FSD
Claudine M. Morin                 Senior Counsel, L EGPA 
Guy Joseph Malembeti              Procurement Specialist, AFMCM
Wiliem Zijp                       Operations Adviser, Ar T QK
Fridolin Ondobo                   Financial Management Specialist, AFMCM
Amy Champion                      | Program Assistant, AFTPS
|Bernadette Nyanjo Djapa          | Program Assistant, AFMCM
Andrea M. Vasquez                 Program Assistant, AFTPS
Arin ( riwcfinp Rpnnip           if                      -IA.,,;So ~ 1*, A rTEVU
, n 1.rstn  Aene                  ar' Financial Secto:rSpecials,AwF
Isabella Micali Drossos           Senior Counsel, LEGAF
lAgnes Aiber-Lom                   Disbursement Specialist, LOAG I
- 84 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
AFRiCA: BEAC Regional Payment System
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Timetable for Project Implementation
*   Procurement Plan
*   Cost Tables by component
*   BEAC nroject presentation to CAF.MvJ Banks date
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Minutes of PCD Review Meeting, March, 2001
*   Aide-Memoire and Back to Office Report, December, 2001
* Minutes of the meetings with French Banks on BEAC Project, October 2001
* Minute of Decision Meeting
C. Other
*   General Report of the Douala workshop, March 2001
*   General Report of Libreville workshop, May 2001
*     nl S..th.ese de aux o-n,, ' f Brazzavillei ,.nrrhol,a Dece,a.,be.r 2001
*   D&laration commune de P'interbancarite dans la Communaute Economique et
iviuone-ture ue I Ajrique Centrule
* Accord constitutif du Comite Regional de Normalisation Financiere
*   Rapport surpaiement de masse, January 2002
*   Rapport sui gros montant, January 2002
* Rapport sur la monetique, January 2002
*   Rapport sur la composantejuridique, January 2002
*   Documentation de base de la Reforme des Systemes de Paiement et de Reglement de la
zone CEMAC
*Including electronic files
- 85 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
AFRICA: BEAC Regional Payment System
1 3-Jun-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in US$ Millions                    disbursements
Project ID  FY   Purpose                              IBRD      IDA               GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev'd
P073065     2001 MulU-sectoral HIV/AIDS Procect           0.00    50 00             0.00     0.00    48.83    -390     0.00
P05105S9    2000 ''HAD.'CAM PIPE (CAJM)                  S340      0.00             0 00     0.00    401.35    4 65    0 00
P048204     2000 ENVIRONMENTOILTA                         000      577              0.00     0.00     5.32     083     000
P065927     2000 PubllcJPrivate Partnership, Growth       0 00    20.90             0 00     0.00    15 96     9.39    0.00
P045348     1999 AG.EXT &RES SUPPORT                      000     15.10             0.00     0.00     897      734     0.00
P055684     1998 Hgehr Education (LIL)                    000      4.90             0.00     000      2.87     2 95    283
P.-S43      1.9S8 SAC llt                                 0 00   t_.00.00                    0 00    _1.02    e2.8.2  69.55
P000393     1998 TRANSPORT SECTOR                         0.00    60 70             0.00     0.00    14.00    18.42    2 92
P000311     1995 BIODIVERSITYCONSERV                      000      000              6.00     000      0.47     098     0.00
Total:    53 40    337.37           8 00      0.00    215.59   103 49    75 30
AFRICA
QTATL;NAxI~   T (nT t1C"
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
A     - 20)0
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                            Disbursed
!FC                                 IfC
FY Approval           Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic    Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1995                  AEF Comi-l-p Avicole              0.24     0.00)    0 0.00   0.00     0.24      0.00     0.00     0.00
2002                  AEF FME-GAZ                       0.00     o.oo     0.32     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.32      0.00
7000                  AEF Hobec                         0.33     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.13     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996                  AEF Notacam                       0.62     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.62     0.00     0.00     0.00
1994/96               AEF Proleg                        0.00     0.00     0.oo     o.oo      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1999                  AEF Saicarn                       0.00     0.00     0.30     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.30     0.00
2000                  BICEC                             0.00     0.67     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
I QR#                 CICAM                             1.72     0.00     0.00     0o0       1.72     000      0.00     0.00
2000                  COTCO                            86.10     0.00     0.00    86.10     23.19     0.00     0.00     23.19
1992/94/97/98         Pecten Cameroon                  24.00     0.00     0.00    76.00      6.57     0.00     0.00    20.81
2002                  SC MOB[LES                        4.96     0.00     2.69     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:          117.97     0.67      3.31   162.10     32.47     0.00     0.62    44.00
Anpprovsv  P-mn.lao Crnmmitm-nt
FY Approval          Company                              Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic
0An                  A FF (nomnlexn et                     n£         nan        U I        nAn
vuuu            - ~~~~~~~~- r-                      v vu      v.         w. vI      v vu
2000                 CAG Fund                              0.00       0.00      10.00       0.00
Tot'al Pen,dirg Commitument:          0.00      0.00       0.1i7      0.00



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
AFRICA: BEAC Regional Payment System
Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa (EMCMC) at a glance                                                    3/30/2001
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  Monetary Community      middle
Cetnral Africa  Income        Development dlamond
Population, mid-year (millions)                                      30 2   5,083.8                     f
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                   580      1.240                    Llfe expectancy
GNP (Atlas method. USS bilons)                                       17.5   6,310.8                          T
Average annual growth, i993.99
Population (X)                                                        2.7        1.5
Labor force (XJ                                                       2.9        1.8     GNP                  Io.              g       I
Most recent estim ate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                   Capita                          enrollment
Poverty (  ofpopulation below national povoerty line)
Urban population (% oftotaipopulelion)                                44         41
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                      49         85                           !
Infant mortallty (per 1,000 live births)                              88         59
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)                                        31                  Access to safe water
Access .o safe0 water '% ofpc^tM.ip O:la-la                           62         73 
I lliteracy I(X otfpo p uleaon age f s+)                              38I2S                   -     Ecnomic and Monretary
Gross primary enrollment (IX ofschool-age population)                 76        107                 CommunityofCetnralA
Male                                                                          110              --[ow   middle income oxouD
Female                                                                        101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
11979    11989       1 998     1999
Ecenomic ratloe'
GDP (USS bIllions)                              11.8      20 5       18        19.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  *28.0      18.0       24.       2.0Trade
Exports ,of goods ond sirvicasc/GDP             33 0      29.2
Gross domestic savings/GOP                      28.9      19.8       239       21.7
Gross national savings/GDP                               Itt.9       12.6       11 4T
Current arccoun balnce/GlfP                     _7        x3l         7 .        A .                        I
Interestpayments/GiP                             1 7       1.5        1.9        2.4     Domestic                        Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  464       70.1      118.1      1092      Savings
Total debt service/exports                      14 3      15.9       13.2       14.7                                                   I
Present value of debtGDP                                            10i.8      88.
Present value of debt/exports                                       281.3     213.0
IndebtednessI
1979.89   1989.99       1998      1999
(average annual growth)
GOP                                              3.8       1.4        4.5       0.4     i            Economic and Wonetary
P~~~~~~~~~~~~                               h                     18                  Community of CetrralAfrics
GNP per capita                                   1 5      -1.9        5 9       -t                    omnyo        enaArc
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979      1989       1998       1999      Grswth of Investment and GDP I%i
(X6 otGDP)                                                                               40
Agricuture                                      24 7      22.6       30.7      31.2       0
Industry                                        31, S     31.S.      29.3      27 e-     20° t
Manufacturing                                  7 3      11.2        8.8        8,6     oI .
Services                                        43.4     45.9        40.0      41.3       o 
Priate consumptio, n                            593       67.0       64 I      a         . e                   9 an         98    '9
General governmentconsumption                   11 7      13.3       11.7      1t.7_I_                                   GOP
Imports of goods and services                   33 6      27.6       3S.6      33 6                  -   GD         -   -
(average annual growth)                     1979.89   1989.99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and lrports I%)
Agriculture                                      2S        3.7        4.5       4
; nC uistr y                                     a. S       s 0. So Ssx°        2 
ManufacturIng                                  6.9      -02         7.1        68      20
Service.                                         3 1       0.8        2.4       -4.1    in
Privatea consum.....ption                        3.9       13                    I .. 8                   Z    ,-\    ^1'  °   <    .  I   *
General government consumption                   8 4       0.4        1.4       -2.2       f °     t           '     rd      9 
Gross domestic Investment                       -1.9       2.9       157       -9.0     1'°                            T
Imports of goods and services                    2 6       3.0        6E6 -6.1          |E              xpons      -   npxrIn      
Gross national product                           4 3       0.9        87         0.9
Note 1999 data are preliminary estimxtes.This table was produced from the Development Economics central database
Economic and Monetary Community Cetnral Africa includes Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Rep , Equatorial Guinea,
and Gabon
* The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Rts Income-group average. If data are missing,
the diamond will be incomplete Access to safe water f% of DoDulation) shows 2000 data.
- 87 -



Report No.:        24411  AFR
Type:     PAD



