Report No. PID10303
Project Name             Africa Region-BEAC Regional Payment (@)
System
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Financial Sector Development
Project ID               FlPE72881
Borrower(s)              BEAC
Implementing Agency
Address BEAC
BEAC
Address: B P : 1917 Yaounde, Republique
du Cameroun
Contact Person: Mr. Clement Mouamba
Tel: (237) 223 40 60/223 40 30
Fax: (237) 223 33 29
Email: beac@beac.int
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        February 15, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                     March 15, 2002
Projected Board Date     May 28, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The present payment system is a constraint to the development of the
economy and banking sector in the Central Africa sub-region. As appraised
during the FSAP mission in early 2000, and agreed by all participants to
the workshops held in Douala, Libreville and Brazzaville, the system is
slow, unreliable, cumbersome and costly to all participants. The formal
sector is still narrow in the CAEMU area, and most retail transactions are
in cash. The number of bank accounts is small; it is estimated that less
than 3 percent of the 16.16 million active population in the sub-region
have a bank account compared to 90 to 95 percent in developed countries.
Payment instruments offered by banks are still based on paper with a
predominance of checks. (see table below providing the results of the
Yaounde clearing and settlement center for October 2000)October 2000,
YaoundeNumber(unit)WValue (million)9%Average
value(thousand)Checksl4,86098.436,31596.42,453Letter of exchange
(effets)1781.19292.45,223Transfers
(virements)640.54101.26,419Totall5,10210037,654100Checks represent more
than 98t of the number and 96t of the value of non-cash transactions. It
is clear as well that checks, with an average value of F CFA 2.4 million
are not used for day-to-day retail operations. Cards have been introduced
recently by some commercial banks in Cameroon and Gabon, mainly for cash
withdrawal. Large value transactions are still related to individual fund
transfer orders sent by commercial banks to BEAC, in order to cover debit
balances resulting from pre-clearing sessions that have to be settled in
BEAC settlement accounts the following morning. Statistics related to
these transfers are not yet available.In the late 1980s, poor
macroeconomic policies and mismanagement of banks, many of them in the



public sector, led to economic decline and a financial sector crisis in
most member countries. The devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994,
supported by economic reform programs, has restored a healthy export-led
growth in most countries of the region. Most countries have also
implemented far-reaching reform programs in their financial sectors,
including privatization of banks and reinforcement of supervision by the
creation of a regional Banking Commission (COBAC).The telecommunications
sector remains a major stumbling block to the development of an efficient
payment system. In most countries, the privatization process of this
sector has been launched, and private mobile companies are considering
offering sophisticated services, such as secured mobile and internet
communications, to the banking industry. In recent years, banks have
invested in the development of information technology. BEAC is developing
its own satellite network to connect its 6 national and 12 local branches
in CAEMU countries. Some banks are also developing telecommunication
infrastructure to link their own branches. It is expected that some of
this infrastructure could be shared among financial institutions and used
for improving the payments system and other data transmission (MIS) at a
low cost to banks.The legal framework, including inter-bank rules and
procedures to ensure that payment transaction processing is fully secured,
automated and efficient , needs to be strengthened, in particular with
regards to non cash and electronic payments. Standardization of paper and
electronic payment instruments ( format, codification, security features)
is urgent in order to prevent different commercial banks from definUng
differing and incompatible standards.
2. Objectives
The global objective of the project is to improve the efficiency and
security of payments in the Central African Economic and Monetary Union
(CAEMU ). Detailed objectives are:9 To increase payment safety and
security, B To increase the supply of banking services to the population,S
To develop modern electronic payment instruments,9 To develop the
inter-bank financial market,9 To reduce bank operating costs and client
fees,9 To reduce the time required for clearing and settlement, B To
reduce the use of cash,9 To comply with international standards,S To
improve the legal and regulatory framework in order to restore client
confidence in banks and payment instruments.By supporting the
implementation of a modern payment infrastructure for the entire CAEMU
area, the project would contribute to the development of non cash
transactions, the reinforcement of banks, the development of microfinance
institutions, the deepening of the financial sector, and, more generally,
the expansion of trade and investment in member countries. The above
measures will have primarily an indirect impact on poverty, by improving
access to the banking system to a larger share of the population and
strengthening microfinance intermediation.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has supported the reform of the financial sector in five of the
six countries concerned, through adjustment lending, technical assistance
and investment lending. The Bank has been instrumental in mobilizing
funds for project preparation. A Bank payment system specialist has
visited key stakeholders and, drawing lessons from experience around the
world, has provided critical input to help build a consensus on project
approach, technical and institutional issues. The Bank has assisted BEAC
in the creation of an International Advisory panel composed of Central
-2 -



Bank's representatives of, France, Swiss, Tunisia, and a representative
from the IMF, who will actively participate in consultative meetings. In
close coordination with the Bank team, and with the objective of following
up on the FSAP mission's recommendations, the IMF has appointed a resident
advisor to assist the Project Director during the project preparatory
phase. It is agreed that the IMF adviser will be monitored by the Bank
team.The proposed project is the result of a direct request from BEAC's
Governor to Vice- President Madavo BEAC is a key player in the CAEMU zone
in promoting financial sector and fiscal stability and economic reform,
and has a direct mandate to maintain an efficient payments system in the
sub-region. Developing and maintaining a partnership with BEAC is
paramount for the Bank's macroeconomic and financial sector work in the
six member countries. This project would build on the ongoing dialogue
and help BEAC introduce a modern payments system and develop new basic
banking services with the support of the banking community in the area.
4. Description
At this stage, the description presented below reflects the directions in
which the preparation process is engaged. At the end of this process
(expected in fall 2001) a revised and more accurate description would be
presented in the PAD.The project includes seven components: - a project
management support component: this is a key condition for success due to
the complexity and timeframe of such a project, which require a
professional project management approach ;- a real time settlement system
in order to provide timely settlement of large value transactions related
to the inter-bank and securities markets . This system would also enable
the settlement of net low value clearing and settlement systems in a
timely and secure manner,- a low value electronic clearing and settlement
system, to reduce the time and cost of retail banking payments and restore
customers'confidence in banks and basic banking services,- an inter-bank
card system, to develop electronic transactions on a regional basis and
reduce the use of costly and unsecured cash and paper-based payment
instruments ;- a pilot scheme for e-money to enable the supply of
electricity to the poor in a safe and reliable financial environment ;- a
common telecommunication and computer infrastructure, and,- a risk
management system for securing payment transactions in order to better
manage customer credit and fraud..i) The project support component
includes project management and monitoring, procurement, base line surveys
that will enable the project management unit to measure the base-line
situation and the evolution of performance indicators during and after
project implementation. Other activities in this component would include
the improvement of the legal framework, identification of requirements to
upgrade BEAC and commercial banks' information and computer systems, and
training. International and local consultants will be hired to assist the
project team in managing and implementing the above-mentioned actions. ii)
The large value settlement component includes the establishment of a Real
Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system at the regional level. This system
will process large or urgent transactions sent individually by head
offices of commercial banks and other participating financial
institutions. The objective of this system is to settle transactions
within a few minutes under normal conditions. Liquidity and risk
management features will be included in the system's functionality in
order to comply with international standards. The RTGS system would be
open to banks and other financial institutions through three different
access modes: i) a direct participant would manage its own account at BEAC
-3 -



and have direct technical (on line) access to the RTGS ; ii) an indirect
participant would have a settlement account managed by BEAC, but would
use a direct participant's platform or that of a service provider to
access the RTGS ; iii) in the third mode, the financial institution would
be represented by a direct participant and would have no settlement
account in BEAC's books. The direct participant providing the service
would be financially responsible for all transactions made on behalf of
that institution.The RTGS system would process and settle transfers in CFA
francs among participants or with the Central Bank, and the bilateral or
multilateral balances resulting from the clearing of low value
transactions in netting systems. It would also settle the payment leg of
securities transactions (processed by BEAC or other government securities
clearing and settlement systems). The settlement of the payment leg of
securities traded on the Regional Stock Market if and when implemented
could also be made through the RGTS. FCFA cover and transfers related to
international transactions would be processed through this system as
well.Volume of transactions to be processed in the RTGS system will be
estimated during project preparation. Credit orders would represent the
major share of transactions. iii) The objective of the low value clearing
and settlement component is to significantly improve the clearing and
settlement of low value transactions (e.g. checks, letters of exchange,
credit orders, direct debit, card transactions)To avoid the drawbacks
associated with the clearing of paper instruments, and lengthy
transportation delays, a new scheme is currently under study: the use of
MICR or OCR techniques (magnetic or optical characters are printed at the
bottom of the paper instrument) would enable the automation of exchange
and clearing of instruments in an automated national clearinghouse.
Furthermore, it is envisaged that scanning of the paper instrument would
enable an electronic transmission that would permit the payor's bank to
swiftly control the full validity of the instrument and accelerate the
credit to end customer accounts. Electronic access to a national
clearinghouse system would be provided at the local level through BEAC's
offices and network, if internal commercial banknetworks are not
operational. This scheme would allow any bank to submit all its payment
instruments to the nearest access point, whatever the location of the
other bank branch involved in the transaction. For archiving purposes,
paper transactions, including "outstation transactions", would be
exchanged in parallel by using, for example, the facilities of the former
clearing houses (e.g. BEAC offices). Rejection of payments through the
electronic clearing house system would be permitted within an agreed
number of days, depending on the type of transaction and complexity of
control. In this scheme, interbank clearing and settlement would be done
on the basis of electronic files and the legal framework would need to be
adapted to support the validity of electronic data and digital signature.
Initially, settlements would be made on a semi-manual basis at the end of
each clearing and settlement cycle through the posting of net balances
into a single settlement account of each participating bank held at each
BEAC national office. When the large value clearing and settlement system
(RTGS) is in place, settlement of multilateral balances would be
processed automatically. The volume of transactions to be processed in
the low value clearing and settlement system will be estimated during
project preparation. iv) The objective of the card component is to
coordinate and strengthen commercial bank initiatives in card activity
through the development of an inter-bank card scheme at the sub-regional
level. The banking community would develop a common card logo and brand
- 4 -



name, enabling bank customers to use any card accepted in the scheme in
any Automated Teller Machine (ATM) or merchant's equipment (Point Of Sale
- POS). This new line of products would be designed to be consistent
with commercial banks' strategies and client needs at the local, national,
sub-regional and international levels.It is expected that this inter-bank
approach will enable a very rapid development of this instrument in the
whole sub-region and a decrease in cash transactions. In the future, some
arrangement could be agreed upon with West Africa, for instance to have
the central and West African cards accepted throughout the whole African
French Franc Zone.    This component would include the design and
progressive implementation of a new regulatory framework: contractual
arrangements between banks and their clients, minimum requirements for
inter-bank services and standards, common risk management rules and
procedures, loss sharing agreement in case of fraud, and establishment of
a common legal entity in charge of regulating the system and maintaining
relations with international bank card networks like VISA and MASTERCARD
on behalf of commercial banks. The common entity would be in charge of
coordinating technical standards and quality and security of operations,
including the use and certification of existing facilities offered by
banks or by service providers with the objective of decreasing costs,
sharing investments, and increasing reliability and security of the entire
system. Volume of transactions to be processed in the card system will be
estimated during project preparationv) A "financing of the poor" component
would include the implementation of a pilot scheme to test the technical,
economic and social feasibility of using "e-money" systems, such as
pre-paid smart cards, for small payments to be made by households that
currently have no access to banking services, in particular the poor. The
pilot would initially focus on the automatic and pre-payment of utility
services like electricity and water supply.Some pilot experiences have
already been implemented for a one or two year test period in several
countries of the sub-region. However, given the significant up-front
investment required and the social implications, a more coordinated
approach involving all stakeholders concerned ( NGOs, local authorities,
electricity provider, banks, etc.) would be conducted during the
preparatory phase in order to design the pilot scheme.This component would
develop on a wider scale existing schemes in which electricity and water
supply companies are offering their services to the poor. This is done on
the basis of pre-paid e-money cards In such a scheme, a smart card
(similar to telephone prepaid cards) is bought by the customer from the
utility service provider (or from a bank), and the amount of money paid to
the provider or the bank is registered in the memory of the card. In the
household, equipment is installed that allow electricity to be supplied as
long as some "money" remains in the memory of the card. Automatically, the
amount corresponding to consumption is "debited" in the card. When no more
money is available, supply is stopped and the user has to go to a bank or
another supplier to reload the card. . For utility companies, this
solution represents a way to deliver their services with a significant
reduction in the cost of connection (or de-connection), of collection of
information on usage, and of payments. This specific use of smart cards
should enable the development of this technique in other fields such as
health services, transport, welfare payments, where payment, collection,
and controls are inefficient and fraud very high.vi) The telecommunication
infrastructure component is key in improving the efficiency of the
systems described above and reducing operating costs. A few satellite and
land telecommunication networks have been put in place by BEAC and
- 5-



commercial banks, however coverage is still incomplete and does not fully
respond to the needs of the financial sector, and investment and operating
costs are high. A common approach by the whole financial community should
speed up the provision of telecommunication infrastructure, improve
dialogue with the telecommunication operators in the region, and sizably
reduce the cost of electronic transfers for inter-bank and intra-bank
transactions.The telecommunication infrastructure component will include
local, national and regional networks that have to be built or
strengthened and secured for all clearing and settlement operations (large
value and low value transactions, card authorizations and cash
withdrawals, exchange of data--reports, files, internet banking--
etc.).vii) the risk management component objectives are to secure payment
transactions, manage customer credit , and mitigate fraud or abuse. It is
a key element for reducing fraud, claims and disputes and providing
confidence to banks and their customers. Different approaches /systems
have been put in place in developed and developing countries with varying
results. The objective is to design and implement a system that will
result in rapid improvements for banks and their customers, and that will
include risk management for all kinds of instruments.A detailed design,
taking into account the specific requirements of stakeholders in the
region, and based on a progressive and pragmatic approach, will be
available at the end of the preparation phase of the project. A revised
estimate will be provided at the end of preparation phase.
Project management support
(including training)
Large Value Payment System
Low Value Payment System
Bank Card System
E-money pilot scheme
Risk management /credit bureau
Legal, Technology standards,
Telecommunications
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 9
IDA                      11
Total Project Cost       20
6. Implementation
Implementation period.   The project would be implemented over a five year
period. The implementation plan will be designed in detail at the end of
the preparation phase. The pace of implementation will be flexible and
progressive in step with the degree of development and preparedness of the
financial sector and financial institutions in each member country. A
baseline survey of beneficiaries would be conducted at the beginning of
the project, and follow-up surveys would be carried out when systems are
in place and operating.Implementing agencies. Project implementation
would be coordinated by a special unit created within BEAC. Staff from
existing departments would be assigned to the special unit for the
duration of the project. The unit would receive assistance from
specialized consultants. Commercial banks have been very closely
- 6 -



associated in the design of the project and would participate actively in
its implementation. They would be responsible for the installation of
facilities required to make the systems work within their own
institutions.Oversight and coordination. A Steering Committee, with
executive powers under BEAC chairmanship, would monitor the
implementation. It would review progress and make decisions as
appropriate during project implementation. It would meet at least on a
quarterly basis and report to BEAC's Governor. The Ministers of Finance
of the six countries concerned would review progress in the context of
regular meetings of the Council of Ministers. Project organization
scheme(See diagram distributed separately)Accounting, Financial Reporting,
and Auditing Arrangements. BEAC would manage a special account on an
imprest basis, using acceptable accounting methods. BEAC would manage
accounting, procurement, reporting and auditing for the project. The
project accounting system would be compliant with OP/BP 10.02. BEAC's*
accounting staff is fully qualified for keeping project accounting
records. BEAC* would prepare annual accounts for external audit, no later
than four months after the end of each calendar year. Signed audit
reports would be submitted annually to IDA no later than six months after
the end of the calendar year. The audit reports would cover the project
accounts, the special account and SOEs. The recruitment of external
auditors would be a condition for Board..Para. on LACI compliance.
7. Sustainability
To be completed at the end of preparatory phaseThe project objective is to
install infrastructure which is technically and financially sustainable.
Technicians required to operate and maintain the systems would receive
on-the-job training from specialized consultants and systems suppliers.
Each participating institution would ensure that its staff is fully
conversant with the new technologies and methods. In any case, operating
costs of the new systems would be recovered from participating
institutions, which would in turn charge their clients for the services.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The first lesson drawn from experience is that the development and
implementation of a payments system is a complex process requiring the
active involvement of all stakeholders. A regional steering committee and
national consultative committees representing all stakeholders will be set
up for the design of the project and will closely involve stakeholders in
all phases of project preparation. The second lesson is that proper
coordination in implementing individual components is essential. Some
overlapping in the development and implementation phases of each component
will be carefully scheduled and managed in order to save time.The third
lesson is that it is essential to provide a sound legal framework and to
develop and enforce suitable standards covering all critical aspects of
the payments system operation. The proposed CEMAC legislation regarding
the payment system will be carefully reviewed as a pre-requisite for
project success. Standards would be developed in close consultation with
stakeholders, and will be enforced by BEAC. Rules and procedures would be
developed under the project.The fourth lesson is that investment and
changes in technology and organization within each financial institution
have to be identified in advance and carefully scheduled and budgeted. A
specialized working group will deal with this issue.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
-7 -



10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         No significant issue.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Andre Ryba, Lead Banking Specialist, AFTPS/F
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (237) 220-3815   - (237) 993.1305
Fax: (237) 221.0722
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 22, 2002.
-8-



