Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER
3424
WAFC
Development Credit Agreement
(BCEAO Regional Payment Systems Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE CENTRALE DES ETATS DE L
’AFRIQUE DE L’OUEST
Dated January
10, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER
3424
WAFC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January
10, 2001 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BANQUE CENTRALE DES ETATS DE L’AFRIQUE DE L’OUEST (BCEAO) (the 
Borrower).
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 7 (the General Conditions), 
Page  2
constitute an integral part of this Agreement
.
Section
1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)
"BCEAO Charter" means the by-laws governing the Borrower as an 
international public institution annexed to the Treaty constituting the West African
Monetary Union
(UMOA), dated November 14, 1973, pursuant to which the Member States 
(as defined in Section 2.01, 16 of the General Conditions) to said Treaty established 
the Borrower as per its Article
15, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
"CFAFranc" or "CFAF"
means Franc de la Communaut
é
Financière d'Afrique, 
the currency of the Member States;
(c)
"CMR" means Centre Monétique Régional, the regional electronic banking 
center, to be established under Part
4
of the Project;
(d)
"Committee of Experts" means the consultative group established under the 
Borrower’s chairmanship to review proposals made for Project implementation and make
recommendations on key aspects of the Project;
(e)
"COMPENS" means the low value clearing system to be implemented at the 
national and local levels under Part
3
of the Project;
(f)
"MONETIQUE" means the regional interbank card system to be implemented 
under Part
4
of the Project;
(g)
 "Manual of Procedures" means the manual to be adopted by the Borrower, 
pursuant to Section
6.01 (d) of this Agreement, outlining policies, administrative, 
accounting and procurement procedures and guidelines, including financial management
guidelines, to be followed in the implementation of the Project;
(h)
"MRSMP" means Mission pour la Réforme des Systèmes et Moyens de Paiement, 
the full-time project unit set up by decisions of the Governor of the BCEAO No. 
118-08-98 dated August 1, 1998, and No. 123-07-2000 dated July 24, 2000, and reporting 
to the Governor of the BCEAO;
(i)
 "Participants" means banks and other financial institutions which are 
either: (i) direct participants  in the RTGS (as hereinafter defined) system with 
their own account at BCEAO and direct technical on-line access to the RTGS; or (ii) 
indirect participants in the RTGS system with a settlement account managed by the
Borrower and no technical access to the RTGS; both direct and indirect participants
representing, as the case may be, non-participating financial institutions in the RTGS 
system;
(j)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section
4.02 of this Agreement; 
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the two project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Republic of Benin pursuant to the letter-agreements 
signed on behalf of the  Association on July
22,
1994
and January
29,1996 and on 
behalf of the Republic of Benin on August
17,
1994
and April
1,
1996;
(l)
"RTGS" means Real Time Gross Settlement, a real time settlement mechanism 
for large value, critical or time sensitive transfers of money, to be established and
operated under Part
2
of the Project;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
"UEMOA" or "Union" means the Union Economique et Monétaire Ouest 
Africaine, the West African Economic and Monetary Union, established pursuant to a
Treaty dated January
10, 1994 completing the Treaty referred to in Section 1.02 (a) 
above, for the promotion of regional integration among the Member States, i.e., the 
Republic of Benin, Burkina Faso, the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, the Republic of 
Guinea-Bissau, the Republic of Mali, the Republic of Niger, the Republic of Senegal 
and the Republic of Togo; and
(o)
"VSAT" means the private Very Small Aperture Terminal satellite 
Page  3
telecommunications network installed and operated by the Borrower for purposes of
linking its headquarters in the Republic of Senegal with its other sites  throughout
UEMOA.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section
2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights
(SDR
7,200,000). 
Section
2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement for
expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
its books in CFAF a special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5
to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section
2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be
set by the Association as of June
30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement
(the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and
(ii)
at
the rate set as of the June
30
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request;
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02
of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section
2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4
of
1%)
per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section
2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January
15
and July
15
in each year.
Section
2.07. (a)
Subject to paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on
each January
15
and July
15, commencing January
15,
2011
and ending July
15,
2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on July
15,
2020
shall be
Page  4
one percent
(
1
%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
2
percent
(2
%)
of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the sum of  the  per capita gross national products (GNP) 
of the Member States, each weighted by the respective share of such Member State in
the Borrower
’s capital, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the Association for
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and
(ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the Member States’ economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph
(a)
above, by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B) requiring the Borrower 
to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual
payment date referred to in paragraph
(a)
above falling six months or more after the
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this
paragraph
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph
(b)
above to include, in lieu of some or all of
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Member States’ economic conditions have 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower,
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph
(a)
above.
Section
2.08. The currency of the French Republic  is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section
3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project through the MRSMP, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate banking, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule
4
to this Agreement.
Section
3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3
to this
Agreement.
Section
3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
Page  5
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section
4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and account adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, and, to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but  in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of said financial statements reflecting the
records and accounts referred to in paragraph
(a)
of this Section
for such year as so audited; and
(B)
the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof as the Association shall have from time to time reasonably
requested.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association
’s representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph
(b)
of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section
4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than July
31,
2002
or such later date as
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports,
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
Page  6
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and
(B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than
45
days after the end
of each  calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section
5.01
Pursuant to Section
6.02
(l)
of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower having an 
original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become
due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(b)
a change shall have been made in BCEAO Charter which would materially and 
adversely affect the operations or the financial conditions of the Borrower; and
(c)
a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation of 
the Borrower.
Section
5.02.
Pursuant to Section
7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph
(a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section
6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has established a financial management and accounting system 
for the Project, satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has employed the independent auditor referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has appointed an accountant for the Project under terms of 
reference, qualification and experience satisfactory to the Association; and
Page  7
(d)
the Borrower has adopted a Manual of Procedures in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Section
6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section
7.01 The Governor of the BCEAO is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section
7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
Avenue Abdoulaye Fadiga
P.O. Box 3108
Dakar
Senegal
Telex:
Facsimile:
BCEAO
21530
SG
221 823 9335
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
202 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
Dakar, Republic of Senegal as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
BANQUE CENTRALE DES ETATS DE L
’AFRIQUE DE L’OUEST
By
/s/
Charles Konan Banny
Authorized Representative
Page  8
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
%
of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Materials and equip-
3,980,000
100% 
ment
(2)
Consultants
’
services
1,460,000
100%
(3)
Training
220,000
100%
(4)
Refunding of
1,000,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
540,000
TOTAL
7,200,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate not exceeding the equivalent of SDR150,000, 
may be made in respect of Category
(2) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after July
1, 2000.
3.
It is understood that the percentage of expenditures to be financed under 
Categories
(1) through (3) of this Schedule has been calculated on the basis of the 
provisions in the Treaty referred to in Section
1.02
(a)
of this Agreement, BCEAO
Charter and the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities granted to the Borrower annexed
to said Charter, which exempt the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit from taxes and custom duties levied in the territories of the Member
States.
If any change is made to said Treaty, BCEAO Charter or said Protocol, which
has the effect of levying taxes or custom duties on such goods and services, the
percentage referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the provisions of
Section
5.08 of the General Conditions.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a)
under contracts for
goods and for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each;
(b)
under contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less
than $50,000 equivalent each; and (c) for training; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE
2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in establishing an appropriate set
of regional payment mechanisms: (i) to satisfy the evolving needs of all market 
sectors in the UEMOA for making payments in a safe, sound, secure and timely manner,
at an acceptable cost; and
(ii) to ensure a high level of users’ confidence in 
regional payment systems satisfying internationally accepted standards. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Association and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to
Page  9
achieve such objectives
:
PART
1:
Global Project Support
Supporting Project implementation through:
(a)
 assistance in overall Project management; 
(b)
the carrying out of training programs for the Borrower
’s staff and
Participants;
(c)
assistance in the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework 
applicable to the payment systems
(RTGS, COMPENS and MONETIQUE) developed under the 
Project;
(d)
the preparation of technical specifications and international tenders of 
equipment and software for the RTGS, COMPENS, MONETIQUE and the telecommunications
systems under Part
5
of the Project;
(e)
the carrying out of baseline and follow-up surveys to monitor the impact 
on end-users of the systems (RTGS, COMPENS, MONETIQUE and telecommunications systems) 
developed under the Project; and
(f)
the carrying out of a feasibility study on the use of electronic money 
(smart card technology) payment system for small payments such as water and 
electricity charges,  in particular by low income population;
all through the provision of technical advisory services.
PART
2:
Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS)
Assistance in the establishment and operation of the RTGS at the regional level
for large value, critical or time sensitive money payments to be used by Participants
or on behalf of their clients
(interbank transactions, securities settlements, BCEAO
monetary operations, daily settlements under the COMPENS system), through: (a) the 
acquisition of the RTGS software and hardware equipment platform at all the  Borrower’
s sites in the territories of the Member States ;
(b)
the installation of technical
platform equipment
(software and hardware) by the Participants at their headquarters, 
linked to the BCEAO’s RTGS platform; and (c) the provision of technical advisory 
services.
PART
3:
Clearing System (COMPENS)
The development of a reliable and secure clearing system
(COMPENS) for low value 
daily financial transactions at the national and local levels, through the provision
of technical advisory services and the acquisition of clearing software and associated
equipment.
PART
4:
Interbank Card System (MONETIQUE)
The development of a common bank card product within UEMOA to be used by bank
customers at any automated teller machine or point of sale, thus promoting the use of
electronic payment instruments to replace cash, including: (a) the establishment of 
the CMR to be responsible for supervising and ensuring cooperation of the MONETIQUE
system; and
(b)
the formulation of a comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to
said system and of interbank contractual arrangements, through the provision of
technical advisory services.
PART
5:
Telecommunications System
The development of a high quality and efficient telecommunications network
within the UEMOA to respond to the needs of the RTGS, COMPENS and MONETIQUE systems,
including:  (a)
the upgrading of the Borrower’s sub-regional VSAT telecommunications 
network and the establishment of two-way video-conferencing facilities among the 
Page  10
Borrower
’
s headquarters and branches to facilitate training and communications; and
(b) the construction of a national interbank network including the installation of a 
local radio loop for in-country interbank exchanges.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January
31,
2005.
SCHEDULE
3
Procurement and Consultants
’
Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January
1995
and revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and 
January
1999
(the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries"
and
"member country"
shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph
5
of Appendix
1
thereto.
Part: C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Materials and equipment estimated to cost less than
$100,000
equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Materials and equipment estimated to cost less than
$20,000
equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5
and
3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Equipment to be procured under Part
5
(a)
of the Project and to be compatible
with existing equipment, estimated to cost $1,400,000
equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph
3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
Page  11
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the
provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants
’
services shall be procured in accordance with
(a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the
"Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September
1997
and January
1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph
2
of this Part A
(the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries"
and
"member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-
and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
The short list of consultants for services for the Project to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants of the Member
States, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
 1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for tasks of a standard or routine nature estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $200,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services relating to small assignments and estimated to cost less than
$50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,100,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
5.1 of the 
Page  12
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants
’
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more,
the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.
The contract shall be
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference and the short list of all
consultants shall be communicated to the Association for prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE
4
Implementation Program
General
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Manual of Procedures. The 
Borrower shall not amend said Manual or waive any provision thereof which, in the
opinion of the Association, would materially and adversely affect the
implementation
of the Project or the objectives thereof.
2. 
The Borrower shall:
(a)
 maintain at all times the MRSMP with staff in adequate number with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
ensure that the Committee of Experts  meet and be consulted on a regular 
basis on the implementation of the Project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule
6
to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
Page  13
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, beginning January
31, 2002 and thereafter on or about 
January
31
of each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section, including 
the minutes of the meetings of the Committee of Experts, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date;
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31 of each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph
(b) of this 
Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of the said report and the Association
’s views on the matter;
(d)
carry out jointly with the Association not later than July 31, 2002, a 
midterm review which shall assess the overall progress in the execution of the Project
and evaluate progress in the financial management system to allow for preparation of
quarterly Project Management Reports to the Association in accordance with Section
4.02 (a) of this Agreement; and
(e)
based on the reviews referred to in above paragraphs (c) and (d), prepare 
an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the further implementation of the
Project, and thereafter, implement such action plan with due diligence and efficiency.
SCHEDULE
5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
600,000,000
pursuant to paragraph
3
(a)
of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF
300,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General 
Conditions for the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
2,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  14
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section
6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph
2
of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
Page  15
be
.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE
6
Performance Indicators
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATOR, FORMAT WOULD NOT FIT PAGE
SCHEDULE
7
Modifications to the General Conditions
For the purpose of this Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows: 
(1)
The word "member of the Association" in paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is deleted 
and replaced by the word
"the Party to the Development Credit Agreement" to which the 
Credit is granted.
(2)
The words "the currency of the country" in paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 are 
deleted and replaced by the words
"the currency of the Member States".
(3)
A new paragraph 12 is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs
12
through
14
of said Section are accordingly renumbered as
paragraphs
13
through
15:
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section
11
of Resolution No. 
194
of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April
8, 1999; 
and
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.". 
(4)
A new paragraph 16 is added to Section 2. 01 to read as follows:
"16.
The term
‘Member States’ means the  Republic of Benin, Burkina Faso, 
the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, the Republic of 
Mali, the Republic of Niger, the Republic of Senegal and the Republic of
Togo." 
(5)
The words "in the currency of the Borrower" in Section 4.01 are deleted and 
replaced by the words
"in the currency of the Member States".
(6)
The words "the Borrower" in Section 4.06 (b) are deleted and replaced by the 
words
"the Member States".
(7)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories; or
(b)
for the purpose of any
Page  16
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of
the
United Nations."
(8)
 The words
"any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower" in 
section
5.08 are deleted and replaced by the words "any taxes levied by, or in the 
territory of, the  Member States".
(9)
Paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by the following new 
paragraph:
"(e) Any one or more of the Member States: (i) shall have been suspended 
from membership in or ceased to be a member of the Association; or
(ii) shall 
have 
ceased to be a member of the International Monetary Fund".
(10)
Section
8.01 is deleted and replaced by the following Section: 
"Section 8.01. Taxes. (a) The principal of, and other charges on, the 
Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied
by, or in the territories of, the Member States. 
(b) The Development Credit Agreement, and any other agreement to which 
these General Conditions apply, shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in
the territory of, the Member States on or in connection with the execution,
delivery or registration thereof."
(11)
Paragraph (b) of Section 9.01 is deleted and replaced by the following 
paragraph:
"(b) The Borrower shall take all action necessary or useful to ensure 
that the Member States afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives
of the Association to visit any part of their territories for purposes related
to the Credit."
(12)
Section 9.02 is deleted and replaced by the following Section: 
"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The  Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request with respect to the financial and economic conditions of the Member
States as well as with respect to its own financial condition and that of any
entity
owned or controlled, or operating for the account or benefit of the
Borrower."
(13)
The words "notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof 
to the contrary"
in Section
10.01 are deleted and replaced by the words 
"notwithstanding the law of any Member State or political subdivision thereof to the 
contrary".
(14)
 The word "governmental" in paragraph (a) of Section 12.01 is deleted and 
replaced by the word
"corporate".
