Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4049-LA 
GRANT NUMBER H156-LA 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction Support Project) 
 
between 
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 3, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4049-LA 
GRANT NUMBER H156-LA 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 3
,
2005, between LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
March 4, 2005, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by extending the  
Credit and the Grant as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Financing Agreement to the extent and subject to 
any modifications set forth in such agreement.” 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 2.01 is modified as follows: 
(i) 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Borrower” means the party to the Development 
Financing Agreement to which the Financing is made.” 
 
(ii) 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“8. 
“Development Financing Agreement” means the 
particular Development Financing Agreement to which these 
General Conditions apply, as such agreement may be amended 
from time to time. Development Financing Agreement includes 
these General Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules 
and agreements supplemental to the Development Financing 
Agreement.” 
(iii) 
The following new paragraphs are added after paragraph 11of 
Section 2.01, and paragraphs 12 through 14 are renumbered as 
paragraphs 16 through 18 accordingly: 
“12. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement.” 
“13. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the 
Association on its books in the name of the Borrower to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited.” 
“14. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the 
Grant.” 
“15. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit 
Account and the Grant Account (or, where the context so 
requires, either of the Credit Account or the Grant Account).” 
(iv) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, which is now re-numbered as 
paragraph 16, is modified to read as follows: 
“16. 
“Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble 
to the Development Financing Agreement, in support of which 
the Credit and the Grant are extended.”; 
(c) 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing”:  Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 
4.01, Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and 
Article IX. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(d) 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and 
Sections of the General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing Accounts”:  Section 
2.01(6), the heading of Article III, 4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, is modified to read “Development Financing Agreement”. 
(f) 
Article III is modified as follows: 
(i) 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
“Section 3.01.  
Financing Accounts   
The amount of the Credit shall be credited to the Credit 
Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by the 
Borrower as provided in the Development Financing Agreement 
and in these General Conditions.  The amount of the Grant shall 
be credited to the Grant Account and may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development 
Financing Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
(ii) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” 
in Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be 
paid under the Development Financing Agreement”. 
(g) 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.01.  
Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be made.
 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Financing Accounts shall 
be made in the currency specified in Section 2.02(b) of the 
Development Financing Agreement; provided, however, that 
withdrawals in the currency of the Borrower shall be made in 
such currency or currencies as the Association shall from time to 
time reasonably select.” 
(ii) 
Section 4.02(a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a)  The Borrower shall pay all amounts required to be 
paid by it under the Development Financing Agreement in the 
Page  5
-
4
-
currency specified in such agreement or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
se
lected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the 
General Conditions, the words “principal and service charges” 
are modified to read “amounts”. 
(iii) 
Section 4.06 (b) is modified to read as follows: 
“(b) 
All amounts which the Borrower shall be required to pay 
under the Development Financing Agreement shall be paid 
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower.” 
(h) 
Article V is modified as follows: 
(i) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 “Section 5.01.  
Withdrawal from the Financing Accounts.
 
The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds 
of the Financing from the Financing Accounts in accordance 
with the provisions of the Development Financing Agreement 
and of these General Conditions.” 
(ii) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
(i) 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
(i) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 
is replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
(ii) 
Section 6.03(c) is modified by replacing the words 
“corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
(iii) 
Section 6.05 is modified to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, any cancellation of any amount of the Credit 
shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the several installments of the 
principal amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such 
cancellation.” 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(j) 
Section 7.01 is modified to read as follows: 
(i) The 
word
s
“principal or interest or any other amount” in 
paragraph (b) are modified to read “any amount”. 
(ii) 
The word “credit” in paragraph (b)(i) is replaced with the words 
“credit, grant or financing”. 
(k) 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“(a) 
 All amounts which the Borrower shall be required to pay under 
the Development Financing Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and 
free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower.” 
(l) 
 Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as 
modified above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 
and 9.07.  
(m) 
Section 9.06 (c), now renumbered as 9.05 (c), is modified to read as 
follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
 
on 
the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Financing Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Financing Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meaning:  
(a) 
“Bank of Lao PDR” means the Borrower’s Central Bank, and any 
successor thereto. 
(b) 
“BCEL” means Banque pour Le Commerce Exterieur Lao, a wholly 
state-owned bank established and operating pursuant to the Decision of the President of 
the State bank of Lao PDR No. 129, dated November 1, 1989, and any successor thereto. 
(c) 
“BPKP” means Bolisat Pattana Khet Pudoi, a wholly state-owned 
enterprise established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 188, dated August 19, 1984, 
and any successor thereto. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(d) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.  
(e) 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year extending from October 1 
through September 30 of each calendar year. 
(f) 
“IAS” means international auditing standards. 
(g) 
“Lao Airlines” means the wholly state-owned enterprise established and 
operating pursuant to Decision No. 771/MCTPC dated May 23, 1989 of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction, and any successor thereto. 
(h) 
“LDB” means Lao Development Bank, a wholly state-owned bank, 
established pursuant to the merger of Lane Xang Bank and Lao May Bank in 2004, and 
any successor thereto. 
(i) 
“NPL” means Nam Papa Laos, a wholly state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to Decision No. 1296, dated April 5, 2001, of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and Communications, and any successor thereto. 
(j) 
“PEMSP” and “Public Expenditure Management Strengthening 
Program” mean a program of actions, supported by technical assistance, designed to 
improve policy consistency, efficiency, transparency and accountability in the 
Borrower’s management of public expenditures. 
(k) 
“PH3” means Pharmaceutical Factory 3, a wholly state-owned enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to Resolution No. 275, dated May 15, 1987, of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Health,  and any successor thereto. 
(l) 
“PrMO” and “Procurement Monitoring Office” mean the office within 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance established and operating pursuant to the Prime 
Minister’s Decree No. 03/PM dated January 9, 2004 on Government Procurement of 
Goods, Works, Maintenance and Services, and the Minister of Finance’s Decision No. 
2382/MOF dated November 4, 2004, for purposes of monitoring the procurement 
activities of all government agencies and ensuring their compliance with the 
Implementing Rules and Regulations of said Decree. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE II 
The Financing 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR3,000,000) (the Credit); and 
(b)  
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR3,600,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of the Credit from the 
Credit Account and the amount of the Grant from the Grant account in support of the 
Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from 
the Financing Accounts shall be deposited by the Association into an account in United 
States Dollars designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the 
Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Credit or of the Grant 
into said account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Financing 
was used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment 
to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.  
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association:  (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as 
the case may be), or canceled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing September 15, 2015 and ending March 15, 
2045. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2025 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
Page  10
-
9
-
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower
’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.  
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
Page  11
-
10
-
(b) 
Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards and under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Financing Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Development Grant Agreement for 
the Nam Theun 2 Hydroelectric Power Project has become effective.  
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions
.
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Post Box No.46 
Vientiane 
Lao PDR 
 
Facsimile
:
856-21-911370
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Vientiane, Lao People
’s Democratic Republic, as of the day and year first above 
written.
 
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
 
By 
/s/ Somdy Douangdy 
 
Authorized Representative
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Ian Porter 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
 
For purposes of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, loan or grant;  
2. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Financing during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
Public Expenditure Management
1. 
The Borrower’s Ministry of Finance has approved a Public Expenditure 
Management Strengthening Program together with an annual implementation plan 
therefor for Fiscal Year 2004-2005, acceptable to the Association. 
2. 
The Borrower’s Ministry of Finance has provided to the Association a summary 
of the final budget for Fiscal Year 2004-2005, acceptable to the Association. 
3. 
The Borrower’s Treasury has updated the registers of: (a) accounts payable, by 
period, as at end of Fiscal Year 2003-2004; and (ii) government bank accounts, with their 
respective balances as at end of Fiscal Year 2003-2004. 
4. 
The Borrower’s Ministry of Finance has approved the Charter of the 
Procurement Monitoring Office. 
The Banking Sector
5. 
Bank of Lao People’s Democratic Republic has provided to the Ministry of 
Finance the independent IAS audit reports of the 2003 accounts of BCEL and LDB.  
Performance of State-owned Enterprises
6. 
The FY03 state audits of Lao Airlines, NPL and PH3 have been completed 
7. 
Re-structuring of Lao Airlines and of BPKP is proceeding in accordance with the 
provisions of the re-structuring plan set forth in the Notice No. 059/CPMO dated 29 April 
2004 issued by the Prime Minister’s Office. 
Spending for Pro-poor NGPES Priorities
8. 
The Borrower’s Ministry of Health has paid the salaries of health care workers 
through the period ending on January 31, 2005 such that, as of that date, no more than 
20% of health care worker salaries remaining due have been outstanding more than 2 
months.  
9. 
The Borrower’s Ministry of Education has paid the salaries of teachers through 
the period ending on January 31, 2005 such that, as of that date, no more than 20% of  
teacher salaries remaining due have been outstanding more than 2 months. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
Private Sector Development
10. 
The National Assembly has enacted the Revised Domestic and Foreign 
Investment Laws. 
 
