Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.31174 
Project Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-1) 
Region 
East Asia and Pacific 
Sector 
EASPR 
Project ID 
P075287
 
Borrower(s) 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
12/06/2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
01/25/2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
03/21/2005 
A.  
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
The aspiration of the Lao PRD Government is to be able to allocate increasing 
amounts of public resources towards the improvement of social outcomes. The 
Government of Lao PDR aims to achieve rapid economic growth in order to improve the 
living conditions of its poor people. It is committed to reduce poverty in half by 2015 and 
graduate from its status of least-developed country by 2020. The development strategy to 
achieve these goals has been articulated in the National Socioeconomic Development Plan 
(2001-05), the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) and the recently 
prepared National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES). 
 
2. 
NGPES establishes a framework for future, deeper reforms and makes 
Government development priorities more explicit and transparent. These priorities are 
consistent with the multi-dimensional nature of poverty alleviation, and the action matrix 
set out in the NGPES is generally consistent with these pillars. This strategy, in particular, 
seeks to:  
 
·
Maintain macroeconomic stability by increasing revenue and ensuring 
appropriate fiscal and monetary policy; 
·
Deepen structural reforms in the following areas: public expenditure 
management, financial sector, state-owned enterprises, private sector, trade, and 
development of the legal system; 
·
Invest in the social sectors to expand access and improve social sector 
outcomes; 
·
Invest in infrastructure such as roads, power, and water supply, and expand 
access to these services; 
·
Invest in rural development and natural resource management
—including 
support for agricultural, mining, forestry and hydropower development; and 
·
Strengthen capacity 
Page  2
2
3. 
The proposed Poverty Reduction and Support Credit (PRSC-1) is designed to 
support growing momentum and commitment to a broad-based program of reforms. The 
commitment has been articulated in the ambitious NGPES agenda and has been 
demonstrated by the increasing pace of reforms in recent years, with the introduction of 
phased reforms several sectors of the economy (as detailed in Section III above). The 
satisfactory implementation of the measures supported by the FMAC operation has 
contributed to reducing fiduciary risk and has established a positive track record.  
 
4. 
PRSC-1 provides a vehicle for dialogue and cross-sectoral, programmatic support 
that addresses multiple reform fronts 
–
including better public expenditure management, 
service delivery, and mobilizing and aligning resources with development goals. Such a 
cross-sectoral approach is required in order for Lao PDR to sustain its relatively strong, 
decade-long performance in growth and poverty reduction, and to translate this progress 
into improved social indicators. 
 
B.  
Proposed objective(s) 
 
5. 
The overarching aim of the proposed credit is to assist the Government to make 
monitorable progress in realizing the objectives laid out in the NGPES, and improving the 
efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of the national budget process as the central 
mechanism for channeling public resources toward poverty reduction. PRSC-1 underpins 
the Government’s objective to maintain a sound macroeconomic environment and 
accelerate growth by providing external resources for the execution of the Government’s 
2005 budget. The policy reform program articulated in the PRSC focuses in a selective 
fashion on key areas of the NGPES.  
 
C.  
Preliminary description 
 
6. 
PRSC-1 is composed of the following three components aiming at ensuring that 
public resources are both available and effectively used to meet Lao PDR’s development 
outcomes: 
 
·
First
,
strengthening management of public sector resources
.
PRSC-1 strengthens 
the Public Financial Management (PFM) systems that allocate, execute, and 
monitor public expenditures, maximizing this way the efficiency and 
transparency of existing public resources in pursuing the country’s development 
goals; 
 
·
Second
,
alignment of resources with pro-poor NGPES goals
.
PRSC-1 supports 
measures geared at redirecting the allocation of public expenditures towards the 
provision of health, education, and basic services that enable human 
development outcomes; and 
 
·
Third
,
increase of overall resources
.
PRSC-1 aims at increasing available 
resources by promoting sustainable growth, via a stronger private sector, greater 
trade volume, and greater capacity to manage natural resources. 
 
Page  3
3
D.  
Environment Aspects 
 
7. 
The proposed PRSC supports a number of actions aimed at institutional and policy 
reform in environment. Those reforms are being supported in environmental assessment, 
policy development and capacity building, with special emphasis on forest management. 
The Bank has to date undertaken analytical work in environment with respect to the 
policies and the institutional changes being proposed in the above-mentioned areas, in 
cooperation with the authorities. 
 
E.  
Tentative financing 
Source:  
Borrower/Recipient 
International Development Association 
($m.)
Total 0 
 
F.  
Contact point 
 
Alessandro Magnoli                          
Senior Economist, East Asia and Pacific 
The World Bank, 93/1 Wireless Road             
11th Floor, Diethelm Tower A 
Lumpini, Pathumwan 
Bangkok, 10330 Thailand  
Phone:+66(0)2-256-7792-3 Ext. 313 
Room 1402 - Satellite: 5778+313                        
Fax:+66(0)2-256-7794-5 
Email: amagnoli@worldbank.org 
 
