                                               Document of
                                           The World Bank
                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                ReportNo. 30406-(22




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ON A

                   PROPOSEDLEARNING AND INNOVATION LENDING (GRANT)

                                P4THEAMOUNT OFUS$3.OO MILLION

                                                    TO

                                        WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                                 FORA

                                  LANDADMINISTRATION PROJECT


                                             January 26,2005




PrivateandFinancial Sector DevelopmentDepartment
Middle East andNorth Africa Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipientsonly inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IBRDauthorization.

                       LISTOFABBREVIATIONS  AND ACRONYMS




          IrrevocablePower of Attome                   Socio-Economic Stabilization




                                                                     -   -
                                                       InternationalDevelopment
 MOLG                                     VAT          Value Added Tax
~




      Vice President:                      ChristiaanPoortman
      Country Director:                    NigelRoberts
      Sector Manager                       HediLarbi
      Task Team Leader:                    IbrahimDajani

                                        ..
                                        11

                                                                                            PQROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                    TABLEOFCONTENTS


  A. LILJUSTIFICATION                      .........................................................................................................     1
  B. STRUCTURE OFTHE PILOT                                 ..........................................................................................    4
  C. PROJECT COMPONENTSAND IMPLEMENTATION                                                                ............................................... 7
  D. RISKS..    ...................................................................................................................................      8
  E. MAINGRANT CONDITIONS                                 .........................................................................................     11
  F. READINESSFORIMPLEMENTATION                                              .......................................................................    11
  G.   COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES                                           .....................................................................    11
  ANNEXES    ...................................................................................................................................         12
  ANNEX1:PROJECTDESIGN SUMMARY                                                                                                                           12
  ANNEX2: PROJECT         DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                    20
  ANNEX3:ESTIMATED             PROJECTCOSTS                                                                                                              33
  ANNEX4: PROJECT         IMPLEMENTATION35
  ANNEX5: FINANCIAL           MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                 3s
  ANNEX6: PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS                                                                                                                        40
  ANNEX7: PROJECT         IMPLEMENTATION                    PLAN                                                                                         47
  ANNEX8: PROJECTPROCESSINGSCHEDULE                                                                                                                      55
  ANNEX9: DOCUMENTS              INPROJECTFILE                                                                                                           56
  ANNEX10: STATEMENT ON LAND                       POLICY                                                                                                57
  ANNEX11:MEMORANDUM                    OF UNDERSTANDINGBETWEENMOPAND PLA                                                                                59




This document has a restricted distribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.


                                    WEST BANKAND GAZA
                                 LAND  ADMINISTRATION PROJECT

                                 PROJECT  APPRAISALDOCUMENT

                            MIDDLE   EAST AND NORTH   AFRICAREGION

                                             MNSIF


Date: January 24,2005                             Team Leader: Ibraliim Khalil Dajani
Country Director: Nigel Roberts                   Sector: Generalpublic administration(30%);
Acting Sector Director: David Steel               Centralgovernment administration(30%); Law
Sector Manager: Hedi Larbi                        andjustice (30%); Sub-nationalgovernment
Project ID: PO80892                               administration(10%)
LendingInstrument: Learningand Innovation         Theme: Law andPolicy making (P); Property
Lending (Grant)                                   rights (P); Participation and civic engagement (S)

                                      Prqject Financing Data
 [ ] Loan         [ ] Credit    [XI Grant       [ ] Guarantee         [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Project Cost (US$m.):                 6.00
Cofinancing:                                3.OO
Total Bank Financing (US$m.)                3.OO


                         Source                              Local          Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                           0.00             0.00          0.00
FINLAND: MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS                               1.05             1.05          2.10
US: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL                                     0.345            0.555           0.90
DEVELOPMENT (USAID)
SPECIAL FINANCING                                                1.785             1.215          3.OO
Total:                                                             3.18             2.82          6.00


Responsible Agencies: Ministry of Planning(MOP) and PalestinianLandAuthority (PLA)

Project ImplementationPeriod:
Start: Januarv2005       End: December 2007

             Sector Unit Estimate of ResourcesRequired for Preparation and Approval

      Source of Funds           Identificationand Preparation             Estimate of Resource
                                    Expenses to Date (US$)                Requirements (US$)
Bank Budget                                 113,000.00                         120,000.00
Trust Funds                                       0.00                                0.00




  [ ] 50%          [ 3 75%      [ ] 100%      [XI 125%        [ ] 150%          [ ] <50% or > 150%



                                                 iv

Name                Title                                   Unit
Ibrahim K.Dajani    Operations Officer (Task Team Leader)   MNSIF
Wael Zakout         Lead Land Management Specialist         EASRD
SamehN.Wahba        Urban Management Specialist             MNSIF
John W. Bruce       Sr. Counsel                             LEGEN
Paul Prettitore     Lena1Counsel                            MNC04
                      v
StephenKaram        Sr. Urban Economist                     MNSIF
Ayman Abu-Haija     Financial Management Specialist         LOAG1
___~
Ali Awais           Legal Counsel                           LEGMS
Hiroko Imamura      Sr. Counsel                             LEGMS
Thao Nguyeii        Finance Officer                         LOAGl




                             V

                                       WEST BANKAND GAZA

                    GZ-LAND ADMINISTRATION LIL(Grant) PROPOSAL



A.       LILJUSTIFICATION
1.What is to belearned(why the piloting)?
Land and property in West Bank and Gaza (WBG), as in many parts o f the developing world, i s a
common means o f storing wealth. Over the years, secure land tenure and property rights have taken on
greater historical and cultural significance for Palestinians. Nevertheless, it i s estimated that nearly 25
percent o f the court disputes inthe West Bank today are landrelated. All o f these factors have made land
titling, registration and efficient administration a matter o f paramount importance to Palestinians.
Consequently, inthe Palestine Development Plan (PDP), the Palestinian Authority (PA) emphasized that
strengthening land management and surveying capacity is one of its top priorities. Similarly, the Socio-
Economic Stabilization Plan (SESP) sought donors' support for buildingthe capacity of P A agencies in
the areas of landpolicy and landplanning and development.

The objective of this project is to assess the feasibility o f introducing reforms in land administration
within an emerging government structure by enabling the formulation of policy, legal and institutional
changes to achieve efficient procedures for the issuance o f land titles and registration o f property
transactions, and transparent processes for the management and disposal o f public land. The idea is that
this project would be the first phase of a long-term Land Administration Program, which aims at
enhancing economic growth by improving land tenure security and facilitating the development of
efficient land and property markets in rural and urban areas through the development o f an efficient
system o f land titling and registration based on clear, transparent and coherent policies and laws and
supported by an appropriate institutional structure.

Much still needs to be done in terms o f land property rights registration inWBG. Although close to 90
percent of land in Gaza has been registered, only about 28 percent o f the land in the West Bank i s
registered. While this would imply that a systematic land titling effort i s needed in the West Bank, this
would be impractical given that 60 percent of the West Bank land i s under Israeli administrative control
(Areas C) and physical movement o f Palestinians in the remaining areas (Areas A and B) is constrained
by movement restrictions.       For this reason, the recommended approach would rely on building
registration capacity through pilot efforts in carefully selected areas. These pilot efforts are expected to
clarify simultaneously the capacity requirements in the Palestinian Land Authority (PLA), the judicial
system, other formal and informal mediation and dispute resolutionmechanisms that couldbe relied upon
inthe process, local authorities, andthe privatesector servingthe sector includinginsurveying.


The proposed LIL will address three interlinked knowledge gaps. In the context of an emerging
government structure: (i) to develop a policy framework for land administration and elaborate the
                            how
corresponding regulatory framework; (ii)     how to provide land-related services through the public and
private sector in such a way that it will lead to an increased volume o f land titling and transaction
registration; and (iii) how to put in place transparent public land management processes. The LIL will
test these three areas inparallel.

On the policy and regulatory framework knowledge gap, the LIL will test whether, in a context o f
emerging government structure, a coherent policy framework and an effective set o f laws and institutions
to address land administration and management issues, including land property rights and transaction

registration and transparent public land disposition and valuation methods can be developed through a
participatory process. One of the key problems i s that the overall legal framework governing land
administration and management in the WBG i s fragmented (some 26 laws) and comprises many dated
laws which are induplicate sets for West Bank and Gaza (e.g. laws on landregistration and expropriation
for public purpose comprise one set of laws for the West Bank usually derivingfrom Jordanian laws and
the other for Gaza based on a mix o f laws from the Britishmandate and Egyptian administration times).
As such, registered lands in the WBG today stem from many legal regimes-Settled             (gone through the
Jordanian Taswieh or settlement process inthe West Bank or the ground survey-basedregistration system
duringthe Britishmandate inGaza), Ottoman (based on TurlushMetes and Bounds Descriptions, which
lack accuracy and suffer from the modification of landmarks over time), Sporadic Land Registration
(TasjeelJedid), and Condominium (since the enactment o f Law No.1 in 1996). Overall, the settlement o f
property rightsto land has stopped inGaza since 1948 and inthe West Bank since the 1967 war.

Another problem is that the PLA, until June 2002, used to be housed in two different executive cabinet
level agencies: the Ministry o f Justice (MOJ) dealing with land registration, and the Ministry o f Public
Works and Housing (MOPWH) dealing with land surveys. Today, it i s an independent government
agency reporting directly to the President's Office but without the necessary resources and capacity to
undertake its expanded mandate. Similarly, the Ministry o f Planning (MOP), which is responsible for
policy formulation including for land, has notyet effectively exercised its mandate inthe land sector, with
the result that there are no established efforts or procedures for policymalung in this area. The LIL
proposes a process for managing the task in a participatory manner and expects that such a process will
leadto the desired responseo f collaboration among the various entities within the Government.

On the demand-for-registration knowledge gap, the LIL will test whether the improvement o f services
provided by the PLA along with those o f the private sector (insurveying) within pilot settings can lead to
an increased level o f registration o f land property rights and transactions. Currently, it i s estimated that a
mere 10 percent o f all transactions are registered with the PLA. The rest use the Kateb-el-Adel, which
functions effectively as an expanded Notary Public (NP) consistent with a historical role performed in a
large number of Middle Eastern and Western European counties (such as France, Netherlands and
Spain). The appointment and certification of the NP i s under the jurisdiction o f the Higher Judicial
Council. The current reference law (decree) for the certification o f the NP does not require any legal
qualifications. There are approximately 15 NPs for the whole o f Palestine. Thejurisdictional area o f the
NP is geographically determined. Therefore, all land transactions from a given district can only be
recorded by the assigned NP. The public appears to be using their services because o f immediate
convenience and because registration used to be a cumbersome and costly process (about 6.5 percent o f
property value, not including the cost of surveying), especially when functions used to be split between
the MOJ and MOPWH. The formal registration system still remains largely unutilized by the public
despite the consolidation o f surveying and registration functions inthe PLA and the significant reduction
of registration fees to 1 percent. This i s due to many factors including lengthy and complex registration
procedures especially when an Irrevocable Power of Attorney (PA) i s used in the process, the fact that
property title settlement has not yet resumed in the West Bank since 1967, a manual and inefficient
titlehegistration search process, limitednumber o f (qualified) staff especially in surveying, etc. The LIL
proposes a process that will lead to improving PLA services, establishing procedures and building
capacity for the systematic settlement o f land property rights, lowering o f registration fees (if necessary)
and other recommended initiatives that are consistent with the learning from the preparatory land policy
studies that, within pilot areas, are expected to lead to the desired response o f higher registration o f
landproperty titles and transactions.

On the improvement of public land management knowledge gap, the LILtests whether buildingupon the
participatory process for the formulation o f a national land policy framework and through institutional
development of the PLA, it i s possible to develop an improved knowledge base o f public land holdings


                                                        2

(especially State land), to formulate a sound strategy for sustainable management of public land that i s
coordinated with municipalities, and to implement transparent procedures for public land disposition. In
addition to the participatory policy formulation process, the institutional development and capacity
building of the PLA and the pilots to modernize its offices, the LIL proposes to work with the PLA's
State Lands department, to inventory public lands (mainly State land, but also municipal land where
feasible) within pilot areas and develop an overall strategy for the sustainable management o f public land
that is coordinated with municipalities' development strategies and that leverages public land towards
achieving the national development objectives o f enhancing economic growth and contributing to poverty
reduction. This task will be conducted in close collaboration with municipalities and with technical
guidance fiom the MOP'SGeneral Directorate o f Geographic Center and Technical Support (the entity in
charge o f Geographic Information Systems at the national level) and the General Directorate o f Spatial
Planning (responsible for spatial planning at the national level and workmg in close coordination with
municipal planning). A key component of such a strategy i s to tesuimplement transparent procedures and
methods for the disposition by sale or lease and valuation o f public land as proposed in the policy
framework for land administration.        The process is expected to lead to the desired response of an
improved knowledge base o f public land holdings. a coordinated strategy for the management o f public
land. and enhancedprocedures to dispose. value and strategically leverage such assets.


2. How are the results goingto be used?
The World Bank's current assistance strategy for the West Bank and Gaza, which was presented to the
Board on December 2nd,2003', focuses on achieving a balance between providing emergency assistance
to mitigate the effects of poverty, while at the same time maintaining a medium-term institutional
development agenda. The proposedproject would contribute towards strengthening good governance and
building state institutions in preparation for the eventual assumption of sovereign responsibilities
associated with future Palestinian statehood. The project would support the development o f a coherent
landpolicy and regulatory framework and efficient institutions for land administration, which are vital to
a market economy in that they lay the foundations for clarifying and securing property rights and thus
contribute to the improvement o f the investment climate and the provision o f an essential means for
accessingcredit.

The idea i s that this project would constitute the first phase o f a long-term Land Administration Program,
which aims at alleviating poverty and enhancing economic growth by improving landtenure security and
facilitating the development o f efficient land and property markets in rural and urban areas through the
development of an efficient system o f landtitling andregistration basedon clear, transparent and coherent
policies and laws and supported by an appropriate institutional structure. IfP A commitment to reforming
land administrationi s sustained throughout the project, then the processesand methods developed, tested
and validatedrevised through the LIL and the lessons leamt will form the foundations for the long-term
program. It i s important to note that a number o f multilateral and bilateral donors and agencies, including
the Govemment of Finland, USAID, EC, CIDA, and UN-Habitat, have all expressedinterest inextending
downstream financial and technical support to the land sector associated to and based upon the LIL,
which will be co-financed by the Govemment o f Finland and USAID. These donors and agencies have
all highlighted the need for a clear framework to ensure efficient and effective use o f resources and
activities.


'This  project was envisaged to be a component o f a MunicipalFinance and LandTitling Project. However, the PCN
review meeting held on February 19,2004 recommended that these topics should be addressed separately under two
operations. Inaddition to the Land AdministrationProject, a follow-on operation is being identified for Emergency
Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project (EMSRP) that will be a municipal development project planned to be
delivered inFY06.


                                                        3

.3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise.
 Various cross-country studies and other literature report that the security o f property rights does have a
 significant impact on overall growth, and that inadequate institutions and unclear, undocumented property
 rights create an environment that i s not conducive to economic growth (See Gala1and Razzaz, 2001, pp.
 4-9, for a review of the literature). This LIL proposes to use participatory processesto introduce changes
 to reform the policy, regulatory and institutional environment for land administration, which are expected
 to contribute to economic growth inthe long-run. Perhapsthe most substantial support for such a process
 comes from Thailand where the Government's 20-year land titling and registration program, initiated in
 1984, i s recognized for having contributed to povem alleviation through improved land tenure security
 and for laving; a solid and sustainable foundation for economic g-rowth in the long-term based on the
 "efficiency gains inthe operation of land markets, landowners' improved access to formal credit and the
 continuing stream o f fiscal revenues generatedby an active land market". (see Thailand Land Titling111
 project ICR and OEDPerformance Auditfor ThailandLand TitlingII).


 B.       STRUCTURE OFTHE PILOT
 1.How will the learning take place?
 Policy and Regulatory Framework Development: The success of the proposed participatory process
 would be indicated both by the behavioral responsehesponsiveness o f various public entities as well as
 the resulting progress in law and policymaking. The very fact that certain steps of the process are being
 undertaken will indicate progress in attaining the desired objectives. The first such step is the formation
 of the Land Policv Task Force (LPTF), which is to be chaired by a senior official from the MOP and
 comprise senior officials from the Ministries of Finance (MOF), Agriculture (MOA), MOJ, MOPWH,
 Local Government (MOLG) and National Economy (MNE), the PLA, and representatives from the
 private sector and civil society. Thus far, the various ministries and entities that have a stake in the
 smooth functioning o f the land sector-MOF,      Office o f the Prime Minister, MOP, MOJ, Higher Judicial
 Council, MOPWH, MOLG, and the PLA-have             all confirmed their commitment to the proposed project,
 and government's commitment to the formation of the LPTF was publicly announced in the July 2004
 stakeholder workshop. The section on "outcome-level tests" below details the progress in terms o f
 drafting of laws and policies whereas the section on "steps in conducting the LIL" details the milestones
 for achieving the desired responseo f collaboration among the various entities withinthe Government.

 Demand-for-Registration Development: The success o f various measures in this area would be
 demonstrated by the behavioral responsehesponsivenessof the PLA interms o f enacting and effectively
 implementing streamlined procedures for land titling and registration and the progress in terms o f
 increased land and real estate property rights and transactions registration with the PLA. Essentially, as
 the quality of service from the PLA improves according to the service standards that will be established
 through the project and as the identified factors that limit the utilization o f the landregistry are addressed
 (the fees charged for registration, the public'sperception of the value of PLA service vis-a-vis that from
 the NP, and/or any other factors that will be identified in the land policy studies and addressed through
 the study recommendations and the policymalung process), the result i s expected to be a highervolume o f
 registration. The learning will take place by testing the effectiveness o f the proposed processes and
 procedures, capacity building, institutional development and public awareness initiatives in the titling
 settlement and registration pilots and monitoring the behavioralresponse of the PLA interms o f attaining
 the objective of settling and registeringtitles to some 40% or so o f the land parcels within the pilot areas
 and contributing to increaseddemand for registration withthe PLA.

 Improvement of Public Land Management: The success in this area would be demonstrated by the
 development of an inventory o f public lands inthe pilot areas (mainly o f State land, but also of municipal



                                                       4

landholdings where feasible2) with a classification o f their status, type, permissible use (where up-to-date
landuse plans exist) and development potential, the formulation by the PLA of a public land management
strategy that i s coordinated with municipalities towards the achievement o f their development objectives
and with MOP inthe scope of the national land policy framework, and the implementation o f transparent
and effective procedures for the disposition and valuation of public lands as per the recommendations of
the public landmanagement study. The learning will take place by monitoring the behavioralresponse of
and degree o f cooperationbetweenPLA, MOP and the municipalities where the proposedpilots will take
place in the process o f formulating a public land management strategy, their disposition to put in place
and implement transparent procedures for disposing o f public lands, and by assessingthe effectiveness of
the inventoryingprocess.


2.Outcome-level test to be conducted.
Policy and Regulatory Framework Development: The introduction of a participatory policymalung
process among the diverse interests in land administration i s expected to result in a high level of
collaborationamong the various entities within the Government, which would be demonstrated by: (a) the
formation o f the LPTF, with an established clear mandate over the land policy formulation process;
(b) stages ofactionrelatedto the policymalungprocess andreview ofthe regulatory framework following
a pre-planned schedule. These stages will include (butwill not be limitedto) setting the objectives for the
policymalung process, carrying out the different priority land policy studies with a consultation process
on their findings and recommendations with the different stakeholders to identify their priorities, needs
and concerns, endorsement by LPTFand enactment by Cabinet o f recommendations o f immediate actions
in these priority policy areas that are needed for the pilots (e.g. establishment of land settlement courts,
capacity building o f designated judges, "formalization" o f mediation and informal dispute resolution
channels, etc.), developing a draft consolidated landpolicy framework, an action plan for implementation
and draft improvements to the regulatory framework relying on broad-based consultations, endorsement
by LPTF then by Cabinet of the landpolicy document, implementation action plan and the revised laws,
and upon enactment by the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) follow up implementation. Proposed
triggers to proceed to the next phase (i.e. long-term land administration program) would include
endorsement o f the land policy document and implementation action plan, as well as the proposals for the
improvement o f the regulatory framework goveming landadministrationbyboththe Cabinet and the PLC
and subsequent implementationby government ministriesand agencies.

Demand-for-Registration Development: The development o f PLA services withinpilot areas i s expected
to result inhigher demand for registration o f properties and transactions. These will be measuredbyboth
PLA's performance against the service standards developed through the project, as well as the increase in
the number o f registered properties and transactions as measured against a control area where systematic
land titling and registration was not implemented.          Proposed triggers to proceed to the next phase
(i.e. long-term land administration program) would include development o f systematic land titling
capacity (both in surveying and settlement o f property rights), the PLA's successful implementation of
established service standards and the corresponding increase the number o f property and transaction
registration, as well as the endorsement by both the Cabinet and the PLC o f the proposed policy,
regulatory and institutional/technicalrecommendations aiming at reforming the landregistration system.

Improvement of Public Land Management: Within the context o f the participatory policymalung process
and harmonization o f the regulatory framework, the capacity buildingo f the PLA and the modernization
of its offices and functions within pilot areas i s expected to result in improved public land management
processesand procedures. These will be measured by the development o f an inventory o f public lands in

* This willdepend on several factors including whether an (up-to-date) municipal landuse planis available, the local
capacity level, degree o f cooperation, etc.


                                                        5

the pilot areas, the coordinated formulation o f a public land management strategy with municipalities and
MOP, and the enactment oftransparent and effective procedures for disposing o fandpricingpublic lands.
Proposed triggers to proceedto the next phase (i.e. long-term land administration program) would include
the endorsement by both the Cabinet and the PLC o f proposed policy, regulatory and
institutional/technical recommendations aiming at reforming the public landmanagement system.


3. Steps Involvedin Conductingthe LIL.
Policy and Regulatory Framework Development:
         0   Establish the LPTF, including high-level, influential champions for the process within
             government, the PLC, the private sector and civil society (this step represents a key
             foundation for the process);
         0   Make the case for the urgency o f the task and the critical importance of broad-based
             participation in the policymaking process by clearly outlining the benefits to be gained and
             the risks entailed by either delaying or ignoring the process;
         0   Expand commitment beyondthe decision-makers;
         0   Develop a sharedvision and a commonly agreed framework for proceeding;
         0   Put inplace a clear timeline for drafting policies and laws and other activities;
         0   Emphasize throughout the process the gains and tangible results achieved on the ground from
             the implementation o f the pilots;
         0   Anticipate and prepare for inevitable attacks and attempts to derail the process, especially
             from special interest groups who stand to lose from the development o f a consensual and
             coherent policy andregulatory framework, and for the possibility o f leadership change(s);
         0   Constantly aim for buildingand institutionalizinga platform for sustained sectoral dialogue.

Demand-for-Registration Development:
             Identify stakeholders, resource people, champions of change within PLA and internal and
             extemal forces opposing change;
             Identifythe demand and supply-side factors limitingregistration, put on the table the facts of
             PLA service vis-&vis the service standards that can bothenhance demand for services and be
             reasonably achieved within existingconstraints;
             Concentrate resources (including training) on addressing critical demand and supply-side
             impedimentsto registration (basedon data-driven analysis) andachievingquick results;
             Minimize instances o f conflict through, among other measures, careful selection ofpilot areas
             incoordination with the authorities and different stakeholders, the integration of formal and
             informal local conflict/dispute resolution channels in the title settlement process, and by
             deferring contested cases that were not resolved throughout the process to the next stages o f
             the process;
             Motivate key influence-yielding actors and stakeholders at various levels;
             Ensure the development o f a solid communication strategy and awarenesscampaign for local
             communities within the pilot areas.

Improvement of Public Land Management:
         0   Identifystakeholders,resource people and champions of change withinPLA;
         0   Identify internal and external forces and interest groups opposing change o f current public
             land managementpractices;
         0   Buildthe case for the urgency ofthe task and the critical importance oftransparent processes
             for management o f public lands by clearly outlining the benefits to be gained and the risks
             entailed by either delaying or ignoring the process;



                                                       6

          0   Identify high-level influential champion(s) for the process within the LPTF, the PLA,
              municipalities, the private sector and civil society;
          0   Concentrate resources on building the knowledge base o f public land holdings in the pilot
              areas and on ensuring at minimumthat the strategic public lands are taken into account inthe
              management strategy for leveragingthem to achieve the desired objectives and that they are
              subjected to the transparent disposition and valuation procedures.


C.        PROJECT COMPONENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION
The LILcomponents considered are:

Component 1:Land Policy Formulation and Development of Regulatory Framework (US$1.3 million)
This component would support consensus building, though consultations and public hearings, for the
formulation o f a national land policy document and an action-plan for implementation, and the revision o f
the regulatory framework governing land administration. Priority land policy areas under study include:
(1) land registration to identify the registry's current degree of accuracy and the factors limiting its use,
(ii) functioningofthelandmarketstoidentifylandmarketdistortionsandpolicyoptions,(iii)
     the                                                                                                 land
disputes and resolution mechanisms, (iv) management and disposal o f public land to identifyreforms in
priorities, standards and processes of public land management, (v) property valuation, and (vi) the legal
and institutional framework for land administration to identify areas o f legal andjurisdictional ambiguity
and/or overlap andrecommendpolicy options and improvements to the legal framework.

Component 2: Piloting of Systematic Land Registration and Modern Land Office (US$I.9 million)
This will include:  (1)piloting land surveying, systematic titling and registration in areas A or B under PA
jurisdiction in and around Ramallah, the West Bank, usingseveral pilot locations selected respectively in
urbadresidential, peri-urban and rural areas and covering in total some 10,000 dunums (1,000 hectares);
(ii) establishmentofmodemlandoffices intwolocationsinRamallah,theWestBank,andGaza
     pilot
with the goal of establishing clear, monitorable service standards through re-engineering office functions,
staff training, and introductiono f technologies to improve efficiency and transparency.

Component3: Piloting of Public Land Inventory and Management Strategy (US$O.7million)
This component would support the establishment of an inventory of public land inareas A and B intwo
municipalities, one in the West Bank and the other in Gaza, and the development of a public land
management strategy and instruments. The public land inventory would primarily focus on State land,
but also on municipal land holdings where feasible. This component would complement the ongoing
work financed by the International Development Research Center o f Canada (IDRC) and undertaken by
the Ministry o f Planning's Geographic Center and Technical Support Directorate involving the
digitization o f Jordanian cadastral maps (until 1967) and development of a Geographic Information
Systems (GIS) database of State land, along with procurement of some computer equipment and staff
training.

Component 4: Institutional Development (US$l. 7 million) This component would support:
(i) institutional development to the PLA to be able to undertake its mandate efficiently and effectively;
(ii) strengthening education       programs      in land      administratiodmanagement        and   surveying;
(iii) strengthening private sector capacity insurveying; (iv) public awareness and community participation
campaigns; and (v) project management support for both the MOP and the PLA, including performance
monitoring and evaluation and distillation o fthe lessons learnt.

Finally, unallocated funds to the amount of US$0.4 million would support: (i)         any additional technical
assistancethat may arise through the project; and (ii)   any increase inthe cost o f the project components.



                                                       7

Bank financing i s expected to be US$3.0 million with the Government of Finland and United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) financing the remaining US$3.O million.                         The
Government o f Finland has pledged approximately US$2.1 million primarily towards the costs of
Component 2, while USAID will provide US$0.90 million towards the cost o f Component 4 (sub-
components i,ii,and iii), well as the two studies on the land registry accuracy and factors limiting its
                               as
use, and property valuation inComponent 1.


D.        RISKS
1. Socialand EnvironmentalRisks

Safeguard policies:         None
With its focus on policy, legal, and institutional reforms to land administration in the West Bank and
Gaza, the proposedproject does not trigger any safeguards policies. Specifically, the project focuses on
landpolicy formulation, development of a regulatory fkamework for land and property rights, institutional
strengthening and capacity building of the PLA, conducting an inventory of public land, and piloting o f
systematic land titling and registration and the re-engineering o f office functions in the PLA to enhance
efficiency and customer service accordingto established service standards.

Environmental aspects: Environmental Category (C)
Most land administration projects financed by the Bank are rated C or B (i.e. no environmental impact
assessment i s required), with the rating depending on the size o f landtitling activities, whether the project
covers areas close to protected areas or forests, and whether the construction of land office buildings is
envisaged   .

Thisproject is ratedC for the following reasons: (i) will be no new construction; civil works will be
                                                          there
limitedto minor internal office set-ups; (ii) land titling pilots will only cover a small area, totaling
                                                    the
1,000 hectaresinseveral locationsrepresentingurban, peri-urbanandrural areas inand aroundRamallah;
and (iii)  the selection of these pilot locations will be done such as not to trigger other environmental
safeguard policies such as on forestry (non-existent inthe project area), natural resources or habitats.

Other social risks:         None
Even though the general experience with systematic land titling and registration projects suggests that
they may cause or result in conflicts (contested rights to land between heirs in un-subdividedparcels or
between owners and tenants, conflicting ownership claims, multiple layers o f rights, etc.), the current
proposed project i s designed in such a way to avoid potential social conflicts. First, the scale o f the pilot
projects for systematic land registration i s purposefully small, covering a total o f 1,000 hectares (about
5,000-10,000 parcels) in several locations selected to represent different conditions: urban/ residential,
peri-urban, and rural areas. The pilot locations will be selected inand around Ramallah, inareas A and B
that are under the PA control. The selection of the specific locations will be undertaken in coordination
with the key government stakeholders (MOP, PLA, local authorities, etc.). The idea is to identify areas
that arerepresentative o fthe different territorial conditions (urban, peri-urban andrural) andthat allow for
different learning conditions (starting inthe early stages with the relatively simple cases as with the areas
inwhichthe settlementprocess was initiatedprior to 1967butwas nevercompleted3to more challenging
cases that allow to test the effectiveness o f the adjudication/ settlement and dispute resolution procedures


  These areas include locations that were surveyed but where the schedule o f claims was not prepared, other areas
where the schedule of claims was prepared but where the process was not undertaken, and other areas where an
initial schedule of rights was prepared but has not undergone the appeals process.


                                                          8

in resolving different types o f unclear or contested property rights), yet where the sheer number of
contested parcels is limitedineach case due to the selection o f small-scale pilot areas. Potential conflicts
would thus be o f a contained scale and more manageable through the different forms of dispute resolution
mechanisms, especially with the inclusion o f community-based mechanisms.

Rather than seeking to undertake the most challenging situations such as large areas where the sheer
volume o f contested lands i s high or where the nature o f conflict i s expected to lead to violence, the idea
is to progressively test more complex cases inthe systematic titling and registrationpilots while ensuring
that any potential conflict would be limited and containable. Indeed, the inherent aims o f the pilot
projects are to: (i)stress the benefits o f land titling and registration and thus activate demand for the use
o f the land registry; (ii) achieve tangible results so as to build stakeholders' momentum towards the
project and limit the potential for opposition (especially by those special interest groups with a vested
interest in blocking the reform agenda); and (iii)     develop the manuals, tools and capacity for surveying
and title settlement. Inaddition, the pilot projects will provide an opportunity to analyze the nature o f
land disputes, test the dispute resolution and title settlement mechanisms that will be put in place (this
includes identifying and capitalizing upon the existing semi-formal and informal dispute resolution
mechanisms found in Palestinian society today, e.g. the conciliation role played by a head o f clan-
Mokhtur), and understand the nature o f contestedrights to land (both the cases that get settled throughout
the process and those that are not settled) inorder to explore possibilities for settlingthese ina subsequent
large-scale program.

To further reduce the potential for conflict, the project will not issue titles to contested lands that have not
been settled successfully through the formal and informal dispute resolutionmechanisms (land settlement
courts, community-based mechanisms, etc.) that will be put in place. Given the uncertainty o f the exact
number o f contested parcels untilthe pilot locations are selected and the pilots launched, and inthe aim to
contain any opportunity that might escalate into conflict, it was decided to use a conservative target for
the number o f titles expected to be settledissued through the pilot projects (about 40% or so o f all land
parcels). Pending cases depending on their circumstances will be appealed incourts or will be referred to
the subsequent phase o f the land titling program, which will be launched in the future at a larger scale on
the basis o f the structure developed and tested in the pilots. The usefulness o f the contested lands that
will be uncovered during the pilots (whether resolved or pending) is in testing the effectiveness o f the
settlement process and the different dispute resolution channels and proposing strategies for more
effective adjudicationo frights based on lessons learnt from the process.


     Other Risks


   Risk                                                   Risk    RiskMitigationMeasure
                                                         Rating
   Fromoutputs to objective
   Exogenous political changeslunfavorable Israeli         S
   actions may derail progress towards prevalence o f
   rule of law andbuildingstate institutions
   Fromcomponentsto outputs
   Lack of political commitment for reform withinthe                   Considerable upstreamplanninglanalysis
                                                                       PA commitment explicitly stated intheir
                                                                      ReformPlan which incorporates specific
                                                                      project elements (PLA capacity building,
                                                                      registry consolidation, development of
                                                                       legislation for land administration)




                                                        9

Risk                                                   Risk  RiskMitigation Measure
                                                       Rating
                                                                  Cabinet issues land sector strategy
                                                                  statement with commitment to reform
                                                                  land administration (see draft inAnnex
                                                                  10)
                                                                  Landpolicy formulation will be done
                                                                  through participatory process

                                                               0  Quick tangible results o f pilot projects
                                                                  are expected to mobilize stakeholders
                                                                  Donor engagement at the highest level
                                                                  Finally, project would be scaled down if
                                                                  commitment wavers
Implementation o freformsjeopardized by:                           Initialconsultations confirmedkey
 (i)manykey
      political-institutional turfbattles among the                government stakeholders' commitment
                 government stakeholders (PLA,                     (July 22,2004 workshop minutes)
      MOP, MOF, MOJ, MOLG, MPWH,                                   Formation o f highlevel LPTF including
      municipalities) with unclear jurisdiction and/or             all key stakeholders
      overlapping mandates                                         Cabinet formally endorses land sector
                                                                   strategy letter assigning responsibility
 (ii)Otherinterestgroupsthatblockthereform                         for project to MOP (mandate includes
      agenda                                                       landpolicy formulation and it would be
                                                                   viewed as an independent arbiter as it
                                                                   does not stand to gaidlose from reform)
                                                                   Donor engagement at the highest level
                                                                   to ensure reform agenda is not derailed
Despite the set up o f a well hnctioning system, lack              New system aligned withrevealed
o f demand for:                                                    preferencesllikely incentives
  (i)titleregistration                                  M          Follow up to ensure implementation o f
  (ii)transaction registration                           S         policy studies recommendations
                                                                   Public awareness campaignpromoting
                                                                   importancehenefits o f registration
As a result o f the long timeframe needed for                      Development o f immediate action plan
participatory landpolicy formulation process:                      to preserve public land during process
 (i)Potentiallossofavailablepubliclandsasa               S         (e.g. temporary moratorium on public
      result o f chaotic distribution                              landtransfer, master planupdate, etc.)
 (ii)lossofstakeholderinterest                           S         Launcho fpilot registration projects
                                                                   shortly after policy process is launched
                                                                   aimed at showing stakeholders tangible
                                                                   results.
Inadequate donor coordination and/or poor               M       0  Continuous coordination through
leveraging o f donor resources inproject                           formal and informal roundtables,
                                                                   briefings, etc.
Difficulty inhiring international consultants may        S         Coordination with other donors, donor
affect progress o fproject implementation                          engagement and direct liaisonwith
                                                                   Government o fIsraelthrough Task
                                                                   Force for Project Implementation
                                                        -S
RiskRating: H(High), S (Substantial), M(Modest), K Vegligil   Ior Low)




                                                      10

E.      MAIN GRANT CONDITIONS
1.EffectivenessConditions
 A. Negotiations
   1. Statementon LandPolicy was endorsedby the Cabinet on December 4,2004.
  2. Formal decision to establish the Land Policy Task Force was made on December4,2004.
   3. Formal decision to establish the overall Project Management Team (PMT) which encompasses
        the MOP and PLA-based PMTs (PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA) was issued and key personnel was
        nominated by negotiations.
  4. Formal Memorandumo f Understanding on Coordination between MOP and PLA was signed on
        December 18,2004, and arrangementsfor the Project Management and Coordination Committee
        were finalized duringappraisal.

  B. Effectiveness
The following has been agreedupon as condition of effectiveness:

   1. Subsidiary Agreement betweenPLO andPAisexecuted.


F.      READINESSFORIMPLEMENTATION
   1. At appraisal, the project team reviewedthe proposedProject Implementation Planand confirmed
        its satisfactory quality.

G.      COMPLIANCEWITHBANKPOLICIES
   The project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.




                       \




                                       DavidSteel                        Nigel Roberts
         *.am   Leader            Acting Sector Director                Country Director




                                                   11

                                                     ANNEXES
                                   ANNEX1:PROJECT            DESIGNSUMMARY

                             GZ-LANDADMINISTRATIONLIL(Grant)PROPOSAL




    Hierarchy of objectives             Key Performance               Monitoring &      1 Critical Assumptions
                                            Indicators                  Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal                 Sector Indicators        SectortCountry           (from Goalto Bank
                                                                 Reports                        Mission)
Enhanced state o f rule o f law   Increased investment flows in Government statistics
                                  landreal estate development
                                  and investment sectors         Business surveys

                                                                  Donor assessment
                                                                 reDorts
Strengthened State institutions   Improvedperception o f State   Business & citizen
                                  institutions' capacity to      opinion surveys
                                  deliver services
                                                                 Donor assessment
                                                                 renorts
                                                                  - -r----
    Follow-on Development
            Objective
For the long-term Land            Increase inconfidence o f       Socio-economic
Administration Program:           both landholders andbanks in studies and surveys
To enhance economic growth by the security o f titles
improving land tenure security
and facilitating the development  Increase innumber o f formal   PLA statistics
o fefficient land andproperty     landtransactions
markets inrural and urban areas,
through the development of an     Increase o f collateralized    Banking sector reports
efficient system o f landtitling  lendingto the property sector
andregistration, which is based
on clear, transparent and         Increase o f collateralized    Banking sector reports
coherent policies and supported   lending for businesses
by an appropriate institutional   (number and size o f loans)
structure
                                  Increase o f central and local  Government budget
                                  government revenues from
                                  property taxes, landtitling
                                  and registration fees, and
                                  public land disposal proceeds




                                                           12

     Hierarchy of objectives         Key Performance Indicators         Monitoring &       Critical Assumptions
                                                                          Evaluation
Project Development Objective Outcomellmpact Indicators
                                   1                                      ~




                                                                        Project reports  (fromObjective to Goal)
;or the proposed pilot project:     Landpolicy recommendations      jovernment/LPTF      Jo exogenous political
To assessthe feasibility of         (and subsequently consolidated  ifficialrecords      hangesI unfavorable Israeli
ntroducing reforms inland           landpolicy document and                              ctions derail progress to
dmhstration within an emerging time-bound actionplan)                                    chieve rule o f law and build
P v e m e n t structure by enabling endorsed first by LPTF, then                         itate institutions
he formulation of Policy, lega1    by Cabinet and forwarded for
mndinstitutional changes to         PLC consideration
mchieve efficientprocedures for
ssuanceo f land titles and          Recommendations to improve
egistration o fproperty             regulatory framework for land   jovernment/LPTF
ransactions, and transparent        administration endorsed first   jfficial records
)recesses for the management and by LPTC, thenby Cabinet and
lisposal o f State land             forwarded for PLC
                                    consideration

                                    Key government stakeholders
                                    start implementing actionplan   ;overnment/LPTF

                                    policy recommendations re       )fficialrecords

                                    (i)improved titlingiregistration
                                    procedures (simplifiedsteps,
                                    revisedfee structure, etc.);
                                    (ii)transparent methods for
                                    public land disposaVvaluation

                                    Consensus on general            ;overnment/LPTF
                                    directions o f long-term land   Ifficialrecords
                                    administration programby
                                    LPTF.




                                                              13

    Hierarchy of objectives          Key Performance             Monitoring &           Critical Assumptions
                                         Indicators                Evaluation
OutputfromeachComponent             OutputIndicators            Projectreports             (from0,utput.sto .   I

                                                                                              Objective)
1.New established landpolicy    1.1Priority landpolicy      I Reports on:             Continued political support
and regulatory framework for   studies completed andtheir      Registry accuracy      for the program
efficient land administration  recommendations endorsed        Landmarkets
                               by LPTF                         Factors limiting       LPTF i s able to operate
                                                              registration            effectively and exercise its
                                                               Landdisputes I&II      leadership role
                                                               Public land
                                                              management              Political buy-inand donor
                                                              Property valuation      engagement manage to
                                                              Landadministration      curb interest groups from
                                                              legal I institutional   derailing the process
                                                              framework review
                                                              Land administration     Ministries and agencies are

                                                              proposed institutional  willing to accept and

                                                              structure               implement agreed
                                                                                      recommendations
                                                            I
                               1.2 Participatory policy-       Consolidatedland       N o opposition from main
                               making channels established    policy document and
                               and operational; consolidated  implementation action   stakeholders, including
                                                                                     NGOs and CBOs
                               policy document and action     plan
                               plan for implementation        LPTFofficial records    Government stakeholders
                               developed, and endorsed by      Supervisionmission     will pass interim measures
                               LPTF                           reports                 to preserve State land
                                                                                      during policy formulation
                               1.3 LPTF effective as inter-    Assessment by PMT,     process
                               agencylministrylstakeholder                  missions
                               coordination mechanismfor
                               landpolicy

                               1.4 Recommendations for      '*Land administration
                               revised land regulatory        proposed legal
                               framework endorsed by          reforms report
                               LPTF and Cabinet and            LPTFIgovemment
                               forwarded for consideration    official records
                               by PLC                          Supervision mission
                                                              reports




                                                       14

                                                                         Monitoring,&        CriticalAssumptions
   ~~Hierarchyof objectives                Key Performance
                                              Indicators
                                              ~    . ..
Output fromeach Component                 OutputIndicators                                      (fromOutputsto
                                                                                                   Objeetive)
2a. Streamlined, efficient and      2a. Manuals and guidelines      *Final reports on      Government is willing to
cost effective land titling and     completed and streamlined        titlingregistration   implementproposedpolicy
registrationprocedures tested       titlingiregistration procedures  pilots                recommendations to
andput inplace, and systematic      put inplace for testing;         PMT quarterly         activate demand for
land titling and registration pilot surveying, settlement and        progress reports      registration
projects completed                  dispute resolution teamsi        Supervision mission
                                    channels set up, trained and     reports               Effectivepublic awareness
                                    operational; about 40-50% of                           campaign on titling/
                                    parcels inpilot areas titled                           registrationbenefits i s put
                                    and registered.                                        inplace

2b. Office reengineering system     2b. PLA needs assessment         Final reports on PLA
and service standards for PLA       completed; recommendations       modernizationpilots
offices tested andput inplace,      implemented; streamlined         PMT quarterly
PLA capacity developed, and         proceduresfservice standards     progress reports
pilot PLA offices improved and      implemented (e.g. processing     Supervision mission
functional                          time oftitle issuanceand
                                    registration) andM&E             reports

                                    systeminplace.
3. Improveddocumentation of         Public land inventory inpilot    Final reports on      Political buy-inand donor
Public land and management          areas completed; strategic       public land inventory engagement manage to
strategy developed                  public lands identified; public  and management        curb interest groups from
                                    land management strategy         strategy pilots       derailing the adoption o f
                                    developed (desirable use,        P M T quarterly       transparent public land
                                    leveraging potential, disposal   progress reports      management procedures
                                    and valuation methods, etc.)     Supervision mission
                                                                     reports




                                                              15

1
=     Hierarchy of objectives            Key Performance              Monitoring &        Critical Assumptions
                                              Indicators
 Outputfromeach Component                OutputIndicators

I4. Enhanced institutional         4.1 Institutional assessment                         MOP i s assigned a formal
 capacity inland administration    completed; strategic/ human     institutional        mandate to coordinate the
 through: (i) improved PLA         resources development plans     assessment           project and i s capable to
 capacity to perform its mandate;   completed; training            PMT quarterly        hllyexercise its role
 (ii) improved educational          implemented                    progress reports
 training insurveying and land                                     Supervision mission
 administration; (iii) increased                                   reports
 number andenhanced capacity
 o fprivate surveyors; (iv)        4.2 Assessment completed;       Final report onland
 improvedpublic awareness of       program(s) developed and        administration and
 titling and registration benefits operational                     surveying education
 and community participationin                                     enhancement
 policymakingprocess; and (v)                                      PMT progress reports
 effective project management.                                     Supervisionmission
                                                                   reports

                                   4.3 Assessment completed;       Final report on
                                    Training developed and         surveying capacity
I                                   operational; streamlined       building
                                    surveyor certification process PMT progress reports
                                   developed and forwarded to       Supervisionmission
                                    the competent authorities for  reports
                                    consideration
                                                                    Finalreport on
                                   4.4 Participatiodawareness      participation and
                                    campaigns for policymaking     awareness campaigns
                                   process and for titling and
                                    registrationpilots developed    PMT progress reports

                                    and operational.                Supervisionmission
                                                                   reports


                                   4.5 PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA          M&Esystem

                                    staffed and operational; M&E    PMT progress reports

                                    system developed and
                                    operational




                                                             16

     Hierarchy of objectives        Key Performance        Monitoring & Evaluation            Critical
                                        Indicators                                         AssumDtions
   ProjectComponents/Sub-         Inputs(budget for each       Projectreports           (fromComponents
          Components                    component)                                          to Outputs)
1.Landpolicy formulationand      USs1.3 million           1.
                                                          t  Report onregistry         Government
development o fregulatory                                    accuracy and factors      commitment and
framework                                                    limiting registration     donor engagement
                                                         2.  Landmarkets report        throughout the
                                                         3.  Land disputesreports      policymaking process
                                                             I&II
                                                          4. Public land management    Awareness campaign
                                                             report                    ensures broad-based
                                                          5. Property valuation        participation inthe
                                                             report                    policymaking process
                                                         6.  Land administration
                                                             legal/ institutional
                                                             reports I&II(I:  review;
                                                             11:proposedlegal
                                                             improvements)
                                                         7. Consolidated land
                                                             policy document and
                                                        -    actionplan
2. Piloting o f systematic land  US$l.9 million           8. Final report on titling   Most land owners in
titling and registration and                                  andregistrationpilots    pilot areas have legal
modern PLA offices                                        9. Finalreport on PLA        evidence o f title
                                                              modernizationpilots
3. Piloting ofpublic land        US$0.7 million           10. Finalreport onpublic
inventory and management                                      land inventory and
strategy                                                      management strategy
                                                             pilots
4. Institutional development     USs1.7 million           11. Finalreport on P L A
                                                              institutional assessment
                                                          12. Final report on land
                                                              administration and
                                                              surveying education
                                                              enhancement
                                                          13. Final report on surveying
                                                              capacity building
                                                          14. Final report on
                                                              participation and
                                                              awareness campaigns
                                                          15. M&Ereports (PMT)
                                                          16. PMT periodic progress
                                                              reports
                                                          17. Mid-term review report
                                                          18. Implementation
                                                              comdetion reDort




                                                     17

Annex la. Project MonitoringBaseline andTargets


Key PerformanceIndicators                                                          I        . ,

                                                                       Baseline       Mid-Term II
                                                                                                    Endof
                                                                                                    Project
                                                                                       Target       Target
                                                                        01/2005        06l2006      1212007
COMPONENT 1:
OUTCOME/ IMPACTINDICATORS
Recommendations o fpriority landpolicy studies, consolidated
policy document and actionplan endorsed by LPTF and by Cabinet           None
and forwarded to PLC for consideration                                                  50%          loo%
Recommendations for revisedregulatory framework endorsed by
LPTF and Cabinet and forwarded to PLC for consideration                  None           None         100%

Consensus on general directions o f the long-term land                             III          I11
administration established by LPTF                                       None           None       Completed

OUTPUTINDICATORS
Priority landpolicy studies (registration, land markets, land
disputes, property valuation, public land management, legal and                         67%          100%
institutional framework review/proposed legal improvements)               None         (4 of6)      (6 o f 6)
completed and their recommendations endorsed by LPTF
Formulationo f landpolicy through participatory process and
implementation action plan completed                                                    50%          100%

Recommendations for revised landregulatory framework
completed and endorsed by LPTF                                                          50%          100%

COMPONENT 2:
OUTCOME/ IMPACT        INDICATORS
Unclear land titles inpilot areas settled and registeredby                          1             1
beneficiaries                                                              0%           20%           40%

ImprovedPLA service delivery efficiency inpilot offices as
measured against established service standards:
     (i) Resumption o f landtitle settlement activities           None since 67         Yes           Yes
     (ii) registrationactivitiesautomated
         New                                                             Manual         TBE          100%
     (iii)Reducedaverage processing time o ftransactions insettled     Min7-8 day I
     titled land (without IPA I with IPA)                             Avg 2-3 month     TBE           TBE

     (iv) Increased demand for registration                            2,573 (WB)
                                                                       1.709 (GZ)*      Same         +20%

OUTPUTINDICATORS
Titlingiregistration procedures revised per policy recommendations         0%           75%          100%
Detailed manuals, guidelines and forms developed                           0%           100%         100%
Settlement and dispute resolutions teams set up and trained                0%       I   100%
                                                                                        ~.        I  100%
                                                                                                     ~.
Projects implemented according to established timetable                    0%           75%          100%
Revised PLA service standards established                                  0%       I   7%        I  100%
PLA office reengineeringsystem (automation, training, etc.)
designed and implemented according to plan                                              75%          100%

COMPONENT 3:
OUTCOME/IMPACTINDICATORS
                                                                      ~



Improvedpublic landmanagement in pilot areas as measured
against established standards:
     (i) landinventoriedandsurveyed
         State                                                         TBD-Imp
     (ii)Transparent public land allocation mechanisms applied                          Same          TBE



                                                          18

                                                                                                                    End of


                                                                                                         Target     Target
                                                                                            01/2005      06f2006    12/2007




                                                        2 lands directorates              I            1          I            1
                                                        Ledinworkdace                        0-4%         10%        30%




3usrdincu participauuiiiiipuii~yiim~~iiga s u ~ ui i i c      agaiiist                    I            I
:stablished target                                                                           None        Half-way I  Yes       I



                               5 U G L I V G I G Uabbording to plan and
                               lures endorsed                                                0%           50%        100%

                                                       Yaigns for policymaking
                                                        ding to nlan                         0%           75%        100%

                                                                .VI u l ~ L l l l l l l ~ I  0%        I  100%    I  100%      I
Notes:
TBE        To be established inthe design studies accordingto the characteristics o fthe selected pilot areas.
TBD-Imp To be determined during implementation. Baseline data for the land titlingiregistration and the public
           land management pilots will be collected during implementation after selecting the pilot areas. The date
           for the completion o f the follow up survey on the surveying and land administration educational program
           depends on the length o f the program, which will be decided during implementation based o n the
*          recommendations o fthe educational needs assessmentreport.
           Inthe PLA offices ofRamallah and Gaza, a total of 1,072 and 712 transactions, respectively, have been
           registered between 1/1/2004 and 30/5/2004. These encompass 38 transaction types including land sale,
           inheritance, condominium sale, subdivision, etc. In the Ramallah office, the total number o f registered
           transactions increased by 112% between 2002 and 2003 largely due to the reduction inregistration fees
           to 1% (even ifthe overall number o f transactions is still very limited). The effect o f lowered registration
           fees seems to have leveled with the number o f transactions registered between 2003 and 2004 (based on
           data from the first 5 months o f 2004) decreasing by 6%.
           Note that the use o f "increased PLA revenues" as an indicator o f performance will be determined during
           implementation depending on whether a further reduction in registration fees would be recommended
           through the policy studies. Overall, a total o f NIS (New Israeli Shekel) 3,529,207 was collected inthe
           periodbetween 1/1/2004 and 31/3/2004 inall 9 PLA offices




                                                                       19

                                   ANNEX2: PROJECT        DESCRIPTION

                       GZ-LANDADMINISTRATIONLIL(Grant) PROPOSAL

The proposed project aims at introducing reforms in land administration and management by way o f
building consensus, through a broad-based public consultation process, on land issues leading to the
formulation of a national land policy framework accompanied by an action-plan for implementation, and
the review and consolidation o f the regulatory framework goveming land administration and enactment o f
a new land law. Inparallel, pilot projects for systematic land registration are intended to test proposed
policy and regulatory recommendations and inform the policymalung process, activate the demand for
land registration, build existing surveying capacity, test the land title settlement process, understand the
nature of contested land rights (both those that get resolved through the land settlement process and those
that remain unsettled) and develop a strategy for dispute resolution. Pilot projects for the modernization
of the PLA's functioning are intended to establish and test service standards and clarify capacity
requirements for the PLA.

Overall, the project i s intended to assess the different stakeholders' commitment to reforming land
administration and the capacity requirements of the PLA, court system, local authorities, and the private
sector serving the sector, in addition to testing proposed recommendations for strengtheningthe land
administrationpolicy, regulatory and institutionalframework and capacity buildingstrategies.

The project will include the following components:



                                    Component1- US$1.3 million:
                LandPolicy FormulationandDevelopment of Regulatory Framework

This component will provide support to the PA in formulating key land policies and elaborating a
corresponding regulatory framework. It will also support the development o f the policies aimed at
increasing the rate o f land titling settlement and transaction registration, land dispute resolution,
development of efficient land and property markets, and effective, transparent processes for the
management and disposal of public lands.

The policy formulation process starts with the study of key policy areas to be undertakenby intemational
and national experts with inputlfeedback from various public, private and civil society stakeholders. For
each of the policy studies, the diagnostic, the different alternatives for improvement and recommended
alternative will be subject to consultation workshops attended by key stakeholders from the public,
private and civil society sectors and will be presented in the form of policy notes to the LPTF (MOP,
MOF, MLG, MOA, MOPWH, MOJ, MNE, PLA, HJC and one representative from each o f the private
sector and civil society organizations) for review and endorsement. Recommendations endorsed by the
LPTF that require immediate interventions (e.g. temporary moratorium on the distribution o f State land in
Gaza until the enactment of public land management policies, appointment o fjudges to land settlement
courts for the pilot projects, adjustments to the validity period or allowable uses o f the PA, etc.) will be
promptly forwarded to Cabinet (and to the PLC where relevant) for talung the appropriate actions.

After validation through consultations and by the LPTF, the outcomes o f the different policy studies and
other relevant and interlinked aspects o f land policy and administration (such as land use and national/
local spatial planning, which i s currently being developed through a MOP-based project financed by the
Norwegian bilateral donor agency, NORAD) will be consolidated and synthesized into a draft policy



                                                     20

document that will also be the subject o f broad-based public consultations including professional
associations, communities and NGOs. The revised draft policy will thenbe submitted with a summary o f
consultations and an implementation action plan to the LPTF for review and endorsement.                Once
endorsed by the LPTF,the policy document and actionplan will be forwarded for Cabinet's approval and
then sent to the PLC for consideration and enactment. The enactedpolicy document and action plan will
thenbe forwarded to the various government institutions responsible for the adoption or implementation
o f these policies.

This component will support anumber of studies, assessments and sub-components including:


1.        Study of Register Accuracy and FactorsLimitingRegistry Utilization: The aim o f this study
i s to assess the register accuracy and to examine the factors limitingregistry utilization.


Inlight of the overall inadequate level of registration of land property rights and transactions including
transfers and inheritances, it i s essential to assess the extent to which the existing registers reflect the
reality on the ground. The study would therefore "ground-truth" a sample of registers inWest Bank and
Gaza to determine the scope of this problem and its differentmanifestations inthe West Bank and Gaza in
light of the widely different ratios of systematic land title settlement. The study would cross-examine the
land titles and transactions recorded in these registers against the records of the NPs to determine the
percentage o f conforming cases (said to be around 10-20%), the incidence o f registered lands that were
subject to subsequent unregstered transfers and the number o f cases that have never been settled or
registered but which are the basis of transactions recorded at the NPs. The study would also assess the
socio-economic, legal and other factors that may account for the low levels of use o f the land registry
system to record transfers o f settled and unsettled lands, inheritances and other forms o f
transactions/changes to the properties' legal or physical status. It will examine the impact on demand
forhe of registration of such factors as (i)registry fees, (ii)taxes collected through the registry,
(iii) widespread failure to partition estates among heirs, (iv) legally prescribed minimum parcel sizes,
(v) insecurity of land tenure, contested property boundaries, etc. and their impact such as on surveying,
(vi) lack of understanding of the legal significance of and benefits arising from titling, (vii) absence of
many rightholders abroad, and (viii) any other factors that may negatively affect demand for registration.


Objective: The overall aim o f the study is to improve the registry accuracy, coverage and the quality o f
services provided by the PLA and N p s (where applicable). This requires measuring the extent to which
the existing registers no longer provide reliable information concerning property rights in land and
assessing the consequences, formulating options for efficiently updating registers, proposing the most
cost effective solution and describing indetail the resources needed for this purpose, as well as proposing
practical and detailed recommendations to activate demand for registration and the necessary resources
for this purpose. The study will also propose recommendations on how to improve NPs' services related
to land and property transactions and how to best clarify their mandate and integrate their functions with
those o fthe land registry.

The study findings and recommendations on how to activate demand for registration and improve service
quality will serve to inform the design phase o f the systematic land titling and registrationpilots as well
as the modem land offices' pilots. This study-which         provides a technical perspective on the strengths
and weaknesses of the regulatory and institutional framework for land registration-will           be closely
coordinated with the study on the "Legal/Institutional Framework for Land Administration: Review and
Recommendations for Improvement" (described later), which introduces the legal perspective. The latter
study is particularly important in addressing the legal framework goveming land administration in an




                                                      21

integrated manner (as opposed to a piecemeal approach o f recommending improvements to eachpiece of
legislation inisolation of other related issues).

Outputs:     A report describing the extent to which the registers are out of date and proposing
recommendations on how they might be efficiently updated and the resources needed for this purpose,
The report will also analyze the factors limiting the use of the land registers and propose
recommendations for reforms in the legal, technical and practical aspects of the land and property
registration system and integrating the functions of NF's, and for public education conceming the land
registry system.

Inputs: Costs o f study design, fieldwork,    data analysis and write-up, local and internationally qualified
expertise required (individuals). US$O. 1million.


2.       Land MarketsStudy: This study would assess the current performance of land markets, formal
and informal, to provide baseline information and to identify market distortions and policy options. The
activation o f land markets i s one of the objectives o f land titling, and this study would provide the
necessary information to make initial estimates of market activation, and a baseline for later measuring
the project impact.

Objective: To measure market activity disaggregated by property type (residential, agricultural, etc.) and
classification (formal/informal, public/private/waqf) inselected municipalities inthe West Bank and Gaza
inAreas A & B,to document values ofproperties beingbought and sold andinferresiduallandvalues, to
analyze the characteristics of buyers and sellers, and to examine efficiency aspects o f the land market,
including transaction costs, market information and transparency, and impact of titling and other relevant
factors on land values and landmarket activity.

This study-which     among other things provides the technical/economic perspective on the distortions of
land markets causedby inadequate laws and regulations-will       also be closely coordinated with the study
on the "Legal/Institutional Framework for Land Administration: Review and Recommendations for
Improvement" for the same abovementionedreasons.

Outputs: A report with a body of landmarket data and analysis, with recommendations for (i) to    reforms
improve the performance of the land market, (ii)recording o f future land transactions, and
(iii)dissemination of landmarket information.

Inputs: Costs o f study design, fieldwork, data analysis and write up, local/regional and intemationally
qualified expertise required(individuals). US$O.15 million.


3.       Land Disputes Study: The study comprises two parts. The first will examine the causes and
numbers o f land disputes based on records and surveys from the courts and other mediation and dispute
resolution mechanisms and analyze their geographic incidence in relation to earlier property rights'
settlement and other factors, processes for their resolution (formal, semi-formal or informal), the extent to
which these channels are effective, and population perceptions of such channels. Particular attention will
be given to how to best handle land that has not been partitioned for successions for some time in the
course of settlements. The study will propose recommendations to improve the existing land dispute
resolution system, to develop an efficient system for the settlement o fproperty rights, and to capitalize on
semi-formal/informal processes that contribute to mediation and dispute resolution outside o f the courts
system. The study will also critically examine the implications of the widespread reliance on the P A in
the West Bank as a source of land disputes andrecommend how to best tackle this issue.




                                                     22

Findings from the first component o f the study and recommendations on how to activate demand for
registration and improve service quality will serve to inform the design phase of the systematic land
titling and registrationpilots.

The secondpart of the study will be undertaken inparallel with the implementation of the systematic land
titling pilots to distill lessons from the experience. The study will examine all landparcelswith contested
rights (over ownershiphse, boundaries, etc.) encountered during the course o f the pilots, whether or not
these cases have been resolvedthrough the dispute resolution and titling settlement mechanisms that will
be put inplace. The idea is to understand the nature, frequency and characteristics of these disputednon-
settled cases in general and disaggregated by their outcome (whether or not the cases got resolved) and
assess the effectiveness o f the titling settlement and dispute resolution mechanisms (adjudication process,
land settlement courts, and alternative land dispute resolution channels). One o f the key outcomes i s to
propose approaches to deal inthe future with the casesthat didnot get resolved.

This study-which        among other things provides a legalhechnical perspective on the effectiveness o f
courts and other mechanisms to settle landproperty disputes-will        also be closely coordinated with the
study on the "Legal/Institutional Framework for Land Administration: Review and Recommendations for
Improvement" for the same abovementioned reasons.

Objective: The first part o f the study will provide early guidance on the nature and frequency o f disputes
that will arise during settlements, which will inform the selection o f pilot areas, the design o f the pilot
projects, and the work o f the settlement officers and settlement courts. The second part will distill the
lessons from the pilots' titling settlement experience and propose measures to improve the dispute
resolution and titling settlement mechanisms so as to better deal in the future with the difficult cases of
contested lands.

Outputs: For both parts of the study, dispute and dispute resolution statistics and analysis, with
recommendations for approaches to dispute resolution, enhancement o f their performance, and where
appropriate, legal reforms, as well as suggestions to improve the design and implementation o f systematic
titlingproceduresto reduce the occurrence o f disputes.

Inputs: Localh-egional and internationally qualified expertise required (individuals). US$O.15 million.


4.       Public Land Management Study: This study would examine the Palestinian experience with
public land management to date, including the processes in place (and the extent to which these are
efficient, effective, transparent and equitable) for the documentation, preservation from encroachment and
land grabs, utilization and strategic allocation and disposal o f such assets, as well as the procedures o f
land acquisition through condemnatiodexpropriation o f private land for public use. The study will also
assess competing needs for public land inreference to existing land use plans, identify critical decisions
that need to be made, examine the processes for making those decisions, and assess the adequacy o f the
legal framework and institutions for managing public land.              In particular, It would assess the
circumstances in which and extent to which public land should be placed inprivate use and/or alienated.
Inadditionto informing the policymakingprocess, this study would also provide usefulrecommendations
to assist in the preparation o f Project Component 3 concerning the development o f an inventory and
management strategy for public land intwo municipalities and would subsequently integrate the findings
and results o f these testing and learning activities.

Objective: The study will provide information and input to the Land Policy process and the public land
inventory pilots, and recommendations to the PLA for reforms in priorities, standards and processes o f




                                                       23

public land management, which will thereby increase the efficiency and transparency o f decisions made
inthismatter.

The study findings and recommendations on how to develop transparent and equitable processes for the
management o f public lands or expropriation o f private lands will serve to inform the design phase o f the
public land management inventory and strategy pilots. This study-which among other things provides
the technical perspective on the dysfunctions o f public land disposition and land expropriation caused by
inadequate laws and regulations and/or absent enforcement-will             also be closely coordinated with the
study on the "Legal/Institutional Framework for LandAdministration: Review and Recommendations for
Improvement" for the same abovementionedreasons.

Output: Report with recommendations.

Input: Localhegional and internationally qualified expertise required(individuals). US$O.15 million.


5.       Property Valuation Study: This study would examine potentials for more adequatevaluation in
the context o f land registration, public land disposition and other contexts, assessing existing capabilities
and needs for capacity building and institutional strengthening, identifying opportunities for the private
sector, examining existing practices and recommending improvements instandardsandprocesses.

Objective: Improvementof valuation accuracy and increased valorization of the land resource.

The study findings and recommendations on how to improve land valuation processes will inform the
pilot work taking place in the project for systematic land titlinghegistration, development of public land
managementhahation strategy, and modernization o f public land offices (indeed, one of the main causes
o f delay inthe land registrationprocess-both       on the PLA side and subsequentlydue to appeals-is        said
to be the dearth o f valuation experts and an unclear/contested process to determine value). As with the
other studies, this work will be closely coordinated with the study on the "Legal/Institutional Framework
for LandAdministration: Review and Recommendations for Improvement".

Outputs:Report andrecommendations.

Inputs: Local and internationally qualified expertise required (individuals): US$0.05 million.


6.       LegaUInstitutional Framework for Land Administration: Review and Recommendations
for Improvement: This study consists of two components: Part Ipresents a diagnostic ofthe regulatory
and institutional framework while Part I1presents recommendations for improvement o f the regulatory
framework.


Part I.The study would support the review of existing land laws and regulations dealing with land and
related issues (includingbut not limitedto land registration, eminent domain, land and property taxation,
property rights settlement, land survey, notary public, etc., as well as the civil code). Currently, there i s
an abundance o f laws governing land administration (estimated at 26), which have been introducedover a
long period o f time following different legal regimes, and which have not been updated or consolidated
(some laws date as far back as the 1920s and some laws come intwo different sets for the West Bank and
G a ~ a ) .The result i s a fragmented, incomplete and sometimes conflictinghncoherent legal framework,
           ~


 Examples o fthe existing land and related legislation include the laws on eminent domain (Law No. 24 o f 1943 for
Gaza, Law No. 2 o f 1953 for the West Bank, and Decree No. 73 o f 1996), state land management (law reference),


                                                         24

which makes it difficult to operate an efficient and equitable land administration system. As such, the
study would identify gaps, weaknesses and instances of conflict and inconsistency in the regulatory
framework for land administration and recommend improvements to the existing framework through the
identification of laws and regulations in need of development, revision, rationalization andor
consolidation so as to avoid overlap and inconsistency intheir effects and implementation.

The study would also review the existing institutional framework for land administration with a view of
identifying the key government stakeholders involved inthe process (including PLA, MOP, MOF, MOJ,
MOLG, MPWH, Higher Judicial Council and municipalities), examining their dejure mandate in land
administration and management relative to their de facto practice, highlighting areas o f unclear/
overlapping jurisdiction and the actiodsituations that cause confusion in the mind o f the community
concerning agency jurisdiction, and identifying gaps, weaknesses, strengths and opportunities in the
existing institutional framework for land administration. Particular attention will be paid to clarifyingthe
mandate of the PLA, which was partially definedinthe Presidential decree that established it.

Objective: Identification o f gaps, weaknesses and instances o f conflict in the existing regulatory
framework for and institutions involved in land administration, the strengths and opportunities in the
existing land administration system, and recommendations for the improvement o fthe existingregulatory
framework.

Outputs: Report(s) with diagnostic, analysis andrecommendations.


Part II: study would support the development, revision, rationalization and/or consolidation o f laws
         The
and regulations governingland administration, as identified by the review study.

Objective: The overall objective i s to provide the PA and the PLC with sound advice to lay the legal
foundation in land policy, management and administration consistent with the principles o f good
governance, efficiency and equity.

Output: Draft revised laws and regulations, with supportingrationale and options as needed, developed
with appropriate consultations with relevant membersof the PLC (inthe committees on land, legislation,
and the economy).

This study will be closely coordinated with all six abovementioned policy studies, which provide the
technical perspective on the strengths and weaknesses o f the regulatory and institutional framework for
each aspect o f land administration and management (registration, valuation, management o f public lands,
etc.). As mentioned earlier, this study is o f paramount importance for it provides the opportunity of
addressing the legal framework governing land administration in an integrated manner (as opposed to a
piecemeal approach o f recommending improvements to each piece o f legislation in isolation o f other
relatedissues).

Input: Localh-egionaland internationallyqualified expertise (individuals or firms), US$0.40 million.


7.      Land Policy Formulation Process: This sub-component supports the process for consolidating
and synchronizing (i)    the outcomes and recommendations o f the different land policy studies (after
consultations and validation by the LPTF), (ii)   other relevant and interlinked aspects o f land policy and
administration (such as land use and national/ local spatial planning, which i s currently being developed


condominiumownership(Law No.1 of 1996), propertyrights settlement (Law No. 9 of 1928 for Gaza), landand
buildingstax (under PLC review), notarypublic (under PLC review), landsurvey (under PLCreview).


                                                     25

through a MOP-based project financed by the Norwegian bilateral donor agency, NORAD), and (iii)          the
recommendations to the legal framework into a single draft policy document that is discussed and
reviewed inbroad-based public consultations involving inter alia professional associations, communities,
NGOs and civil society organizations. The revised draft policy will thenbe submitted with a summary o f
consultations and an implementation action plan to the LPTF for review and endorsement. Once
endorsedby the LPTF, the policy document and actionplan will be forwarded for Cabinet's approval and
then sent to the PLC for consideration. Once enacted, the policy document and action plan will then be
forwarded to the various government institutions responsible for the adoption or implementation o f these
policies.   A time-bound action plan for implementation of the different recommendations is also
developed under this sub-component. This sub-component will also cover the cost o f developing a
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system for the policymalung process, focusing on such issues o f
participation, inclusiveness, achievements and the lessons learnt throughout the process.

The necessary awareness and community participation campaigns including a strategy for the
dissemination of the policy document and action plan are covered under component 4. These campaigns
will be undertaken under the guidance of and in close collaboration with the PMT-MOP and its team in
charge o f the policymakingprocess.

Objective: The land policy formulation process aims at consolidating the outcomes o f the different
abovementioned land policy studies into a single coherent land policy document and developing a time-
bound action plan for implementation, through a broad-based consultative process involving public,
private and civil society stakeholders.

Output: Landpolicy document and action plan, with consultation summary reports. Briefpolicymalung
M&Eperiodic reports with a mid-term and final report on the lessons learnt throughout the process and
recommendations for improvement.

Input: LocaVregional and internationally qualified expertise (individuals or institutions) for coordinating
the process and moderating the different consultation workshops/meetings, consolidating the land policy
document and developing the action plan, preparingthe periodic M&Ereports and the mid-termand final
reports with lessons learnt and suggestedimprovements: US$0.30 million.



                                      Component2 US$1.9 million:
                                                      -
                    Piloting of Systematic LandRegistrationand Modern LandOffice

This component will support a series of pilot projects to initiate the process of systematic landtitling and
registrationinurban, peri-urbanandrural areas. The component will also support the development o f two
modern land offices inthe West Bank and Gaza.

Sub-component 1. Piloting of Systematic Land Titling and Registration: (Estimated Cost: US$l.1
million)

This sub-component will include the design and implementation of a series ofpilot projects of systematic
land titling (settlement o f property rights to land) with the goal o f covering around 10,000 dunums (1,000
hectares) in urban, peri-urban and rural areas. The objectives o f these pilots are to test the legal and
regulatory framework, institutional coordination and the technical capacity o f the PLA and the private
sector before embarking on an accelerated programof land titling. The output o f these pilots will include:
(i) manualsfor cadastralsurveying, adjudicationandregistrationincludingallnecessaryforms,
   detailed
consistent with the existing laws and regulations; (ii)  model technical specifications for the procurement


                                                      26

of private surveyors to undertake the cadastral surveys; (iii) systematic adjudication teams fully
                                                                     three
trained for operation inurban, peri-urban and rural areas (each team consisting o f around 25 people); and
(iv) issue and registration of some 4,000 titles (about 40% or so of all land parcels in the pilot areas
accordingto the final design of the pilot projects).

The pilots will cover around 10,000 dunums in three locations in and around Ramallah in areas A & B
under PAjurisdiction. The several locations will be selected to represent urbadresidential, peri-urban
and rural areas. The exact location of these pilots including which villages to be covered will be decided
at the early stages of implementation. The selection process will be undertaken in coordination with key
government stakeholders (MOP, PLA, local authorities, etc.).            The idea i s to identify areas that are
representative o f the different territorial conditions (urban, peri-urban and rural) and that allow for
different learning conditions (starting inthe early stages of the pilots with the relatively simple cases as
with the areas in which the settlement process was initiated prior to 1967 but was never completed5 to
more challenging cases that allow to test the effectiveness o f the adjudication/ settlement and dispute
resolution procedures in resolving different forms o f contestation), yet where the sheer number of
contested parcels i s limited in each case by virtue of the selection o f small-scale pilot areas. Potential
conflicts would thus be o f a contained scale and more manageable through the different forms of dispute
resolutionmechanisms, especially with the inclusion o f community-based mechanisms.

Rather than seeking to undertake the most challenging situations such as large areas where the sheer
volume o f contested lands is highor where the nature of conflict i s expected to lead to violence, the idea
i s to progressively test more complex cases inthe systematic titling and registration pilots while ensuring
that any potential conflict would be limited and containable. Indeed, the inherent aims o f the pilot
projects are to: (i)  stress the benefits of land titling andregistration and thus activating demand for the use
of the land registry; (ii) tangible results so as to build stakeholders' momentum towards the
                               achieve
project and limit the potential for opposition (especially by special interest groups with a vested interest in
blocking the reform agenda); and (iii)develop the manuals, tools and capacity for surveying, title
settlement andregistration.

In addition, the pilot projects will provide an opportunity to: (iv) analyze the nature of land disputes;
(v) test the title settlement and dispute resolution mechanisms that will be put in place (this includes
examining the feasibility of setting specialized land courts or training designated judges, as well as
identifyingand capitalizing upon the existing formal and informal land dispute resolution mechanisms in
operation in Palestinian society today), and; (vi) understand the nature of contested rights to land (both
the cases that get settled andthose that are not settled) inorder to explore possibilities for settling these in
a subsequent large-scale program.

To further reduce the potential for conflict, the project will not issue titles to contested lands that have not
been settled successfully through the formal and informaldispute resolutionmechanisms (land settlement
courts, community-based mechanisms, etc.) that will be put inplace. Given the uncertainty of the exact
number ofcontestedparcels untilthe pilot locationsare selected andthe pilots launched, and inthe aimto
contain any opportunity that might escalate into conflict, it was decided to use a conservative target for
the number o f titles expected to be settledissued through the pilot projects (about 40% or so o f all land
parcels). Pendingcases depending on their circumstances will be appealed incourts or will be referred to
the subsequent phase of the land titling program, which will be launched inthe future at a larger scale on
the basis of the structure developed and tested in the pilots. The usefulness o f the contested lands that
will be uncovered during the pilots (whether resolved or pending) is in testing the effectiveness o f the

* These areas include locations that were surveyed but where the schedule of claims was not prepared, other areas
where the schedule o f claims was prepared but where the process was not undertaken, and other areas where an
initial schedule of rights was preparedbuthas not undergone the appeals process.


                                                          27

settlement process and the different dispute resolution channels and proposing strategies for more
effective adjudication o frightsbasedon lessons learnt fi-omthe process.

A social development specialist will be recruited as a member of the PLA-PMT and will play a key
advisory and assistance role in the dispute resolution and conflict mitigation process. In addition she/he
will undertake a small social assessment during the first year of project implementation, after the
definition o f the pilot project areas and prior to the launch of the pilots. The social assessment will draw
on the findings o f the land disputes study on the nature of land disputes and conflict resolution
mechanisms, the analysis of the socio-economic factors and other obstacles limitingpeople's utilization
of the land registry, the feedback obtained by then from civil society and community organizations into
the landpolicymaking process, inaddition to undertakingfocus group meetingsinthe selectedpilot areas.
The purpose of the social assessment i s to inform the pilot projects' design and the awareness and
community participation campaigns on how to strengthen, respectively, the settlemeddispute resolution
mechanisms and demand for registry utilization.

The component will finance the purchase o f highresolution aerial photography or satellite images, their
processing and development of base maps, lower order triangulation points as needed, field surveys and
development o f cadastral maps, training and field allowances for adjudication teams, cost o f contract
staff, equipment for adjudications teams such as laptop computers and printers, and all other supplies
needed for the teams. The component will also finance one vehicle for each o f the three teams.
Furthermore, the component will finance international technical assistance. The associated public
awareness campaigns and community participation in support o f the pilots will be financed under Project
Component 4 (iv). Finally, given the uncertainty o f the extent o f contestedparcels untilthe pilot locations
are selected and the pilots launched, and in the aim to contain conflict, it was decided to use a
conservative target for the number of titles expected to be settledissued through the pilot projects (about
40-50% of all landparcels).

The estimated cost breakdown is as follows: (i)    international and regional technical assistancefor the final
design of the pilot projects and development o f manuals, procedures, etc.: US$0.2 million; (ii)   acquisition
and processing o f highresolution satellite imagerylaerial photography for 10,000 dunums and base map
production: US$0.05 million; (iii)   local/regional internationallyqualified technical assistance and contract
staff for lower order triangulation points, field surveying and preparation o f cadastral maps: US$0.6
million; (iv) training, equipment and field allowances for adjudication and settlement teamdstaff (a total
of about 75 persons in 3 teams worlung for an estimated total duration of 9 months): US$0.22 million;
and (v) a small social assessment study: US$0.03 million.

Sub-component2. Piloting of establishment of modern land offices (Estimated Cost: US$O.8 million)

This sub-component will support the development and implementation o f two model land (PLA) offices,
one inRamallah (the regional headquarters for West Bankprovinces and serving also Ramallahprovince)
and the other inGaza (the national headquarters and also serving Gaza strip provinces). This will include
re-engineering of office bctions and the layout o f office space, introduction o f automation to enhance
efficiency, and undertaking extensive training o f office staff and managers with a goal to focus on client
service, improve efficiency and increase transparency.         This will also include the establishment of
minimumservice standardswith the goalto completethe registration of all landandproperty transactions
with a clear title in one day. The sub-component will also support internal and external monitoring to
ensure compliance with service standards.

The sub-component will finance the (re)furbishing/(re)partitioning o f the offices (US$0.2 million); the
cost o f furniture, office equipment, surveying equipment, computer systems with software and vehicles
for the survey departments (USS0.3 million), the cost o f automation, digitization and data (records and


                                                       28

maps) conversion and associated training (US$0.2 million), and local and internationally qualified
technical assistance (US$O.l million).



                                    Project Component 3 US$0.7 million
                                                            -
                        Pilotingof Public LandInventoryandManagementStrategy

The project will support the development of an inventory of public land (primarily State-owned, but also
municipal landholdings where feasible) inareas A and B intwo municipalities, one inthe West Bank and
the other inGaza, the formulation of apublic landmanagement strategy and the adoption ofthe necessary
instruments for its implementation in line with the recommendations o f the policy study on public land
management. The municipalities selected for piloting and the scale o f the pilot areas covered will be
determined duringimplementation in consultation with the LPTF. The inventorying process will include
the purchase o f aerial photography or satellite images and their processing for the pilot areas, data
collection and verification of records, digitization and computerization,6 and the issue o f systematic titles
for non-contested public lands and transfer deeds for lands controlled by local governments, public
agencies and other entities. The component will also provide support to the PLA's general directorate of
state land in the shape o f refurbishing their offices, furniture and office equipment, and training as
needed. In addition, this component will support technical assistance for the design o f the inventorying
process and a strategy for the management of public lands in the two municipalities, including
inventorying vacant parcels and their potential, permissible uses and mechanisms for their preservation
from encroachment, identification of strategic parcels and development potential/objectives, and the
development o f transparent land disposition and valuation methods. The technical assistance will also
provide support for implementation. The public land management strategy formulation process will be
closely coordinatedwith municipalities to take into account their local development objectives, priorities
and needs and with MOP'SPolicy Research Unit to align with the national land policymaking and the
nationalAoca1 spatial planning processes underway. The inclusion o f municipal land holdings in the
public land inventorying process will depend on the capacity o f the selected municipalities, the extent to
whichtheir spatial landuse plans are developed, and the degree of coordination.

The project will finance national and international technical assistance for the design and support in the
implementation o f the inventorying process and the public land management strategy (US$O. 15 million),
in addition to the cost of purchase and processing of satellite imagery or aerial photography and
development o f mapping (US$O.1 million), furniture and equipment, computer software and hardware,
and incremental operating cost including for travel, and costs associated with surveying (US$0.45
million). Detailed cost breakdown for the latter will be finalized during implementation after selection of
the pilot municipalities as it depends on whether the selected West Bank branch i s covered under the
modern land offices pilots (which encompass the Gaza and Ramallah offices) and the extent o f public
lands ineachmunicipality (which determines the costs associatedwith surveying).




 It is important to note that, through a US$lOO,OOO IDRC-fundedgrant, MOP'S General Directorate for Geographic
Center and Technical Support (part o fthe Policy ResearchUnit)has digitized cadastral maps (available until 1967)
inthe West Bank anddeveloped aGIS databaseo fpublic lands (as perthe 1967maps, butthese have notbeen
cross-checked against the reality on the ground). The remainder of the funds are expectedto cover some computer
equipment andtraining to the PLA's GeneralDirectorate of State Lands inthe Ramallahbranch.


                                                        29

                                ProjectComponent4 - US$1.7 million
                                         InstitutionalDevelopment

This component will include five sub-components: (i)institutional development to the PLA; (ii)
strengthening education program in land administration and management; (iii)strengthening private
sector capacity in surveying; (iv) public awareness and community participation; and (v) project
management support for boththe MOPand the PLA, includingmonitoring and evaluation.

Sub-component (i):Institutional Development to the Palestinian Land Authority: (Estimated Cost:
US$0.25million)
This sub-component will support undertaking an institutional analysis and developing a comprehensive
strategic plan and human resources development plan to prepare the PLA to undertake its expanded
mandate more efficiently and effectively. The strategc plan study will assess among others the need for
centralization versus decentralization of services, and will develop clear mandates andjob descriptions for
the different directorates. Once the strategic plan i s prepared and implemented, strategic leadership and
technical training needs will be identified and implemented. This sub-component will be coordinated
with the pilots on modem land offices and development public land inventoqdmanagement strategy to
coordinate the capacity buildingand training efforts and eliminate any duplication.

The sub-component will finance technical assistance to prepare the development of a strategic plan and
the humanresources development plan, and the necessarytraining and capacity building, as well as some
fumiture, computers and software.

Sub-component (ii):Strengthening the Education Program in Land Administration and Surveying.
(Estimated Cost: US$0.20million)
Currently, there i s no education degree that i s provided in land administratiodmanagement, and
surveying. The UN-financed technical school provides training insurveying, and some o f the engineering
schools provide 1-2 courses on ground surveying. Given the critical need for professional surveyors and
land administrators,     one option i s    to include an additional track in surveying and land
administratiodmanagement in the undergraduate program. Another option i s to establish a high level
diploma or masters program in land management and administration, which could be coordinated with
international programs such as the LandManagement Programat the University o f Munich, Germany.

The sub-component will include technical assistance to undertake the education needs assessment and
assist one of the universities in establishing an education program in land management and
administration, including curriculum development and partnership arrangements with other academic and
professional institutions. The project would also finance exchange o f professors and acquisition o f text
books, computers and software, and some surveying equipment. Finally, the component will finance a
small follow up survey o f the first graduating class to assess the effectiveness o f the educational program
as measured by the ratio of employed graduates, the types o f positions they occupy, the responsibilities
assigned to them and their achievements, etc. Ifthe first enrolled class has not graduated yet, the survey
will assesstheir satisfaction with the ongoing education program.

Sub-component (iii):    Development of Private Surveyors: (Estimated Cost: US$0.20million)
The limitednumber of private surveyors is the West Bank and Gaza means that the cost o f surveying is
high(some US$lOO-200 per dunumdepending on the parcel size and location and whether it is urban or
rural) and the wait time i s long. The project will provide training and capacity building to potential
surveyors and streamline the process o f certificatiodregisttion, which i s administered by the PLA
surveying directorate. The goal i s to increase the number o fprivate surveyors inthe West Bank and Gaza


                                                     30

to about 150 registered surveyors within 2-3 years from today's estimated 60-70 surveyors. Increased
competition i s anticipated to enhance the quality and efficiency o f the service and make its cost more
competitive.

The component will finance training to potential private surveyors, technical assistance to design and
deliver the training and streamline the certificationrequirements.

Sub-component (iv): Public Awareness and Community Participation: (Estimated Cost: US$0.20
million)
There i s a need for extensive public awarenessinorder to achieve the intended goals o f the program. The
public needs to understand the goals and objectives of the program and its different components in order
to collaborate with the activities. Community participation i s one o f the key success factors of such
projects. The awareness campaign would include TV and radio programs, newspaper articles, as well as
posters, leaflets and publications. A careful design of the awareness campaign will be tailored to support
the various activities of the project. For example, the awareness campaign for participation in the land
policy formulation process and for the dissemination of its outcome (the landpolicy document and its key
provisions) will be done through mass media since land policy affects the entire country. A focused
awarenesscampaign o f the benefits of titling andregistrationwill be developed for the pilot project areas.

The sub-component will finance the technical assistance to design the community awareness and
participation campaigns related to the policymaking process and pilot projects, equipment, cost of
production of awareness material, TV and radio airtime and cost o f publication and dissemination o f the
policy document and action plan and widespread dissemination o f the executive strategy. The design and
implementation of this sub-component will be undertaken in close coordination and with guidance from
the PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA intheir respective mandate over project components.

Subcomponent(v): Project Management: (Estimated Cost: US$O.88 million)
A PMTwill be establishedwithinthe MOP,referredto as PMT-MOP. The PMT-MOP will be headedby
a Team Leader, who i s also the Project Manager, and who works closely with and reports directly to a
senior MOP official designated by the MOP. The PMT-MOP, which will placed as part o f the Policy
Research Unit, will be responsible for the implementation of Project Component 1 and associated
activities such as the public awareness campaign and for providing guidance and coordination with the
PLAteamincharge of sub-components (i),(ii), and (iv) of Component 4.
                                                   (iii),

The PLA will establish a PMT, referred to as PMT-PLA, to implement Project Components 2 and 3 and
associatedactivities such as the public awareness campaigns, as well as sub-components (i), (iii)
                                                                                               (ii), and
(iv) of Component 4. The PMT-PLA will be headed by a Team Leader who works closely with and
reports directly to a senior PLA official designated by the PLA Chairman. Both the PMT-MOP and the
PMT-PLA are part o f the overall       m,which        i s headed by the PMT-MOP Team Leaderproject
Manager. The senior officials at MOP and PLA overseeing project implementationand the Team Leaders
of PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA sit on the PMCC, which i s chaired by MOP and which is in charge of
ensuringproject coordination between the two implementingagenciedteams and resolving obstacles to
implementation, providing overall guidance, and liaising with the Donor Coordination Forum.

The PMT-MOP will be supported by international and local team members and technical assistance
oriented towards supporting the Team LeaderProject Manager in: (i)             project management and
monitoring; (ii) technical aspects o f project implementation; and (iii) learning and innovation aspects
                                                                       the
o f the project. The PMT-MOP team composition i s shown in Annex 7.1. Similarly, international and
local team membersand technical assistance will also be provided to support the PMT-PLA Team Leader
in: (i)pilot project management and monitoring; (ii)technical aspects of project implementation;



                                                     31

(iii) resolutionaspectsand(iv)thelearningandinnovationaspectsofthepilotprojects. The
    dispute
PMT-PLA team compositioni s shown inAnnex 7.2.

The sub-component will also support the design and implementation of a M&E system to carefully
monitor the project's development impact, testing and learningaspectsandthe implementationprogress.

The sub-component will finance the incremental operating and management costs includingcontractual
staff and consultants, allowances and other operational costs, including the cost o f leasing suitable
premises for the PLA inRamallah to consolidate the functions of the former Registration, Surveying and
State Land Management departments. This sub-component will also finance local and international
knowledge exchange f study tours as needed.




                                                   32

                                    ANNEX3: ESTIMATED              PROJECT COSTS

                        GZ-LANDADMINISTRATION LIL(Grant) PROPOSAL

                                                   BY COMPONENT

                      ProjectCost By Component                             Local       Foreign     Total
                                                                          US$ million US$ million US$ million
Component 1: Land PolicyFormulationand Developmentof
RegulatoryFramework
  1) Study o f Register Accuracy and Factors LimitingRegistry Utilization   0.025       0.075         0.10
 2) Land Markets Study                                                      0.075       0.075         0.15
 3) Land Disputes Study                                                     0.075       0.075         0.15

 4) Public LandManagement Study                                             0.075       0.075         0.15

 5) PropertyValuation Study                                                 0.025       0.025         0.05
 6) Review o f Legal and Institutional Framework for Land Admin               0.10        0.30        0.40
 7) LandPolicy FormulationProcess                                             0.15        0.10        0.25

     Incremental Cost (Land policy workshopsiconsultations)                   0.05        0.00        0.05

Sub-Total Component 1                                                       0.575        0.725        1.30
Component2: Pilotingof Systematic LandRegistrationand Modern
LandOffice
  I)Piloting of Systematic Land TitlingandRegistration                      0.585        0.485         1.07
            Project design study/development o f manuals/procedures           0.05        0.15          0.2
            Settlement team training                                          0.01        0.03        0.04
            Settlement team equipment                                         0.01        0.08        0.09
            Settlement team field allowances                                  0.09           0        0.09
            Aerial photography/satellite imagery and base map processing    0.025        0.025         0.05
            Triangulation, surveying and cadastral map preparation             0.4         0.2          0.6
 2) Piloting of establishment of modern land oflces                           0.35        0.45          0.8
            Office re-engineering/automationstudy                           0.025        0.075          0.1
            Automation, digitization, data conversion, and training on
          software                                                          0.075       0. 125           0.2

            Office partitioning                                               0.15        0.05           0.2
            Goods and equipment (fumiture, computers, vehicles, etc.)          0.1         0.2           0.3

 Sub-Total Component2                                                       0.935        0.935         1.87
Component 3: Pilotingof Public Land Inventoryand Management
Strategy
  1) Refurbishing State LandManagement offices                              0.075        0.025         0.10

  2) Furniture, equipment, computer softwarehardware and training             0.05        0.10         0.15
  3 ) Purchase and processing o f satellite imageryiaerial photography      0.025        0.075         0.10
  4) Surveying, demarcation                                                   0.15        0.00         0.15
  5) Technical assistance for the development o f a strategy for the
  management o f public landsinthe two municipalities                       0.025        0.125         0.15

  6) Incremental operating cost includingtravel cost (PLA)                    0.04        0.01         0.05

Sub-Total Component3                                                        0.365        0.335         0.70

Component 4: InstitutionalDevelopment



                                                              33

                      Project Cost By Component                         Local      Foreign      Total
                                                                      US$ million US$ million US$ million
   I)Institutional DevelopmenttothePLA                                    0.07        0.18        0.25
          Strategic planninghumanresourcesdevelopment study             0.025       0.075           0.1
          Goods and equipment (computers,fumiture, vehicles)            0.025       0.075           0.1
          Training                                                        0.02        0.03         0.05
   2) Strengthening the Education Program in Land Administration and
   Management                                                             0.08        0.12          0.2

          Needsassessmenticurriculumdesign                                0.02        0.03         0.05
          Training/ education                                             0.05        0.05          0.1
          Goods and equipment(textbooks, surveying equipment)             0.01        0.04         0.05
   3) Development of Private Surveyors                                    0.07        0.13          0.2
          NeedsassessmentstudyDevelopment oftrainingprogram               0.02        0.03         0.05
          Training                                                        0.05         0.1         0.15
   4) Public Awareness and CommunityParticipation                         0.15        0.05          0.2
          Designandimplementationof campaign(MOPPLA)                      0.15        0.05          0.2
   5) Project Management                                                0.735       0.145          0.88
          ConsultantistaffsalariesPMT-MOP/ PMT-PLA                        0.46        0.07         0.53
          Incrementalcost (lease,operatingcost, etc.) (MOPPLA)            0.25           0         0.25
          Goodsand equipment (computers, vehicles, etc.)                0.025        0.075          0.1
Sub-Total Component 4                                                   1.105        0.625         1.73

Total Project Cost (excluding unallocated)                                2.98        2.62          5.6

Unallocated                                                                0.2         0.2          0.4

Estimated Total Project Cost                                              3.18        2.82             6


                                                 BY CATEGORY

                       Project Cost By Category                         Local      Foreign       Total

                                                                      US$million  US$ million  US$ million
Works                                                                   0.23        0.07          0.3




                                                         34

                                 ANNEX4: PROJECT       IMPLEMENTATION

                             GZ-LANDADMINISTRATIONLIL(Grant)


The implementation of this project will be through an overall PMT, which comprises two PMTs based
respectively at the MOP and the PLA, referred to respectively as PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA. Project
coordination will take place through the PMCC, which includes senior MOP and PLA officials designated
respectively by the MOP and the PLA Chairman to oversee the implementation of their entities' assigned
project components and the Team Leaders o f PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA. The PMCC i s chairedby MOP.

The PMT-MOP is headedby a Team Leader, who is also the Project Manager heading the overall PMT,
and who works closely with and reports directly to a senior MOP official designated by the MOP. The
PMT-MOP, which will be placed as part o f the MOP'SPolicy ResearchUnit (inthe aim o f strengthening
its capacity), will be responsible for the implementation o f Project Component 1-the  policy formulation
process-and    associated activities such as the public awareness campaign, and ensure coordination with
the PLA on Component 3 (given the established capacity within the General Directorate o f the
Geographic Center and Technical Support) and subcomponents (i), (iii)  (ii), and(iv)ofComponent4as
needed. The PMT-MOP will also liaise with and report (directly or through the PMCC) on the progress
o f the policymalung process to the Cabinet and the PLC (namely the Land, Economic and Legal
subcommittees).

The policy formulation process will be overseenby a high-level Land Policy Task Force (LPTF), which
will be chairedby the senior MOP official and which will comprise senior officials from key stakeholder
ministries and agencies (including the Ministries o f Local Government, Finance, Justice, Agriculture,
Public Works and Housing, National Economy, Transport, and the PLA), in addition to one or more
representatives from each of the civil society and the private sector (e.% the Higher Coordination Council
for the Private Sector). The mandate of the LPTF i s to review and endorse land policy recommendations
to be forwarded to Cabinet for approval and oversee the policymaking process and the adoption o f its
recommendations withintheir ministries.

The PMT-MOP Team Leaderproject Manager will be supported by a team o f highly qualified and
experienced international and national specialists and consultants supporting the Team Leader in:
(i) managementandmonitoring; (ii)
   project                                      technical aspects o f project implementation; and (iii)
                                                                                                      the
learning and innovation aspects of the project. The PMT-MOP includes on a full-time basis a national
consultant specializing in the areas o f policy and strategic planning, a national policy coordinator for
Gaza, an administrative assistant, two specialists for Procurement and Financial Managementwho will be
placed in the MOP Financial and Administration department (to further strengthen its capacity) and
Geographic Information Systems Specialist (GISS) who will be placed at the Geographic Center and
Technical Support Directorate. The PMT-MOP will also be supported on a short-term basis by highly
qualified and experienced national and international specialists in land policyh-ategic planning
(supporting the policy formulation process), land markets, public land management, land disputes, land
registration, property valuation, and the legalhnstitutional framework governing land administration.
These consultants and specialists would be recruited competitively and as per the World Bank
procurement guidelines.

The PMT-PLA will be established within the PLA to implement Project Components 2 and 3, and sub-
components (i), (iii) (iv) o f component 4, as well as associated activities such as the public
                  (ii), and
awarenesscampaigns. It will be headedby a Team Leader who works closely with and reports directly to
a senior PLA official designated by the PLA Chairman. The PMT-PLA will also develop an action plan



                                                     35

and a procurement plan for the implementation of the different subcomponents, prepare Terms o f
Reference (TORS) and bidding documents for the various tasks, oversee the contractual and
implementation processes, and coordinate with MOP on Component 3 and where needed on Component
4. The PMT-PLA is also expected to coordinate with the various stakeholders including MOJ and the
Higher Judicial Council (HJC) on the establishment of land settlement courts, and MOLG and the
selected municipalities in which the             systematic    land titlinghegistration    and public    land
inventorying/management pilots would be implemented. The PMT-PLA would liaise with the local
universities to carry out the land management and surveyingeducation subcomponent o f the project. The
PMT-PLA would also liaise with the NGOs and specialized private firms to design and carry out the
awareness subcomponent of the project.

The PMT-PLA will be supported by a team of highlyqualified and experienced national and intemational
consultant team to support the PMT-PLA Team Leader in: (i)         pilot project management and monitoring;
(ii)technical aspects of project implementation; (iii) resolution aspects and (iv) the learning and
                                                          dispute
innovation aspects of the pilot projects. The team will include, on a full-time basis, an intemational
consultant specializing in systematic land titling and land administration (who will be responsible for
designing and supporting the implementation o f the systematic titlinghegistration and modem land
offices pilots as well as the design o fthe programs to strengthenthe PLA and private surveying), a project
policy coordinator for Gaza, an Administrative Assistant (AA), a Social Development Specialist (SDS)
who will play an advisory and assistance role in the dispute resolution and conflict mitigation process.
She/he would also conduct the social assessment study and be part o f the team to operationalize its
findings, and two specialists for Procurement (PS) and Financial Management (FMS) who will be placed
with the Accounting and Purchases departments (to build its capacity). The PMT-PLA will also be
supported on a short-term basis by highly qualified and experienced national and intemational specialists
inpublic land management and land administration education. These consultants and specialists would
be recruitedcompetitively and as per the World Bank procurement guidelines.

The PMT-MOP Team Leader/Project Manager should have an advanced degree in public policy, public
administration, planning, or related fields; at least 15 years o f related project management and policy
formulation experience; be proficient in report writing in both English and Arabic; possess excellent
managerial and communication slulls; and demonstrate in-depth knowledge o f the land sector issues,
challenges and complexities. The Policy Coordinator in Gaza should have advanced degrees in public
administration, engineering, law, or related fields; at least 7 years o f relatedexperience; possess excellent
communication skills inEnglishand Arabic; and demonstrate knowledge o f the land sector.

The PMT-PLA Team Leader should have an advanced degree in land administration, engineering,
planning, or related fields;  at least 10 years o f related project management experience including in land
administration projects; be proficient in report writing in both English and Arabic; possess excellent
managerial and communication skills; and demonstrate in-depth knowledge o f the land sector issues,
challenges and complexities. The PMT-PLAGaza Coordinator should have advanced degrees inpublic
administration, engineering, law, or related fields; at least 7 years o f related experience; possess excellent
communication skills inEnglishandArabic; and demonstrate knowledge o fthe land sector issues.

For each o f the PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA, the FMS should have an advanced degree in accounting,
financial management or related fields and a minimumo f 7 years o f related work experience (experience
in World Bank projects, financial safeguards and reporting will be a plus). The SDS should have a
minimumof 10years of experience insocial development with an emphasis on community participation,
community-based development, mediation and alternative disputekonflict resolution, preferably in land
disputes, and familiarity with land-related issues. The PS should have an advanced degree in engineering
or other relevant fields and a minimumo f 7 years o f related work experience (experience in World Bank
projects, procurement safeguards and reporting will be a plus). The GISS who will be coordinating


                                                       36

between MOP and PLA in the area o f geographic information and in particular to national triangulation
points, should have an advanced degree in engineering, geography or information technology and a
minimum of 7 years of practical experience. Finally, the AA should have a minimum of BA degree,
strong proficiency in English, minimum of 5 years of experience in office administration, experience in
correspondence and report preparation; knowledge of Microsoft Word, Excel and Power Point and
possess excellent communication skills.

Both the PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA will be responsible for preparing progress reports. The Project
Manager inhisher capacity as head o f the overall PMT will consolidate these reports and submit them to
the World Bank on quarterly basis. The PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA will cany out regular meetings with
the Bank's team as well as the donor coordination group to review the progress reports and address the
challenges facing implementation.




                                                  37

                                  ANNEX5: FINANCIALMANAGEMENT

                      GZ-LAND ADMINISTRATIONLIL(Grant) PROPOSAL

Summary: The implementation of this project will be through an overall PMT, which comprises two
PMTs (each headed by a Team Leader) based respectively at the MOP and the PLA and referred to
respectively as PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA. The PMT-MOP Team Leader i s also the Project Manager,
chairing the overall PMT. Each PMT will be responsible for separate components and will have a
separate Special Account and maintains its own financial records. However, consolidation o f the project
accounts remains the responsibility o f the PMT-MOP Team Leader in hisher capacity as Project
Manager.

The financial management system (FMS) at MOP follows the general government systems and was
assessed under the on-going Emergency Services Support Projects (ESSP) and all weaknesses identified
inthat assessment were properly addressedthrough detailed capacity buildingprogram. Accordingly, the
MOP has inplace an adequate FMS includingaccounting, reporting, internal control, record management
system, internal auditing. However, there are no acceptable external audit arrangements. Accordingly, the
overall financial management responsibilities will be vested in the finance department of the MOP to
which an FMWaccountantis appointed by the Project, and an independent qualified auditor acceptable to
IDA will be appointed for the project. On the other hand, the FMS at PLA requires significant
improvement to reach a satisfactory level and meet IDA'Sminimumrequirements. Therefore, the PMT-
PLA will be staffed with qualified financial manager financed by the project (to be hired within one
month fkom project signing) and supported by computerized accounting and reporting system that meets
the project's FMrequirements. The FMmanager will have considerable experience indealing with IDA-
financed projects and would transmit experience to the permanent PLA finance department. At MOP the
payment process will follow the respective internal control procedures of the MOP, while at PLA
payments are processedat the PMT-PLA.

Risk Assessment: The inherent risk is considered moderate as the recent CFAA had recognized the
recent developments in the government financial management system incorporated in the on-going
government reform program. The CFAA explicitly identifiedthe adequacy o f the government financial
management framework, and had rated the overall financial management risk as significant, which
supports adjustment lendingand budgetary support to the PA. The control risk is considered high hence
to the PMT-PLA are yet to be established. However, MOP has in place an adequate control system and
the PMT-PLA will be supported with adequatecontrol policies and procedures prior to effectiveness. The
detection risk is considered high as the PMT-PLA will be established newly, however it will supported
with qualified FM manager and provided with adequate FM policies and procedures and accounting
system.

Project Accounting and Records Management: Project accounts will be maintained on accrual basis
following intemational accounting standards by the PMT-PLA. MOP will maintain project accounts
following the government cash basis system with provisions for accrued payments. Quarter-end reports
will be prepared on accrual basis andproject accounts will be consolidatedat the MOP. Each agency will
maintain its own financial records. Upon project completion all records will be kept at for at least one
year after the submission o f the latest audit report to IDA.

Auditing: The project financial statements including it balance sheet and cash flow statement will be
annually audited by qualified independent auditor acceptable to IDA under terms o f reference acceptable
to IDA.The audit will be conducted inaccordancewith intemational standards on auditing and will cover




                                                       38

financing provided by all sources. The audit report would be submittedto IDA within four months o f year
end.

Financial MonitoringReports (FMR): The MOP and the PMT-PLA will prepare quarterlyFMRwhich
consist o f (i)statement of cash receipt and expenditures for the period and cumulatively along with
explanations of significant variances between budgeted and actual amounts, and cash balances o f the
project, (ii)statement on procurement of goods and works below the stated prior review threshold, (iii)
physical progress containing actual progress on project implementation. The formant and contents o f the
FMRwill be agreed duringnegotiation. The MOP and its PMT will be responsible for the consolidation
o f the FMR.

Flow of Funds: IDA funds will be channeled to each implementing agency through the agency's own
Special Account (SA) to be established under the Central Treasury Account (CTA) in the name of the
agency for project. The amount of the authorized allocation for SA-1managed by MOP is equivalent to
US$1,850,000 and SA-2 managed by PLA i s equivalent of US$1,150,000. To simplify the disbursement
process, the MOF will allow the MOP and the PMT-PLA to withdraw funds directly from their respective
Special Account without a need to transfer the funds to either MOP or PLA expenditure account. Thus,
each of the MOP and the PMT-PLA will be the sole signatory on the payments made from their
respective Special Account. Each of the MOP and PMT-PLA will be responsible for preparing and
signing its Withdrawal Applications and have them co-signed by the Ministry o f Finance within five
business days. The MOF will review supporting documents of Withdrawal Applications on ex-post basis
except for the last Withdrawal Application which would be made on ex-anti basis.

Disbursement: Disbursement will be based on transactional disbursement methods including
replenishmentsto the Special Accounts and reimbursements with full documentation andor statements of
expenditure (SOE), direct payments, and special commitments issued against letters o f credit. The limits
of expenditures amounts that can be claimed under SOE are (i)goods US$lOO,OOO, (ii)works
US$ 100,000, (iii)consulting firms US$lOO,OOO and individual consultants US$50,000 and operating
expenses.

VAT Control: The WB&G draft on Country Financing Parameters(CFP) call for financing of VAT and
other reasonable taxes in W&G. If the CFP are approved prior to project negotiations, then it will be
possible to finance the VAT. Inthe unlikely situation that CFP are not approved, VAT will be paid as in
regularbusiness practices; however, funds are not to be withdrawn from the two SAs to pay for VAT.

Supervision: Financial management supervision will be conducted in accordance with the IDA
guidelines and procedures by financial management specialist, financial management analyst and
disbursement staff. The project will be visited at least twice a year. Financial management supervision
missionreports will be made, through the project team leader, available to other financiers.




                                                    39

                              ANNEX6: PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS

                      GZ-LANDADMINISTRATIONLIL(Grant)PROPOSAL


A.          General
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the
provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement. The general description o f various items under different
expenditure category i s provided below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different
procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs,
prior review requirements, and time frame will be agreed between the Client and the Bank project team
and summarized in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as
requiredto reflect the actual project implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Works (US$O.3million): Works procured under this project, would include partitioning
of the two or more offices (inthe West Bank and in Gaza). For estimated contract values o f US$lOO,OOO
or more, National Competitive Bidding procedures would be used. For contracts below US$lOO,OOO
Shopping procedures would be used inaccordancewith para. 3.5 of Bank Guidelines.

Procurement of Goods (US$O.74 million): Goods procured under this project would include office
furniture, hardware and software, vehicles and surveying related tools and equipment. Similar goods will
be procured as packages. For estimated contract values of US$lOO,OOO or more National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) would be used, using the Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) modified for
NCB. Shopping procedures would be used for estimated contract values o f less than US$lOO,OOO in
accordance with para. 3.5 o f Bank Guidelines. Goods costing less than US$5,000 would be procured
through Direct Contracting, inaccordancewith para. 3.6 o f Bank Guidelines.

Procurement of non-consulting services (US$l.49 million): Non-consulting services such as pilot land
surveying, training, community awarenesscampaigns and automatioddigitization services with estimated
contract values above US$50,00Q would be procured through NCB non-consulting services costing less
than US$50,000 would be procured through Shopping procedures, in accordance with para. 3.5 o f Bank
Guidelines.

Selection of Consultants (US2.43 million):         Consultant services procured under this project would
include about 12 consulting services contracts, including studies related to land policy formulation,
technical assistance for institutional restructuring o f the PLA, education and public awareness programs.
Qualified NGOs operating in the WBG as well as legally and financially autonomous local universities
would be eligible to participate inthe selection processes for these contracts, and project contracted staff
comprising the PMT. The selection for consulting contracts estimated to cost more than US$200,000
would be carried out usingthe Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection Method(QCBS). The selection o f firms
for consulting services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 would be carried out using the
Consultants' Qualifications Selection Method (CQS), in accordance with para. 3.7 o f Bank Consultant
Guidelines.The selection o f individuals for consulting services estimated to cost less than US$200,000
would be carried out in accordance with Section V (Selection o f Individual Consultants) o f Bank
Consultant Guidelines. Invitations for Expressions o f Interest would be advertised in United Nations
Development Business (UNDB) and DgMarket for all consulting contracts with an estimated contract
value above US$200,000.



                                                     40

Incremental Operating Expenditure (US$O.44 million): The grant will finance expenditures directly
related to the management of the project such as: the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means costs
incurred by MOP and PLA under the Project on account of: (i)maintenance o f office equipment;
(ii)transportation and travel, including per diem allowances for Project staff in local and/or international
travel status; (iii)
                   rental of office space; (iv) office supplies, utilities and office administration, including
translation, printing and advertising costs; (v) vehicles maintenance and insurance, including fuel costs;
(vi) communication costs; (vii) costs for production of bidding documents; and (viii) commercial bank
charges. Incremental operating expenditures which would be eligible for financing would be procured
usingthe administrative procedures of the PA which have been examined and found to be satisfactory to
the Bank.

B.           Assessment of the agency's capacityto implement procurement
Procurement activities related to Component 1 o f the project will be carried out by MOP through its
PMT. Procurementactivitiesrelatedto Components 2, 3 and4 will be carried out bythe PLA through its
PMT. The PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA consist of the overall PMT, which i s headed by the PMT-MOP
Team Leader designated Project Manager and includes the PMT-PLA Team Leader. The PMT would
include, in addition to other staff, one procurement officer at PMT-MOP and one procurement officer at
PMT-PLA. The PMT-PLA will be working closely with staff o f the Registration, Surveying and State
LandManagementDepartments.

For MOP and PLA's respective components, each will prepare bidding documents, conduct public bid
openings evaluate bids, and award contracts as well as supervise the implementation o f the signed
contracts.

The PLA has the headquarter office in Gaza and other branch offices in the West Bank. The PLA has
been established recently, and its staff came fi-om the MOHPW as well as from the MOJ. The headquarter
office in Gaza has 139 employees and 9 departments while there are 140 employees in the West Bank
offices and 14 departments. The Procurement Department has 3 staff in Gaza office and 3 staff in the
West Bank in Ramallah. The PLA staff has no previous experience in implementing Bank-financed
procurementor ininternationalprocurement. Very little procurement work i s conducted by the PLA. For
recurrent items such as stationary, office supplies, furniture etc., the PLA uses the Government catalogue
which i s prepared by MOF. The total annual procurement activities at PLA do not exceed US$lO,OOO
and are mainly for purchasing spare parts for office equipment and instruments,. For amounts above
US$lO,OOO,    the Central Tender Committee at the MOF conducts the procurement process on behalf o f
PLA. The Director o f the procurement department has good general knowledge of the Governmental
procurement procedures but has no knowledge o f Bank procedures and guidelines.

The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation was split recently into two ministries, the MOP
and the Ministryo f Foreign Affairs. The MOPhas its headquarters office inthe West Bank and an office
inGaza. The MOP hasnoprocurement departmentbutrather apurchase officer reportingto the Financial
Department. Very little procurement work i s conducted by MOP. For recurrent items such as stationary,
office supplies, furniture etc., the MOP, like other PA ministries and institutions, uses the Government
catalogue preparedby MOF. Only shopping with an annual amount o f about US$50,000 i s carried-out by
MOP staff. The Director of the Finance and Administration Department has good general knowledge o f
the Governmentalprocurement procedures buthas no knowledge of Bankprocedures and guidelines. He
has some experience inthe selection of individual consultants since the MOP hires a number o f individual
consultants to support their daily activities.      Although the MOP has no procurement department,
procurement i s generally taken seriously and i s followed fi-om preparation to evaluation by committees
formed for each procurement. The committee involves the heads o f the Financial and Administration
units. The unit in need of the procurement prepares the request and technical specifications, and the



                                                      41

purchase officer coordinates the operations and requests quotations from suppliers, his role i s more o f a
coordinating nature. A Manual i s beingprepared bythe Finance and Administration Department and i s in
its final stage. The Manual describes exact steps and responsibilities in the procurement process starting
from the requesting of items by the ordering unit and ending in the delivery o f the supplies in the unit
passing through the store.

Most of the procurementfor this project are consultancy services which are not addressedinthe two main
procurement laws (the supply law and the works law, see the CPAR) and regulations and neither MOP
nor has experience in working with the World Bank Consultant Guidelines. Most o f the issues and risks
concerning the procurement component for implementation o f the project have been identified in the
assessment of PLA and MOP and include: (i) procurement knowledge staff at PLA and MOP in
                                                weak
use of Bank procurement guidelines; (ii)   international consultants may not show interest in working in
Gaza or in the West Bank under present security conditions; and (iii)delays in implementing the
procurement plan due to lack o f experience inprocurement planning and the volatile security conditions
inthe West Bank and Gaza. The corrective measureswhich have been agreed upon are: (i) externally
                                                                                            an
recruited procurement specialist/ consultant to work with and provide on-the-job training for two
procurement officers (one for the PLA and one for MOP) who would be hired to be part o f each PMT;
(ii)generalprocurementtrainingworkshop isplannedinJune/July2005forthePAstaff(including
    a
MOP and PLA procurement staff) as part o f a recently approved IDF grant to follow up on the key
recommendations o f the CPAR; (iii)  on the job training inusing Bank guidelines, preparationo f bidding
document, request for proposals and bid evaluation and proposal evaluation would be provided by the
externally recruitedprocurement specialist/ consultant and initiated at the Project Launch Workshop soon
after effectiveness; The overall project risk for procurement is considered high. Once PLA and MOP
gain experience in implementing procurement, this riskmay be mitigated and revised during supervision
missions. However, in the first few months of implementation the procurement specialist/ consultant
would be expected to lead the procurement activities at MOP and PLA, in order to assure progress and
capacity buildinginprocurement.
The first country procurement assessment review (CPAR) for the WBG has been completed and it is
planned to be submittedto the government inDecember 2004.

         C. Procurement Plan
A draft Procurement Plan covering the first 18 months is includedinAnnex 6B. The Procurement Plan
for project implementation provides the basis for the application of the required procurement methods, as
agreed between the Recipient and the Bank. This plan would be finalized during appraisal and made
available to the MOP and PLA. It will be available in the project's database and on the Bank's external
website once the grant agreement i s signed. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the
Project Team as required but at least, prior to every supervision mission to reflect the actual project
implementation needsand improvementsininstitutional capacity.

         D. FrequencyofProcurement Supervision
For the first year, the PMTs (PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA) would be monitored by Bank supervision
missions every three months. Furthermore, since most of the procurement during the first year will be
subject to prior review and since Bank procurement staff are located in the field there would be frequent
interactionsbetweenthe PMTs and the Bankto verify progress.




                                                    42

                                                                                                ANNEX6A
                                             Procurement Plan

IGENERAL

1.      Project Information:
Country:                                    West Bank and Gaza
Recipient:                                  The PLO for the benefit ofthe Palestinian Authority
Project Name:                               GZ-LANDADMINISTRATIONLIL
Project No.:                                PO80892
Grant Amount:                               US$3,000,000
Project ImplementingAgency (PIA):           The Ministry of Planningand the Palestinian LandAuthority

2.      Bank's Approval Date o f the Procurement Plan: December 2004
3.      Date o f General Procurement Notice: to bepublishedwithin 30 days after Grant approval
4.      Period covered by this procurement plan: first 18months

11.     GOODS AND WORKS AND NON-CONSULTING SERVICES.

1.      Prior Review Threshold: Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as stated
        inAppendix 1to the Guidelines for Procurement:

            Procurement Method                Prior Review Threshold                    Comments
 1.    Shopping(Goods, Works)            First three purchase
                                         orderslcontracts
 2.    NCB (Goods, Works, Non-           >=US$lOO,OOO                          All NCB contracts subject
       consulting: services)                                                   to mior review


2.      Reference to (if any) Project OperationaUProcurement Manual

The PMT wouldprepare a simple Project OperationManual within30 days after Grant approval.

3.      Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements

In view of procurement capacity deficiencies in both PMTs, outside expertise through a procurement
specialist/ consultant, to be financed by the Grant, would be requiredto assure that the activities shown in
the Procurement Plancan commence andbe carried out successfully inthe first year.




                                                     43

4.       Procurement Packages with Methods and Time Schedule

See first initial draft procurementplan

111.     SELECTIONOF CONSULTANTS

1.       Prior Review Threshold: Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as stated in
Appendix 1to the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants:

                Selection Method               Prior Review Threshold                Comments
   1. QCBS                                   All                             Including advertisements
                                                                             and short lists
  2.    CQ                                   >US$IOO,OOO    and first three  Including short lists
                                             contracts
  3.    Individual Consultants, Section      >US$50,000 and first three      Including short lists
        V ofBank Guidelines                  contracts
  4. Single Source (individual)              All                             Justificationrequired

2.       Short list comprising entirely of nationalconsultants:

A short list o f consultants for services, estimatedto cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may
be comprised entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the
Consultant Guidelines.

3.       Any Other Special SelectionArrangements:

 In view of procurement capacity deficiencies in both PMTs, outside expertise through a
procurement specialist/ consultant, to be financed by the Grant, would be required to assure that
the activities shown in the Procurement Plan can commence and be carried out successfully in
the first year.

4.       Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods and Time Schedule
See first initial draft procurementplan.


IV.      IMPLEMENTINGAGENCY CAPACITY BUILDINGACTIVITIES WITH TIME
SCHEDULE

The agreed Capacity BuildingActivities are listed with time schedule
I                                  I              I              I          I                               I
 Expected outcome I                 Estimated      Estimated      Start.               Comments
 Activity Description               cost           Duration       Date

                                   I              I              I          I
                                                                            I Itwill be conducted under a   I
   Training on procurement             75,000                       June/    separate IDF grant addressing
                                                       week       July 2005   key recommendation o f the
                                                                                          CPAR




                                                      44

              m
              ?  m
              2  Q
                 2




.
sm

              .
              m
              3
              00




    -I*       N




                8
   --t----




  3;/s        5


                                                             ANNEX7: PROJECT                                             IMPLEMENTATION                                                     PLAN

                                       GZ-LANDADMINISTRATION LIL(Grant) PROPOSAL

                                                                                                                       Annex 7.1
                                                                                     ProposedManagementStructure
                                                                                      Implementationof Component 1




  Donor     -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LPTF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOP, PLA,
Coordination                                                                              Minister of Planning                                                                                                              t             MOF, MOLG,
  Forum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MOJ, MOA,

           ............................................................................................................. ...............................................................................................................  MOPW, MNE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MOT, private
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           sector, civil
                                                                                                        (PMT-MOP)                                                                                                                            society




                             Center and                                                                                                                                             Planning
                               Technical


                                                                                                   Project Manager


                   .....................................................................................
                   I International/national                                                                     j                             Gaza Coordinator
                                                consultants
                   I/                 Policy / Strategic
                                   Planning specialist                                                                                              GIS Specialist
                   .:1. .".......................................................................    !+I        i       I

                   j :  .i........................................................................
                            Landregistration sp.
                                                                                                     : :                                                     I                                                                 I
                   .: -........................................................................                                                                                                                                            Financial &
                   Ii Ii.......................................................................
                        .                                                                                                                                          Procurement sp. --;I_.
                         ........................................................................
                                    Landdisputesp.                                                   .. .       .
                                                                                                                ;                                                                                                                         Administration
                                                                                                                :
                   :. .
                   !i I*........................................................................ j
                                    Landmarket sp.                                                   .                                                       ,!

                       :                                                                                       .:j:                                                               FMsp.                                            --,       Dept.

                   ! "    .......................................................................
                   : :
                   Ii I........................................................................ 1    . .       :
                                Prop valuation sp.                                                             j
                       :  ......................................................................               :                                  Admin assistant
                                                                                                                                           I                                                                    I




                   i :
                                                                                                                             47
                   i....................................................................................
                          ....................................................         ................i       i:

                                                                                                                        Annex 7.2
                                                                                           ProposedManagementStructure
                                                                             Implementationof Components2,3 and4




                                                                   I                                 Cabinet                                                 I

  Donor                                                                                                       I                                                                                                         11   LPTF
Coordination                                               PLA Chairman (Gaza based)

  Forum            I                                                                                                                                                                                            I         MOLG, MOJ,
              ................................................................................................ .....................................................................................................      MOA, MOPW,
                  1                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                Senior PLA Official                                                                                                                       MNE,MOT,
                                                             (designatedby PLA chairman)                                                                                                                                  private sector,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           civil society



               I-1LandRegistrationDept f                                                           I
1                                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                                                                                                (PMT-PLA)

 Geographic
Center & TS '  I
 Directorate   I                  Accounting &                                                                                                        PLA Team Leader
                                                                                                                                                  ~
                              PurchasesDepts                                                        I   ,                                         I




                                                             ----------                                 Procurement Spec.

                                                         I
                                                         1
                                                         L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ _                              FMSpec.

                                                                                                               Adminassistant

                                                                                                               Systematic Land
                                                                                                              Registration Spec.                                            t
                                                                        Social Development Specialist



                                                                                                                                       48

                                                                                                      Annex 7.3
              ProposedProject Managementand CoordinationCommittee(PMCC)


                   ii
                    r,=======-===========-----'---1-111--1-1-==========
                                   ProjectManagement& CoordinationCommittee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I 1
                   I 1                                                                                                                                                                                                    I1
                   I1                                                                                        (PMCC)                                                                                                       I1
                   11                                                                                                                                                                                                     II

                                                    MOP (chair)                                                                                                                                                           II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I1       LandPolicy
                                                          Minister /                                                                                         Chairman/                                                    I1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I1        Task Force
                                        Senior MOP Official                                                                                   Senior PLA Official                                                         II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          II          (LPTF)
 Coordination                                                                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I1       MOP (Chair),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11
   Forum                .............................................................................................................................................................................................     II+----)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         II        PLA, MOF,
I            I   ...  . .:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         II        MOLG, MOJ,
                  I111  j                                   ProjectManagementTeam(PMT)                                                                                                                                   I 1

                 I1 i                                                                                                                                                                                                    I 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I 1      MPWH, MNE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I 1       private sector,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I 1       civil society
                II                            Project Manager                                                                                                                                                            I1
                II     ;i                                                                                                                                                                                                I1

                I1                                                                                                                                                                                                       I 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I 1
                l l - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - , - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _ - - - - - - - - - -
                    . .............................................................................................................................................................................................. .
                       i
                          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                                                   ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JI




                                                                                                              49

                                                     Annex 7.4
                                 ProjectImplementationResponsibilityMatrix



                                              RESPONSIBILITY
COMPONENT
                                               CABINET TASK MOF  MOP    PLA  MOJI PRIVATE NGOs
                                                      FORCE      (PMT) (PMT) HJC  SECTOR
Land Policv Formulation & Developmen
of Regulatoty Framework
(i) Preparation o f Letter o f Land Policy       A                 E
   Strategy
(ii) Preparation o f TORiRFP and selection                         E
   of consultants/consulting firms for the
   proposed studies
(iii) Carrying out participatory workshops              R          E
   to review policy recommendations
(iv) Submission o f draft policies to                   R          E
   Cabinet for review and consideration
(v) Ratification proposedpolicy and              E
   action plan
Piloting of SystematicLand Registration
 andModern Land Office
(i) Selection o f pilot areas for land survey,   A      S                E
   systematic titling and registration
(ii) Selection o f P L A offices to be                                   E
   modemized
(iii) Leasing new premises to consolidate                     A          E
   the 3 key PLA departments
(iv) Preparation o f tender documents for                                E
   office partitioningworks and goods
   (hardware and software, surveyng tools
   and equipment, etc.), bids evaluation
   and contract award
(v) Carrying out a social assessmentby                                   E
   PLA-PMT member
(vi) Contract Implementation                                                         E
(vii) Preparationo ftender documents for                                 E
   pilot land survey, bid evaluation and
    contract award
(viii) Implementationo f land survey in                                              E
   pilot areas
(ix) Establishment o f land settlement                                        E
    courts and appointment o fjudges
(x) Overseeing contracts implementation                                  E
 Piloting of Public Land Znventotyand
 Management Strategy
(i) Preparation o ftender documents for                                  E
    goods (Hardware/software, satellite
    images, aerial photos, maps, etc.), bids
    evaluation and contracts award
(ii) Contracts Implementation                                                        E
(iii) Establishment o f inventory o f public                       S     E
    landinareas A&B, two municipalities
 ZnstitutionalDevelopment
(i)  Preparation o f T O W P and selection                               E
      o f consultants/consulting firms for
      institutional assessment
(ii) Contract implementation                                                         E



                                                        50

                                           RESPONSIBILITY
  COMPONENT
                                                             NGOs

(iii) Preparationof TOR/RFP and
       selectiono fconsultantdconsulting
       firms for strengtheningland
       administrationand surveying
       educationprograms
(iv) ContractImplementation
(v) Preparationof TOIURFP andselection
       of consultantskonsultingfirms for
       strengtheningprivate sector capacity
       insurveying
(vi) ContractImplementation
(vii) Preparation o f TOR/RFP and
       selectiono f consultants/consulting
       firms for desigdimplementationof
       awareness/communityparticipation
       campaigns
 (viii) Contract Implementation                               E
 (ix) OverseeContractsImplementation
 (x) projectmanagementsupport:
    1. Performancemonitoring
   2. Evaluation
   3. Distillation of the lessons leamt
   4. Accounting& Fin. Admin.
    5. Opening of SpecialAccounts
    6. Management of Special Accounts
    7. Preparationof Withdrawal
          Applications
    8. Preparationof FMR
    9. Consolidationof FMRs andsubmittal
          ofProjectQuarterlyReports
Key: Approve (A), Execute (E), Supporl
* Implementation     byUniversities or Inst




                                                 51

N
v,



                               ANNEX8: PROJECTPROCESSINGSCHEDULE

                         GZ-LANDADMINISTRATION LIL (Grant) PROPOSAL

  Project Schedule:

               Activity                   PlannedDate             ActualDate
~




  Identification Mission                 April - May, 2004       April - May, 2004

 PCNReview                                 June 25,2004           June 25,2004

 Project Pre-Appraisal                      July 7, 2004           July 15,2004
I Project Decision Meeting          I    November7,2004      I  November 18,2004      I
 Project Appraisal                       November 15,2004       November 20,2004

  Project Negotiations                   December 15,2004        December 22,2004

I Planneddate
~o               RVP                      January 26,2005
                 o f effectiveness  II   February 15,2005

  Planneddate o fmid-term review         February 28,2006
  Plannedclosing date                   December 31,2007




                                                55

                          ANNEX9:DOCUMENTS           INPROJECT FILE

                 GZ-LAND ADMINISTRATION LIL (Grant)PROPOSAL


1. Land Policy For Growth & Poverty Reduction: A Preliminary Identification of Issues (In Land
    Registrationand LandManagement) - Executive Summary
2. Assistance Strategy for the West Bank and Gaza presented to the World Bank Board on
    December 2nd,2003
3. Aide Memoire from the pre-appraisal mission (July 15- 30, 2004)
        a. Draft Project's components
        b. Draft Project's implementationarrangement
        c. List of Proposed Studies whichwill be financed by the LIL
        d. Minutesof Stakeholder Workshop heldinRamallahonJuly 22,2004
        e.  Finnish Experience: Strengthening the Land Management System in the Palestinian
            Authority territories with a view to Facilitating Access to Housing (1998-2000)
        f. Draft StatementonLandPolicy
4. Report on Palestinian Land Authority by Atef Khudari, Director General of PLA (Un-Official
    Translation)
5. PLA's official request for Bank's assistancefrom FreihAbu Middien,Chairmano f PLA
6. Official correspondence from the FinnishGovemment to co-financethe LandAdministration LIL
7. Terms o f Reference for the proposed longterm advisor on Systematic LandRegistration financed
   bythe Government of Finland
8. IDRC's financed Buildinga Comprehensive GIS for Land Ownership Classification in the West
    Bank
9. Consultants' Scope ofWork relatedto the LandAdministration Project financed by USAID
10. P A Cabinet decision endorsing the proposed Statement on LandPolicy and establishing the Land
    Policy Task Force, December 4,2004
11. Statement on LandPolicy (inArabic)
12. Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry o f Planning and the Palestinian Land
    Authority (inArabic)




                                                56

                                 ANNEX10: STATEMENTONLAND                POLICY'

                        GZ-LAND ADMINISTRATION LIL(Grant) PROPOSAL

As part of its efforts aimed at achieving the national goals of economic development, poverty reduction
and good governance as described in the Socioeconomic Development Plan and Medium Term
Development Plan, the Palestinian National Authority is endeavoring to put in place an efficient and
transparent system o f land administration, based on and supported by a policy framework developed
through participatory processes, a consolidated and coherent legal framework and appropriate institutional
arrangements, and accompanied by a series o f programs and projects. The objectives o f these interlinked
initiatives are:

     a   To improve land tenure security, facilitate the development o f efficient land and property markets
         in rural and urban areas and prevent or resolve land disputes through the development of an
         efficient system o f landtitling and registration;
     a   To manage land and naturalresources inan equitable, sustainableand efficient manner; and
     a   To promote transparent management o fpublic land.


To achieve these objectives, the government will endeavor to accomplish the following tasks:'

1.Inthe area oflandadministration:

     a   The land policy formulation process will be overseen by a high-level Land Policy Task Force
         (LPTF) that will be chaired by a senior official from the Ministry o f Planning and which will
         comprise senior officials from key stakeholder ministries and agencies (including the Ministries
         of Local Government, Finance, National Economy, Public Works and Housing, Apculture,
         Justice, and the Palestinian Land Authority), as well as representatives from the civil society
         organizations and the private sector. The mandate of the LPTF is to oversee the land policy
         formulation process, review policy recommendations, ensure the adoption and implementations
         of policies and recommendations, and take decisions to be forwarded to Cabinet for approval.
         Membersofthe LPTF willbenominatedby the task force chair.
     a   Revision and consolidation of the legal framework goveming land administration in the West
         Bank and Gaza, and the enactment of the Land Law, complementary laws, regulations and other
         related legislation;
     a   Reduce the backlog o f land dispute cases in the courts by 50% by instituting new alternative
         dispute resolution mechanisms, and providingtraining to judges and court personnel dealing with
         land cases.
     a   Decrease the cost of surveying land by expanding the pool of private surveyors to 150 in two
         years through training and support services;


  A letter from the acting Minister of Planning, dated December 18, 2004, confirming the Cabinet's adoption o f the
statement on landpolicy and the establishment o f the landpolicy task force is available inthe project files.
'Other   associated initiatives include: (i)Development o f land use plans for priority areas including tourism,
investment zones, urban areas, major road corridors and other infrastructure; (ii)Coordination o f land use planning
with natural resource management objectives ina harmonized legal framework; (iii)         Strengthening o f local land
management and planning authorities, and o f national supervisory structures; (iv) Development o f procedures for
urban land management and involuntary resettlement. These initiatives are critical complements to land policy and
will be closely coordinated inparallel with the land administration and public landmanagement initiatives.


                                                         57

     0   Reduce the average registration time o f sale transactions in previously registered lands by 50%
         (from 7-8 to 2-3 days, ifno Irrevocable Power o fAttomey was used);

     0   Activation of a nationwide integrated land registration system usingboth sporadic and systematic
         registrationprocedures, including all property, public, private andWaqf.



2. Inthe area of publicland management:

     0   Creation and updating of anation-wide public land inventories and classification system;

     0   Establishment o f consolidated, transparent, and rules-based methods for allocating public land
         including sound criteria and procedures for its valuation;

     0   Development o f a strategy for leveraging public land to enable the achievement of the
         development objectives of economic growth promotion and poverty reduction.

Among the priorities for these two areas are institutional strengthening and capacity building in land
policy formulation and implementation and in land dispute resolution as well as the improvement of
public awarenessofrevisedlandlegislation and ofthe benefitsofregistration.

In order to achieve these tasks, and based on the guidance which will be presented by the Cabinet
committee, the Cabinet i s committed to embarking on a long-term program o f land administration reform
that will beginwith an initial phase to test approaches, put inplace the policy framework and consolidate
the legal framework for land administration, carry out pilot landregistration, clarify institutional roles and
identifyfinancial and other requirements neededfor the long-termprogram.

The task of coordinating the government's efforts in establishing coherent policy and legal frameworks
for land administration and introducing changes to achieve efficient procedures for the issuance o f land
titles and registration of property transactions, and transparent processes for the management and disposal
o f public land has been delegated to the Ministry o f Planning. The Ministry o f Planning shall have the
full backing and support of the Cabinet in undertaking this mandate, which will be undertaken in
collaboration and coordination with all concemed ministries and authorities.

Finally, the land policy formulation process will be overseen by a high-levelLand Policy Task Force that
will be chaired by a senior official from the Ministryo f Planningand which will comprise senior officials
from key stakeholder ministries and agencies (including the Ministries o f Local Government, Finance,
National Economy, Public Works and Housing, Agriculture, and Justice, and the Palestinian Land
Authority), as well as representatives from the civil society organizations and the private sector. The
mandate of the Task Force i s to oversee the land policy formulation process, review policy
recommendations, ensure the adoption and implementations o f policies and recommendations, and take
decisions to be forwarded to Cabinet for approval. Members o f the Task Force will be nominatedby the
Task Force chair.




                                                      58

            ANNEX 11:MEMORANDUM           OFUNDERSTANDINGBETWEENMOPAND PLA

                      GZ-LAND ADMINISTRATION LIL(Grant) PROPOSAL


                                  Memorandumof Understanding9

                                              between the

                                      Ministrvof Planningand
                                   The PalestinianLandAuthoritv



Infurtherance ofthe proposedLandAdministration Project, fundedbythe WorldBank, the UnitedStates
Agency for International Development and the Government o f Finland, the Ministry o f Planning (MOP)
andthe PalestinianLandAuthority (PLA) hereby agree to the following:

    1. Support the implementation of this project through the Project Management Team (PMT). Both
        MOP and PLA agree to establish and support PMTswithintheir respective offices. These PMTs
        will be hown as the PMT-MOP andthe PMT-PLA, and together will comprise the PMT.


    2. The MOP will designate a Team Leader to head the PMT-MOP and to serve as Project Manager,
        chairingthe overall PMT, andreports directly to a senior MOPofficial designated by the Minister
        o f Planning. The PMT-MOP, which will be placed as part o f the MOP'SPolicy Research Unit,
        will be responsible for the implementation o f Project Component 1-the          policy formulation
        process-and     associated activities such as the public awareness campaign, and ensure
        coordination with the PLA on Component 3 (given the established capacity within the General
        Directorate o f the Geographic Center and Technical Support). The PMT-MOP will also liaise
        with and report on the progress of the policymaking process to the Cabinet and the Palestinian
        Legislative Council (namely the Land, Economic and Legal subcommittees).


    3. The PMT-PLA will be established within the PLA to implement Project Components 2 and 3,
        and sub-components (i), (iii) (iv) o f Component 4. It will be headed by a Team Leader
                                 (ii), and
        who works closely with and reports directly to a senior PLA official designated by the PLA
        Chairman. The PMT-PLA will also develop an action plan and a procurement plan for the
        implementation o f the different subcomponents, prepare Terms o f Reference (TORS)and bidding
        documents for the various tasks, oversee the contractual and implementation processes, and
        coordinate with MOP on Component 3 and where needed on Component 4. The PMT-PLA i s
        also expected to coordinate with the various stakeholders including the MOJ, Higher Judicial
        Council (HJC), MLG and relevant municipalities, local universities, NGOs and specialized
        private firms.




~~




  A signed Memorandum of Understandingis available inArabic version inthe project file.



                                                    59

   4. The MOP and PLA will provide coordination through the Project Management and Coordination
       Committee (PMCC), which will be comprised o f senior MOP and PLA officials designated
       respectively by the MOP and the PLA Chairman to oversee the implementation o f their entities'
       assigned project components and the Team Leaders of PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA. The PMCC
       will be chaired by MOP.

   5. The establishment of a high-level Land Policy Task Force (LPTF), which will be chaired by the
       senior MOP official and will comprise senior officials from key stakeholder ministries and
       agencies (including the Ministries of Local Government, Finance, Agriculture, Justice, Public
       Works and Housing, National Economy, and the Palestinian Land Authority), and one
       representative fiom each of the civil society and private sector. The mandate o f the LPTF will be
       to review and endorse land policy recommendations to be forwarded to Cabinet for approval and
       oversee the policymaking process and the adoption of its recommendations within their
       ministries.


   6. Both the PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA will be responsible for preparing progress reports. The
       Project Manager inhisher capacity as head of the overall PMT will consolidate these reports and
       submitthemto the Bankon quarterly basis. The PMT-MOP andPMT-PLA will carry out regular
       meetings with the World Bank's team as well as the donor coordination group to review the
       progress reports and address the challenges facing implementation.



Signed on:




MinistryofPlanning                                               PalestinianLandAuthority




                                                   60

