Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC564 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: October 13, 2004 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: West Bank and Gaza 
Project ID: P080892 
Project Name: GZ- LAND 
ADMINISTRATION PROJECT 
Task Team Leader: Ibrahim Dajani 
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 16, 
2004 
Estimated Board Date: March 29, 2005 
Managing Unit: MNSIF 
Lending Instrument: Learning and 
Innovation Loan (LIL) 
Sector: General public administration 
sector (30%); Central government 
administration (30%); Law and justice 
(30%); Sub-national government 
administration (10%) 
Theme: Public expenditure, financial 
management and procurement (P); 
Municipal finance (P); Personal and 
property rights (P); Participation and civic 
engagement (S) 
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team: Breakman, Scott 
Loan/Credit 
amount 
($m.): 
 
        
0.0 
Other financing amounts by source ($m):  
 
2.8  
SPECIAL FINANCING (GRANT) 
 
3.0 
B.  Project Objectives 
The objective of this project is to assess/learn the extent of commitment and readiness of the 
Palestinian Authority (PA) to reforming land administration by introducing policy, legal and 
institutional changes to achieve efficient procedures for the issuance of land titles and 
registration of property transactions, and transparent processes for the management and disposal 
of public land
.
This project is the first phase of a long-term Land Administration Program, which aims at 
enhancing economic growth by improving land tenure security and facilitating the development 
of efficient land and property markets in rural and urban areas through the development of an 
efficient system of land titling and registration based on clear, transparent and coherent policies 
and laws and supported by an appropriate institutional structure
.
C.  Project Description 
The proposed project aims at introducing reforms in land administration and management by 
way of building consensus, through a broad-based public consultation process, on land issues 
Page  2
leading to the formulation of a national land policy framework accompanied by an action-plan 
for implementation, and the review and consolidation of the regulatory framework governing 
land administration and enactment of a new land law.  In parallel, pilot projects for systematic 
land registration are intended to test proposed policy and regulatory recommendations and 
inform the policymaking process, activate the demand for land registration, build existing 
surveying capacity, test the land title settlement process, understand the nature of contested land 
rights (both those that get resolved through the land settlement process and those that remain 
unsettled) and develop a strategy for dispute resolution.  Pilot projects for the modernization of 
the Palestinian Land Autho
rity (PLA)’s functioning are intended to establish and test service 
standards and clarify capacity requirements for the PLA.   
 
Overall, the project is intended to assess the PA’s commitment to reforming land administration 
and the capacity requirements of the PLA, court system, local authorities, and the private sector 
serving the sector, in addition to testing proposed recommendations for strengthening the land 
administration policy, regulatory and institutional framework and capacity building strategies. 
 
The project will include the following components: 
 
Component 1: Land Policy Formulation and Development of Regulatory Framework (US$2.1 
million) 
This component would support consensus building, though consultations and public hearings, for 
the formulation of a national land policy document and an action-plan for implementation, and 
the revision of the regulatory framework governing land administration.  Priority land policy 
areas under study include: (i) land registration to identify the registry’s current degree of 
accuracy and the factors limiting its use, (ii) the functioning of the land markets to identify land 
market distortions and policy options, (iii) land disputes and resolution mechanisms, (iv) 
management and disposal of public land to identify reforms in priorities, standards and processes 
of public land management, (v) property valuation and taxation, and (vi) the legal and 
institutional framework for land administration to identify areas of legal and jurisdictional 
ambiguity and/or overlap and recommend policy options and improvements to the legal 
framework.  
 
Component 2: Piloting of Systematic Land Registration and Modern Land Office (US$1.9 
million)  
This will include: (i) piloting land surveying, systematic titling and registration in areas A or B 
under PA jurisdiction in and around Ramallah, the West Bank, using three pilot locations 
selected respectively in urban/residential, peri-urban and rural areas and covering in total some 
10,000 dunums (1,000 hectares); (ii) pilot establishment of modern land offices in two locations 
in Ramallah, the West Bank, and Gaza with the goal of establishing clear, monitorable service 
standards through re-engineering office functions, staff training, and introduction of technologies 
to improve efficiency and transparency 
 
Component 3: Piloting of Public Land Inventory and Management Strategy (US$0.50 million) 
This component would support the establishment of an inventory of public land in areas A and B 
in two municipalities, one in the West Bank and the other in Gaza, and the development of a 
Page  3
public land management strategy and instruments.  This component would complement the 
ongoing work financed by CIDA. 
 
Component 4: Institutional Development (US$1.3 million) 
This component would support: (i) institutional development to the Palestinian Land Authority 
(PLA) to be able to undertake its mandate efficiently and effectively; (ii) strengthening of 
education program in land administration and management; (iii) strengthening private sector 
capacity in surveying; (iv) public awareness and community participation; and (v) project 
management support for both the Ministry of Planning and the Palestinian Land Authority, 
including monitoring and evaluation. 
 
D.  Project location 
The three locations for the proposed land titling and registration pilots
—covering a total area of 
about 10,000 dunums (1,000 hectares)—will be selected in Areas A & B (under the jurisdiction 
of the PA) in and around Ramallah, the West Bank, respectively in urban/residential, peri-urban 
and rural areas.  The exact location of these pilots including which villages will be covered will 
be decided at the early stages of implementation.  The selection process will be undertaken in 
coordination with the key government stakeholders (MOP, PLA, local authorities, etc) so as to 
identify areas that are representative of the different territorial conditions (urban, peri-urban and 
rural) yet where the rate of contested parcels is anticipated to be limited, so as not to cause social 
conflict.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies 
The PLA
—the institution entrusted with land titling and registration—was established by decree 
on June 5, 2002 to consolidate the two functions of surveying (formerly under the Ministry of 
Housing) and registration (formerly under the Ministry of Justice).  The PLA employs about 300 
staff (200 in the West Bank and 100 in Gaza) who have been carried over from their previous 
departments but who lack the necessary training and resources to efficiently implement their 
expanded mandate.  As such, the proposed project will support institutional capacity building 
and training to the PLA and pilots for the modernization of office functions and service delivery 
in two offices.  The capacity building and training of PLA staff will focus on the framework and 
skills needed for the efficient delivery of land titling and transaction registration services and will 
also cover the implementation of safeguard policies (including a sensitization on the issues of 
conflict and resettlement, their causes, implications and mitigation framework and measures, 
operational framework in special areas such as natural habitats, protected areas, etc).  The pilots 
will also support the training of settlement officers and the set up of effective dispute resolution 
mechanisms, including the delivery of all training and resources required.  Finally, additional 
capacity building efforts will target the development of private surveying capacity and education 
in land administration and management.   
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
With its focus on policy, legal, and institutional reforms to land administration in the West Bank 
and Gaza, the proposed project does not trigger any safeguards policies.  Specifically, the project 
Page  4
focuses on land policy formulation, development of a regulatory framework for land and 
property rights, institutional strengthening and capacity building of the Palestinian Land 
Authority (PLA), conducting an inventory of public land, and piloting of systematic land titling 
and registration and the re-engineering of office functions in the PLA to enhance efficiency and 
customer service according to established service standards.   
 
Even though the general experience with systematic land titling and registration projects suggests 
that they tend to cause or result in social conflicts (contested rights to land between heirs in un-
subdivided parcels or between owners and tenants, conflicting ownership claims, multiple layers 
of rights, etc), the current proposed project is designed in such a way to avoid potential social 
conflicts.  First, the scale of the pilot projects for systematic land registration is purposefully 
small, covering a total of 1,000 hectares (about 5,000-10,000 parcels) in three locations selected 
to represent different conditions: an urban/residential area, a peri-urban area, and a rural area.  
The three pilot locations will be selected in and around Ramallah, in areas A and B that are under 
the PA control.  The selection of the specific locations will be undertaken in coordination with 
the key government stakeholders (MOP, PLA, local authorities, etc) so as to identify areas that 
are representative of the different territorial conditions (urban, peri-urban and rural) yet where 
the rate of contested parcels is anticipated to be limited.   
 
Indeed, rather than seeking to undertake the most challenging areas where a high volume of 
contested lands is found and where the potential conflict is high, the pilot projects’ inherent aims 
are to: (i) stress the benefits of land titling and registration and thus activate demand for the use 
of the land registry; (ii) achieve tangible results so as to build stakeholders’ momentum towards 
the project and limit the potential for opposition (especially by those special interest groups with 
a
vested interest in blocking the reform agenda); and (iii) develop the manuals, tools and capacity 
for surveying and title settlement.  In addition, the pilot projects will provide an opportunity to 
analyze the nature of land disputes, test the dispute resolution and title settlement mechanisms 
that will be put in place (this includes identifying and capitalizing upon the existing semi-formal 
and informal dispute resolution mechanisms found in Palestinian society today), and understand 
the nature of contested rights to land (both the cases that get settled and those that are not settled) 
in order to explore possibilities for settling these in a subsequent large-scale program.   
 
To further reduce the potential for conflict, the project will not
issue land titles to contested land 
parcels that have not been resolved by the settlement process or through the formal and informal 
dispute resolution mechanisms that will be put in place.  Given the uncertainty of the extent of 
contested parcels until the pilot locations are selected and the pilots launched, and in the aim to 
contain any opportunity that might escalate into conflict, it was decided to use a conservative 
target for the number of titles expected to be issued through the pilot projects (60% of all land 
parcels), although it is hoped that the careful selection of the pilot locations will help to achieve a 
higher ratio of settled and registered titles.  Pending cases will be referred to the subsequent 
phase of the land titling program, which will be launched in the future at a larger scale on the 
basis of the structure developed and tested in the pilots.  The usefulness of the contested lands 
that will be uncovered during the pilots (whether resolved or pending) is in testing the 
effectiveness of the settlement process and the different dispute resolution channels and 
proposing strategies for more effective adjudication of rights based on the lessons learnt from the 
process.   
Page  5
Applicable?
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[No] 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
[No] 
Natural Habitats
(
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[No] 
Pest Management
(
OP 4.09
)
[No] 
Involuntary Resettlement
(
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
[No] 
Indigenous Peoples
(
OD 4.20
)
[No] 
Forests
(
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[No] 
Safety of Dams
(
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[No] 
Cultural Property
(draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
)
[No] 
Projects in Disputed Areas
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[No] 
Projects on International Waterways
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
Environmental Assessment Category:
 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
Most land administration projects financed by the Bank are rated C or B (i.e. no environmental 
impact assessment is required), with the rating depending on the size of land titling activities, 
whether the project covers areas close to protected areas or forests, and whether the construction 
of land office buildings is envisaged.  This project is rated C for the following reasons: (i) there 
will be no new construction; civil works will be limited to minor internal office set-ups; (ii) the 
land titling pilots will only cover a small area, totaling 1,000 hectares in three different locations 
in urban, peri-urban and rural areas in and around Ramallah; and (iii) the selection of these pilot 
locations will be done such as not to trigger other environmental safeguard policies such as on 
forestry (non-existent in the project area), natural resources or habitats.   
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  6
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared. (November 9, 2004) 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
 
A
small social assessment will be undertaken during the first year of project implementation, 
after the definition of the pilot project areas and prior to the launch of the pilots.  The social 
assessment will draw on the findings of the land disputes study on the nature of land disputes and 
conflict resolution mechanisms, the analysis of the socio-economic factors and other obstacles 
limiting people’s utilization of the land registry, the feedback obtained by then from civil society 
and community organizations into the land policymaking process, in addition to undertaking 
focus group meetings in the selected pilot areas.  The purpose of the social assessment is to 
inform the pilot projects’ design and the awareness and community participation campaigns on 
how to strengthen, respectively, the settlement/dispute resolution mechanisms and demand for 
registry utilization.  The rationale for undertaking the social assessment during implementation 
are: (i) this being a LIL, there are constrains with regard to budget and timeframe to process the 
project; and (ii) as mentioned earlier, the area covered by the pilots is relatively small. 
 
The study on land disputes and the effectiveness of dispute resolution mechanisms, which is 
intended to inform the policy formulation and pilot projects design processes, will be completed 
within six months from implementation start.  The second component of the study on the nature 
of land disputes encountered during the pilot projects implementation and the effectiveness of 
the titling settlement and land dispute resolution mechanisms that were put in place through the 
pilots, which is intended to inform future policy reforms and the design of the large-scale titling 
program and recommend improvements to the titling settlement and land dispute resolution 
mechanisms will be undertaken in parallel with the implementation of the pilots and completed 
shortly after the pilot projects’ completion towards the end of the project. 
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Ibrahim Dajani 
10/21/04 
Approved by: 
 
Social Safeguards Specialist 
Concepcion Del Castillo 
10/21/04 
Environmental Safeguards Specialist 
Stefanie Brackman 
10/21/04 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Sherif Arif 
10/21/04 
Comments 
Sector Manager: 
Hedi Larbi 
 
Comments 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  7
