Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1121
 
Project Name 
GZ-LAND ADMINISTRATION 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (30%);Central government 
administration (30%);Law and justice (30%);Sub-national government 
administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P080892 
Borrower(s) 
Palestine Liberation Organization for the benefit of the Palestinian 
Authority 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Planning (MOP) and Palestinian Land Authority (PLA) 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 13, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 18, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
March 29, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Significant poverty in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG)
:
1
Against a context of population growth of over 
4
percent per annum, the Palestinian population’s per capita real incomes at the end of 2002 had dropped 
to 50% of their level three years earlier.  Consequently, the proportion of the population living in poverty 
(defined as those consuming less than US$2.1 of goods and services per day) has tripled during the 
intifada
 
to cover about 60 percent of the population.  Among the many manifestations of such 
widespread poverty are the deterioration of the population’s health status, the drop in per capita food 
consumption by up to a quarter when compared to 1998 levels, and an increased prevalence of global 
acute malnutrition among children in the WBG to about 9.3 percent.   
 
The primary cause of Palestinian economic decline is the imposition of tight restrictions on the movement 
of Palestinian goods and people across borders and within the WBG.  These “closures,” which are viewed 
as essential by the Government of Israel (GOI) to protect its citizens from violence, have led to 
unemployment and a consequent loss of demand.  Unemployment has increased from 10 percent in 
September 2000 to over 30 percent of the Palestinian workforce today.  By the first quarter of 2003, the 
number of Palestinians who commute daily to Israel and Israeli settlements had fallen to 49,000 persons, a 
drop of about 62% from the September 2000 figure.  At the same time, 143,000 domestic jobs (29 percent 
of pre-
intifada 
domestic employment) have been lost.   
 
Great pressures on the Palestinian Authority finances:
 
The sharp decline in 
economic activities in WBG since 2000 had a direct impact on tax revenues.  In effect, more 
than 80 percent of tax revenues are derived from taxes on consumption (VAT, import duties 
and excise), of which almost two thirds are collected by Israel on the Palestinian Authority 
(PA)’s behalf and were withheld by GOI between December 2000 and December 2002.  The 
PA’s fiscal situation eased slightly following GOI’s decision in December 2002 to resume 
transfers of clearance revenue, but it remains precarious due to the recent decline in donor 
1
This section is based on: The Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank: Status, Strategy and Request for Replenishment 
(December 18, 2003) 
Page  2
emergency budget support (this averaged US$46 million per month between November 
2000 and June 2002; in 2003, however, donors have disbursed less than a half of this each 
month).  The unfunded PA budget gap in 2003 
–
when compared to the original budget – is 
expected to total some US$300 million.  
 
Importance of land in the West Bank and Gaza:  
Land and property in WBG, as in many parts of the 
developing world, is a common means of storing wealth.  Over the years, secure land tenure and property 
rights have taken on greater historical and cultural significance for Palestinians.  Nevertheless, it is 
estimated that nearly 25 percent of the court disputes in the West Bank today are land related.  All of 
these factors have made land titling, registration and efficient administration a matter of paramount 
importance to Palestinians.  Consequently, in the Palestine Development Plan (PDP), the PA emphasized 
that strengthening land management and surveying capacity is one of its top priorities.  Similarly, the 
Socio-
Economic Stabilization Plan sought donors’ support for building the capacity of PA agencies in the 
areas of land policy and land planning and development. 
 
Limited land property rights registration in the West Bank and Gaza
:
Much still needs to be done in 
terms of land property rights registration in WBG.  Although close to 90 percent of land in Gaza has been 
registered, only about 28 percent of the land in the West Bank is registered.  A systematic land titling 
program is therefore critically needed in the West Bank.  The problem, however, is that 53 percent of the 
land in the West Bank is under Israeli administrative control (Area C) and physical movement of 
Palestinians in the rest of the West Bank (Areas A and B) is constrained by movement restrictions.  
Moreover, currently only about ten percent of all transactions are registered with the PLA.  The rest use 
the “
Kateb-el-Adel
”, which functions effectively as an expanded notary public (NP) consistent with a 
historical role performed in a large number of Middle Eastern and Western European countries (such as 
France, The Netherlands and Spain).  The appointment and certification of the NP is under the jurisdiction 
of the Higher Judicial Council.  One problem with the current reference law (decree) for the certification 
of the NP is that it does not require any legal qualifications for the job.  Currently, there are 
approximately 15 NPs for the whole of Palestine, each operating within a geographically determined area 
of jurisdiction (all land transactions within a given district can only be recorded by the assigned NP).  The 
public appears to be using their services because of immediate convenience and because registration with 
the PLA is cumbersome and costly.  As such, at this stage, the critical issues are building the necessary 
legal and technical capacity for titling adjudication, surveying and registration, improving the quality of 
services offered by the land registration offices, tackling any constraints limiting the public’s use of the 
registry, and enhancing awareness of its benefits so as to activate demand for registration.   
 
Fragmented policy and regulatory framework for land administration in the West Bank and Gaza
:
Currently, there is an abundance of laws governing land administration in WBG, which have been 
introduced over a long period of time following different legal regimes, and which have not been updated 
or consolidated since.  Indeed, some laws date as far back as the 1920s and many laws come in two 
different sets for the WBG, including the law on eminent domain (Law No. 24 of 1943 for Gaza, Law No. 
2
of
1953
for the West Bank, and Decree No. 73 of 1996) and property rights settlement (Law No. 9 of 
1928 for Gaza).  In addition, the legal bases of land and property registration in use in WBG are many: 
Settled (i.e. gone through the Jordanian 
Taswieh 
or
titling settlement process), British (based on ground 
survey), Ottoman (Turkish Metes and Bounds Descriptions), Sporadic Land Registration (labeled as 
Tasjeel Jedid
), and Condominium (new since the enactment of the new law No 1 of 1996).  The result is a 
fragmented, incomplete and sometimes conflicting legal framework, which makes it difficult to operate 
an efficient and equitable land administration system.  Over the last few years, there has been an effort to 
deal with this confusing legal situation, with some revised laws currently under PLC review (those 
dealing with land and buildings tax, notary public, and land survey), but much still needs to be done.   
 
Page  3
Moreover until very recently, the registration and surveying functions used to be housed in two different 
executive cabinet level agencies: the Ministry of Justice dealing with land registration, and the Ministry of 
Housing dealing with land surveys.  There was little coordination between both ministries, and this split 
was considered as one of the main problems of the land sector.  The two functions were consolidated in 
mid-2003 under the Palestinian Land Authority (PLA), which was set up as an independent government 
agency reporting directly to the President’s Office.  The problem, however, is that the PLA is still without 
the necessary resources and capacity to undertake its expanded mandate and bring together various 
interests within the Government.  Similarly, the Ministry of Planning (MOP), which is responsible for 
policy formulation including for land, has not yet effectively exercised its mandate in the land sector, with 
the result that there are no established efforts or procedures for policymaking in this area.   
 
2. Objectives 
 
The objective of this project is to assess the feasibility of introducing reforms in land administration 
within an emerging government structure by enabling the formulation of policy, legal and institutional 
changes to achieve efficient procedures for the issuance of land titles and registration of property 
transactions, and transparent processes for the management and disposal of public land.  
 
It is envisaged that this project would be the first phase of a long-term Land Administration Program, 
which aims at enhancing economic growth by improving land tenure security and facilitating the 
development of efficient land and property markets in rural and urban areas through the development of 
an efficient system of land titling and registration based on clear, transparent and coherent policies and 
laws and supported by an appropriate institutional structure. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank’s current assistance strategy for the West Bank and Gaza, which was presented to the Board on 
December 2
nd
,
2003,
focuses on achieving a balance between providing emergency assistance to mitigate 
the effects of poverty, while at the same time maintaining a medium-term institutional development 
agenda.  The proposed project would contribute towards strengthening good governance and building 
state institutions in preparation for the eventual assumption of sovereign responsibilities associated with 
future Palestinian statehood.  The project would support the development of a coherent land policy and 
regulatory framework and efficient institutions for land administration, which are vital to a market 
economy in that they lay the foundations for clarifying and securing property rights and thus contribute to 
the improvement of the investment climate and the provision of an essential means for accessing credit. 
 
4. Description 
 
The proposed project aims at introducing reforms in land administration and management by way of 
building consensus, through a broad-based public consultation process, on land issues leading to the 
formulation of a national land policy framework accompanied by an action-plan for implementation, and 
the review and consolidation of the regulatory framework governing land administration and enactment of 
a
new land law.  In parallel, pilot projects for systematic land registration are intended to test proposed 
policy and regulatory recommendations and inform the policymaking process, activate the demand for 
land registration, build existing surveying capacity, test the land title settlement process, understand the 
nature of contested land rights (both those that get resolved through the land settlement process and those 
that remain unsettled) and develop a strategy for dispute resolution.  Pilot projects for the modernization 
of the PLA’s functioning are intended to establish and test service standards and clarify capacity 
requirements.   
 
Overall, the project is intended to assess the PA’s commitment to reforming land administration and the 
capacity requirements of the PLA, court system, local authorities, and the private sector serving the 
Page  4
sector, in addition to testing proposed recommendations for strengthening the land administration policy, 
regulatory and institutional framework and capacity building strategies. 
 
The project will include the following components: 
 
Component 1: Land Policy Formulation and Development of Regulatory Framework (US$1.3 million)
 
This component would support consensus building, though consultations and public hearings, for the 
formulation of a national land policy document and an action-plan for implementation, and the revision of 
the regulatory framework governing land administration.  Priority land policy areas under study include: 
(i) land registration to identify the registry’s current degree of accuracy and the factors limiting its use, 
(ii) the functioning of the land markets to identify land market distortions and policy options, (iii) land 
disputes and resolution mechanisms, (iv) management and disposal of public land to identify reforms in 
priorities, standards and processes of public land management, (v) property valuation, and (vi) the legal 
and institutional framework for land administration to identify areas of legal and jurisdictional ambiguity 
and/or overlap and recommend policy options and improvements to the legal framework.  
 
Component 2: Piloting of Systematic Land Registration and Modern Land Office (US$1.9 million) 
This will include: (i) piloting land surveying, systematic titling and registration in areas A or B under PA 
jurisdiction in and around Ramallah, the West Bank, using several pilot locations selected respectively in 
urban/residential, peri-urban and rural areas and covering in total some 10,000 dunums (1,000 hectares); 
(ii) pilot establishment of modern land offices in two locations in Ramallah, the West Bank, and Gaza 
with the goal of establishing clear, monitorable service standards through re-engineering office functions, 
staff training, and introduction of technologies to improve efficiency and transparency. 
 
Component 3: Piloting of Public Land Inventory and Management Strategy (US$0.7 million) 
This component would support the establishment of an inventory of public land in areas A and B in two 
municipalities, one in the West Bank and the other in Gaza, and the development of a public land 
management strategy and instruments.  The public land inventory would primarily focus on State land, 
but also on municipal land holdings where feasible.  This component would complement the ongoing 
work financed by CIDA and undertaken by the Ministry of Planning’s Geographic Center and Technical 
Support Directorate involving the digitization of Jordanian cadastral maps (until 1967) and development 
of a Geographic Information System (GIS) database of State lands, along with procurement of some 
computer equipment and staff training. 
 
Component 4: Institutional Development (US$1.7 million)
 This component would support: 
(i) institutional development to the PLA to be able to undertake its mandate efficiently and effectively; 
(ii) 
strengthening education programs in land administration/management and surveying; 
(iii) strengthening private sector capacity in surveying; (iv) public awareness and community participation 
campaigns; and (v) project management support for both the MOP and the PLA, including performance 
monitoring and evaluation and distillation of the lessons learnt. 
 
Unallocated Funds (US$0.4 million)
 would support: (i) any additional technical assistance that may arise 
through the project; and (ii) any increase in the cost of the project components. 
 
Bank financing is expected to be US$3.0 million, with the Government of Finland and USAID financing 
the remaining US$3.0 million. 
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
SPECIAL FINANCING 
3.0 
Page  5
CO-FINANCING 3.0 
 Total 
6.0 
Co-financing:
 
A
number of multilateral and bilateral donors and agencies, including the Government of 
Finland, USAID, EU, CIDA, and UN-Habitat, have all expressed interest in extending downstream 
financial and technical support to the land sector associated to and based upon the LIL, which will be co-
financed by the Government of Finland (US$2.1 million through co-financing) and USAID (US$0.9 
million through parallel financing).  The abovementioned donors and agencies have all highlighted the 
need for a clear framework to ensure efficient and effective use of resources and activities. 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The implementation of this project will be through an overall Project Management Team
(PMT), which 
comprises two PMTs based respectively at the Ministry of Planning
(MOP) and the Palestinian Land 
Authority
(PLA), referred to respectively as PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA.  Project coordination will take 
place through the Project Management and Coordination Committee
(PMCC), which includes senior 
MOP and PLA officials designated respectively by the Minister of Planning and the PLA Chairman to 
oversee the implementation of their entities’ assigned project components and the Team Leaders of PMT-
MOP and PMT-PLA.  The PMCC is chaired by MOP.   
 
The PMT-MOP is headed by a Team Leader, who is also the Project Manager heading the overall PMT, 
and who works closely with and reports directly to a senior MOP official designated by the Minister of 
Planning.  The PMT-MOP, which will placed as part of the MOP’s Policy Formulation Unit (in the aim 
of strengthening its capacity), will be responsible for the implementation of Project Component 1—the 
policy formulation process—and associated activities such as the public awareness campaign, and ensure 
coordination with the PLA on Component 3 (given the established capacity within the General 
Directorate of the Geographic Center and Technical Support) and subcomponents (i), (ii) and (iii) of 
Component 4 as needed.  The PMT-MOP will also liaise with and report (directly or through the PMCC) 
on the progress of the policymaking process to the Cabinet and the Palestinian Legislative Council 
(namely the Land, Economic and Legal subcommittees). 
 
The policy formulation process will be overseen by a high-level Land Policy Task Force
(LPTF), which 
will be chaired by the senior MOP official and which will comprise senior officials from key stakeholder 
ministries and agencies (including the Ministries of Local Government, Finance, Justice, Agriculture, 
Public Works and Housing, National Economy, Transport, and Higher Judicial Council and the 
Palestinian Land Authority), and one or more representatives from each of the Palestinian Legislative 
Council, civil society and the private sector (e.g. the Higher Coordination Council for the Private Sector).  
The mandate of the LPTF is to review and endorse land policy recommendations to be forwarded to 
Cabinet for approval and oversee the policymaking process and the adoption of its recommendations 
within their ministries.   
 
The PMT-MOP Team Leader/Project Manager will be supported by a team of highly qualified and 
experienced international and national specialists and consultants supporting the Team Leader in: 
(i) project management and monitoring; (ii) technical aspects of project implementation; and (iii) the 
learning and innovation aspects of the project.  The PMT-MOP includes on a full-time basis a national 
consultant specializing in the areas of policy and strategic planning, a national policy coordinator for 
Gaza, an administrative assistant, and two specialists for Procurement and Financial Management who 
will be placed in the MOP Financial and Administration department (to further strengthen its capacity).  
The PMT-MOP will also be supported on a short-term basis by highly qualified and experienced national 
and international specialists in land policy/strategic planning (supporting the policy formulation process), 
land markets, public land management, land disputes, land registration, property valuation, and the 
Page  6
legal/institutional framework governing land administration.  These consultants and specialists would be 
recruited competitively and as per the World Bank procurement guidelines.   
 
The PMT-PLA 
will be established within the PLA to implement Project Components 2 and 3, and sub-
components (i), (ii) and (iii) of Component 4, as well as associated activities such as the public awareness 
campaigns.  It will be headed by a Team Leader who works closely with and reports directly to a senior 
PLA official designated by the PLA Chairman.  The PMT-PLA will also develop an action plan and a 
procurement plan for the implementation of the different subcomponents, prepare Terms of Reference 
(TORs) and bidding documents for the various tasks, oversee the contractual and implementation 
processes, and coordinate with MOP on Component 3 and where needed on Component 4.  The PMT-
PLA is also expected to coordinate with the various stakeholders including MOJ and the Higher Judicial 
Council (HJC) on the establishment of land settlement courts, and MOLG and the selected municipalities 
in which the systematic land titling/registration and public land inventorying/management pilots would be 
implemented.  The PMT-PLA would liaise with the local universities to carry out the land management 
and surveying education subcomponent of the project.  The PMT-PLA would also liaise with the NGOs 
and specialized private firms to design and carry out the awareness subcomponent of the project. 
 
The PMT-PLA will be supported by a team of highly qualified and experienced national and international 
consultant team to support the PMT-PLA Team Leader in: (i) pilot project management and monitoring; 
(ii) technical aspects of project implementation; and (iii) the learning and innovation aspects of the pilot 
projects.  The team will include on a full-time basis an international consultant specializing in systematic 
land titling and land administration (who will be responsible for designing and supporting the 
implementation of the systematic titling/registration and modern land offices pilots as well as the design 
of the programs to strengthen the PLA and private surveying), a project coordinator for Gaza, an 
administrative assistant, two specialists for Procurement and Financial Management who will be placed 
with the Accounting and Purchases departments (to build its capacity) and a social development 
specialist.  The PMT-PLA will also be supported on a short-term basis by highly qualified and 
experienced national and international specialists in public land management and land administration 
education.  These consultants and specialists would be recruited competitively and as per the World Bank 
procurement guidelines.   
 
Both the PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA will be responsible for preparing progress reports.  The Project 
Manager in his/her capacity as head of the overall PMT will consolidate these reports and submit them to 
the World Bank on quarterly basis.  The PMT-MOP and PMT-PLA will carry out regular meetings with 
the Bank’s team as well as the donor coordination group to review the progress reports and address the 
challenges facing implementation. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The LIL sets out to test a hypothesis (to assess/learn the extent of commitment and readiness of the PA to 
reforming land administration), relying on pilot activities that are designed with a focus on achieving 
quick tangible results to demonstrate the importance of and benefits arising from an improved land 
administration system.  Provided that throughout the proposed project the PA demonstrates a sustained 
commitment to reforming land administration
,
then the processes and methods developed, tested and 
validated/revised through the project and the “learning and innovation” lessons learnt from its pilot 
activities would form the foundations for a long-term Land Administration Program
.
The latter program 
would be aimed at alleviating poverty and enhancing economic growth by improving land tenure security 
and facilitating the development of efficient land and property markets in rural and urban areas through 
the development of an efficient system of land titling and registration based on clear, transparent and 
coherent policies and laws and supported by an appropriate institutional structure.  
 
Page  7
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The Project Team reviewed previous and ongoing Bank projects in the WBG and experience from similar 
projects such as The Philippines Land Administration and Management Project (LIL) and Thailand Land 
Titling Projects I, II and III.  The following is a brief description of lessons learned. 
 
Political instability in the WBG and Risks of Delay in Project Implementation:
 Political instability 
continues to be the main risk factor in many Bank-financed projects in the WBG.  The currently imposed 
restrictions on movement of people and goods in the WBG, especially since the start of the 
intifada
 in 
September 2000, have led affected the timely implementation of activities in a number of previous and 
ongoing projects such as the WBG Municipal Infrastructure Development Project I by making it difficult 
among other things to hire international consultants.  Similar delays in project implementation may arise 
in the proposed project in such as
pects as international consultants’ hiring and land surveying.  In order to 
deal with such issues, the Project Team will carefully monitor the progress of project implementation and 
use flexible approaches in addressing issues that may arise due to such exogenous factors.  Such factors 
also explain why land titling and registration pilots and public land management pilots with their 
associated land surveying activities are only envisaged in locations in areas under the PA control. 
 
Importance of strong ownership and effective coordination:
 Two key interlinked lessons from general 
Bank project experience in the WBG and elsewhere and from Bank and other donors’ projects in the land 
sector are the importance of strong ownership and effective coordination between the different ministries 
and agencies involved or with a stake in project activities.  For example, firm high-level commitment by 
the government of Thailand to land titling was evident both in undertaking a sustained 20-year program 
and throughout the program’s different phases. The components that did not achieve the expected results 
(e.g. property valuation expansion) were those for which the Borrower lacked commitment, the required 
legislative support was missing, and the implementing agency placed at a low priority.  
 
In the WBG, one of the main reasons that the Finnish Government’s project on “strengthening the land 
management system in the Palestinian Authority Territories,” undertaken between 1998 and 2000, did not 
fully achieve its stated objectives was that land management responsibilities at the time were split 
between the Ministry of Housing, which was in charge of land surveying, and the Ministry of Justice, 
which was responsible for land registration. This split and the fact that only the Ministry of Housing was 
made the competent authority in the project without much role for the Ministry of Justice led the latter to 
be “reluctant to invest in the project” and produced poor coordination between both ministries.  The 
Project Team took these lessons into consideration with the result that the proposed project follows up on 
the PA’s decision to consolidate the two functions of surveying and registration in the newly established 
PLA.  In addition, the key ministries and agencies in WBG that are involved in the land sector—MOP, 
Ministries of Local Government (MOLG), Finance (MOF), Justice (MOJ) and the PLA—have all 
expressed their strong commitment to the proposed project during the July 2004 workshop and to 
establishing the Land Policy Task Force, which will be in charge of inter-agency coordination and 
overseeing the policy formulation process.  Finally, the project is championed by key senior officials at 
both the MOP (in charge of the formulation of the policy and regulatory framework) and the PLA (in 
charge of the pilot titling/registration and public land management activities and of capacity 
building/institutional development programs).   
 
Importance of solid project design, preparation and appraisal with focused objectives and realistic 
development plans.  
One of the main lessons learnt from Bank experience in conflict environments such 
as in the WBG is the importance of keeping project design (and implementation arrangements) simple 
Page  8
and its objectives focused. Similarly, according to the Thailand land titling project III Implementation 
Completion Report, the key to the project’s successful implementation was deemed to be a well designed, 
prepared and appraised project (which benefited from following up on two previous Bank operations in 
land titling).  Such factors helped to produce focused project objectives, realistic development plans and 
to develop focused targets and implementation plans.  The Thailand experience also showed that the 
difficulty of developing well thought-out implementation plans increases tremendously in components 
that involve coordination between multiple agencies, the introduction of new technologies, or changing 
the roles of public institutions through expansion or consolidation.   
 
While the proposed project does not on the face of it seem simple in its design and the implementation of 
its different components will be entrusted to two entities—MOP and PLA (as opposed to the simpler 
arrangement of having one implementing agency), the design of project components, pilot activities and 
implementation arrangements are focused on emphasizing the demonstration effects
of the importance of 
and benefits arising from improving the land administration system.  The pilot activities are purposefully 
designed to be small in scale and focused on showing quick tangible results so as to build government’s 
momentum to reforming land administration and stakeholders’ momentum to participating in the land 
policymaking process.  
 
The rationale behind the two-entity implementation framework is to strengthen each of the MOP and PLA 
in implementing their respective mandates and test/assess their requirements for this process (e.g. 
promoting participatory policymaking by the MOP, capacity building and institutional strengthening for 
the PLA)
.
The implementation of land titling and registration and public land inventorying and 
management strategy pilots is entrusted to the PLA and coupled with the necessary capacity building and 
institutional strengthening activities, since the underlying goal is to assess PLA’s capacity and 
institutional requirements and establish/test its service delivery procedures and standards.  MOP will be in 
charge of the land policymaking component as per its mandate and on account of its perceived position as 
an independent arbiter in the land sector.  MOP will also coordinate and be the main entity accountable 
for the project (which includes among other things responsibility for consolidating the project accounts).  
It is hoped that such implementation arrangement will successfully address the issue of poor coordination 
uncovered in other similar projects.  Finally, taking into consideration one of the main lessons learnt from 
the Thailand Land Titling III ICR—that “
activities which require coordination with other agencies 
require development of implementation plans with details of activities of each of the agency for timely 
and effective implementation”
,
the Project Team will, during appraisal, ensure that MOP and PLA 
undertake formal coordination arrangements through signing a Memorandum of Agreement, and that 
detailed implementation activities, clear monitoring indicators, and conflict resolution mechanisms that 
are acceptable to the parties are in place. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
With its focus on policy, legal, and institutional reforms to land administration in the WBG, the proposed 
project does not trigger any safeguards policies.  Specifically, the project focuses on land policy 
formulation, development of a regulatory framework for land and property rights, institutional 
strengthening and capacity building of the PLA, conducting an inventory of public land, and piloting of 
systematic land titling and registration and the re-engineering of office functions in the PLA to enhance 
efficiency and customer service according to established service standards.   
 
The first project component dealing with formulating key land policies (aimed at increasing the rate of 
land titling and transaction registration, land dispute settlement, development of efficient land and 
property markets, and effective, transparent processes for the management and disposal of public lands) 
and elaborating a corresponding regulatory framework relies strongly on a consultative process.  The 
process includes a series of public consultations with various public, private and civil society stakeholders 
Page  9
to discuss the findings and recommendations of the key land policy areas (land registration, land dispute 
settlement, land markets, public land management, review of the institutional and regulatory framework 
for land administration, etc, which will be studied by local, regional and international expertise).  The 
next stage involves broad-based public consultations involving among others professional associations, 
communities, NGOs and civil society organizations to discuss and review the consolidated draft policy 
document which synthesizes the recommendations of the different policy area studies.  The revised draft 
policy document is then submitted with a summary of consultations and an implementation action plan to 
the Land Policy Task Force for endorsement.  Subsequently, the endorsed policy document and action 
plan will be forwarded to Cabinet for final approval and distribution to the various government entities 
responsible for the adoption or implementation of these policies.  
 
With respect to the potential social impact of the pilot projects, even though the general experience with 
systematic land titling and registration projects suggests that they tend to cause or result in social conflicts 
(contested rights to land between heirs in un-subdivided parcels or between owners and tenants, 
conflicting ownership claims, multiple layers of rights, etc), the current proposed project is designed in 
such a way that ensures detection of potential social conflicts at an early stage of the project. This is 
accomplished through the involvement of a social development specialist in the PLA’s Project 
Management Team who would also be responsible for carrying out a social assessment in the piloted 
areas as well as playing a key role in advising the PLA on dispute resolution and conflict mitigation 
process. Furthermore, the project is also designed taking into consideration the following: First, the scale 
of the pilot projects for systematic land registration is purposefully small, covering a total of 1,000 
hectares (about 5,000-10,000 parcels) in three locations selected to represent different conditions: an 
urban/residential area, a peri-urban area, and a rural area.  The three pilot locations will be selected in and 
around Ramallah, in areas A and B that are under the PA control.  The selection of the specific locations 
will be undertaken in coordination with the key government stakeholders (MOP, PLA, local authorities, 
etc) so as to identify areas that are representative of the different territorial conditions (urban, peri-urban 
and rural) yet where the rate of contested parcels is anticipated to be limited.   
 
Indeed, rather than seeking to undertake the most challenging areas where a high volume of contested 
lands is found and where the potential conflict is high, the pilot projects’ inherent aims are to: (i) stress 
the benefits of land titling and registration and thus activate demand for the use of the land registry; 
(ii) achieve tangible results so as to build stakeholders’ momentum towards the project and limit the 
potential for opposition (especially by those special interest groups with a vested interest in blocking the 
reform agenda); and (iii) develop the manuals, tools and capacity for surveying and title settlement.  In 
addition, the pilot projects will provide an opportunity to analyze the nature of land disputes, test the 
dispute resolution and title settlement mechanisms that will be put in place (this includes identifying and 
capitalizing upon the existing semi-formal and informal dispute resolution mechanisms found in 
Palestinian society today), and understand the nature of contested rights to land (both the cases that get 
settled and those that are not settled) in order to explore possibilities for settling these in a subsequent 
large-scale program.   
 
To further reduce the potential for conflict, the project will not
issue land titles to contested land parcels 
that have not been resolved by the settlement process or through the formal and informal dispute 
resolution mechanisms that will be put in place.  Given the uncertainty of the extent of contested parcels 
until the pilot locations are selected and the pilots launched, and in the aim to contain any opportunity that 
might escalate into conflict, it was decided to use a conservative target for the number of titles expected to 
be issued through the pilot projects (60% of all land parcels), although it is hoped that the careful 
selection of the pilot locations will help to achieve a higher ratio of settled and registered titles.  Pending 
cases will be referred to the subsequent phase of the land titling program, which will be launched in the 
future at a larger scale on the basis of the structure developed and tested in the pilots.  The usefulness of 
the contested lands that will be uncovered during the pilots (whether resolved or pending) is in testing the 
Page  10
effectiveness of the settlement process and the different dispute resolution channels and proposing 
strategies for more effective adjudication of rights based on the lessons learnt from the process.   
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(OP
/BP
/GP
4.01) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Natural Habitats (OP
/BP
4.04) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Pest Management (OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
X] 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP
/BP
4.12) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Forests (OP
/BP
4.36) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Safety of Dams (OP
/BP
4.37) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP
/BP
/GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
X] 
Projects on International Waterways (OP
/BP
/GP
7.50) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Most land administration projects financed by the Bank are rated C or B (i.e. no environmental impact 
assessment is required), with the rating depending on the size of land titling activities, whether the project 
covers areas close to protected areas or forests, and whether the construction of land office buildings is 
envisaged.  This project is rated C for the following reasons: (i) there will be no new construction; civil 
works will be limited to minor internal office set-ups; (ii) the land titling pilots will only cover a small 
area, totaling 1,000 hectares in three different locations in urban, peri-urban and rural areas in and around 
Ramallah; and (iii) the selection of these pilot locations will be done such as not to trigger other 
environmental safeguard policies such as on forestry (non-existent in the project area), natural resources 
or habitats.   
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
·
Status Report to the Board on the Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank and Strategic Outlook 
presented to the World Bank Executive Directors on December 2, 2003. 
·
Closure / Curfew and Economic / Fiscal Monitoring Indicators: Report #11 (World Bank, January 
31, 2004). 
·
WBG - Land Policy for Growth & Poverty Reduction, A Preliminary Identification of Issues 
–
Inception Report prepared during the identification mission May 2004 (by Bijan Azad, Land 
Administration Specialist - Consultant). 
·
Report on the current status and challenges facing the Palestinian Land Authority, by Atef 
Khudari, Director General of PLA, 2004 (Unofficial Translation) 
·
Brief reports on the lessons learnt in “Finnish Experience: Strengthening the Land Management 
System in the Palestinian Authority territories with a view to Facilitating Access to Housing 
(1998-2000)”—included in the Aide Memoir of the pre-appraisal mission (July 15-30, 2004) 
·
Minutes of Stakeholders’ Workshop held in Ramallah on July 22, 2004—included in the Aide 
Memoir of the pre-appraisal mission (July 15-30, 2004) 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Ibrahim Khalil Dajani 
Title: Operations Officer (Task Team Leader) 
Tel: 972 2 2366 253 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  11
Fax: 972 2 2366 543 
Email: idajani@worldbank.org 
Location: Gaza, West Bank and Gaza (IBRD) 
 
Implementing Agency Contacts: 
 
MINISTRY OF PLANNING (MOP) 
Address: P.O. Box 4557 Al-Bireh, Palestinian Authority 
Contact Person: H.E. Mr. Ghassan Khatib, Acting Minister of Planning 
Tel: 972 2 240 9467 
 
PALESTINIAN LAND AUTHORITY (PLA) 
Address: Damascus Street, Rimal Al-Gharbi, Gaza 
Contact Person: H.E. Mr. Freih Abu Midien, Minister and Chairman 
Tel: 970 8 282 2231
 
12. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Elena Gagieva 
P:\WBG\IF\80892\APPR\WBG LAP PID - Appraisal Stage 12 13 04.doc 
12/13/2004 12:29:00 PM
 
