Report No. 321a-BR                                                               FILE  Cop
Appraisal of the Minas Gerais                                                                               Y
Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Brazil
May 17, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Gmup authorization. The Bank Group does not ac(ept responsibility
for the act uracy o)r completeness of the report.



CURRWNCY AND EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                     =                  Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                                               Cr$6.22
Cr$l.00                           =                  US$0.161
Ur$l million                      5                  US$161,000
ABEREVIATIC()S AND MEASURES
1 mm = millimeter                                    0 O.O04 inches
1 cm = centimeter                                    0.39 inches
1 m  = meter                      =                  3.28 feet
1 km P kilometer                                     0.62 miles
1 1 = liter                       5                  0.26 US gallons
1 i3= cubic meter                                    264 US gallons
1 m3/sec - cubic meter                               31.5 million cubic
per second            =                   meters per year or
22.8 million US gallons
per day
1 UPC - ENH monetary unit                            As of December 1973 Cr$78
ABiREVIATIONS AND ACRCNYI&S
3NH                    Banco Nacional da Habitacao
SFS               =   Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento
PLANASA           =    Plano Nacional de Saneamento
COMAG             =    Companhia Mineira de Aguas e Esgotos
FAE                    Fundos de Aguas e Esgotos
INCS                   Departamento Nacional de Obras Sanitarias
OT                =    BNH Technical Supervisory Agency (Orgao Tecnico)
FGTS                   Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servico
UPC               =   Unidade Padrao de Capital
IPC               =    Investment per capita expressed in UPC
DEW                    Departamento Municipal de Aguas e Esgotos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...         .....       ......................    i -
1.   INTRODUCTION ............             ...........................
2.   THE SEC'TOR . ..... ..*. ...... ...... . ................                3
General ..........          ..................................          3
Urban Water Supply .................................                    4
National Sanitation Training Program ....              ...........      5
Rural Water Supply ..................:                                 6
The Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Program .                    6
Bank Lending Objectives in the Sector .a              .............     7
3.    THE BORROWER .......................................                    8
The National Housing Bank ..........................                    8
Water and Sewerage Activities  ............     *   .........           8
Water Supply and Sewerage Department ....              ...........      9
The O.T. in Minas Gerais ...........................                  12
4.   THE BENEFICIARY  ....................................                   13
General ..........          ..................................         13
PLANASA Implementation by COMAG ....................                   13
COMAG's New Organization ...........................                  14
Management and Personnel ...........................                   15
Accounting/Billing and Collecting ............ . ......                16
5.   THE PROJECT .         ........................................          1
Project Description ................................                   17
Environmental Aspects ..............................                   18
Subprojects Review and Selection .....              ..............     18
Project Costs .........           .............................        19
Procurement and Disbursement .......................                   20
Project Supervision and Technical Assistance               .......     21
The appraisal mission, composed of Messrs. R. Costa, L. Jeurling, J. Jennings,
D. Ruiz and R. Casanueva (consultant) visited Brazil in June 1973.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
6.    JUSTIFICATION          ..........................  22
Project Justification               .. .22
Project Risks ...........................                       23
7. FITNANCES .25
Borrower's Finances   ..                   .25
Beneficiary's Finances...  26
Revenues Covenant Justification and Tariffs . .                 29
8.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .31



ANNEXES
No.
1.        The National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA)
2.        Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Conditions
3.        Projection of Urban Population
4.        Projection of Water Demand
5.        The National Sanitation Training Program
6.        PLANASA and Bank Financing
1.  PLANASA: Investment Program in Minas Gerais
2.   Project Cost
3.   IBRD Loan
7.        Disbursement Schedule
8.        Schedules Relative to Loan Conditions
1.   Statewide Sewerage Investment: Study
2.   Preparation of Global Feasibility Study
3.   Preparation of Subprojects Feasibility Studies
4.   Socioeconomic Evaluation of Subprojects
9.        COMAG's Tariffs
10.        COMAG's Finances
1.  Income Statements for 1972-1973
2.   Balance Sheet Statements for 1971, 1972, 1973
3.   Forecast Income Statements
4.   Forecast Balance Sheet Statements
5.   Forecast Cash Flow Statements
6.   Forecast of Working Capital and Annual Depreciation
7.   Forecast of Debt Service Payments
11.        BNH's Finances
1.  Notes to Financial Statements and Projections
2.   Income Statements for 1971, 1972, 1973
3.   Cash Flow Chart
4.   Balance Sheet Statements for 1971, 1972, 1973
12.        Sample of subproject appraisal    Alem Paraiba



LIST OF CHARTS
Chart No.
Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento                            7907
BNH Organization Chart                                      8016
Organization Chart of BNH Water Supply and Sewerage         7952
BNH Cash-Flow Chart                                        .8008
COMAG Organization Chart                                    7953
National Training Program                                   7991
LIST OF MAPS
Map No.
Project Location                                           10636RI
Alem Paraiba Subproject                                    10637



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a US$92.0 million equivalent
Water supply and sewerage project for the State of Minas Gerais, the second
most populous Brazilian State.
ii.       A Bank loan of US$36.0 million is proposed covering 40% of the cost
of the design and construction of improvements or extensions to about 31 water
supply and sewerage systems in the state.
iii.      Migration from the country to urban areas of Brazil has spurred
the population growth in these areas to an average rate of 5.5% p.a., thereby
creating acute social problems. Investment in public services has lagged so
far behind this high population growth that at present only 60X of the people
have water services and 30% sewer services.  As a result, four-fifths of
Brazil's urban population suffer from water-borne diseases, and the death rate
among children under five years of age, due to gastroenteric infections is
100 times that of the United States.
iv.       Making an exceptional effort to improve water supply and sewerage
services, the Federal Government has given the Banco Nacional de Habitacao
(BNH) full authority and responsibility in the sector. In 1971, BNH estab-
lished a National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA) whose objectives are to solve,
within a ten-year period, the problems of basic sanitation in the urban areas
in Brazil, defined as communities of 500 persons or more. The proposed Bank
project is a part of PLANASA in Minas Gerais.
v.        The Project would be 100% debt financed, 10% by BNH, 40% by the
Bank through BNH and 50% by the State revolving fund (FAE), which is grant
financed by the State. The Bank loan would be made to BNH, the Borrower, who
would relend the proceeds of the loan to COMAG, the Beneficiary. The bene-
ficiary's net internal resources would cover its working capital needs, and
Provisions for unforeseen and miscellaneous investments.
vi.       The Bank objectives in making this loan are to help provide water
for a minimum of 80% of the 1980 urban population in the identified communities,
including low income areas by redistributing water system revenues from rich
to poor communities; to help develop a well-managed water authority in the
State of Minas Gerais; to assist BNH in implementing PLANASA by using the
Minas Gerais program as a model for Bank participation in PLANASA; and to
gain valuable experience which could be used in other countries.



- ii -
vii.      All materials and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the loan would be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. All
contracts, except those for management as8istance, are expected to be won by
Brazilian firms.
viii.     Provided the conditions listed in Chapter 8 are met, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$36.0 million equivalent for a term of 23
years, including a 3-year grace period. The proceeds of the proposed Bank
loan would be made available to BNH for reimbursing 80% of its participation
in PLANASA in Minas Gerais for the period 1974-1976 (made through loans
granted to COMAG at a real interest rate of 6%, and with an amortization period
of 18 years, after a period of grace varying from six to 36 months depending
upon the subprojects). The Fedleral Government of Brazil would guarantee the
proposed loan.



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Brazil has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a water supply and sewerage project in the State of Minas Gerais, the second
most populous state. This would be the third Bank loan for the water supply
and sewerage sector in Brazil. The first two loans, for US$22 million and
US$12 million, to finance 37% and 18% of the respective projects, were made
in 1971 to help develop the water supply, sewerage and pollution control
facilities for metropolitan Sao Paulo. Project construction has been delayed
because the state government contributions were not made on time. The projects
are now proceeding satisfactorily.
1.02      The Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) would be the Borrower.  The
Companhia Mineira de Aguas e Esgotos (COMAG), the Minas Gerais State Water
Supply and Sewerage Company, as the Beneficiary, would be responsible for the
construction and operation of the water and sewerage works included in the
Project. The US$36 million proposed loan, which represents 39% of the esti-
mated Project cost of US$92.0 million, would be for a period of 23 years,
including 3 years of grace.
1.03      The Project would cover part of the National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA)
in Hinas Gerais State. The plan was formulated in 1971 by BNH. Its objectives
are to solve, within a ten-year period, the problem of basic sanitation in
all Brazilian urban communities, i.e., those of 500 persons or more. rhe
Project provides for the improvement, expansion or construction of water supply
and sewerage systems in Belo-Horizolte and its metropolitan area, and in 28
municipalities of the State. It is possible that some of these subprojects
might not be executed by 1976, in which case it is expected that other subproj-
ects of similar size and characteristics would replace them.
1.04      The proposed loan presents a departure from the customary Bank
lending approach in water supply, which has been to appraise and finance major
individual projects. The loan would be made to a national financial organi-
zation, responsible for the water supply sector in Brazil, which will relend
the proceeds of the loan to a State Water Company responsible for the design,
construction and operation of all water supply projects in its state. In
making this loan, the Bank would accept the basic policy of the national
government towards the sector, that is:



- 2 -
(a)  to extend water supply service to 80% and sewerage service
to 50% of the nation's population by 1980;
(b)  to provide these services to low consumption users at minimum
tariffs which would not exceed 5% of the legal minimum wage; and
(c)  to assure the finantial independence of the sector, by
requiring tne State Water Companies to generate revenues from
the sale of water sufficient to cover their operating, mainte-
nance and debt service costs; and by debt financing 100% of
project costs at moderate interest rates, 50% of the funds
coming from a national bank (BNH), and 50% from a state
revolving fund (FAE). The resources of FAE remain at the
disposition of the State Water Companies, and are initially
provided by State Government grants and subsequently by the
debt service payments of these companies.
1.05      The 3dministration of the loan also represents a departure from
the customary Bank supervision activities in that the national organization
will be trained to appraise and supervise projects. Eventually this organi-
zation would perform the major part of the Bank's appraisal and supervision
work. Without this new approach the financing of 722 water supply projects
would not be possible without major expansion of Bank staff. The Minas
Gerais PLANASA program has been selected as an example. It is BNH's intention
to apply the experience gained and improvements made in the Minas Gerais
program through the Bank-BNH-COMAG cooperation to the PLANASA program of the
other states.
1.06      The approach used in the proposed project is an effort to expand
water supply lending activities to those population groups which the Bank has
not reached so far and is making a major effort to serve. Although most of
the communities to be served are classified as urban by BNH their size and
distribution throughout the state clearly indicate that they are communities
serving the rural areas of the state. Thus, the project is in tune with the
Bank's emphasis on reaching the rural population of its member countries.
~.O7     The Project appraisal was based on information furnished by BNH;
the State Government and COMAG; DEMAE, the entity in charge of providing
water supply and sewerage services to the population of Belo Horizonte at the
time of appraisal; and the reports of several consultants. This information
was found to be of varying quality, but sufficient for appraisal. The apprai-
sal was undertaken in June 1973 by Messrs. Rene Costa, Lars Jeurling, Domingo
Ruiz and James Jennings (Bank), and Ruperto Casanueva (consultant).



- 3 -
2. THE SECTOR
General
2.01      This chapter is based on a water supply and sewerage sector report
for Brazil prepared by the Bank, in fiscal year 1973, through the IBRD/WHO
Cooperative Program.
2.02      Brazil faces acute gocial problems in the 1970's.  The proportion
of the population living in urban areas rose from 36% in 1950 to an estimated
56% in 1972 at an average rate of 5.5% p.a. Migration from the country to
the cities has eased population pressure in the Northeast to a certain extent,
but has also shifted some Northeast poverty from the farm to the urban slums.
2.03      One of the most serious among the many problems created by this
rapid urban growth has been the failure on the part of municipalities to build
safe water and adequate sewer systems at rates which would keep pace with the
growing urban population. It is estimated, from the available data, that in
1970 less than 60% of the urban population was provided with public water
services and less than 30% with public sewer services. Only about 40% of the
population lived in cities capable of meeting water demand at all times.
2.04      These deficiencies have led many industries to construct their own
water supplies or to locate in areas which were not necessarily the most
suitable as regards the labor and consumer markets. The lack of safe water
systems has probably also had a detrimental effect on the productivity of the
labor force. This inadequacy has been due primarily to institutional problems
and the method of financing water systems. Responsibility for water and
sewerage in Brazil has historically been entrusted to municipalities, the
level of government which has been weakest in technical, organizational and
financial capability. Most of the water systems did not generate sufficient
funds for their expansion because the rates charged were too low. When
municipalities were unable to cope with their water problems, the Federal
and State governments took over the responsibility for building and financing
nexw systems, generally with budget grants. But chronic shortages of budgetary
resources resulted in this method of financing water systems also being
inadequate.
2.05      During the last decade the total amount invested in urban and rural
sanitation by the numerous Federal agencies involved amounted to the equiva-
lent of about US$200 million. 1/ The combined investments of these agencies
was made mostly in rural areas and amounted to about 30% of the total spent
for basic sanitation. Information concerning investments made by the various
states and local governments is not available, but is reported to be of the
same magnitude. During the same period, the external financing received by
1/   Economic growth of Brazil; Problems and the Prospects, Volume V,
Part 2, Page 35 - IPEA.



Brazil in the sector, mostly for urban systems, amounted to US$300 million,
of which 76% were for waterworks and the remaining 24% for sewer works.
"he IDB participated in 62% of the total amount, AID for 24% and IBRD for 14%.
This foreign aid financed 40% of the total cost of water supply and sewerage
works estimated at about US$700 million.
2.06      The degree of service varies widely, both among and within major
geographic regions. Service is poor in the Northeast, where less than 36%
of the urban population is provided with public water and less than 8% with
3ewers. About 110 of the 722 municipalities included in the Minas Gerais
State water program are located in the northeast region. 1/
2.07      The high infant mortality rates and the incidence of deaths due to
Water-borne diseases are indicative of deficient water and sewer services.
Roughly four-fifths of Brazil's population suffers from water-borne diseases,
and the death rate among children under five years of age, due to gastroenteric
infections, is nearly 100 times that of the United States. Mortality rates
from these diseases are highest in the Northeast, an area which would merit
special priority in any sanitation program financed by Federal Government
agencies.
Urban Water Supply
2.08      In an effort fo find a solution for these problems, the Federal
Government in 1967 established a new financial system under the aegis of the
Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH). In 1971, BNH established a national pro-
gram (PLANASA) for the financing, design and construction of water and sewer
systems, and the training of personnel for their management and operation.
The program is discussed in detail in Annex 1. Specific recommendations for
its improvement are made in Chapters 3 and 4.
2.09      The PLANASA program goal is to serve 80% of the urban population
with water and 50% with sewerage by 1980 (additional population served of
35 million and 27 million respectively). It is a US$2.4 billion investment
program. In this program "urban areas" are defined as nuclei of population,
usually 500 persons or more, which can support public services such as water
and sewerage. This is a much broader definition than in most other Latin
American countries as it includes a large proportion of population commonly
referred to as rural or semirural 2/. PLANASA presents a novel and interesting
approach to solving sanitation problems on a statewide basis:
1/   Six of the 31 subprojects identified for the proposed Bank loan are
located in the northeast region.
2/   According to a widely used standard which defines rural population as
the population living in communities with less than 2,500 inhabitants.



(a) by establishing statewide or regional tariffs, PLANASA makes
possible the financing, operation and maintenance of small
water supply and sewerage systems of communities which could
not finance such projects with their own resources only. The
statewide tariffs should permit the financial independence
of the sector, and at the same time the generation of cash
surplus in wealthier cities, which would then be used to finance
projects in small communities; and
(b) by creating State Water Supply Companies, each responsible
for all sanitation projects within one state, PLANASA makes
possible the centralization of management, programming,
construction, operations, and finances, thus promoting the
efficient use of resources and scarce trained manpower.
2.10      The Federal Government has entrusted the Brazilian Association of
Technical Standards (ABNT) with the responsibility for the establishment of
minimum national standards for water supply and sewerage materials and methods
of construction. It was agreed during negotiations that the Government would
cause ABNT to consult with the Bank in the future on the development of these
standards.
2.11      BNH is faced, in implementing PLANASA, with a lack of experienced
engineers and consulting firms capable of preparing the specific technical
projects for water and sewer systems throughout the country. As a result of
increased demand for their services, existing Brazilian engineering consulting
firms have increased their fees and lowered the quality of their performances.
BMM is presently evaluating the capacity of engineering firms in Brazil to
carry out the PLANASA program and the measures needed to avoid bottlenecks in
this field. Fortunately, sufficient interest to participate in PLANASA exists
among foreign consultants and BNH is prepared to accept this participation
to avoid delays in project preparation and execution.
National Sanitation Training Program
2.12      BNH estimates that about 60,000 people need to be trained over a
five-year period (1974-1978) in order to operate and maintain all the water
and sewerage works to be built and operated under PLANASA. To meet this need,
a National Sanitation Training Program has been initiated. The total program
cost is estimated to be about US$22 million, 25% of which (US$5.5 million)
would be financed by BNH on a grant basis, and 75% (US$16.5 million) by the
State. A large number of organizations will be involved in the execution of
the program. BNH is undertaking this program as part of its technical assist-
ance program (SANAT) and has engaged the Brazilian Association of Sanitary
Engineers (ABES) to guide, coordinate and supervise the program. The national
sanitation training program is well conceived but very ambitious, and it is
likely that no more than 50% of the target would be achieved by 1978. However,
if these less ambitious targets are achieved, PLANASA goals would still be
reasonable. The National Sanitation Training Program is analyzed in more
detail in Annex 5.



-6-
Rural Water Supply
2.13      Part of the rural poplulation in Brazil is covered by the PLANASA
Program (see paragraph 2.09). The Ministry of Health is responsible for water
and sewer services to the communities with population under 500 persons. There
is a lack of coordination between this Ministry and the Ministry of Interior
responsible for PLANASA. The two Ministries have recently set up an "Inter-
ministerial Committee," but rapid improvement is unlikely.
The Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Program
2.14      Minas Gerais' urban population in 1973 was estimated to be about
6.4 million (51% of the total population) living in 722 municipalities.
Urban population distribution is shown below:
Range of Urban                  No. of           Population         Part of Urban
Population                    Cities           (millions)         Population (%)
Over 50,000 inhab.                 17                2.79                 44
10,000 - 50,000 inhab.             71                1.63                 25
5,000 - 10,000 inhab.              82                0.58                  9
500 - 5,000 inhab.                552                1.43                 22
Total                    722                 6.43               100
Detailed information regarding the water supply and sewerage sector in Minas
Gerais is given in Annex 2. Annexes 3 and 4 show the projected population
and water denand in the state of Minas Gerais through 1980.
2.15      Urban population has been increasing at a substantially higher rate
(4.5%) than the total population of the State (3%) and is expected to increase
at the same rate for the next decade, reaching about 9 million by 1980. At
the present time, 147 municipalities are considered to be satisfactorily
served with water and 84 with sewerage. About 56Z and 36% of the housing
units in the urban areas are connected to the water and sewerage systems re-
spectively. The objectives of PLANASA in the State are to increase the level
of good water service from about 35% at present to 80% by 1980. Water service
will be provided to 3.5 million additional people and improved for 1.4 million
people. During the same period industrial demand for water would more than
double from 40 million m3 in 1974 to 92 million m3 in 1980. The estimated
total number of water connections needed to achieve these objectives would
be 1,100,000. Population with sewerage service will increase from about 40%
at present (2.6 million) to at least 50% in 1980 (4.4 million) providing
service to an additional 1.8 million people. The total PLANASA investment
in the State of Minas Gerais through 1980 (See Annex 6) has been estimated
at about Cr$ 1.5 billion (US$227 million) for water and at about Cr$ 1.0
billion (US$155 million) for sewerage.
2.16      The Minas Gerais program will be executed by the Minas Gerais State
Water Company (COMAG), which operates individual water systems on the basis
of concessions obtained from the municipalities (see Chapter 4).



- 7-
Bank Lending Oblectives in the Sector
2.17      The Bank's objectives in making the proposed loan are:
(a) to provide water to a minimum of 80% of the 1980 urban
population of communities in Minas Gerais State where
projects have been or will be identified;
(b) to subsidize the poorer communities with surplus income
from the richer ones through a uniform state or regional
water tariff structure;
(c) to have a well-organized and financially viable Water and
Sewerage State Company in Minas Gerais (COMAG);
(d) to help improve the efficiency of BNH's department in charge
of water supply and sewerage activities and thereby the
PLANASA program in all the states; and
(e) to gain experience in program lending operations in order
to participate in the PLANASA program in other states, and,
eventually use this experience in other countries in Latin
America where the creation of similar programs are possible.
This would be the best method for the Bank to participate
successfully in the financing of a large number of small
projects without drastically increasing its staff (see
paragraphs 5.13 ard 5.14). Such a loan would particularly
help the financing of semirural ai.d small urban projects
where Bank staff input required in the traditional project-
by-project appraisal is neither available or desirable.



3.  iHE BORROWER
The :iational Housing Bank (BNH)
3.01      The Nsational Housing Bank (BNH) would be the Borrower of the Bank
loan. BTH was established by Federal Law 4380 of August 21, 1964, and since
i967 nas been under the Ministry of the Interior; it has juridical personality,
its oWIn capital and assets, is tat exempt and is administratively and finan-
cially independent. Its major activities have been to finance national housing
programs and, since 1968, national sanitation. BNH does not operate as a
commercial or savings bank.
3.02      BNH is administered by a Board of Directors (Conselho de Admini-
stracao) and an Executive Committee (Diretoria). The Board of Directors is
composed of the President, nine counselors and the seven members of the Exe-
cutive Committee. The Executive Committee is composed of the President, one
Superintendent and five Directors, all appointed by the President of the
Republic of Brazil and approved by the Federal Senate. BNH has eleven re-
gional agencies (Delegacias) for its activities at the state level.
3.03      The appraisal mission reviewed BNH's present organization (see
Chart 8016) which has been functioning since September 1970, and found it
satisfactory. BlIl's commercial auditors, Loudon, Blomquist and Co., in
their 1973 annual report, have made a series of recommendations which should
improve BNH's control over its financial activities and its internal auditing.
BNH's finances are discussed in Chapter 7.
Water and Sewerage Activities
3.04      BNH's funds are applied to the water supply and sewerage sector
through a system called Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento (SFS). BNH loans
are made to its financial agents in tie States, who then relend the funds to
the State water companies. Debt service payments are guaranteed by the State
Government. The State Government funds are made under the form of grants,
and deposited in a State Bank account, called Fundos de Aguas e Esgotos (FAE),
before being lent to the State Water Company. FAE constitutes a revolving
fund which is continually replenished as it is used, either by further appro-
priations from the State Government, or by the debt service payments of the
State Water CompaLy.  BNH and FAE funds are provided for each individual sub-
project.  In Miinas Gerais the State Bank 1/ is both the administrative agency
for FAE and the financial agent for BNIi and the State Government.
3.0,3     Under the SFS system each state must enter into an agreement with
BNii (PLANASA Agreement) to be eligible for BNH financing of any water supply
and sewerage work in the State.  The PLANASA Agreement (based on a water
supply and sewerage prefeasibility study of the State prepared by BNH):
1/i  Banco de Credito Real.



-9-
(a) specifies the PLANASA objectives in the State, the basic
financial and economic criteria, and parameters on which
these objectives have been set up;
(b) stipulates the financial participation of BNH and the State
in the program; and
(c) compels the State Government, through the State Water Company,
to prepare a Global Feasibility Study.
PLANASA Agreements for water works have been signed with all but two States.
3.06      The Global Feasibility Study is a detailed program of water and
sewerage works to be built in the State to fulfill the PLANASA objectives.
It establishes the sequencing of the subprojects and the level of tariffs
necessary to provide the State Water Company with adequate revenues (see
paragraph 7.12). The program is based on individual feasibility studies made
for each subproject concurrently with the Global Feasibility Study. In the
first stage, and as a first priority, BNH has limited the scope of the Global
Feasibility Studies to only water schemes.
3.07      State Water Companies are responsible for the preparation of the
Global Feasibility Studies, for the preparaticn of each individual subproject
feasibility study, and for constructing and operating the water supply and
sewerage systems. They use consultants' services for project preparation.
In each state, project design and construction are supervised for BNH by
its Technical Supervisory Agency (O.T.). 1/
Water Supply and Sewerage Department
3.08      In September 1967, BNH created a Department (Superintendencia)
responsible for its water supply and sewerage activities. This Department
is headed by a Director (Superintendente), and is composed of three divisions
(Assesorias): analysis and programming, technical control, and finances
(see Chart 7952). The Director is the executive head.
3.09      The Department has a permanent staff of 78 employees.  Most of them
are young sanitary engineers and economists, highly motivated by the PLANASA
social objectives and competitive salaries, fully conscious of their respon-
sibilities and hard workers. They constitute an excellent team which already
has succeeded in managing satisfactorily the previous BNH water supply and
sewerage programs, the IDB and AID loans throughout Brazil (see Annex 11), and
the launching of PLANASA in 1971-1972. However, they have limited experience
in dealing with a program as enormous as that of PLANASA. BNH's management
is conscious of this problem and has stated that it would like to take ad-
vantage of the Bank's experience to improve the Department organization and
1/   Orgao Tecnico.



- 10 -
effiency. In the following paragraphs, the Department weaknesses are indi-
cated and specific recommendations are made to eliminate them.  These recom-
mendations have been accepted by BNH management which already has taken steps
z.owards the improvement of its organization and its information system by
decentralizing some of the Department responsibilities and functions to BNH's
regional agencies (see paragraph 3.13) and by engaging management consultants
(see paragraph 3.14).
3.10      The Analysis and Programming Division has the following functions:
(a)  preparation of a prefeasibility study for each state;
(b)  review and approval of the State's Global Feasibility Studies;
(c)  review and approval of each individual subproject feasibility
study.
Almost all Global Feasibility studies have been prepared, but so far only five
has been approved by BNH. There exist guidelines on how to carry out the
stucies but they should be improved. BNH and State Water Companies' staff
and consultants lack of sufficient experience. This situation is serious
especially because more than 4,000 subprojects are expected to be reviewed
and approved by BNH between 1973 and 1980.
3.11      The Technical Control Division supervises the construction of the
water supply and sewerage works in each state, provides operational and main-
tenance consulting services to State Water Companies and supervises the O.T.
At present supervision of construction is deficient due to lack of sufficient
number of experienced staff in BNH and the absence of standards for waterworks
operations.
3.12      The Division of Finances authorizes disbursements from BNII and FAE
and supervises the financial performances of the State Water Companies.
Disbursements of BNH and FAE loans are made through the State Bank against
O.T. approved bills paid by the State Water Company. In the case of materials,
the approved bills are paid directly by BNH and FAE through the State Bank.
These operations are satisfactorily managed.
3.13      In December 1971, BNH created eleven regional offices for its water
supply and sewerage department. One year later the offices' responsibilities
were established and in 1973, the Department enacted extensive guidelines
and manuals for their operation. The offices' functions include the review
of the State's sanitation programs, the control of loan agreements between
BNH and the State water supply companies, the updating of the physical and
financial project schedules, the control of the regional FAE's and O.T.'s
performance, the supervision of the State water supply companies' operations,
of the technical assistance provided to these companies and of their training
program. These offices are headed by young and enthusiastic sanitary engineers.
Ihis decentralization is good and should enable BNH to improve its relationship
with its Borrowers. Hlowever, similar to the whole PLANASA program, the lack
of experienced manpower to implement the guidelines entails a certain but
acceptable risk in their execution.



- l1i -
3.14      Reporting on operations of the State Water Companies is poor.  Guide-
lines for reporting are being studied. So far, the information sent to BNH
varies in quality. In early 1973, BNH requested PAHO to identify the areas
where technical assistance is needed.  PAHO submitted its conclusions in August
1973, and last November a contract for management assistance was signed between
these two entities. PAHO's intervention would focus on the design bf various
information systems (programmation of works, accounting, billing and collecting,
etc...) to be implemented by the State Water Companies.
3.15      To help assure effective overall management of the BNH Department
in charge of the water supply and sewerage activities, and through this
department, Bank control of Project execution, assurances were obtained from
BNH during negotiations that it would exchange views with the Bank, from time
to time, on the organization of its Department responsible for PLANASA and the
rules and guidelines which will be established for PLANASA. The exchange of
views between the Bank and BNH would cover such matters as:
(a) the structure, coordination among various areas of
responsibility and the decision-making process of the
Department having responsibility for PLANASA;
(b) criteria for the Global Feasibility Studies and
project preparation and approval;
(c) supervision of sub-project construction and super-
vision of existing water supply and sewerage systems;
(d) the system for exchanging information between the
State Water Companies and BNH, and
(e) evaluation of the State Water Companies' technical
and financial performances.
3.16      In light of the foregoing exchange of views, BNH will decide whether
any substantive changes in the organization of its Department dealing with
PLANASA are necessary and whether any technical assistance should be obtained.
3.17      BNH agreed during negotiations that by March 31, 1975, it would
establish for use by PLANASA, detailed rules and guidelines covering such
things as project preparation, review and approval, tariffs for services and
tecinaical services for project construction.
3.18      It was agreed durin1g negotiations that BNH would send to the Bank,
within 120 days after the end of the BNH fiscal year, a copy of its financial
statements certified by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and in-
clude the corresponding auditors' report, which comments should emphasize on
the operations related to the proposed Bank loan. BNH financial statements
will include a past and forecast cash flow of PLANASA activities.



- 12 -
The O.T. in Minas Gerais
3.1'      The O.T. designated by BNH for Minas Gerais is the Departamento
Aacional de Obras Sanitarias (DNOS).  DNOS has 15 central regional offices
in Brazil, generally one per state. In Minas Gerais, there is a central
office in Belo Horizonte and five field offices.
3.20      The DNOS offices in Minas Gerais had qualified and experienced
personnel until recently.  Unfortunately, DNOS has lost good professionals
because it was unable to pay competitive salaries. With a work load increased
to 50 design and subproject reviews per year, the O.T. is not performing satis-
factorily. BiNH has recently increased the funds made available to the O.T.
whichl should be able to pay better salaries and hire qualified personnel.
A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the O.T. should have hired
qualified personnel in sufficient number for the purposes of carrying out the
PLANASA program in Minas Gerais.



- 13 -
4. THE BENEFICIARY
General
4.01      The Companhia Mineira de Aguas E Esgotos (COMAG), founded on October
4, 1963 by the State Government to finance, build, operate and administer
water and sewerage systems throughout the State, would be the beneficiary of
the Bank loan. At the present time (through its Secretariat of Services and
Public Works) the State owns most of the common stock. Federal entities and
municipalities own the rest of the stock. COMAG is administered by a Board
of Directors (Conselho de Administracao) consisting of three members, elected
for a three-year term by the General Assembly of Shareholders. The Board
delegates its day-to-day management functions to an Executive Committee
(Directoria Executiva) consisting of a Director-President and two directors
(in practice the General Manager and the Financial and Technical Managers),
each also elected for a three-year term by the General Assembly.
PLANASA Implementation by COMAG
4.02      On January 31, 1973, the State Government, COMAG and the State
Bank signed the PLANASA agreement with BNH (see paragraph 3.05), giving COMAG
the full responsibility of carrying out the PLANASA program in the State.
This represented a drastic change for the company, which previously had been
operating water systems of only 22 small and medium-sized cities out of the
722 urban communities in Minas Gerais. One year after the signature of
the agreement COMAG hiad absorbed the Departamento Municipal de Agua e Esgotos
de Belo Horizonte (DEMAE), the organization providing water supply and sewer
services to Belo Horizonte, and signed concession contracts with 45 other
municipalities for the improvement or expansion of their existing systems,
the constructiou of new ones, and the placing of their operation under COMAG.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that COMAG will complete the con-
cessionary agreements with the communities included in the proposed Bank loan,
or other communities which could replace them, before December 1975.
4.03      COMAG does not have yet the long-range programming capacity to
solve the problems involved in dealing with PLANASA. COMAG has hired a local
consultant firm (SERETE, S.A.) to prepare the Global Feasibility Study for
the State (see paragraph 3.06) and has also contracted local consultants
for the preparation of a Socioeconomic Study which would give the basic infor-
mation required for establishing an adequate tariff level and structure (see
paragraph 7.15). The terms of reference for these two studies have been re-
viewed by the Bank and were found to be acceptable with minor modifications.
Assurances were obtained from COMAG during negotiations that:
(a) the Global Feasibility would be carried out in accordance
with Schedule 2 of Annex 8;



- 14 -
(b) the Socioeconomic study would be carried out in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) the studies referred to in (a) and (b) would be completed
no later than one month after the date of effectiveness; and
(d) COMAG would periodically revise the investment program and
financial plan proposed by the Global Feasibility Study
and inform the Bank on the revisions made.
4.04      COMAG traditionally hires consulting engineers to design subprojects,
and receives assistance from BNH/O.T. for design review and construction super-
vision, but needs to improve its guidelines along the lines indicated in
Annex 8, Schedule 3. Assurances that it will do so were obtained during
negotiations.
4.05      COMAG might have problems in obtaining the scheduled number of
house connections to the water supply and sewerage systems, because potential
low income consumers have limited financial resources to pay for connections.
This problem could be solved with a publicity campaign and the provision of
financial assistance by COMAG. Assurances were obtained from COMAG during
negotiations, that a publicity campaign for people to connect to the systems
would be started not later than three months after the effective date, and
that low-income consumers wou.d be given the possibility of repaying the
connection costs over a period of time.
COMAG's New Organization
4.06      To cope with its greatly increased work load COMAG's management has
designed a new organizational structure for the company (see Chart 7953).
Under this new structure COMAG will have a central office in Belo Horizonte
and a regional office in each of its eight administrative regions, including
Belo Horizonte (see Map 10636). The planning, financial and subproject pre-
paration and construction functions will be carried out by the central office.
The regional offices will be responsible for administration and operation of
the water supply and sewerage systems. Because of the magnitude of its ope-
rations, the Belo Hlorizonte regional office will have a financial department
and a construction department.
4.07      The central and Belo Horizonte offices have already been organized,
as well as two regional offices whose functions have been limited, for the
time being, to the operation of the existing water supply and sewerage systems.
rhe central office has, at the staff level, Public Relations, Planning, Audit-
ing and Data Processing Units, and, at the operational level, five departments
(Finances, Administration, Personnel, Operations, Design and Construction).
the other regional offices will be gradually developed in keeping with COMAG's
pace for taking over the municipal systems.



- 15 -
Management and Personnel
4.08      COMAG's President is a competent manager.  Other key personnel have
the necessary experience to deal with their responsibilities. Together, they
should be capable of successfully executing the Project. Assurances were
obtained from the State during negotiations that, before any appointment is
made to the post of General Manager of COMAG, and before any member of the
Executive Committee is replaced, or a substantial reorganization of COMAG
is carried out, COMAG would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to com-
ment on the qualifications and experience of such persons or on such organization.
4.09      COMAG's management of its water s¢xpply and sewerage systems has been
rather poor. The Belo horizonte Water Company (DEMAE) had not a better record
anid COMAG, in assuming control of DEMAE, has not benefitted from the experience
of former DEMAE staff. There is a need for consultants to help COMAG in devel-
oping long-range financial plans, and information systems for evaluation and
control of the ongoing programs. To permit adequate supervision of PLANASA,
assurances from COMAG were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) COMAG would establish not later than six months after the
effective date and in consultation with the Bank, management
and administrative procedures, manuals and controls; and
(b) as a condition of loan effectiveness, COMAG will have made
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for employing:
(i) management consultants for the design of a long-range
planning and an information system;
(ii) technical consultants to help in subproject preparation,
construction and supervision, operation and mainte-
nance.
4.10      As of June 1973, COMAG had 2,250 employees and was providing water
to 1,020,000 consumers (2.2 employees per thousand consumers), which is a
high ratio. The objective for 1980 is to serve 6,380,000 consumers with
8,300 employees (1.3 employees per thousand consumers). To obtain the addi-
tional 6,000 employees, inexperienced people will have to be recruited and
trained. COMAG has already established a State Waterworks Training Center-
Assurances were obtained from COMAG during negotiations, that the Minas Gerais
training program would be presented to BNH and the Bank not later than three
moniths after the effective date. This program should:
(a) establish annual and long-range objectives, such as number of
employees to be trained, level of competence to be achieved,
etc.;
(b) specify the institutions which would participate in its imple-
mentation, and facilities which would be used.
Quarterly Progress Reports on program execution should be sent to BNH and
the Bank.



Accounting/Billing and Collecting
4.11      CO>IAG's accounting division is headed by an experienced chief
accountant. In 1973 PAiO designed new general and cost accounting systems
which were reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. These systems have
been already implemented and are processed through COMAG's computer. It is
likely that they will be used in the future in other State water companies
in Brazil.
4.12      COMAG's billings and collections have been satisfactory.  Bills are
processed in Belo Horizonte by machine and distributed monthly. As of December
31, 1972, COMAG's receivables represented only one month's billings. In Belo
horizonte, DEMAE introduced a computerized billing and collection system in
1972. Uncollected bills for the last three years of DEMAE's operations give
a rather poor Revenues Effectiveness Ratio:
1970        1971         1972
Billing (Cr$ million)                     27.0         34.3        47.0
Collection (Cr$ million)                  21.3         27.7        38.5
Uncollected (months of billing)            2.5          2.3         2.2
Revenue Effectiveness Ratio                0.79         0.81        0.82
Assurances were obtained from COMAG during negotiations that COMAG would
make its best efforts to reduce, by end of 1974, uncollected bills in Belo
horizonte to no more than 1.5 months' billing.
4.13      COMAG is now considering the services of commercial auditors for
the annual audit of its financial statements. Terms of reference for the
auditors have been reviewed by the Bank and are acceptable. The firm of
Price Waterhouse presented the best offer to COMAG and the contract will
probably be signed before negotiations. This firm has already been engaged
to establish the consolidated COMAG financial statements (see paragraph 4.02)
as of June 1, 1973. Assurances were obtained from COMAG during negotiations
that competent commercial auditors, acceptable to BNH and the Bank, would
audit COMAG's accounts at least once a year, and that the annual auditors'
report would be sent to the Bank within the four months following the closing
of COMAG's annual accounts.
4.14      COMAG's finances are discussed in Chapter 7.



- 17 -
5. THE PROJECT
Project Description
5.01      The proposed Project covers part of the Minas Gerais PLANASA program,
that is the physical water supply and sewerage works (subprojects) to be built
between January 1974 and December 1976. The communities to be served through
the Project range in size from 3,000 (Ferros) to 1,600,000 (Belo Horizonte)
inhabitants and have a present total population of 2.7 million of which 40%
(1.1 million) are well served. 1/ The project would satisfy the needs for
water supply services of 80% of the population of these cities through 1980,
which represents an additional well-served population of 1.9 million. The
Project would also provide an additional 40 million/m3 per year of water to
the growing industries of the State. Belo Horizonte, the state capital, is
the most important subproject. The Project consists of:
(i)  Design and construction of new, and improvement of existing
water supply and sewer facilities including surface intakes,
wells, treatment plants, pumping stations, transmission
lines, distribution networks and metered house connections.
The list of subprojects is given in Annex 6. As a sample, the
Alem Paraiba subproject was fully appraised (see Annex 12);
(ii)  Improvement of administration and operation of COMAG by means
of advisory and training services (see paragraphs 4.09 and
4.10);
(iii)  A state-wide sewerage investment study which will estimate
capital requirements and determine priorities for proposed
sewerage projects in Minas Gerais (see Annex 8, Schedule 1),
and a Socioeconomic study (see paragraph 4.03).
5.02      For the purpose of establishing the Project cost, 31 individual
subprojects were selected on the basis of:
(i) high degree of certainty for COMAG to execute concessionary
agreements with the municipalities concerned before the end
of 1975 (see paragraph 4.02);
1/   Population well-served means continuous service within the residence,
with an average supply per capita and per day of 130 to 170 liters
of water.



- 18 -
(ii) available minimum information concerning subprojects' costs,
population served in 1974 and to be served at the time of
subproject completion, construction period, and general
description of the works to be done; and
(iii)  emphasis on the subprojects (particularly the Belo-Horizonte
metropolitan area) where profitable operations can be ex-
pected, thus reflecting the PLANASA philosophy of scheduling
the construction of more profitable systems first, so that
they can subsequently assist in the financing of less profit-
able ones.
During the execution of the proposed Project the list of communities may
change, with some projects being postponed and others of about the same order
of size and characteristics replacing them. Subprojects will be appraised and
executed by COMAG and its consultants. BNH and Bank review of subprojects'
preparation and execution would be made in accordance with the review pro-
cedure described in paragraphs 5.04 to 5.07.
Environmental Aspects
5.03      The project priority is on providing water.  Sewerage services will
receive priority during the next phase of the program, beginning in 1975.
Over the short term water pollution of the surface waters of Minas Gerais
can be expected to increase, but where such pollution endangers sources of
public water supply, the project permits the financing of the necessary
sewerage works. To facilitate the second phase of the project and sewerage
investment, the project provides financing for a statewide investment study
(see paragraph 5.01).
Subprojects Review and Selection
5.04      BNH's approval of subprojects is required before any contract for
financing is signed. This approval is preceeded by the O.T.'s review of the
subprojects feasibility studies (see Annex 1) prepared by the companies and
their consultants. The Bank would be given the opportunity to comnent on all
subprojects in Minas Gerais. For this purpose, OOMAG would send to the Bank
a copy of all the mentioned studies. Bank approval would be required for all
subprojects. However, for subprojects with a cost lower than US$1.5 million
and for those not requiring special socioeconomic evaluation (see paragraph
5.05), Bank's approval shall be deemed to have been given if the Bank has not
notified BNH and COMAG to the contrary within 30 days of the Bank receipt of
the subproject feasibility study, such as approved by BNH. Subprojects not
approved by the Bank in accordance with the foregoing procedure would be ex-
cluded from Bank financing. About five out of a total of 10 subprojects a
year are estimated to need Bank review, which would represent about 50% of
the total cost of water supply and sewerage works (see paragraph 5.09). At
the time the proposed loan becomes effective, about ten subprojects are
expected to be ready for BNH and Bank review.



19 -
5.05      Subprojects should be selected by COMAG on the basis of a comparison
between per capita construction and operating costs of the facilities to be
built and the average per capita costs in the state of Minas Gerais, and the
incremental rate of return 1/. BNi{ :Ls beginning to establish per capita con-
struction and operating costs statistics for all water supply and sewerage
projects financed through PLANASA. For all subprojects exceeding the average
per capita cost 2/ by 20% or more or having an incremental rate of return of
less than 10%, COMAG would provide a special socioeconomic evaluation in
accordance with the checklist given in Annex 8, Schedule 4, and the Bank would
review this evaluation.
5.06      Per capita cost is suggested as a review criteria because the in-
cremental rate of return might give a distorted idea of the socioeconomic
justification of the subproject. The rate of return depends partly on the
financial revenues of the subproject which reflect the income distribution
pattern in the subproject community rather than the real benefits of the
subproject. The incremental rate of return should be calculated based on the
tariffs determined by the socioeconomic study.
5.07      When all possibilities of reducing the cost, through design modifi-
cations or lowering of service standards, have been exhausted, and the incre-
mental rate of return is lower than zero, the subproject would be eliminated
from Bank financing unless the subproject customers would finance enough of
the works so that the rate of return on the remaining part of the project
would be zero or hiigher. This financing might consist of contributions by
the customers, either in capital or labor, or grants by the municipalities.
Hlowever, municipal grants would be accepted only in communities of 10,000
inhabitants or less. Alternatively a surcharge on the water for metered
consumers of a subproject community might be levied to increase revenues
and thus raise the rate of return to above zero.
5.06      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from BNH and COMAG
tihat tLiey will follow the procedures described in paragraphs 5.04 to 5.07.
Project Costs
5.09      The total Project investment in Minas Gerais for water and sewerage
systems, up to 1976, are estimated to be about US$90 million. Total costs
are tabulated below. Costs of each of the 31 identified subprojects are
shown in Annex 6.
1/   See Annex 8, Schedule 4, for the incremental rate of return definition.
2/   It is estimated that a reliable average per capita cost could be obtained
from 100 subproject's costs. This information will be available through
the Global Feasibility Study.



- 2u! -
In 1974 Cr$             In current US$      Bank
i:tem                   Local  Foreign  Yotal   Local  Foreign Total  Loan
--------------------millions----------------------
Water Supply and
Sower SysLems             495.5    34.5    530       84.0    6.3   90.3   36.0
Suwerage Invcstrment Study     4.0       -       4       0.7     -      0.7     -
Ecoeoimlc SLuuy and Consul-
tants                       4.0      2.0      6      0.6    0.4    1.0       -
Total                   503.5    36.5    540       85.3    6.7   92.0   36.0
5.10      These costs are expressed in Cr$ of January 1974, and in current
US$ to take into account the world inflation versus 1974 Cr$.  The annual rate
of devaluation has been estimated at 8% based on the experience of the past
three years.  The costs were estimated on the basis of information supplied
by COMAG, and are based on preliminary designs and plans for the works in Belo
diorizonte and for those in a sampling of cities of varying sizes, and the
average unit prices for equipment and construction in the State of Minas
Gerais. These preliminary designs and plans vary in quality, but are presently
being revised by COMAG following the Bank's recommendations, and final docu-
ments should be submitted to the Bank in accordance with the procedure de-
scribed in paragraph 5.04. The costs include engineering, administration and
physical contingencies. The cost of engineering and administration at the
COMAG level has been estimated at 10% of the cost of the works.  An allowance
of 14% has been made for physical contingencies.
Procurement and Disbursement
5.11      A loan of US$36 million is proposed.  It would be used to reimburse
BNII for 80% of its disbursements for equipment and materials and services
contracts, including civil works for the water and sewer system subprojects
in iinas Gerais. Since BNH would finance 50% of subproject costs, the loan
would finance 40% of the total estimated cost of the subprojects (US$90.3 mil-
lion) including the estimated foreign exchange cost of about US$6.3 million 1/
and about US$29.7 million of estimated local cost. COMAG and the State of
Minias Gerais will finance all expenditures made for the Socioeconomic study,
for tLhe sewerage investment study, and for the management and technical consul-
tant services. The loan amount is equivalent to 39% of total project cost.
Interest during construction is being financed by COMAG. A tentative
disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan is shown in Annex 7.  Bank
disbursements would be made against a certificate of expenditures, the docu-
mentation of which would not be submitted for Bank review, but would be re-
tained by the Borrower and available for inspection during the course of Proj-
ect Supervision Missions.
1/   Based on experience gained with the Sao Paulo projects.



- 21 -
.5.12     BNH and COMAG would follow Bank Guidelines for Procurement for all
contracts, and would submit to the Bank all bidding documents and bid evalua-
tions for review and approval. Due to the large number of contracts expected
(more than 100 for the period 1974-1976), Bank review and approval prior to
awarding contracts would be limited to contracts above US$700,000 for equip-
ment and above US$1,200,000 for civil works. Brazilian suppliers of equipment
will be eligible for preference equal to the amount of custom duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for impor-
tation subject to a ceiling of 15%. BNH and COMAG also agreed to group equip-
ment supplies into contracts of a size to be agreed between BNH, the Bank and
COIIAG. Since equipment and materials for the project are manufactured in
Brazil and available at competitivre prices, all supply contracts are expected
to be won by local suppliers. The civil works contracts are moderate to small
in size and are also expected to be won by local contractors.
Project Supervision and Technical Assistance
5.13      Review of subprojects by Bank staff would be restricted to selected
samples (see paragraphs 5.04 to 5.07). Project supervision by the Bank staff
would emphasize training of BNH and COMAG staff in subprojects' appraisal and
supervision. Success of the Project will therefore depend on the ability of
BNII and COMAG to perform these tasks. After a heavy initial supervision
during the first two years, estimated to require 91 man-weeks per year from
the water supply section (one additional staff position), Bank supervision
could be reduced to customary levels.
5.14      The Bank supervision in Washington would include the review of sub-
projects and progress reports, procurement documents and consultants reports.
On visits to Brazil, Bank supervision missions would analyze the efficiency
of the institutions, review progress made by consultants, visit subproject
sites, review training of BNii and COMAG staff. The PLANASA Program would be
tested to determine whether its objectives are realistic or should be revised.



- 22 -
6. JUSTIFICATION
Project Justification
6.01      The Bank Project is justified because:
(a) the level of population well served with water will increase
substantially (see paragraph 5.01);
(b) incremental industrial water consumption will be satisfied
(see paragraph 5.01);
(c) all water and sewer subprojects will be constructed at least
cost;
(d) individual subprojects with questionable economic justification
will be accepted only after a socioeconomic evaluation has
taken place (see paragraphs 5.04 to 5.07); and
(e) although individual subprojects may be subsidized, the sector
as a whole will be financially viable (see paragraphs 7.12
and 7.13).
6.02      Through a special socioeconomic evaluation procedure, subprojects
would be analyzed in qualitive and quantitative terms (see paragraphs 5.04 to
5.07 and Annex 8, Schedule 4).  The purpose of the socioeconomic evaluation
would be to demonstrate, mainly in qualitative terms, that there are enough
benefits to justify the subproject, although the incremental rate of return
is low and/or that the rate of return could be increased by changing the
project design or by reducing the service standards of the subproject.
6.03      A global incremental rate of return has not been calculated for the
Bank project because:
(a) the tariff will be designed to achieve the social objectives
of supplying water to consumers whether or not they are willing
or able to pay the real cost of the water. Therefore, revenues
collected cannot be taken as evidence of consumer willingness to
pay for the project;
(b) benefits from water supply investments cannot be accurately
measured; and
(c)  feasibility studies nave not been completed yet for all the
subprojects included in the program.



- 23 -
Project Risks
o.04      PLANASA is a bold attempt to solve, in a short period of time,
the problem of basic sanitation in irazil.  The success of PLA4ASA will
depend on:
(a)  the qualifications of personnel at all institutional levels;
(b)  the Federal Government's determination to continue the Program
whatever the political changes in the future;
(c)  the facility with which technical, financial and organizational
problems, such as project design, bottlenecks in supply of,
equipment and materials, implementation of new tariffs, etc.
will be solved; and
(d)  the ability to define tariff and consumers' connection
policies which will allow 80% of the urban population to
connect to the water systems.
The people administering PLANASA are fully aware of these problems. Their
approach has been rather pragmatic so far, and some results have already been
obtained.  Nevertheless, PLANASA is an entirely new approach to solving the
basic sanitation problems in a big country, and no experience exists of a
program of similar magnitude elsewhere in the world. The Bank support of
PLANASA would be limited, for the time being, to the financing of the Minas
Gerais State Water Supply and Sewerage Projects. This will give the Bank the
necessary experience to evaluate the PLANASA program. The risks related to
Bank involvement are evaluated below. Each of them has been carefully
weighted, and adequate recommendations have been made to reduce them (see
Chapter 8).
6.05      Experience in Minas Gerais indicates that an increase in the minimum
tariff may discourage low-income people from connecting to the systems which
would substantially reduce the economic benefits of the program and cause
financial revenues to be less than projected. Tariffs in Belo Horizonte and
in the larger communities of the State will be sufficient for the financing
of existing programs in these areas, but should be increased for the medium
and niigher income consumers in order to subsidize projected works in lower
income communities. The risks that the water revenues and the project
resources transfer through COMAG will not develop as projected, are medium.
6.06      COHAG's personnel capabilities to carry out the Project should
improve with the training program. C0MAG's procedures and controls, project
design and construction, day-to-day operations and information system are weak.
The company will receive the assistance of management and engineering consultants
to help COMAG's management in solving their problems. The risk that the Minas
Gerais program will meet serious difficulties as a result of the human resource
and management factors is medium.



- 24 -
~.J7      Project and procurement review by the Bank, supervision and technical
assistance to COMAG and BNH would require an important manpower input from
the Bank, at least during the period of project execution. The risk that Bank
:&-stitution-bui1ding objectives will not be achieved is very high if the re-
.Quired manpower input is not provided.  If the project review is deficient,
uneconomical subprojects would be built, and their sequence would not be opti-
,iized, thereby endangering COMAG!s financial position.



- 25 -
7. FINANCES
7.01      This chapter analyzes the finances of the Borrower and the Benefi-
ciary. It intends:
(a) to relate the financial aspects of PLANASA to the overall
financial activities of BNI;
(b) to illustrate, with the example of Minas Gerais, how
PLANASA will be financed; and
(c)  to describe how the Beneficiary will manage its finances
in order to carry out the Project successfully.
iorrower ' s Finances
7.02      Chart 8008 is a chart of BNH's financial operations and Annex 11
shows financial statements for the period 1971-1973 with detailed coments.
BTH's total assets have increased four times from about US$1 billion.equivalent
as of December 1969 to about US$4 billion equivalent as of December 1973.
Seventy percent of this growth has been financed by the net deposits 1/ of
the FGTS fund, the national employee indemnity fund created by the Federal
Government in 1966. All companies in the country must deposit in this fund
8% of all salaries and wages paid. The fund is administered by BNH. Equity
(retained earnings) accounted for only 15% of the financing of BNH operations
between 1969 and 1973. As a consequence, BNH's total liabilities at the end
of 1973 (US$3.5 billion equivalent) represented five times equity (US$698 mil-
lion equivalent). Nevertheless, BNH's solvency will not be endangered as long
as BNIi's return on investments are maintained at a higher level than BNH's
payment of interest to the beneficiaries of the FGTS system.
7.03      Although BNII's accumulated reserves (US$208 million equivalent),
built up mostly from retained earnings, represented only 4% of its outstanding
loan and equity investment portfolio at the end of 1973, it should be noted
that housing loans are secured by mortgage agreements and that water and
sanitation loans are guaranteed by the State Governments. In 1973, net return
Oil niet worth was about 25% and net return on total assets 4%, a performance
similar to 1972's. These results constitute an excellent financial achiev-
ement considering the social purposes of BSN operations. 2/ Since BNH has
not classified its accounts in a manner in wlhich the net earnings from each
type of operation can be ascertained, it is npt possible to state conclusively
which operations are less profitable than others.
1/   Total deposits received from companies minus withdrawals for payment
of indemnities.
2/   These returns have been computed in real terms.  For detailed calcula-
tions, see Annex 11.



- 26 -
7.04      BNH's disbursements to the water supply and sewerage sector in 1973
(US$138 million) represented 11% of total BNH disbursements (US$1.3 billion
equivalent) made during the year, and accumulated disbursements made in this
sector since 1968 was US$290 million.
7.05      BNH's forecast of operations for the period 1974-1976 is based on
an investment program of CR$ 74 billion (US$12 billion) of which BNH would
finance about 42% (US$5 billion), the financial institutions within the BNH's
systems 38% (US$4.5 billion) and the beneficiaries of the program 20% (US$2.5
billion). Loan disbursements are estimated to amount to US$1.6 billion equi-
valent a year. Disbursements for the water and sewerage sector are expected
to be about US$250 million p.a., that is almost two times the disbursements
realized in this sector in 1973. They will not represent more than 13% of
total BNH disbursements.
7.06      To support forecast operations, BNH has made a thorough analysis of
the development of FGTS and concluded that its net receipts from that fund
would increase by 60% during the period 1974-1980 and that debt service receipts
of its loans and equity investments will increase in proportion to its invest-
ment program.
Beneficiary's Finances
7.07      Prior to June 1973 the estimated value of the water supply and
sewerage collection systems operated by COMAG was Cr$ 12 million (US$2.0 mil-
lion). At that date, the company absorbed DEMAE and, in the following six
months, entered into concessionary agreements with about 45 municipalities
of the State (see paragraph 4.02). DEMAE was in charge of the Belo Horizonte
systems (Cr$ 89 million or US$15 million) and had under construction a US$36
million water supply project (partly financed by IDB). Its financial position
was precarious, with an indebtment representing about 40% of total capitaliza-
tion, and the company was having cash difficulties because the Belo Horizonte
municipality did not provide DEMAE with the Cr$ 9 million (US$1.5 million)
1973 contribution for the financing of the ongoing project. As a consequence
of assuming DEMAE's debts COMAG's finances have deteriorated in 1973. The
rate of return for the year has been estimated at 6% (compared with 8% in 1972).
In 1973 the company met its financial obligations by postponing the payment
of suppliers' bills (accounts payable increased from Cr$ 1.5 million in Decem-
ber 1972 to Cr$ 7 million in December 1973) and by obtaining short-term loans
(about Cr$ 11 million) from local banks. Annex 10 gives COMAG and DEMAE past
financial statements. COMAG's balance sheet as of December 31, 1973 is
summarized below:



27 -
COMAG NON-AUDITED BALANCE SHEET
AS OF DECEMBER 31, -1973
----- ------------------- Cr$ million- - ------ - ----- ----- ------------
ASSETS                                   EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
COMAG's Accounts:                   COMAG's Accounts:
Fixed Assets            346         Equity                   234
Current Assets           30         Long-Term Debt           121
Other Assets             12         Current Liabilities       33
Total Assets       388        Total Equity and
Liabilities            388
Concessionary Accounts:
Fixed Assets            209
7.08      COMAG's management is aware of these cash shortages and has already
taken a serie of positive measures. In January 1974 COMAG's average tariff
for m3 of water sold was increased by 11%; the company's revenues for this
year are expected to be equal to 2.5 times those of 1973 (Cr$ 95 million ver-
sus Cr$ 38 million). At the same time BNH accepted to refinance Cr$ 14 mil-
lion (US$2.2 million) of works in Belo-Horizonte. Finally, the State Govern-
ment and some municipalities in the state are supposed to provide COMAG with
about Cr$ 26 million (US$ 4 million) of cash as a contribution to COMAG's
capital. However, most of the company's internal resources in 1974 (Cr$ 31
million) will be used for debt service payments (Cr$ 22 million), and the rate
of return would drop to 3% in this year. It has been estimated that an increase
in water supply and sewerage tariffs of about 10% in 1975 will assure COMAG an
adequate financial position in 1975 and thereafter (see paragraph 7.13).
7.09      Detailed financial tables (Income Statements, Cash Flow Statements
and Balance Sheets) for the period 1974 through 1980 are in Annex 10. These
projections have been made in constant 1974 prices. COMAG's financial plan
is summarized below:



- 28 -
COMAG
Applications and Sources of Funds
Period 1974-1976
Cr$       US$           X
Applications
IBRD Project                                 538       92.0         48
Other Water Works                            173       30.6         17
Sewerage Works                               298       52.7         27
Interest during Construction                  70       12.3          6
Total Works                              1,079      187.6         98
Increase in Working Capital                 26        4.5          2
lotal Applications                       1,105      192.1        100
Sources
Iuternal Cash Generation                     175       30.5         16
Less:  Debt Service                           79       13.5          7
Set Internal Cash Generation                96       17.0          9
BNII/FAL Financing /2                    1,009      175.1         91
Iotal Sources                            1,105      192.1        100
/1  Cturrent US$ (See paragraph 5.10).
/2  (of which US$36 million would come from the proposed IBRD loan (19% of
total applications).
The plan is based upon:
(a)  BNHI and FAE financing (50% each of US$175 million) of COMAG's
water supply and sewerage works. This financing would be made
through individual loans for each subproject. However, to
simplify the preparation of the plan, it has been assumed that the
two financial entities would make one loan a year each, and that
the average construction period would be one and one half years.
BNR and FAE loans have an equal amortization period of 18 years,



- 29 -
after a period of grace, which varies from 6 to 36 months
depending upon the subprojects. The loans have a real
interest rate of 6% and 4.5% respectively; 1/
(b) a net internal cash generation of US$17 million covering
COMAG's total increase in working capital and interest during
construction.
7.10      The Bank would reimburse BNH for a total amount of US$36 million
representing 19% of total capital expenditures during the period. Assuming
a US$ inflation of 8% a year, the interest spread between the Bank and BNH
lending terms would be about 6%. This spread is considered high enough to
cover BNH's administrative costs and the exchange risk.
Revenues Covenant Justification and Tariffs
7.11      The Government policy is to achieve the PLANASA objectives (see
paragraph 2.09) under the following constraints:
(a) water tariffs established on the basis of the population's
income (for example, the rate paid for the minimum water
consumption should not exceed 5% of the legally established
minimum salary); and
(b) State Water Companies to be financially viable.
7.12      As a consequence, BNH has developed the following financial policy
for the sector:
(a) to finance all new investments through debt at moderate interest
rate:
(b) to establish state revolving funds (FAF.) the resources of which
remain at the disposition of the State Water Companies (see
paragraph 3.04); and
(c) to stipulate in the PLANASA agreement (see paragraph 3.05) that
the State Water Companies should have sufficient revenues to
cover their operating costs (before depreciation) and debt
service payments. This implies that the State Water Companies
revenues are not required to cover the depreciation of existing
investments which had been financed by grants or soft terms
foreign loans.
1/   The financial agent of BNH and FAE in the State (Banco de Credito Real)
charges an additional 1% on the outstanding balance of its loans to COMAG
as fees for its services. BNH discounts on all its disbursements a 1%
administrative fee and 1% for its technical assistance. The Bank in
charge of FAE (Banco de Credito Real) discounts 1% on all FAE disburse-
ments. In total the real interest rate paid by COMAG on the funds it
receives is equivalent to 7% (see Annex 1 for more details).



- 30 -
7¢ ~ 2    COMAG's financial rate of return, calculated on revalued fixed
assets, is projected to be 6%o in 1977, when project construction will be
comDleted (see Annex 10). However, it rises gradually until 1980, when it is
estimated to be 8%. The cash flow projections in Annex 10 demonstrate that
-le projected revenue are adequate to assure COMAG a satisfactory financial
-tion, that is to cover, in any given year, all operating expenses, interest
.nd other charges on debt, repayment of loans, increase in working capital
Otlier than cash, net miscellaneous cash outflows (such as taxes and dividends),
"-'d the financing of unforeseen and miscellaneous investments. Assurances
,-vre obtained during negotiations that COMAG's water supply and sewerage rev-
caues would cover the above-mentioned items.  The annual cash reserve would
oe equal to at least one percent (1%) of the gross value of fixed assets
oDerated by COMAG, which would include those operated under concessionary
agreement (see paragraph 4.02), such assets to be revalued periodically follow-
ing a methodology and indexes acceptable to the Bank.
7.14      On January 1974, COMAG implemented a uniform water supply and
sewerage tariff structure for all metered connections in the State of
.iinas Gerais. It is a very simple structure with only three categories:
residential, non-residential and consumers with monthly consumption over
00 mJ 3. Hlinimum allocation per month is 15 m3 with a charge of Cr$ 11.55
kUS$1.93). Additional consumption over the minimum is invoiced at Cr$ 0.77
up to Cr$ 0.90 per m3 (29 US cents to 34 US cents per 1,000 gallons). For
the third category (mostly commercial and industrial consumers) the company
will execute s?ecial sales contracts with the consumers. Sewerage services
are billed as a percentage (50%) of water bills. For unmetered connections,
the tariff structure consists of two categories with flat rates for water
and sewerage. However, the rates are different in Belo Horizonte and the
interior of the State. Annex 9 shows the present COMAG tariff structure.
As of January 1974, the average tariff per m3 of water sold was Cr$ 1.03
(USt39 per thousand gallons). Based on this average, the monthly charge for
water was less than 5% of the minimum monthly salary in the State (Cr$ 275
or US$44), thus meeting the PLANASA requirement (See Annex 1).
7.15      COMAG will establish a progressive rate structure for the systems
they are operating, based on the results of the Global Feasibility Study and
the Socioeconomic Study. The tariff structure will be statewide or regional
and will have to be introduced gradually to overcome feasible political
resistance. The progressive uniform statewide tariff will be designed to
achieve the redistribution of water revenues between individuals and communi-
ties. Assurances were obtained from COMAG during negotiations that a pro-
,;ressive uniform statewide or regional tariff structure would be designed,
in consultation with the bank, on the basis of the results of the Global
Feasibility and Socioeconomic Studies, and implemented before March 31, 1975.
A tariff designed in this way is unlikely to improve resource allocation
because the price paid for water will give very little indication of which
projects are economical. Therefore subprojects will be reviewed (see para-
graphs 5.04 to 5.07) to ensure economical design and elimination of unecono-
niical projects.  Industrial and commercial minimum tariffs should at least
pay for thle cost of providing water and sewerage services. Assurances were
obtained from COMAG during negotiations that industrial and commercial tariffs
would be set in accordance with this minimum requirement.



- 31 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      For the purpose of the following reconmendatins, BNH/SFS means the
BNH's Department in charge of water supply and sewerage activities (see para-
graph 3.08).
..02      The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a)  From the Federal Government, that:
It would cause the Associacao Brazileira de Normas Tecnicas (ABNT)
to consult with the Bank on the development of minimum national
standards for water supply and sewerage materials and methods of
construction (paragraph 2.10).
(b)  From the Banco Nacional da Habitacao, that:
(i)  it would exchange views with the Bank from time to time
on the organization of its department responsible for
PLANASA, and the rules and guidelines which would be
established to monitor PLANASA (paragraph 3.15);
(ii) BNH would establish management and procedure manuals
and controls (paragraph 3.17);
(iii)  BNH would send annually to the Bank a copy of its
financial statements certified by independent auditors
(paragraph 3.18);
(iv) Bank's approval will be required for all subprojects,
but Bank's approval of subprojects with a cost lower than
US$1.5 million or those not requiring special socioeconomic
evaluation shall be deemed to have been given if the Bank
has not notified BNH and COM&G to the contrary within 30
days of Bank's receipt of the subprojects feasibility studies
(paragraph 5.08); and
(v)  each individual subproject in Minas Gerais with an incre-
mental rate of return lower than zero would be eliminated
from Bank financing (paragraph 5.08).
(c)  From the State Government, that:
The State would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity for com-
menting on any proposed new appointment to the office of general
manager of COMAG or of any member of COMAG's executive committee
or on any substantial reorganization of COMAG (paragraph 4.08).



- 32 -
(d)  From the Companhia de Aguas e Esgotos (COMAG), that:
(i) COMAG would complete the concessionary agreements
with the municipalities of the State (paragraph 4.02);
(ii)  the Global Feasibility and the socioeconomic studies
would be carried out in accordance with Terms of
Reference satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 4.03);
(iii) COMAG would improve its preparation of subprojects
(paragraph 4.04);
(iv) COMAG would start, not later than three months after the
effective date, a publicity campaign designed to en-
courage people to connect to the water and sewer systems,
and low income consumers would be given the possibility
of repaying the connection costs over a period of time
(paragraph 4.05);
(v) ODMAG would establish management and administrative
procedures, manuals and control (paragraph 4.09);
(vi)  COMAG would present, to BNH and the Bank, not later
than three months after the effective date, the Minas
Gerais training program, and quarterly progress reports
on program execution should be sent to BNH and the Bank
(paragraph 4.10);
(vii)  COMAG would make its best efforts to reduce, by end
of 1974, uncollected bills in Belo Horizonte to no
more than 1.5 months billing (paragraph 4.12);
(viii)  competent commercial auditors acceptable to BNH and the
Bank would audit, at least once a year, beginning in
fiscal year 1973, COMAG's accounts (paragraph 4.13);
(ix)  COMAG would send to the Bank all subproject feasibility
studies (preinvestment and final studies) at the same
time they are sent to the O.T. and/or BNH (paragraph 5.08);
(x) subprojects with an incremental rate of return between zero
and 10% or, per capita construction and operating costs
exceeding by 20% or more the average per capita costs of
subprojects financed through PLANASA, would be evaluated
in accordance with the checklist given in Annex 7, Schedule 4
(paragraph 5.08);



- 33 -
(xi) a progressive uniform statewide or regional tariff
structure would be designed in consultation with the
Bank and implemented before March 31, 1975 (paragraph
7.15); and
(xii) COMAG's water supply and sewerage revenues would cover,
in any given year, all operating expenses, interest and
other charges on debt, miscellaneous cash outflows, and
the financing of unforeseen and miscellaneous investments.
The gross value of COMAG's fixed assets would be revalued
periodically following a methodology and indexes acceptable
to the Bank. Industrial and commercial minimum tariffs
would at least pay for the cost of providing water and
sewerage services (paragraphs 7.13 and 7.15).
(e) The following events would be conditions of effectiveness for
the proposed Bank loan:
Mi) the O.T. in Minas Gerais will have hired qualified
personnel in sufficient member for the purpose of
carrying out the PLANASA program in the State (para-
graph 3.20);
(ii) COMAG will have made arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, for employing management and technical
consultants (paragraph 4.09).






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7 pages
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
THE NATIONAL SANITATION PLAN (PLANASA)
Introduction
The following explanatory detailed description of the National
Sanitation Plan includes comments on the effectiveness of the plan and sug-
gests improvements. Specific recommendations on improvements are made in
the body of the report.
The National Housing Bank
1.        The National Housing Bank (BNH) was created in 1964 to solve
Brazil's housing problems. Housing programs have been generally successfully
carried out. However, because of high technical standards, the programs were
not as financially successful as expected, and debt rescheduling was necessary
in many cases. Some of the major weaknesses of the previous programs have
been corrected in a new housing program launched recently.  Many features of
the new program are similar to the National Sanitation Plan, PLANASA, which
was initiated in 1971. (For more details on BNH's housing operations, see
Annex 11).
2.        In 1968, BNH began to finance water supply and sewerage works
through the Sanitation Finance System (Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento -
SFS) which is administered by a special department within BNH, the Superin-
tendencia do Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento. The organizations of BNH and
SFS are shown in Charts 8016 and 7952.
3.        BNH's finances are discussed in Annex 11.
Past Performance and Present Status of Water and Sewerage Programs
4.        BNH started to make loans for water and sewerage works under its
"Triennial Plan" in 1968. The plan depended partly on municipal grants.
This was a major weakness as many municipalities could not afford to provide
the grants. The plan is still in operation in a few states but will be aban-
doned gradually. Construction of water projects financed under the Triennial
Plan has been progressing satisfactorily.
5.        The main difficulty encountered by the Triennial Plan was convinc-
ing people to connect to the water system. In the State of Paraiba, for in-
stance, the urban population served is still only around 50%, although a
major investment program to improve the water systems in all the major cities
has been completed. The major reason for the slow increase in connections
seem to have been ill-designed rate and connection policies.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7 pages
In order to overcome the problems encountered in the Triennial
lan. BN'Tl oriyinated, in 1971, the National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA).  When
State agrees to join PIANASA works contracted under the Triennial Plan are
rransferre.d to it. Because of this, and the speed with which the project
zroraratlon annl construction of water systems is proceeding, a considerable
:-49ount of the total PLANASA water program has already been contracted (for
core than 50%nO in most northeastern States which first joined PLANASA, and 10-20%
n other States). PLANASA sewerage is much less advanced and contracting is
'.;y expected to start by 1975.
7.        During 1970-80, US$1.5 billion are planned to be spent under PLANASA
water and IJS$1 billion under PLANASA sewerage.  These appear to be realistic
plans in viewt of the experience gained during 1968-1971.
The Niational Sanitation Plan, PLANASA
8.        The goal of the PLANASA program is to connect 80% of the urban
population of each municipality to public water supply systems and 50% to
ptiblir sewerage systems by 1980. This means that the number of people served
w7ill have to be raised from 29 million in 197(i to at least 64 million in 1980.
9.        The definition of an urban area used in Brazil is the administrative
center of all municipalities and districts 1/ regardless of size, which can
support public services such as water and sewerage. Therefore, a large num-
ber of the urban areas to be served through PLANASA are very small, usually
500 persons or more with a high investment cost per capita.
10.       PLANASA is implemented through a system (Sistema Financeiro do
Saneamento - SFS) of central government and state institutions for the finan-
cing, construction and operation of water and sewerage works. The system at
the central level consists of a BNH Department called the Superintendencia
of SFS (BNH/SFS) and at the State level of the State Water Company, the State
Bank and the Technical Approval Agency (O.T.). The institutions involved and
the flow of funds appear in Chart 7907.
11.       In order to join PLANASA, each state must sign an agreement with
BNni. The major implications of the agreement are:
(i) A single State Waterworks Company should build and operate
most waterworks on a concessionary or ownership basis. This
Company should be operatinp the water systems serving at least
707 of the urban population at the time of the signing of the
agreement.2/
1'   A district is a subdivision of a municipality.
2/   This rule has not been respected in Minas Gerais.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7 pages
(ii) BNH commits itself to lend 50% of the cost of the approved in-
vestment program through its REFINAG loan program. The loans
are guaranteed by the State Government and made through the
State Bank to the State Company.
(iii) The State commits itself to provide up to 5% of its revenue for
water supply investments. These funds are placed as grants in
in Water Supply and Sewerage Revolving Investment Fund (Fundos
de Financamiento para Agua e Esgotos do Estado, FAE), and will
normally finance 50% of the cost of the PLANASA program. The
State water companies debt service payments to the Fund are
supposed to finance all new investments and replacements in
water supply and sewerage after 1980, when State budgetary
appropriations and BNH loans are assumed to stop.
(iv) In cases where 5% of the fiscal income of the State is not enough
to finance the remaining 50% of the investment not financed by
BNH, BNH extends a supplementary loan to the State (through its
FISAG loan program), which places the proceeds of the loan in FAE
on a grant basis. 1/ Disbursements from this supplementary loan
are made parallel to those from the REFINAG loan.
(v)  The FAE funds are administered by a competent agency, normally
the State Bank, under the control of BNH. The State Bank is
thus, in most cases, both the administrative agency for FAE and
the financing agency for the BNH and FAE loans.
(vi) All BNH and FAE loans are expressed in constant money units
(UPC). Real interest rates on BNH loans vary from 4-to 8%
depending on the average per capita income of the state. Real
interest rates on FAE loans vary from 2 to 6% depending on the
estimated annual population gtowth in the state. The financial
agents of BNH and FAE in the state each charges an additional
1% to the State water companies as fees for their services.
The State Bank which guarantees the amortization of BNH loans
by the BNH's financial agent charges, in some cases (Minas
Gerais, for example) a 1% fee calculated on the outstanding
balance of BNH's loans. Finally, BNH discounts on all its
disbursements a 1% administrative fee and 1% for its technical
assistance. The bank in charge of FAE administration discounts
1% on all FAE disbursements. As an example, the real interest
rate paid by COMAG on the funds it receives is shown below:
1/   In the preliminary study made by BNH for the PLANASA program in Minas
Gerais, State participation in FAE was estimated to be low than 5% of
State fiscal income. It is not anticipated that supplementary loans
to the State would be necessary to permit FAB/Minas Gerais to
finance 50% of project cost.



ANNIEX 1
Page 4 of 7 pages
% of        Rate on Total
Interest              Basic Rate    Financing       Disbursements
BNH                       6%            50              3.00
FAE                       4-1/2%        50              2.25
Financial Agent
(Banco Credito Real)   1%            100              1.00
State Bank guarantee      1%            50              0.50
Total                                               6.75
Fees
BNH      Taxa de Administracao            1%) o
Taxa de Servicos Tecnicos        1%) on BNH's disbursements
FAE      Taxa de Administracao            1%  on FAE's disbursements
(Orgao Gestor)
(vii)  In certain cases, the states may choose to finance part of the
cost of the state program through municipal or state grants.
The BNH and FAE shares are adjusted accordingly so that if, for
instance, the grants constitute 20% of the investment cost, the
BNH and FAE shares are reduced to 40% each.
(viii)  The agreement, based on preliminary estimates of investment cost,
specifies the contribution from each source of financing during
each year. These estimates can later be revised, and the invest-
ment program delayed if the State is unable to finance FAE.
12.       The financing system described in paragraph 11 refers to the water
program.  The financing system for sewerage, REFINESG and FICONIFAE, is
basically the same as that for water, except that a lower share of the state's
fiscal income is allocated.
The Investment Programming Procedures Under PLANASA
13.       The Analysis and Programming Department of BNH/SFS prepares a pre-
feasibility study for each state. Such studies have already been prepared
for all states.
14.       The pre-feasibility study is the basic document used by BNH to
start preliminary discussions with the State Authorities. The document gives
tentative cost figures and a financing plan for the State Water Program and
is the basis for the BNH-State PLANASA agreement.
15.       Under PLANASA, each state is also required to prepare a Global
Feasibility Study. This is an investment plan, separately for water and
sewerage, which establishes the sequencing of projects, investments, tariffs,
etc.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7 pages
16.       The Global Feasibility Study should be ready six months after
signing the PLANASA agreement but the completion is often delayed several
months. The study is prepared by consultants employed by the State Company.
The quality of consultants varies substantially and, as no similar studies
have been done previously, the experietice of the consultants is limited.
The guidelines provided by BNH for the Feasibility Studies are limited and
very general and do not ensure uniform standards.
17.       The Analysis and Programming Department of BNH/SFS supervises the
preparation of the Global Feasibility Study and then verifies that the works
are executed and the State Company is operated in accordance with the program
established by the Study. The Department reviews continuously the investment
plan in collaboration with the State Water Company and the consultants.
18.       PLANASA requires, in principle, that no disbursements should be made
before the Global Feasibility Study has been prepared and approved by BNH.
In practice, however, disbursements have been made for the construction of
water systems using the pre-feasibility study in lieu of the Global Feasibility
study. However, in all such cases, feasibility studies for the individual
water system subprojects have been available.
Principles and Problems of Programming Under PLANASA
19.       BNH requires that the state investment program meet the PLANASA
objectives by the target year. The target year is the year 1980, or sooner,
if so agreed upon between BNH and the State. Further conditions are that
the revenues of the State Water Company in each year should cover the opera-
tional costs plus debt service payments; and that the minimum tariff for
water should not surpass 5% of the minimum salary of the State. These condi-
tions result, in some cases, in unrealistic programs.
20.       Investments are mostly sequenced according to financial feasibility
to minimize the average water rate which has to be charged to cover operating
costs and debt service (including build-up of FAE) and disregards non-financial
benefits and costs. In practice, political considerations often influence the
sequencing of subprojects.
21.       High cost/low revenue subprojects are subject to special examination
by BNH, with the main purpose of lowering their cost. At a later stages after
the Global Feasibility Study is completed, these subprojects might be excluded
from the program as a result of financial difficulties encountered by the State
Company. However, definite cut-off criteria should be established to postpone
or eliminate uneconomical projects (see Chapter 8, Recommendations).
22.       A further problem is that the water programs are not coordinated
with sewerage programs. As BNH considers water to have higher priority than
sewerage, the sewerage programming is lagging far behind. Full benefits from
water supply investments cannot be realized until sewage collection and dis-
posal is satisfactory. There is a risk with the present system of programming,
that less economical water subprojects will be undertaken before more econom-
ical sewerage subprojects. There is also a risk that rates planned for water
will turn out to be unrealistically high, when the consumers also have to pay
for sewerage.



ANNEX i
Page 6 of 7 pages
23.       The US$2.4 billion PLANASA water and sewerage program represents a
sizeable portion of total investments in Brazil. It is of special importance
in potentially labor-intensive fields, where it is estimated that the program,
using present techniques, will employ some 40,000 unskilled laborers annually
in construction and 30,000 annually in operation once the program is completed.
BNH has not made any attempt to gear the program towards more labor-intensive
techniques.  The fast execution of the program has been the overwhelming
objective.
PLANASA - Project Evaluation
24.       Once the Global Feasibility Study is approved, the State Water
Company should, according to PLANASA, contract with private consultants the
subprojects feasibility studies for each municipality or group of municipa-
lities. In practice, these studies are often done before the Global Feasi-
bility Study. These studies are done as follows:
(i)  First the Pre-Investment Study 1/ is prepared.  It contains
alternative technical solutions with recommendations for the
selected one, the estimated costs and sources of financing
with the amount of their respective participation. This
study is presented by the Water Company to the Technical
Supervisory Agency, 2/ who sends it, after its approval,
to BNH's Department of Analysis and Programming for review
anA approval.
(ii) After BNH has reviewed and approved the Pre-Investment Study
the Water Company proceeds to the Final Design, 3/ which consists
of technical documents for the selected alternative solution,
including detailed design, specifications, cost estimates, and
construction and disbursement schedules and a financial plan.
The Water Company submits these documents for approval to the
Technical Supervisory Agency. The latter keeps all the technical
documents and sends to BNH only cost estimates and the schedules
for construction and disbursement with its comments and recommenda-
tions. BNH reviews these and uses them to control the disbursements
and construction. 4/ BNH also uses the information to update the
Global Feasibility Study.
PLANASA - Construction
25.       An individual loan agreement is signed with BNH (subproject contract)
for each subproject for which a feasibility study has been approved. Separate
loan contracts are concluded between BNH and the State Bank and between the
State Bank and the State Company. The FAE loan financing is contracted sep-
arately between the State Bank and the State Company.
1/   Relatorio Tecnico Preliminar.
2/   Orgao Tecnico.
3/ Projecto Technico
4/   Ficha de Actualizazao.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7 pages
26.       After approval of the Final Design, the Water Company issues an
invit:ation to bid. In practice, this is done immediately following the ap-
proval of the Technical Supervisory Agency, and before subproject contracts
have been signed with BNH. Construction contracts are sometimes awarded before
subproject contracts have beeti signed with BNH. In such a case, the State
Company will be penalized by a reduction of the loan. The time elapsed between
the issuing of an invitation to bid and the opening of the bid ranges from 10
to 30 days according to the complexity of the works involved. The Water Com-
pany takes 15 to 20 days for selection of the contractor and awarding the bid.
In general, no more than 60 days are considered necessary to sign a construc-
tion contract after the invitation to bid. BNH stays out of procurement
control as much as possible, delegating this task to the Technical Supervisory
Agencies. These Agencies ensure that bidding procedures are in accordance
with BNH guidelines, and will inform BNH of the name of the selected contrac-
tor along with any discrepancy from the bidding standards. If discrepancies
occur, BNH investigates the matter through its regional office.
27.       Disbursements from BNH and FAE loans are made monthly through the
State Bank against a monthly summary bill paid by the State Company and ap-
proved by the Technical Supervisory Agency. The Department of Finance of BNH
authorizes disbursements from BNH and FAE and keeps financial records of each
subproject.
28.       The day-by-day supervision of construction is exercised by the
Water Company itself or their consulting engineers.
29.       The BNH Department of Technical Control supervises construction,
keeps records of each construction activity and detects changes in the original
plans. When major changes occur, BNH sends consultants to the field to invest-
igate the problem and advise on the proper solution. Each Technical Approval
Agency sends monthly reports to BNH/SFS through the regional offices. 1/
PLANASA - Operations
30.       The reporting on operations of the State Companies is deficient.
Guidelines for reporting are non-existent. The BNH/SFS Department of Finance
receives from the State Companies only balance sheets and profit and loss
statements of varying quality, usually on a yearly basis.
31.       Due to the deficient organization of the flow of information within
and from the State Company (for instance, few States have an accounting system
which allows them to break down cost and revenues on a functional or sub-
project basis), the BNH/SFS Department of Analysis and Programming cannot, at
present, exert a satisfactory control on the performance of the State Company
and individual subprojects.
1/   Delegacias.






BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE CONDITIONS IN MINAS GERAIS IN 1970
REGIONS                                               I           II         III        IV        V          VI       VII       VIII       Total
(See Map IBRD No.
1.  GENERAL
Urban Population (thousands)                  2,050O          730        900        540       300        270      180        510      5,48OL/
Number of Cities                                122           127        177         51        58         45       51         91        722
2. WATER SUPPLY
Population Served                             1,330           540        710        270       210       100        50       210       3,420
in thousands
in percent                                     65            74         79         50        70         37       28         41         62
Number of Cities with Water Systems              86            80        146         26        29         27       30         40        4642/
Number of Connections  (thousan4s)            195.8         100.3      132.4       54.2      42.7       20.2      9.1       40.7      595.4-/
Number of Persons Served Per Connection         6.8           5.4        5.4        5.0       5.0        5.0      5.4        5.0        5.7
3. SEWERAGE
Population Served
in thousands                                  850           500        410        250        70         30       20        100      2,230
in percent                                     41            68         45         46        23         11       11         19          40
Number of Cities with Sewerage                   12            32          23         6          1         0         2         8          84
Number of House Connections (thousands)       125.4          94.1       77.1       51.2      14.3        7.3      3.4       19.6       392.4
Number of People Served Per Connection           6.8          5.3         5.3       4.9        4.8       4.1      5.9        5.1          -
Notes:   j  Includes Belo Horizonte                                                                                                                    I
E   317 cities have severe water deficits and inadequate systems
j 56%6 of the houses are connected to public water systems and 62% of the urban population is served. 2% of the houses connected
are served by systems u-nder COMAGG.
i/ 37% of the houses are connected to public sewer systems
/ None of the cities have sewage treatment plants
Source: Saneamento Basico en Minas Gerais, Secretaria de Viasao e Obras Publicas, Minas Gerais, 1972.
November 1973






BRAZIL
lNNAS QERATS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COtPANBIA MIN_EIRA DE AGUAS S ESGOTOJ 'COMAG"
URBAN POPULATION PROJECT ClONS
GROUP SYSTENS                           POPULATION                            1974          1975         1976          1977         1978          1979          1980                     OBSERVATIONS
1. Water Supply Systems                Urban population (thousand)                 514           534          555           576           599           622          647           Average annual increase, 3.9%
operated by COMAG                  Pop,lation served (thousand)                272
(without those included            Population serve.l (%)                       53%
in Bank Projeot)                   Population well-served (%)                   45%           50%          60%           70%          80%           80%           80%          Population in Project
(30 cities)                        Population well-served (thousand)           231          267           333           403          479           497           518           Average annual imcrease, 5.2%
2.  Bank Project                       Urban population (thousand)               2,716         2,857        3,oo6         3,162         3,326        3,0oo         3,681           Including the Metropolitan area and other cities
(31 subprojects)                   Population served (thousand)              1,160
Populatio-  sorvet (%)                       47%
Population well-served (%)                   40%          45%           50%          60%           70%           80%          80%          Population in Project
Population well-served (thousand)        1,086         1,286         1,503        1,897         2,326         2,800        2,945
3. Water Supply Systems                Urban population (thousand)                 681           709           738          768           800           832           867          Average annual increase, 4.1%
operated by FSESP                  Population served (thousand)                477
(29 cities)                        Population served (%)                        70%
Population well-served (%)                   60%          70%           70%          70%           80%           80%           80%         Population in Project
Population well-served (thousuod)           409          496           517          538           640           666           694
4. Large Water Supply Systems          Urban population (thousand)                  916          954           995        1,036         1,080         1,125        1,172
operated by Municipalities         Population served (thousand)                650
(10 cities)                        Population served (%)                        71%
Population well-served (%)                   60%          70%           70%          70%           80%           80%           80%         Population in Preject
Population well-served (thousand)          550           668           697           725          864           900           938
5. Water Supply Systems                 Urban population (thousand)                  45           47            50            52           55            57            60
under construction                 Population served (thousand)                 -
Population served (%)
Population well-served (%)                   40%          40%           60%          70%           80%           80%           80%          Population in Project
Population well-served (thousand)            18           19            30            3            44            56           45
6. Small Cormunities
(Less than 10,000 inhabitants)    Urban population (thousand)                2,482         2,532        2,582         2,634         2,687        2,740         2,795
PopuIation served (thousand)                 -
Population servd (%)                         50
Population well-served (%)                   10%          10%           20%          40%           60%           70%           80%          Population in Project
Population well-sacred (thuota ci)          248          253           516         1,055        1,612         1,918         2,236
TOTAL                       Urban population (thousand)               7,354         7,633        7,926         8,228         8,547         8,876        9,222
Popuolation served (thousand)            3,952
Population sered (%)                         54%
Population well-served (%)                   35%          39%           45%           57%          70%           77%           80%          Population in Project
Population well-served (thoosand)         2,542        2,989         3,596         4,653        5,967         6, 827        7,379
May 1974



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONPANHLA MINEIRA DE ASJAS E ESGT0S3 'COMAG"
WATER DEMAUD PROJECTIONs
(1000 m3T
SYSTEMS                                  SPECIFICATION                1974            1975           1976           1977            1978           1979            1980                  OBSERVATIONS
1. Water Supply Systems                Domestic (1000 m3)  D             11,804          15,644         17,016         20,593          24,477         25,397          26,470             20% of domestic demand
operated by OOMAG                   Industrial (1000 mn) I            2,361           2,729          5,403          4,119           4,895          5 079           5,294
(30 cities)                        Total                             14,165         16,373          20,419         24,712          29,372         30,476          31,764
2. World Bank Water Supply             Domestic (1000 m3)  D             55,494          65,7l5         76,803          96,937        118,961        143,o80         150,490             40% of domestic demand
Systems Project                     Industrial (1000 m3) I           22,198          26,286         30,721          38,775         47,584         57,232          60,196
Total                            77,692          92,001        107,524        135,712         166,545        200,312         210,686
3, Water Supply Systems                 Domestic (1000 m3)  D            20,900          25,376         26,419         27,492          32,704         34,033          35,463             20% of dosemtic demand
operated by PSESP                   Industrial (1000 m3) I            4,180           5,069          5,284          5,498           6,541          6,807           7 092
(29 cities)                        Total                             25,080         30,415          31,703         32,990          39,245         40,840          42,555
4. Big Water Supply Systems             Domestic (1000 m3)  D            28,105          35,135         35,617          37,048         44,150         45,990          47,932             40% of domestic demari
operated by the Manicipalities     Indulstrial (1000 m3) I           11,242          13,655         14,247         14,819          17,660         18,396          19,173
(10 cities)                        Total                             39,347         47,789          49,864         51,867          61,810         64,386          67,105
5. Water Supply Systems beirg          Domestic (1000 m3)  D                920             971          1,533           1,840          2,248           2,351          2,453             20% of domestic demand
developed                          Industrial (1000 m3) I               184             194            307             368            450             470            491
(3 cities)                         Total                              1,104          1,165           1,840          2,208           2,698          2,821           2,944
6. Small Water Supply Systems          Domestic (1000 m3)  D             12,673          12,928         26,368          53,859         82,373          98,010        114,260             No industrial demand
(Less than 10,000 inhab.)          Industrial (1000 m3) I              -               -              -              -               -              -               -
(607 cities)                       Total                             12,673         12,928          26,368         53,859          82,373         98,010         114,260
TOTAL               Domestic (100 m3)   D            129,896        152,739         183,756        237,769         304,913        348 861         377,o68            24%  of domestic demand
Industrial (1000 m3) I           40,165          47,932         53,962          63,579         77,130          87,984         92,246
Total                           170,061         200,671        237,718         301,348        382,043        436,845         469,314



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 8 pages
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
NATIONAL SANITATION TRAINING PROGRAM
Program Objectives
PLANASA requires a rather complex institution-building program,
long and difficult engineering studies, and considerable resources of manpower
for operation and maintenance. The lack of experienced engineers, of admin-
istrative personnel with adequate capabilities, and of trained manpower at
the foreman or worker levels could well be the main obstacle to progress in
the sector. While PLANASA presents a strong case for decentralization, there
is some doubt regarding its feasibility in the short time allowed for implemen-
tation. This is again due to the scarcity of specialized staff at the State
level.
BNH/SFS estimates that about 60,000 people need to be trained over
a five-year period (1973-1977) in order to operate and maintain all the water-
works to be built and operated under PLANASA. To meet this need, a National
Sanitation Training Program has been initiated.
The number of 60,000 people to be trained was estimated on the basis
of one employee for every 1,000 people served, which is a reasonable figure
for well-managed utilities. However, the Water Companies and municipal serv-
ices actually in operation have, on the average, one employee for every 500
to 600 people served. Thus around 45% of the personnel needed in 1980 is
already working in the water supply field today (around 27,000), but they
require further training. The total number of personnel to be trained might
therefore have to be revised later, when more information about the qualifi-
cation of existing manpower is available. The training program should be
rescheduled accordingly from time to time.
The following targets for the five-year training program have been
established at this time:
Estimated Accumulated          Total Personnel
Year                      Personnel Employed in            to be trained
_____                    Waterworks               Per Year  Total
1972                             26,900                     -         -
1973                             33,600                  4,000      4,000
1974                             40,200                  8,000    12,000
1975                             46,800                 16,000    28,000
1976                             53,400                 18,000    46,000
1977                             60,000                 14,000    60,000



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 8 pages
Program M1anagement
A large number of organizations will be involved in the execution
of the training program. BNH is undertaking this program as part of its
technical assistance program (SANAT) and has engaged ABES to guide, coordinate
and supervise the program.
These organizations are contracted by BNH and ABES, which operate
as a consulting firm in preparing and coordinating the contracts. The con-
trccts spell out the financing of the program and the role of ABES and the
participating agencies, including the State and/or municipal water organiza-
tions.
ABES, which will receive an estimated total amount of US$920,000
for its participation, 1/ estimates its annual input of manpower to be about
two man-year consultant time, about one man-year translation time, about
two man-years teaching time, and six man-years of full-time sanitary engineers
for supervision and coordination.
Program Description
The training program consists of four parallel activities:
P1  =  Preparation of manuals, audio-visual material, and
other teaching material to be used at all levels.
P2  =  Training courses for trainers who will lead the training
program in each State at all levels except 05.
P3  =  Technical and professional training courses to be given
at all levels.
P4  =  Management and supervision training to be given at all
levels except 05.
Technical and administrative guidelines for planning, design, con-
struction and operation of waterworks as well as for management, financing,
water tariff structures, and procurement will be needed in order to prepare
technical manuals. The manuals will be prepared by ABES. It will be neces-
sary to coordinate this activity with the preparation of guidelines and stand-
ards for the PLANASA program. Some of the standards are being issued in
November 1973 and some of the manuals have already been prepared.
1/   Technical personnel (50%), consultants' services (17%), transportation
(8.5%), technical manuals (4%), research activities (11%), and general
administration of the program (9.5%).



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 8 pages
The following organizations are likely to be engaged: 1/
In Pl activity:  ABES, PAHO, CETESB, IES, FGV, CENAFOR, PIPM4  2_/
SENAI, 3/ and MOBRAL;
In P2 activity: PIPMO, PAHO, SENAI, CENAFOR:
In P3 activity:  IES, CETESB, FGV, EE, PAHO, PIPMO, SENAI,
ET, CT, SENAC, DNMD, MOBRAL:
In P4 activity:  FGV, CT, PAHO, PIPMO, SENAC, ETC.
The sanitary engineering training will be centralized in CETESB
in the Sao Paulo State and IES in Guanabara State. These two institutions
are preparing travel teams and equipment to be sent to other States to provide
in-service training for State Water Companies, particularly with regard to
new techniques for operation of water and sewage treatment plants.
For management and supervisory training courses, the program depends
very much on the cooperation and experience of FGV, which has already started
its training effort in every state.
From time to time, it is contemplated to have seminars on management
training in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
Program at the State Level
The State Water Companies formulate their training programs with
the assistance of ABES. The training program is expected to be planned to be
a permanent activity of the companies with each State Water Company being
urged strongly to allocate no less than 1% of its payroll for training.
Each State Water Company is required to set up a Training Center
equipped with laboratories and normal teaching facilities necessary to carry
out the program with instructors for in-service training of its personnel.
Actually this center should be the core of a training system rather than at-
tempting to do much of the training itself.
Training Program in Minas Gerais
COMAG has estimated its needs for training through 1976 at 6,000
persons: 2,000 existing employees and 4,000 new personnel. Such a program
would have a total cost of about US$900,000. A training center was created
in mid-1973, and universities and other institutions in Minas Gerais will
1/   See page 9 for list of names.
2/   PIPMO is considered the principal coordinator of the whole program in
the training of manual workers and operators (75% of personnel).
3/   SENAI has 280 schools in the country available for these water training
courses, though at present the training offered in this field is slight.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8 pages
participate in program execution. The already-operating water system of
Betim, composed of both surface and groundwater sources, a new classic treat-
ment plant and 5,000 house connections, would be used as a pilot system for
training. Curently, there are several short-term courses for professional,
technical and administrative personnel. Some of these courses will be repeated
and others probably added in 1974. COMAG has been particularly receptive to
Bank assistance. The training program in Minas Gerais may be used as a model
for the national Training Program.
Program Cost
The total cost of the program is estimated to be about ItS$22 million,
broken down as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 0 pages
Cost
Estimated    Personnel    Estimates
Personnel          Typical        Level of  Total Needed   Existing  (1973
Classification     Categories    Trainin   iy en  of 1977  in 1922   US 00)
Technical and      Engineers         01       3,000(5%)   1,300(43%)   1,740
Administrative     Architects
Personnel -        Chemists
High level         Economists
Analysts (EDP)
Technical and      Technicians       02       6,000(10%)  2,700(45%)   4,940
Administrative     Drafters
Personnel -        Surveyers
Medium Level       Programmers(EDP)
-Administrative     Typists           03       6,000(10%)  2,700(45%)   2,000
and Financial      Office Assistants
Personnel-         Secretaries
High School Level  Office Machine
Operators
Skilled and        Electricians      04      27,000(45%) 12,100(45%)   9,200
Semiskilled        Plant Operators
Workers -          Plumbers
Primary School     Mechanics
Level            Pump Operators
Unskilled          Common Laborers  05        18,000(30%)  8,100(45%)   3,200
Laborers-          Servants
Elementary         Messengers
School Level                                          _                   -
60,000(100%) 26,900(45%)  21,080
ABES               Organization
Coordination
Supervision                                            920
TOTAL              22,000
1/  Training Levels
01 = Short courses for improvement of technical knowledges in the waterworks field.
Short courses in modern management practices in waterworks operation.
02 = Short courses in modern technical and administrative practices in waterworks
operation.
03 = Short courses in modern office operations. Parallel to these courses,
ordinary high school education is given.
Oh   Short courses, mainly in the form of on-the-job training, to improve
technical knowledge in the respective fields of works. Parallel to these
courses, ordinary primary school education is given.
05 = Short courses to specialized workers in their respective fields. Parallel to
these courses, schooling to eliminate illiteracy is given.
2/  Tn number and as a percentage of total needed by end of 1977.



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 8 pages
Annual budget estimates could be as follows:
Annual Budget Estimate
(1973 US$'000)
Total
<-evel                  1973    1974    1975    1976    1977              1973-77
01i                       160     400      500      380     300            1,740
0'2                       515   1,100   1,255   1,200       870           4,940
'13                       100     350      550      500     500           2,000
04                        900   1,700   2,300   2,300   2,000             9,200
05                        180     400      900      870     850           3,200
Subtotal                1,855   3,950   5,505   5,250   4,520            21,080
ABES                      100     180      220      220     200             920
Total (in 1973 US$)   19        4130   5,725   5,470   4,720             22000
(in current US$)2,000   4,500   6,700   6,900   6,300             26,400
BNH Financing
BNI will finance 25% of the total training program (US$6.6 million).
The renaining 75% will be financed by the States (US$19.8 million).  BNH does
not visualize any substantial foreign exchange component in the program as all
of the teaching and technical assistance manpower is expected to be available
within the country. Some outside assistance will be necessary both at the
central and State levels.
BNH financing is computed on a State classification according to
tributary income, as shown below:
People                 --------------- Per Capita Tax Income in UPC ---
to be trained          0.75   0.75-1.50    1.50-2.25    2.25-5.00          5.00
(annual % of total)             ------------ Percentage of BNH Participation-
1st year - 20%           100         90            80           70           50
2nd year - 20%             80        70            60           50           30
3rd year - 20%            60         50            40           30           10
4th year - 20%             40         30           20            10            0
5th year - 20%             20        10             10           0            0
Average              60         50            42           32           18



ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 8 pages
BNII financing will be only for the period covered by the National
Training Program. Thereafter the State Water Companies are supposed to
assume the entire financial burden for training, but ABES will continue to
coordinate and supervise the programs provided that financial arrangements
are agreed upon.
Program Problems
The strategy and concepts of the training program are well developed.
Nevertheless, in view of the magnitude and complexity of the program and the
short time period envisaged for its implementation, strictures are bound to
occur, such as the availability of experienced trainers.
The major problems that the program might encounter are:
(i) ABES's lack of experience and low allocation of manpower to
the program;
(ii)  mobilization and coordination, in a short period of time,
of the dozen national agencies involved and the 20 State
Companies;
(iii) quality of training in certain instances;
(iv) preparation of teaching material, especially the basic
manuals and technical texts necessary; and
(v) preparation of about 20 high-caliber courses for the
training of 600 multidisciplinary professionals, and
about 40 courses for 1,200 technical and administrative
personnel per year. These courses will use all the expe-
rienced teachers available in this field in the country,
and some assistance from abroad may be needed over and above
the proposed PAHO assistance.
The National Training Program is very ambitious, and it is likely
that no more than 50% of the target would be achieved by 1977. Nevertheless,
if these less ambitious targets are achieved, PLANASA goals would still be
reasonable. It should be pointed out however, that the training program will
not do any thing to relieve the shortage of good consulting prices in this
field.



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 8 pages
ABBREVIATIONS
.ABES           =    Association of Sanitary Engineering of Brazil
CENAFOR        =    Natonal Center for the Professional Training of Personnel
CETESB         X    Technological Center for Basic Sanitation (State of
Sao Paulo)
CT             =    Training Centers (State Water Companies)
DNMO           =    National Department of Labor
KF             ,    Schools of Engineering (Universities)
=    Technical Schools
FGV                  Getulio Vargas Foundation
FINANSA             Water and Sawerage Financing Program of BNH
IES                  Institute of Sanitary Engineering (State of Guanabara)
MOBRAL         =    National Training Program for Manual Workers (Illiteracy
only)
PAHO           =    Pan American Health Organization
PIPMO          =    National Intensive Training Program for Workers
SANAT          =    Technical Assistance Program for PLANASA (BNH/SFS)
SENAC          =    National Commercial Training Program
SENAI          =    National Industrial Labor Training Program



WATER SDPPLY ANO StAFAGE PaOJ7CT
COMPAANNA 1NEnRA D8 AO(ES E B6G0T0S 1C09A2)
1974      r?o010Ofn                                 FRgineerlng and                                              1S       __---_-   A--   n.o    Di.b9 reaot  in Orr  11Ron -------
Po.l.tf.rn    Gror,th 9R.   Coot of       Toohe.. l    Admi.i6trat2to         Total          TOtal           DotoA
i50  nss         (S3          Works    Corino3ano         C.$ _  )An       Cr$ 9ijllon   (2$ N111n)    m, 1,Co00 UP0        1974       1975        976      1977       1978       1979       1980
WO A I E R
1   coMA                                 513.9            3.9           60.1           8,4             6.B              75.3         t1.6             899                         25         3B         12
2   rmjeot                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~1.22.6  59.2        46.2             5370,          77. 5          6,330             770        "11        149
3.  79769                                681.0            L.7 I          91   59        .83            16. 27h73                      11.5            996                         12         25         25         13
4.  lOaOmtio650.1                                         4.2           91.2          7169.?                           101.R          75.7           7,219                                   IT         -;7        30
.  ODMAG'o W=ok on ioogore9               45 7            5.0            9. C           .              0.9             770.0          o6.2           2,32                8          7        17           /        38gi      6oil        0_/
6.   m1 Gouritie-                                         2.0          716.1          58.3            h7.4             521.3          80.3           6.737,                                       1    1 7        77         117        177
Total Water                                               1,0h7.7         146.,           119.3           1,074.0          2!6.9         17,604              118       310        283        2         2 4455                157
S 9 7 R R A G 6
7. Mteropoatn AN                                                                                                         3372         97.7           3,965              79         35      77.       67,5       58.9      53.4       52.1
2.  Otler System                                                                                                         677             C0          P.0995              -         9b        103       709        116        12h        132
Tpt4l 5fra ge                                                                                                '°1009       155.1          12,050               18       129      150.5      175,5   _14.9        177.4      1L.1
roL.l lnmnt-Amt Prognm                                                                                      2,023         391 9          29,6574           136.0     439.0      433.5      420.5     378.9      336.6      341.10
I 70 90   83.73 C0$.
3]se and p0o0   or 9 Of 010-oriaontg metrOpolitan   re-..
my 1974



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPAN'dIA MINEIR.A DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS "~COMAG'
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COST
Engineering
1974              Population            Works          Technical                      and                                                            Inveatment Program
Population           Growth Rate           Cost           Continaencies           Administration            Subtotal            Subtoga1/         1974          1975          1976          Rate of
(Thousands)                                    - ---------------------------.--------Cr$ million----------------              (US*1O)             ---------Cr$ million--------              Return
1.  Belo Horizonte (City)                1,579.4                  5.5               123.5              17.3                      14.1                154.9                23.8             51.1          83.6          20.2            167.
2.  ContaSem                                193.5                15.7                40.6                5.6                      4.6                  50.8                7.8             15.2          17.8          17.8            25%
3.  Divinopolis                              86.0                 5.3                17.3               2.4                       2.0                  21.7                3.3              0.9          12.2           8.6            (2)
4.  Ipatinga                                 57.9                24.7                19.8                2.7                      2.3                 24.8                 3.8              1.0          13.9           9.9            167.
5.  Curvelo                                  34.5                 3.3                 3.1               0.4                       0.4                   3.9                0.6              0.4           3.5            -             147.
6.  Nanugue                                  45.1                  6.7                8.6                1.2                      0.9                  10.7                 1.6             0.4           6.8           3.5            177.
7.  Uba                                      32.6                 2.9                 8.8               1.2                       1.0                  11.0                1.7              0.4           7.0           3.6            107.
8.  Araguari                                55.3                  3.2                 5.8               0.8                       0.7                   7.3                 1.1             0.4           3.9           3.0            (2)
9.  Montes Claros                           107.9                 7.2                29.8               4.2                       3.4                  37.4                5.8              1.9          16.8          18.7             9%
10.  Bicas                                     8.9                 1.3                 2.4               0.3                       0.3                  3.0                 0.5              0.8           2.2            -             (2)
11.  Almenara                                 17.6                 5.0                 3.3               0.5                       0.4                   4.2                0.6              1.4           2.8            -              9%
12.  Sao Sebastiao de Paraizo                21.3                  2.9                 3.1               0.4                       0.3                  3.8                 0.6              0.5           2.0           1.3            (2)
13.  Cassia                                    9.3                 2.0                 1.3               0.2                       0.1                   1.6                0.2              0.2           1.4            -             14%
14.  Alem Paraiba                             23.3                 1.7                 6.0               0.8                       0.7                   7.5                 1.2             0.8           4.7           2.0            (2)
15.  Bom Despacho                             21.4                  3.3                5.2                0.7                      0.6                   6.5                 1.0             0.3           5.8           0'4            (2)
16.  Itajuba                                 48.0                  3.1                 9.7               1.3                       1.1                 12.1                 1.9              0.6           7.0          4'5             (2)
17.  Camo do Paranaiba                        12.0                 4.1                 3.3               0.5                       0.4                  4.2                 0.6              0.2           3.4           0.6            (2)
18.  Santa Luzia                              16.3                 5.7                12.2               1.7                       1.4                  15.3                2.4              0.5           7.5           7.3             67.
19.  Baependi                                  6.3                 1.5                 1.2               0.2                       0.1                   1.5                0.2              0.2           1.3            -              37.
20.  Varsea da Palma                           7.3                 6.2                 3.0               0.4                       0.3                   3.7                0.6              0.3           3.4            -              1%
21.  Aracuai                                  10.4                 3.1                 0.4                 -                        -                    0.4                 0.1              -            0.4            -             (2)
22.  Sao Gotardo                               8.1                  1.8                1.9               0.3                       0.2                   2.4                 0.4             0.1           1.8           0.5            c0
23.  Campos Gerais                             6.9                 2.1                 1.5               0.2                       0.2                   1.9                0.3               -            1.9            -              t%
24.  Drm Cavati                                4.2                 4.3                 1.2                0.2                      0.1                   1.5                 0.2             0.2           1.3            -             (2)
25.  J.an Pinheirs                            12.5                 9.7                 2.7               0.4                       0.3                   3.4                 0.5             0.2           3.2            -             24%
26.  Vespaziano                                6.6                 5.5                 1.5               0.2                       0.2                   1.9                 0.3             0.2           1.7            -              4%
27.  Aguas Formosas                            8.2                 7.8                 2.9                0.4                      0.3                   3.6                 0.6             0.2           3.4            -             10%
28.  Ferros                                    3.0                  1.5                0.9                0.2                      0.1                   1.1                 0.2             0.5           0.6            -             (2)
29.  Canapolis                                 3.9                 3.6                 1.2               0.2                        -                    1.4                 0.2             0.7           0.7            -             (2)
30.  Prata                                     8.5                 4.3                 2.9               0.4                       0.2                   3.5                 0.6             0.8           2.7            -              5%
31.  Belo Horitonte (metropolitan           260.0                  5.2                98.0              14.0                      11.0                 123.o               18.5             30.0          46.0          47.0            (2)
Total Project Cost                                                                                                                               530.0                81.5           110.4            07         148.9 
V    1US$   - Cr$6.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                w
2/   Under evaluation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            w



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3 pages
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SERAEMB PROJECT
CQCPANHIA INEIRA DE AaUAS E ESGOTOS (CCKAG)
PROJECT COST AND DISBURSEM>ET SCHEDULE
1974      1975      1976      Total
-------------- million--------------
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Bank Project               : 1974's Cr ,iJ.      110       271       149        530
1974h's US$-       17.0      41.7      22.8       81.5
Current US$z/      17.3      45.9      27.1       90.3
Other Water Works          s 1974's Cr$,           8        39       134        181
1974ts US$i         1.2       6.0      20.6       27.8
Cdrrent US$_/       1.2       6.6      24.5       32.3
Sewerage Works             : 1974's Cr$           18       129       151        298
197h'a US$-,/       2.8      19.9      23.2       45.9
Current US$         2.9      21.9      27.9       52.7
Interest during Construction: 1974's Cr$           4        22        44         70
1974's US$-         o.6       3.4       6.8       10.8
Current US$?/       0.6       3.6       8.1       12.3
FINANCING
ENH-FAE                    : 1974's Cr$          136       439       434      1,009
19741's US$1w/     21.0      67.6      66.6      155.2
Current US$-       21.4      74.4      79.5      175.3
Bank Financing             : 1974's Cr$,          44       108        60        212
1974's US$t'        6.8      16.7       9.1       32.6
Current UiS$-       6.9      18.4      10.7       36.0
Internal Cash              : 1974's Cri /         31        55        89        175
1974'5s USV2       4.8       8.5      13.6       26.9
Current US$-       4I9        9.4      16.2       30.5
Debt Service               : 1974's Cr$           22        22        35         79
1974's 2US/         3.4       3.4       5.4       12.2
Current US$-        3.5       3.6       6.4       13.5
WORKING CAPITAL
1974's Cr$           5        11        10         26
1974's US&//        0.8       1.7       1.5 4'0
Current US$_        0.8       1.9       1.8        4.5
1/  lUS$ = Cr$6.5
2/ 8% per annum (2% in 1974)
May 1974






ANNEX?
EZIL
M3AS GERlAS WATER SUPPLY AND S3WhAG PROJECT
JUMULlTIVE QUARTERLY DlITESNIT AND IBRD LIAN DISBURSUET SCHEDULE
'Cumulative Disbursements
IBED Fiscal Year            Cumulative Total Investments            Frc  IBRD Loan
and Quarter                    at end of Quarter                at end of Quarter
Cr$          ~~~US$US
(milli cm)    or  (thousand)            (thousand)
September 30, 1974               55
bcember 31, 1974                110               17,300                 6,900
March 31, 1975                  178               29,300                U,500
June 30, 1975                   245              40,800                 16,100
1975-1976
September 30, 1975              313               51,800                20,700
December 31, 1975              381               63,200                 25,300
March 31, 1976                  418              .69,700                28,000
June 30, 1976                  455               76,700                 30,700
1976-1977
September 30, 1976             492                83,000                33,400
December 31, 1976              530               90,300                 36,000
May 1974






ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 15 pages
SCHEDULES RELATIVE TO LOAN CONDITIONS
1.   Statewide Sewerage Investment Study
2.   Preparation of Global Feasibility Study
3.   Preparation of Subproject Feasibility Studies
4.   Socioeconomic Evaluation of Subprojects



ANNEX 8
Schedule 1
Page 2 of 15 pages
STATEWIDE SEWERAG.E INVESTMEXCT STUDY
The Study will establish a preliminary program and financial
,)Ian showing how and when COMAG can achieve the PLANASA objective of serving
50% of the urban population with sewerage. The study will:
(a) establish an inventory of existing sewerage facilities;,
(b) identify sewage disposal needs and estimate costs of
required facilities;
(c) based on (b), define preliminarily urgently needed
sewerage projects and establish an order of priority for
their execution, considering such factors as pe.r cait
and project costs, health and environmental protection
benefits;
(d) evaluate and propose sewerage tariffs sufficient to cover
capital and operating costs;
(e) prepare a sewerage master plan for Belo Horizonte, Contagem,
Pirapora and Montes Claros;
(f) prepare detailed designs for the interceptors identified
in the Belo Horizonte Master plan.
The Study will be begun within six imnths of the Effective Date.



ANNEX 8
Schedule 2
Page 3 of 15 pages
PREPARATION OF GLOBAL FEASIBILITY STUDY
1.        The Global Feasibility Study (Estudo de Viabilidade Economica-
Financeira) will consist of an investment program and a financial plan,
showing how and when COMAG can achieve the objective of supplying 80% of
the urban population of the State with water. The objective of the study
will be to establish the optimal timing and sequencing of the investment
program based on evaluation of costs and benefits of each subproject or
group of subprojects, after consideration, inter alia, of such factors as
health conditions, cost advantages of grouping urban centers regionally,
and alternatives to public water supply systems.
2.        When optimizing the investment program, the following matters
will be considered:
(a) Financial viability of COMAG. In some cases, a departure
from a sequencing of subprojects based on economic costs
and benefits may be justified 'in order to advance a
financially viable subproject or a subproject where a
municipal contribution will be forthcoming.
(b) Compatibility of water tariffs recommended in the Global
Feasibility Study with capacity of consumers to pay as
shown by the socioeconomic study referred to in the Project.
(c) Coordination of the Global Feasibility Study with the
program for taking over concessions.
(d) Capacity of COMAG to undertake the investment program and
operate the systems to be taken over.
(e) Availability and capacity of consulting firms and contractors
to prepare the investment program.
3.        The Global Feasibility Study will be carried out in accordance
with the terms of reference elaborated by COMAG with the following addi-
tions or modifications:
(a) The Study will assess the potential for community participation
in construction and operation of waterworks, particularly in
communities of less than 5,000 inhabitants.
(b) The Study will examine the technology of projects with a view
to proposing, to the extent economically justified, labor-
intensive methods of construction.



ANNEX 8
Schedule 2
Page 4 of 15 pages
(c) The Study will propose state-wide or regional tariff structures
which will assure transfer of resources from high-income
consumers to low-income residential consumers. The ratio
between the average and minimum tariff will be established
on the basis of the information provided in the socioeconomic
study referred to in the Project. The revenues to be
collected with a given tariff structure will be projected,
using a histogram derived from the same study, considering
the revenue collection efficiency and the metering policy to
be adopted.
4.        In making the Study, the following matters will be considered:
(a) Composition of the Study team. It will consist of a balanced
number of engineers, financial analysts and economists. The
team will be available for future periodic revisions of the
Study and will work in close cooperation with its COMAG
counterparts.
(b) Cost estimates for individual sub-projects or group of sub-
projects. Refining of such estimates will be necessary so
as to allow a meaningful sequencing of projects, i.e., cost
estimates will not be based only on standards such as per
capita investment cost.
(c) Provision of a long-range financial plan for COMAG, including
forecasts of balance-sheets, income statements and cash-flow
statements.



ANNEX 8
Schedule 3
Page 5 of 15 pages
PREPARATION OF SUBPROJECTS' FEASIBILITY STUDIES
These guidelines are amendments to existing COMAG's guidelines,
whichl should continue to be used.
1.   Methodology
For each subproject, selection among different technical alterna-
tives should be made, on the basis of comparison between the present
values of capital investments and operational expenses of all alter-
natives during the selected design period.
2.   Basic Parameters
COMAM should establish basic parameters to be used for technical,
economic and financial projects, particularly population growth
rate, water consumption per unmetered connection, per capita
water consumption per population served with metered connections,
for the communities where projects are under study.
3.   Standards
(i) Common standards for design should be agreed upon by COMAG
and the O.T.;
(ii) Standard modular designs are recommended for treatment plants,
pumping stations, and reservoirs to facilitate the design of
a large number of systems and their future enlargements;
(iii) COI¶AC. should prepare special design standards for communities
under 5,000 people.
4.   Technical Considerations
(i) Selection of the most suitable types of pipes to be installed,
should be made on the basis of the results given by the analysis
of soil samples;
(ii) The foundations of main structures, such as treatment plants
and reservoirs, should be designed according to the actual
subsoil conditions of the selected site which have to be
evaluated by performing the corresponding studies;



ANNEX 8
Schedule 3
Page 6 of 15 pages
(iii) The use of 2" pipes in the distribution system of cities over
20,000 people should be carefully studied before implementa-
tion.
5. Project Cost Estimates
Project cost estimates should include:
(i) Direct costs and contractor profits;
(ii) Engineering and administrative costs (design and construction
supervision);
(iii) Technical contingencies;
(iv) Price contingencies; and
(v) The cost of house connections if financed by BNH/FAE.
6.  Projections
Financial projections for each subproject should be prepared in
accordance with the models given in page 10 to 13. The financial
projections should be made through 1980, and past data for the
existing system should be given (to the extent possible two years
before the construction period of the new system).



ANNEX 8
Schedule 3
Page 7 of 15 pages
COMPANHIA MINEIRA DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS "COMAG"
PAST AND PROJECTED DATA FOR (NAMR OF CITY)
(To be prepared for each subproject)
ESTIMATE MADE (DATE)                                                BY (NAME)
Total Population (thousands)
Pooulation Served (%)
Population Served (thousands)
Total Water Connections (units)
Metered Connections (%)
Mietered Connections (units)
Type "A" Unmetered Connections (units)
Type "B" Unmetered Connections (units)
Type "C' Unmetered Connections (units)
Population served with Metered Connections (thousands)
Population served with Unmetered Connections (thousands)
Tat.er sold to population served with Metered Connections (l/c/d)
1Tater sold to population served with Metered Connections (m3 thousands)
UTater sold to population served with Unmetered C,nnections
(m/inmetered connection/month)
Water sold to population served with Unmetered Connections
(m3 thousands)
Total Water Sales (m3 thousands)
Average Water Sales (l/c/d)
1Water Produced (m3 thousands)
tTnaccounted-for water (%)
Average Tariff for Metered Consumption (Cr$/m3) /1
Charge for Tvpe "A" Unmetered Connections (Cr$/connection/month) /1
Charge for Type "'t" Unmetered Connections (Cr$/connection/month) /1
Charge for Type "C" Unmetered Connections (Cr$/connection/month) /1
Revenues from Metered Consumption (Cr$ thousands)
Revenues from Unimetered Connections (Cr$ thousands)
Average Water Revenues (Cr$/m3)
Average Water Revenues/Minimum Water Charge (ratio)
IMinimuim Water Charge/Minimum Salary (rati4)
Sewerage Connections (units)
Sewerage Charge Per Connection (Cr$/connection)
And/Or
Sewerage CharRe at Percent of Water Charges (M)
Sewerage Pevenues (Cr$ thousands)
Other Revenues
/1 D)oes not include.sales tax (cuota de Previdencia Social).



ANNEX 8
Schedule 3
Page 8 of 15 pages
COMPANHIA MINEIRA DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS "COMAG"
(Name of City)
INCOME STAIEMENTS
(To be prepared for each subproject)
r.VFENUES
llater Revenues
Sewerage Pevenues
Other Revenues
Total Revenues
iOPERATING EXPENSES
Personnel
Power
Chemicals
Materials
Administrative & General
Subtotal
Contingencies (5%)
DeTreciation
Total Operating Expenses
Pet Operating Income
Interest Charged to Operations /2
Non-Operating Income (net)
Net Income
'Iperating R.atio (%) /3
.ate Base /4
Rate of Return (') /5
/1   Compounded annually.
75   It does not include interest and other financial charges capitalized.
/3   Total operating expenses divided by total revenues.
/4   Net fixed assets at the beginning of year.
/5   Net orerating income divided by rate base.



ANNEX 8
Schedule 3
Page 9 of 15 pages
COMPANHIA MINEIRA DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS "COMAG"
(Name of City)
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(To be prepared for each subproject)
+ Net Operating Income
+ Non-Operating Income
+ Depreciation
+ Change in Working Capital (other than Cash)
- Interest and Other Financial Charges (Capitalized)
- Interest Charged to Operations
- Loan Repayment
Cash Available for Investment
CaDital Investment
Balance to be Financed
Capital Contribution
BNH Loan
FAF Loan
IDB Loan
Cash Balance for the Year
Cash at the Beginning of the Year
Cash at the End of the year
Cash Available for Investment as a Percent of Gross Assets



ANNEX 8
Schedule 3
Page 10 of 15 pages
COMPANHIA MINEIRA DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS "COMAG"
(NAME OF CITY)
BALANCE SHEETS
(To be prepared for subpro.jects covering
a population of 50,000 and over)
ASSETS
Gross Assets
Depreciation
Net Assets
Cash
Accounts Receivable
Inventory
Other Assets
Total Assets
TABI LITIES
Capital
Retained Earnings
Monetary Corrections
Total Equity
BN14 Debt
FAE Debt
IDB Debt
Other Debts
Total Long Term Debt
Accounts Pavable
Other Liabilities
Total Equity and Liabilities



ANNEX 8
Schedule 4
Page 11 of 15 pages
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SOCIOECONOIIC EVALUATION OF SUBPROJECTS
Introdiction
The purpose of this annex is to propose criteria which should be
used to determine which subprojects of the Minas Gerais water supply and
sewerage program should be reviewed and approved by the Bank. The annex
will also propose some practical guidelines to be used when reviewing sub-
projects. Particular attention has been paid to the reviewing questions:
(a)  How economic and social considerations can be brought to
bear on the design of projects in their early phase of
preparation; and
(b)  What are the data needed to make such considerations.
The proposed procedures are crude and preliminary - a compromise
between what is theoretically desirable and feasible in practice. They
will not rank projects according to descending benefit/cost ratios. Only
such projects that are suspected to be uneconomical will be reviewed and
it is possible that some uneconomical projects will escape attention.
During the supervision of the Bank project, the procedures should
be refined and benefits and costs of the program should be quantified as
far as possible. A study, to identify, quantify and monitor costs and
benefits of the Minas Gerais program, especially in rural areas, could then
be recommended and financed through a second Bank loan. The Socioeconomic
Study and the Global Feasibility Study will collect data which could be used
as a base for an overtime study which would attempt to measure costs and
benefits.
In the discussion below, the following terms are used:
Bank Project                   The 31 subprojects to be financed through
the Bank loan.
Program              -         The Minas Gerais water supply and sewerage
program, which will consist of works in 722
municipalities.
System               -         A water supply and sewerage system in one
locality.



ANNEX 8
Schedule 4
Page 12 of 15 pages
Subproject          =          The works to be built in a community.  They
could be extension or improvement of existing
systems or construction of new systems.
Secw Project        =          Construction of public water supply and/or
sewerage in a community where there is no
such service.
--provement Project           Project resulting in improved service (quantity
and quality) to consumers already being served.
Extension Project              Project resulting in new consumers being added
to an existing system.
(Incremental) Rate            The discount rate equalizing the stream of in-
of Return                    cremental revenues (including 15% sales tax)
and incremental economic costs. Incremental
revenues should, if possible, be calculated
on the basis of the tariff proposed by the
Socioeconomic Study, modified by income dis-
tribution weights (see checklist below).
Financial Rate                 The return on net fixed assets based on
financial revenues and costs.
Cut-Off Criteria
Subprojects financed by the Bank should earn a rate of return of
at least zero percent. If the project review establishes that the rate of
return is lower than zero (after all possibilities to reduce the cost of the
subproject have been investigated), the price mechanism would have to be
brought to work to test whether consumers are willing to pay for the cost of
the subproject. This can be done by applying a surcharge on metered consum-
ers, which would raise the price of water to the level of the marginal cost
of the subproject. The minimum charge would not be affected, but the consump-
tion in the minimum consumption bracket would have to be regulated by flow
limitation devices. An acceptable alternative to a surcharge would be to
finance part of the investment through municipal grants so that the remaining
investment would earn a rate of return of at least zero. In practice most
systems where such a grant financing would be necessary will be small, and
the municipal contribution could be taken as an expression of consumers'
willingness to pay for the project. However, municipal grants would be
accepted only in communities of 10,000 inhabilitants or less. Appraisals
of subprojects should contain the necessary information to calculate the rate
of return. The use of a cut-off criteria does not imply that all subprojects
ihave a rate of return higher than zero will be automatically accepted and
financed by the Bank. Subprojects with questionable economic justification
will be reviewed by the Bank in accordance with the checklist given below.



ANNEX 8
Schedule 4
Page 13 of 15 pages
Project Review
The purpose of the review is to assure that projects presented to
-he Bank are socially desirable. The review should not be carried out
rrinarily to exclude subprojects from the PLANASA program, but to improve
design, standards or ways of executing subprojects so that they become
economical, and change the proposed sequencing when a subproject does not
arpear justified. The review should be done according to the attached check-
list for the purpose of identifying and, to the extent possible, quantifying
the major benefits and costs of a subproject. The review procedure consti-
tutes a guideline for project analysis as much as tools for deciding on
Bank financing. It is a first step towards developing a method for social
and economic analysis of subprojects which could eventually be used by BNH
to appraise projects without Bank supervision.
Because of the large number of subprojects in the PLANASA program,
the Bank cannot review all projects. Specific criteria are therefore neces-
sary to select the subprojects which should be reviewed. Per capita invest-
ment and operating costs often provide a better basis for judging whether a
subproject should be reviewed or not, than the incremental rate of return of
the project. The per capita cost approach to selecting subprojects assumes
that benefits/per capita of public water supply are similar for all consumers
of similar per capita consumption, and that a project having an average or
below average per capita cost would be justified. The latter is consistent
with the proposition (see Chapter 6) that the overall Minas Gerais program
is justified, because the average per capita cost is calculated on the basis
of the total investment needs to achieve the PLANASA objectives in Minas
Gerais.
Subprojects selected on the basis of the rate of return are not
always the most socially desirable; a subproject will appear attractive be-
cause it supplies large per capita volumes of water to high income families
rather than the minimum per capita volume to a larger number of low-income
families. A high return undoubtedly demonstrates that the willingness to pay
for water is high. However, this can be a reflection of an uneven income dis-
tribution rather than that water is perceived to be more valuable the higher
the per capita consumption.  On the contrary, without the income distribution
effect, the marginal value of water is most likely to decrease with higher
per capita consumption. Therefore, the rate of return should be used as the
sole criteria only when benchmark per capita costs are not available. The
rate of return should be used, however, to determine the cut-off criteria
to assure that a minimum financial contribution is made by the project.
BNH has made a crude estimate of an average per capita investment
andl operating cost of the State of Minas Gerais to serve well 80% of the urban
popul.ation with wqater. The estimate is based on the projected investment need,
r-he additlonal population to be served, and the population for which service
needs to be improved. The latter population is determined as a function of
the investment need to adequately supply the actual population served. The
G1.obal Feasibilitv Study will provide a more accurate estimate of the per



ANNEX 8
Schedule 4
Page 14 of 15 pages
apita cost.  The estimate available at present is based on a small and un-
representative sample of subprojects and is too crude to be used as a bench-
ark for selecting projects for review. When a better estimate is available,
is suggested that projects be reviewed in accordance with the attached
_iecklist when either (a) per capita investment or operating costs or both
--eed by 20% the BNH per capita figure; (b) the incremental rate of return is
eess than 10%. Until then, the incremental rate of return alone should be
To use average cost data to judge improvement projects where
oenefits are obviously different from extension projects, benefits would
hiave to be translated into "well-served" equivalents, i.e., the equivalent
of the benefits of serving one person well who is presently not served
(well implying 130-170 l/c/d continuous service).
Using per capita cost criteria, projects designed to supply large
volumes of water to high income areas would hopefully be identified and
examined. Such projects are likely to have a high per capita cost as more
water will be produced than necessary to achieve the "well-served" level.
The reason for the high consumption can, of course, also be the presence of
large industrial users which, however, could be easily identified.
With the above-mentioned criteria, subprojects which appear to be
uneconomical are brought to the Bank's and BNH's attention. These sub-
projects should be analyzed by COMAG and reviewed by the Bank and BNH fol-
lowing the attached checklist. The checklist is primarily a list of benefits
which are present, in varying degrees, in all subprojects. The fact that
some of these benefits can be associated with the subprojects is not enough
to say that a subproject is justified. The identified benefits should be
an addition to the expected benefits from an "average" subproject in Minas
Gerais in order to justify subprojects with a low rate of return or high per
capita costs. In any event, subprojects justified during the above described
review would still have to meet the cut-off criteria or be eliminated from
inclusion in Bank financing.
The review will not assure that the projects accepted by the Bank
are executed in the most economical order. The sequence of subprojects is
the principal objective of the Global Feasibility Study. The study will
rank projects, following a number of criteria and restrictions such as -
maximum number of people served per capita of investment and operating costs;
financial viability of the system; political and administrative restrictions;
always aiming at achieving the PLANASA service level objectives for each
system. Eighty percent of the urban population well served.



ANNEX 8
Schedule 4
Page 15 of 15 pages
EVALUATION OF CERTAIN SUBPROJECTS
COMAG's projeto tecnico for any subproject the incremental rate
of return of which shall be between 0 and 10%, or the estimated per capita
construction or operation cost of which shall exceed 120% of the average for
all water supply or sewerage projects in the State (after such average has
been established by the Borrower), will contain a description and evaluation
of such benefits and costs of the subproject as are not reflected in the
calculation of the incremental rate of return, including:
(a) health benefits;
(b) benefits arising from supply of water for activities not
contributing to COMAG's revenue, including livestock
raising, irrigation and fire protection;
(c) benefits to individual, commercial and industrial
consumers to the extent that such ben6fits exceed the
charges estimated to be paid to COMAG by such consumers;
and
(d) Benefits or costs to the environment occasioned by the
subproject.
The Bank will take such benefits (or costs) into account when
determining whether or not to approve the subprojects for financing under
the loan. The projeto tecnico will also demonstrate that the design of
the selected subproject is the least-cost method of providing an adequate
level of water or sewerage service to the population of the area.






ANNEX 9
BRAZIL
NINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CCtPANHIA MINBIRA DE AGUAS E ESOoToS "COMAG"
PRRSUNT TARIFFS
METEREM CONNECTIONS
Category 1            Water    - Up to 30 m3/mcnth      Cr$0.77/m3
(Residefntial                  - Over 30 m3/month       Cr$0.85/m3 in excess
- Minimum consumption   15 m3/month
Ninimum billing       Cr$11.55/month
Sewerage - 50% of water bill
- Minimum billing       Cr$9.20/zonth
Category 2            Water    - Up to 25 53/month      Cr$O.80/m3
(Others)                       - Over 25 a /month       Cr$0.90/m3 in excess
- Minimum consumption   25 m3/month
Minimum billing       Cr$20.00/month
Bewerage - 50% of water bill
- Minimum billing       Cr$15.50/month
Special Category (All connections with a monthly consumption over
60o0 m3/manth) .
Tariff to be fixed in special agreement with consumers.
Existing Agreements - increased by 12%
NON-METERED CONNECTIONS
Belo Horizonte t Category I        Water                Cr$15.00/month
(Residential)    Sewerage             Cr$ 9.40/month
Category II      Water                Cr$20.50/month
(Others)         Sewerage             Cr$16.00/month
Interior:         Category I        Treated Water       Cr$11.55/month
(Provisional)                      Non-treated Water   Cr$ 8.10/month
Sewerage            Cr$ 9.20/month
Category II      Treated Water        Cr$20.00/month
Non-treated Water   Cr$13.50/month
Sewerage            Cr$15.50/month
March 31, 1974






BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPANHIA MINEIRA DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS "COMAG"
DEPARTAMENTO MUNICIPAL DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS "DEMAE"
PAST FINANCES
INCOME STATEMENTS
1    9    7   2                       December 1973
COMAG        DEMAE         CONSOLIDATED              COMAG
______________----------Cr$ million------------------------
Water Revenues-/                              6.1          27.5              33.6                 27.6
Sewerage Revenues1'                            -           16.4              16.4                  9.4
Other Revenues                                 -            4.4               4.4
Total Revenues                           6.1         48.3               54.4                 37.0
Personnel                                     2.0          15.2              17.2                 18.5
Power, Chemicals and Materials                1.6           6.2               7.8                  5.7
Administra ive and General                    0.9           4.1               5.0                  7.7
Sales Ta  /                                   0.8           6.6               7.4
Subtotal                                 5.3         32.1              37.4                  31.9
Depreciation                                  0.2           2.6               2.8                  3.0
Total Operating Expenses                 5.5          34.7             40.2                  28.9
Net Operating Income                          0.6          13.6              14.2                  5.1
Interest Charged to Operations                 -            5.2               5.2                  3.4
Non-Operating Income (Net)                    1.2           2.5               3.7                  4.6
Net Income                               1.8          10.9              12.7 
Operating Ratio (Before Depreciation)         0.86          0.67              0.69                 0.78             PI3
Operating Ratio (After Depreciation)          0.90          0.72              0.74
Rate Base                                     7.8          78.7              86.5                   501             _4
Rate of Return                                 8%           17%               16% .                  6%
1/  Social welfare      included fo7       onlly
2/  Before appropl:  :on of rei-ai.ned e     r ,gS
May 1974



BRAZIL                                      ANNX 10
Page 2 of 7 paps
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SMERAGE PROJECT
COMPANHIA MINEIRA DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS "COMAGC'
DEPARTAMENTO MUNICIPAL DE AGUAS E ESGOTCr "DPMAE"
PAST FINANCES
bAIANCE &HENT STATEMENTS
______--   ---_ -----Cr$ million --- ---------------
1971   - -           COMAG  1972                    1973
COMAG  TEME       COMAG        ~E'MIE          COM-AG
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                             4.8          96.7           15.2          123.9           294.9
Depreciation                                  (0.7)        (28.1)          (2)1                           (31.C
Net Fixed Assets                              T.1           68.-6T .8.7                                  29:1.9
Works in Progress                              0.5          94.9            11.1         130.6            54.1
Total Fixed Assets                                                                     -2. 219.0 346,o
Cash                                           0.2           5.4            5.0            2.2             5.7
Accounts Receivable                            0.4           8.9            1.8            6*5            14.4
Inventory                                      0.1           8.2            0.3           14,3             5.7
Other Current Assets                           0.5           7.2            0.6            2.4h            14.3
Total Current Assets                           1.;>                   -                   270.1
Other Assets                                   0.           °9-O                                          12.2
Total Assets                            1.33                         308.3
Concessionary Accounts:
Net Fixed Assets                                                                                         208.9
LIABILITIES
Subscribed Capital                             5.1            -              9.2            -            215.0
Reserves                                        _           37.8            8.5           37.8            10.3
Surplus due to Revaluation                      -           49.8            1.3           60,8             2.5
Accumulated Surplus (Losses)                  (0.5          29.6             1.3          40.5              6.3
Equity                                        '.6          =17.            20.3          39.1            2314.1
FAE                                            0.2            -             3.0             _             18.8
BNH                                             -             -             2.7             -             45.3
BCRMG                                           _           17.8              -           24.6
IDB                                             -           47.0             _           59.2             5509
Other                                          1.2            -             11              -              08
Long-Term Debt - Net                           1.3          64.             fl                             0.8
S~~~~~~~~~~~. 6-8                                          _2"
Account Payable                                0.3           1.5             1.5           1,8             6.5
Current Matuxrities                            0.1           5.0            o.6            4.6            22.6
Other Current Liabilities                       -            4.8              -           17.5             4,1
Total Current Liabilities                     °0            11.37          -779- 23.9                     33.2
Other Liabilities                               -             -             2.1             -              0.2
Total Equity & Liabilities                          ____        73- _8. 3-
Concessieonary Accoants:
Long-Term Accoants Payable                                                                               208.9
Current Ratio                                  3.0           2.6            3.5            1.1             0.9
Debt as % of Capitalization                   22            36             22             37              34
May 1974



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPANHIA MINEIRA DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS (COMAG)
INCOME STATEMENTS
1974          1975          1976          1977          1978          1979          1980
(Budget)
------------------------------------Cr$ million---------------------------------___
Volume Produced (m3 million)               142           174           251            391           504          577           625
Volume Sold (m3 million)                    92           115           171            274          363           427           469
Unaccounted for water                      35             34            32            30            28            26            25
Customers Units (thousand)
Water                                      230           435           638            829        1,028         1,272         1,476
Sewerage                                  124            235           357           481           617           763           922
Average Tariff per m3 sold                 1.03          1.14          1.15           1.15         1.16          1.16          1.17
Revenues
Water Billings                         .,.73.5         101.9         150.8         240.9         319.2         376.2         413.1
Sewerage Billings                        19.8           27.5          42.2          70.0          95.8         112.9         128.0
Others (2%)                                1.9           2.5           3.9            6.3          8.3           9.8          10.8
Total                                     95.2         131.9         196.9          317.2        423.3         498.9         551.9
Operating Costs
Personnel                                 30.0          36.5          52.7           82.1         105.8        121.1         131.3
Power                                      6.0           7.0          10.0           15.6          20.2         23.1          25.0
Chemicals                                 1.5            1.7           2.5           3.9           5.0          .5.8           6.3
Administrative                            11.1          13.9          20.1           31.3         40.3          46.2          50.0
Other                                      9.5           5.2           7.5           11.7          15.1         17.3          18.8
Contingencies                             10.9          12.3          15.1           19.6          20.2         23.1          18.6
Total                                     64.0          76.6         107.9          164.2         206.6        236.6         250.0
Income before Depreciation               31.2           55.3          89.o         153.0         216.7         262.3         301.9
Depreciation                              16.0          22.0          33.0           48.o         62.0          75.0          86.0            0
Income before Interest                   15.2           33.3          56.0          105.0        154.7         187.3         215.9
Interest                                  (9 o)        (13.0)        (31.0)         (61.0)       (91.0)       (117.0)       (140.0)
Net Income                                 6. o         20.0          25.0           44.0          64.          70.0          76.9o0
3                                                          ~
Operating Costs per m  produced            o.45          o.44          o.43           0.42          o.41         o.41          o.4o
Average Rate Base                         553            751         1,138          1,623         2,086        2,483         2,825
Rate of Return                             3%             4%            5%             6%            7%            8%           8%
May 1974



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPANRIA MINEIRLflS ASU&S E ES50T08 "CO.MAj"
BALANCE SHEET STATEMENTS
1974       1975        1976      1977       1978        1979       1980
-------------------------- Cr$ Million---
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets 1/                      623        938       1,452     1,990      2,487       2,922      3,332
Depreciation                               (19)         41        (74)    (122)      (184)       (259)       (345)
Net Fixed Assets                           604        897       1,378     1,868      2,303       2,663       2,987
Work in Progress                            68         219 2      217        210       189      _            - 170
Total Fixed Assets                         672      1,116       1 ,9   2, 0 _2780A2             *2j3        3,17
Cash                                        12         21          34        52         75         102         133
Other Current Assets                        3347                   63    _   96        148         210         279
Total Current Assets                       15          68          97        148       223         31          41
Other Assets                                19         19          19         19        19          19          19
736      1,203        1,711    2,245      2,734       3.161      3,588
Total Assets-
LIABILITIES
Subscribed Capital                         215         220         220       220       220         220         220
Reserves                                    13          13          47      114        169         210         2h8
Accumulated Surplus                         12          32          57       101       165         235         311
Total Equity                               240        265          324      435        554         665        779
BNH/FAE                                    244        674        1,104    1,507      1,855       2,144       2,426
Municipalities (Concession Contracts)    209          209          209       209       209         209         209
Total Long-Term Debt                     745"         883        1,313    1J716      2,064       27353      2,635
Current Liabilities                         43         55           74     -9          116         143         174
Total Equity & Liabilities              736       1.203       1.11    2.245       2.734       3,167       3.588
Current Ratio                             1.05       1.24         1.31     1.57       1.92        2.18        2.37
Debt as % of Capitalization                 65         77           80        80        79          78          77
1/  Include Assets operated by COMAG under Goncessionary Agreements
May 1974



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPANHIA MINEPIR DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS "COMA5"
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
Total
1974         1975           1976           1974-1976           1977           1978           1979            1980
S OURCES                                               ---                                    ---Cr$ Million -.--------------------- .------____________________
Net Income Before Interest                            15          33              56               104                105            155            187            216
Depreciation                                          16           22             33                 71                48             62             75             86
Internal Cash Generation                              31         -33-                      -157-   17                   3           217 -122                       302
Contributions to Equity                               -            5              34                39                 67            55              41             38
BNH Financing                                         68         220             217               505                211            190            167            171
FAE Financing                                         68         219             217               504                210            189            167            170
Total Borrowings                                    __7_         4739T          73__             1,009               4_2_17         379             334            341
Increase in Current Liabilities                       10          12              19                41                 20             22             27             31
Total Sources                              177          511             576             1,264               661            673            664             712
APPLICATIONS
Bank Project                                         110         271             149               530                 -              -              -              -
Other Water Works                                      8          39             134               181                245            204            157            157
Sewerage Works                                        18         129             151               298                176            175            177            184
Interest Capitalized                                  4           22              44                70                43              42             38             34
Total Works                                140          461            478              1,079               464            421            372            375
Assets taken over                                     -             5             34                 39                67             55             41             38
Debt Ser-vice                                         22          22              35                 79                79            122            162            199
Increase in Current Assets                             9          14              16                39                 33             52             62             69
Changes in Cash                                        6           9              13                28                 18             23             27             31
Total Applications                         177          511             576             1,264               661            673            664             712
Annual Cash Balance as % of Gross
Fixed Assets in Operation                                                                                                                                                    0
May 1974



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPANHIA MINEIRA DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS (COMAG)
WORKING CAPITAL FORECAST
1974      1975      1976       1977       1978      1979       1980
-------------------------- CR$ Million --------------------------
COMAG's Gross Fixed Assets at end of 1973    306
Systems operated by COMAG under non-.
remunerated Conoessiorary Agreeme*.o        209
Gross Fixed Assets in Operations               r5
Annual Investments                                         136        439       434        421       379        334        341
Works in Progress (50%)                        36 /555      68        219       217        210       189        167        170
Annual Increase of Gross Fixed Assets                      104        288       436        428       400        356        338
Transfer of Assets under Concessionary
Agreesa nts
1974 Total Demand                170 million m3
Systems not belonging to COMAG   78 million m3
Estinated Gross value
46% x 515 = CR$ 240 million
Annual Percentage of Transfer
(Based on Investment Program)                              -      0.02       0.14      0.28       0.23      0.17       0.16
Value of Transfer                                          -          5        34         67        55         41        38
Interest during Construction                                 4         22        44         43        42         38         34
Total Gross Fixed Assets                                   623        938     1.452      1.990     2.487      2.922     3.332
Annual Depreciation (3% of Average)                         16         22        33         48        62         75         86
Annual Cash Provision (1%)                                   6          9        13         18        23         27         31
Total Increase in Working Capital
(3 months of Income Before Depreciation)                   8         14        22        38         54         66        76
Increase in Working Capital other than cash                  2          5         9         20        31         39         45
Increase in Current Assets other tban cash
(1-1/2 nonths of Revenues)                                 9         14        16        33         52         62        69 
Increase in Current Liabilities                             10         12        19         20        22         27         31
Accumulated Depreciation                                    19         41        74        122        184       259        345         .
Net Fixed Assets                        1973 = 501         604        897     1.378      1.868     2.303      2.663     2.987   -      °
Average Rate Base                                          553        751     1.138      1.623     2.086      2.483      2.825       _4
May 1974



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPAINHIA MINEIRA DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS "COMAG"1
BORROWINGS AND LONG-TERM DEBT
1974       1975       1976        1977       1978        1979       1980
Investment - water                           118        310         283        245         204        157         157
Investment - sewerage                         18        129         151        176         175        177         184
Total                          -136        439        434         421        379         334        341
Interest Capitalized                         4.2       22.3        44.3       43.0        41.8       2L.5        34.4
Total Works                                139.7      460.8       477.8      464.0       420.8      371.5       375.4
BNH Financing                                 68       21965      217.0      210.5       18965      167.0       170__
FAE Financing                                 68      219.5       217.0      210.5       189.5      167.0       170.5
Total Financing                 136        439        434         421        379         334        341
Debt at beginning of year                  121        244         674      21104       1507        1855
Amortization                                 13         9           4         18          31         45           59 
Debt at end of year                        244        674        1104       1507       1855        2144_       24126
Interest2'                                   9         13          31         61          91        117          140               °
Total debt service                          22         22          35         79        122         162
2 3% first year
7% thereafter
May 1974






ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 14 pages
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO (BNH)
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND PROJECTIONS
BNH's financial statements and projections, along with the
following notes, were prepared on the basis of the information collected
in BNH's headquarters in Rio, and particularly the coumercial auditor's
reports (Loudon Blomquist & Co.) for the years 1970 to 1973. The following
notes intend to be an introduction to BNH's operations and an evaluation
of BNH's financial situation as of December 31, 1973. They also aim at
studying what would be the evolution of BNH's major cash flow components
in the future.
BNH Financial Operations
BNH financial operations have been summarized in Chart 8008.
BNH sources of funds are made of the amounts received from the Fundo de
Garantia do Tempo de Servico (FGTS) 1/ as well as interest and monetary
correction on these deposits; the returns and amortization of housing and
sanitary loans; the issue of housing bonds; the deposits from BNH financial
agents, particularly through the Sistema Brazileiro de Poupanca e Emprestimo
(SBPE); borrowings from international agencies; and miscellaneous revenues
from service charges and penalties on delays on repayment of loans, etc.
BNH applications of funds are made mostly to urban development (sanitary
loans, transports, etc.) and housing loans.
Basis of Translations and Effect of Inflation on Financial Statements
BNH operates on a calendar year basis. The financial statements
given in Annexes 14 to 16 are in US dollars, translated from Brazilian
cruzeiros by BNH's commercial auditors as follows:
Item                         Rate of Exchange
Current assets and liabilities            At 1973 year-end rate
(Cr$ 6.225 to US$1.00)
Long-term receivables and payables        At year-end rate
in Brazilian cruzeiros
Loans in foreign currency                 At historic rates
1/ A national indemnity fund. FGTS deposits are recorded in BNH books
in UPC (see note 1, page 2) as well as in cruzeiros.



ANNEX I 1
Page 2 of 14 pages
Fixed assets and depreciation
reserves                                At historic rates
Capital, other reserves and
provisions                              At year-end rate
Income and expenditure accounts           At average rate for the year
The Banco Nacional da Habitacao maintains its records of receivables
and payables in UPC as well as in cruzeiros.  The UPC is a monetary unit 1/
adjusted quarterly in accordance with the quotations of government treasury
bonds, which is a reflection of the inflationary tendency in Brazil based on
increases in the price index. The Bank's receivables and payables are conse-
quently shown at the current value of the UPC's registered.
There was an average increase of 12.9% in the cost of living in
Brazil during 1972, calculated in accordance with the indices of the Getulio
Vargas Foundation. 2/ In order to allow for the effects of inflation, amounts
included in the balance sheet have been corrected monetarily in accordance
with the following official indices relating to each type of assets:
Index             1972's Increase           Balance Sheet Items
UPC                                 12.9%            Housing and sanitary loans
Mortgages
Entities of the National
Housing System
Employees' Indemnity Fund
BNH Housing Bonds
Reserves and Provisions
US$                                  0.08%           Foreign loans
Index of the Ministry of
Planning and Coordination
relating to correction of
fixed assets                      16.0%           Fixed assets
Index of the Ministry of
Planning and Coordination
relating to National
Treasury Bonds                    12.9%            Treasury bonds
1/  IJnidade Padroa de Capital do BNH.(BNH's Board Resolution of November 17,
1966).  As of December 31, 1972,1 UPC G Cr$ 77.87.
2/   Management consulting firm owned by the Government.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3 of 14 pages
As it can be noted, the monetary correction applied on the basis of UPC's
to the BNH loans is greater than that suffered by BNH from the change in
the rate of the US dollars.
BNH Financial Position and Results
During the period 1969-1973 BNH's total assets have increased four
times from US$980 million to US$4,239 million. Seventy percent of this
growth was financed by the net deposits of the FGTS, 1/ which almost tripled
over the period. Equity, which amounts to US$698 million at the end of 1973,
accounted for only 15% of the growth over the same period. Although BNH's
total liabilities represented five times its equity as of December 31, 1973,
the long-term solvency of the Bank is not to be endangered as long as BNH's
return on investments are maintained at a higher level than BNH's payment
of interest to the beneficiaries of the FGTS system. Short-term liquidity
is acceptable (current ratio - 1.1) since 89% of current liabilities repre-
sented deposits from entities of the National Housing System not yet applied
by BNH.
BNH's accumulated reserves, built mostly from retained earnings,
from the date of its creation (August 31, 1964) to December 31, 1973 amount
to US$208 million equivalent. About US$64 million were for contingencies,
and the remaining, or US$97 million had been retained as provisions for
possible losses as follows:
US$ million
Liabilities FGTS                          56.6
Deposits and BNH Housing Bonds            39.4
Salary fluctuations                       18.2
Other operational risks                   29.8
Total                                144.0
This amount represented 4.3% of the outstanding loan and equity
investment portfolio. While this is a low level of protection, it should
be noted that about 65% of these provisions have been built up during the
last four years, mostly from operating surplus. During the same period
BNH's capital increased from US$72 million equivalent to US$489 million.
In fiscal year 1973 BNH's net return on net work was 25% and net
return on total assets was 4%, an excellent financial performance. Net
return has been completed in real terms by expressing net results and equity
in UPC. Detailed calculation is given below:
1/   See page 7.



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 14 pages
1970     1971      1972     1973
Equity (Cr$ billion)                     1.0       1.6       2.5      4.3
Total Assets (Cr$ billion)               6.1      12.0     18.4      26.4
UPC Value (Cr$)                         47.6      58.6     68.9      77.87
Equity (UPC million)                    20.5      27.1     36.9      55.2
Total Assets (UPC million)             127.9    204.5    267.2    339.0
Average Equity -(UPC million)              -      23.8     32.0      46.1
Average Total Assets (UPC million)         -    166.2    235.8    303.1
Net Results (Cr$ million)              223.2    323.9    501.9    887.6
Net Results (UPC million)                4.7       5.5       7.3     11.4
Net Return on Equity                       -      23%      23%       25%
Net Return on Total Assets                 -       3%       3%        4%
Since BNH has not classified its accounts in a manner in which the net
earnings from each type of operation can be ascertained, it is not possible
to state conclusively which operations are less profitable than others.
Housing Loans
The total number of houses financed by BNH since its creation was
more than 1,000,000 at the end of 1973. The total cost of construction was
about Cr$ 53 billion (US$8.5 billion), of which BNH financed 72% (US$6
billion).
Housing loans are made principally to entities (cooperatives,
government banking institutions, building societies, savings banks, commer-
cial banks, companies, etc.) guaranteed by State or Municipal Governments,
banks and financing institutions, who in turn lend the funds to the indi-
vidual borrowers. The possibility of significant losses arising from the
collection of these accounts is remote, particularly in view of the '
Government guarantees and security offered by mortgages.  There is also a
free reserve for contingencies as mentioned above. Installments of these
loans which are due within 180 days were estimated to amount to approximately
US$200 million as of December 31, 1973. If this amount was classified as
current assets, BNH's balance sheet would show an improved ratio of current
assets to current liabilities.
BNII housing loans and repayments since 1965 are shown below:



ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 14 pages
1965-69   1970      1971     1972      1973       Total
------------------(US$ million)--------- -     --------
Direct Housing Loans
Loans Granted
(including interest)       893.7    494.0      543.6   883.1  1,021.9       3,836.3
Indirect Housing Loans
Loans Granted
(excluding interest)        35.6      (5.4)     (6.0)  (10.8)      1.0         14.4
Total Loans                929.3    488.6      537.7   872.2  1,022.9        3,850.7
Repayments                (155.8)  (168.9)   (195.5) (243.5)  (309.8)    (1,073.4)
773.5    319.7      342.2   628.7    713.2       2,777.3
Monetary Correction                                                                549.4
Total Housing Loans                                                              3,326.7
The greater part of the loans represents long-term financing, but
an age analysis by due dates is not presently available. In 1973, BNH issued
a report showing installments in arrears at December 31, 1973 and totalling
USS21 million. This report does not give the number of debtors, the due
date of the installments or details of the legal action which has been taken.
Housing loans are secured by mortgage agreements while the water and sani-
tation contracts are covered by Government guarantees. Separate totals
relating to housing, water and sanitation and industry are not presently
available. Because the loans are made to various entities who negotiate the
final contracts with the purchasers, no statistical control over the indi-
vidual purchasers has been set up. Statistics are not available at the
Bank regarding installments in arrears. For this reason, it is not possible
to calculate the theoretical future repayments. Installments of housing
loans repaid during the year totalled US$305.1 million, which includes
monetary correction on overdue installments. In view of the mortgage
guarantee referred to above, BNH does not anticipate uncollectable loan
balances. All contracts with the various entities of the housing system
provide for monetary correction by the change in the value of the UPC and
for interest of between 1 and 10% per annum. The housing loans are for
periods varying up to 25 years. BNH has no means of determining the number
of housing loans or the total value of the guarantees at any specific date.
Due to this lack of information, it is not possible to make statistical
comparisons regarding housing and sanitary loans over the last three years.
In 1973, BNH created a national Housing Plan (PLANHAP) with the
objective of eliminating, within 10 years, the housing deficit in all the
larger urban areas (communities with more than 50,000 inhabitants). This
program will cover the construction of 2 million new houses at an estimated
cost of Cr$ 30 billion (US$5 billion).



ANNEX 1 1
Page 6 of 14 pages
Water Supply and Sewerage Loans
In November 1967, BNH established the Programa de Financiamento
para Saneamento (FINANSA) in order to set guidelines for financing urban
sanitation systems. To participate in the program, States had to create
Fundos de Agua e Esgotos (FAE) and sign agreements with BNH. Under this
program, BNH and FAE each were financing 37.5% of the works and the muni-
cipalities the difference. In 1968 and 1969, BNH created subprograms within
FINANSA, grouped altogether into the Sistema Financeiro de Saneamento (SFS).
These subprograms are:  Financiamento dos Sistemas de Abastecimento de Agua
(REFINAG), Financiamento dos Sistemas de Esgotos (REFINESG), and Estimulo
ao Sistema Financeiro de Saneamento (EFISAN), the latter designed to make
supplementary loans to FAE and municipalities in low income States. This
last program is subdivided into FISAG for water financing and FICON for
sewerage financing. FINANSA was the first attempt to solve the problem of
basic sanitation in Brazil, but it was undertaken without sufficient data,
and one of its major shortcomings was the financing of water supply and
sewerage works only in those communities which could afford the expense of
basic sanitation. In 1971, BNH created the Plano Nacional de Saneamento
(PLANASA), whose objectives are to provide, by 1980, water services to 80%
of the population and sewerage services to 50% of the population. Under
this program BNH and FAE each finance 50% of the total cost of works.
BNH's loans are made in real terms with annual interest rates varying from
4 to 8%. FAE's annual interest rates are supposed to be equal to the
population rate of increase of the State.
In 1973, BNH created a new program (FIDREN) with the objective
of constructing drainage facilities in all major urban areas. Contracts
were signed with the municipalities of Vitoria, Belo Horizonte and Sao
Paulo.
BNH's disbursements to the water supply and sewerage sector in
1973 (US$138 million equivalent) represented 11% of the total BNH disburse-
ments (US$1.3 billion equivalent) made in this year, and the accumulated
disbursements made in this sector since 1968 was Cr$ 1.8 billion (US$290
million), as of December 1973.
Employees' Indemnity Funds (FGTS)
The FGTS was created by the Federal Government under Law 5,107 of
September 13, 1966 with the object of guaranteeing indemnity payments for
years of service to all employees. The law obliges all companies in the
country to deposit 8% of monthly salaries and wages paid to each employee,
in a special account, whether or not he has exercised his option for this
indemnity scheme. 1/
1/   The worker is entitled to withdraw funds from the account if he loses
his job; invests in a new productive enterprise in which he is a part
owner; purchases a house; has grave and pressing personal needs; or,
in the case of a female employee, gets married.



ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 14 pages
Deposits under the indemnicy scheme are made into special bank
accounts of the Banco do Brasil, SA in the name of the FGTS and to the order
of BNH. Application of the funds arising from these deposits is entrusted
by law to BNH and is subject to monetary correction and interest (between 3
and 6% per annum) 1/ in order to guarantee the obligations of the FGTS to
all the country's employees.
BNH is responsible for the administration of the amounts transferred
by the FGTS. The FGTS is not at present able to exercise effective control
over either the contributing companies or the collecting agents. Since its
creation in 1966, the FGTS evolution has been characterized by an annual
increase of withdrawals compared to transfers. This evolution is shown below:
% Withdrawals
Net            to Transfers
Year    Transfers /1      Withdrawals /2        Receipts       Annual  Accumulated
1967     22,590                 757              21,833          3.4       3.4
1968     39,119              6,992               32,127         17.9      12.6
1969     47,746             14,844               32,902         31.1      20.6
1970     56,037             22,092               33,945         39.4      27.0
1971     65,556             28,258               37,298         43.1      31.6
1972     77,223             33,409               44,174         43.3      34.5
1973     92,406             39,880               52,526         43.2      36.4
1973 net receipts in million of US$ equivalent 660.7
/1   Transfers from companies.
7T   Withdrawals of retirees.
Foreign Loans
Up to December 1972 BNH signed the following loans with international
agencies:
(i)  Housing - AID 512-G-052 of August 27, 1965; amount Cr$ 5 million;
amortization period of 37 years, after 3 years of grace; interest
rates of 9.75% and 2% during the grace and amortization periods
respectively. As of December 1972, the loan was fully disbursed;
(ii) Housing - IDB 104/SF-BR of October 10, 1966. Amount: US$20
million; amortization period of 26 years after 3 years of grace;
interest rate of 2.25%; as of December 1972, the loan was
totally disbursed;
1/   Depending on the number of years the employee has worked for the company.



ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 14 pages
(iii)  Water Supply and Sewerage - AID 512-L-074 of January 15, 1970.
Amount: US$15.4 million; amortization period of 40 years
after 10 years of grace; interest rates of 2% and 2.5% during
the grace and amortization periods respectively; as of
December 1972, the loan was totally disbursed;
(iv)  Water Supply - AID 512-L-080 of February 4, 1971.  Amount:
US$25 million; amortization period of 48 years, after 10
years of grace; interest rates of 2% and 2.5% during the
grace and amortization periods respectively; as of
December 1973, US$3.6 million were disbursed;
(v)  Water Supply and Sewerage - IDB 296/SF-BR of May 13, 1971.
Amount: US$30 million; amortization period of 27 years
after 3 years of grace; interest rate of 2.25%. BNH
project financed by this loan has a total estlmated cost
of US$100 million, and mainly provides for the construction
of water supply and sewerage services in 59 Brazilian
communities, with population up to 500,000 inhabitants in
the Northeast regions and up to 300,000 inhabitants in
other regions.
The composition of foreign loans (long-term debt) as of December 31,
1973 was as follows:
Foreign Loans                   US$ million
IDB (Housing)                                    17.4
IDB (Water Supply and Sewerage)                   8.0
AID (Housing)                                     0.8
AID (Water Supply and Sewerage)                  18.8
Total                                        45.0
At the same date, total foreign loans represented only 1% of the
total BNH long-term debt as shown below:
US$ million       %
Employees' Indemnity Fund (FGTS)             3,373           98
BNH Housing Bonds                               36            1
Foreign Loans                                   45            1
Total Long-term Debt                    3,454          100



ANNEX 11
Page 9 of 14 pages
The main source of BNH housing bonds consists of the 4% retention
on rents received in accordance with the Brazilian law, as well as housing
bonds issued in favor of the Brazilian Pension Institute related to land
owned by the Institute negotiated with various entities through the BNH.
Insurance Coverage
BNH has affected a comprehensive insurance coverage with the
principal objective of insuring the buildings financed by the Bank as well
as the death or permanent disablement of the purchaser. The amount insured
is equal to the real value of the risk, limited to the amount of the loans
after monetary correction. There is also insurance against purchasers
defaulting in payment of debts and the bankruptcy of constructors financed
by BNH, and various policies covering civil responsibility. BNH's Regional
offices maintain insurance cover on fixed assets and other property for
which they are responsible.
BNH Financial Prospects
BNH's forecast of operations for the period 1974-1976 is based on
an investment program of Cr$ 74 billion (US$12 billion), of which BNH would
finance about 42% (US$5 billion), the financial institutions within the
BNH's systems 38% (US$4.5 billion) and the beneficiaries of the program
20% (US$2.5 billion). Loan disbursements are estimated to amount to US$1.6
billion equivalent 3 year. These objectives are attainable in view of the
loans already signed, the new areas entered into by BNH (transport, urban
development, etc.), the increasing demand for housing loans and the con-
tractual arrangements made with the water supply and sewerage state entities
in accordance with BNH's PLANASA Program. Disbursements in the water and
sewerage sector are expected to be about US$250 million p.a. during the
coming three years, that is almost two times the disbursements realized in
this sector in 1973. Nevertheless, they will not represent more than 13%
of total BNH disbursements.
The realized and forecast BNH disbursements by program is given
below:



-------------------------Realized --         -    --------------- ---- ------Forecast  --------------------------
1971       1972---------------------1973 --              -           ----------- l-- - 1974                                1975    1976
Cr$         UPC 1/      US$ 2/                       Cr$        UPC 1/         US$ 2/
%          %         %         million      thousand    million            %        million      thousand      million       %        %
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Urbanization                       0.6         o.8       4.4         344        4,420         55-.            6.9       670           8,600         107.7       7.2     4.8
Water Supply and Sewerage          3.8         5.7      10.9         858       11,016        137.9          16.5      1,596         20,500          256.6      10.9    11.9
Transports                          -           -         -           -           -              -            8.8       857         11,000          137.8      11.2    13.6
Communities Equipment              -           _                                                              2.3       225           2,900          36.2       2.5      2.3
Total                    4.4         6.5      15.3       1,202        15,436        193.2          34.5      3,348         43.,OO         538.3      31.8    32.6
HOUSING
BNH                               39.6        26.7      15.8      1,242        15,950        199.7           9.4      1,713         22,000          275.4       8.9      8.4
SBPE                              15.9        11.0      13.3      1,045        13,420        168.0          17.7         915        11,750          147.1      24.4    26.5
Total                   55.5        37.7      29.1       2,287        29,370        367.7          27.1      2,628         33,750         422.5      33.3    34.9
Materials for Construction           17.2         14.3     17.0       1,332        17,105        214.2          21.9      2,122         27,250         341.2      18.9    18.8
(Fimaco = Recon. + Reinvest. +
Regir)
OTHER PROGRAMS
Other InvesLment Progra.ns          -           -        1.7         128        1,644          20.6           5.o       488           6,270          78.5       6.5      6.9
Studies                            0.1         0.2       0.2          23           295          3.7           0.3         33            430           5.3       0.4      0.4
Training and Technical
Assistance                        0.1         0.1       0.1          4             51          o.6           0.1         14            170           2.2       0.2      0.2
Total                    0.2         0.3       2.0         155         1,990         24.9           5.4        535          6,870          86.0       7.1      7.5
Technical Reserves                   22.7        41.2      36.6       2.875        36,921        462.2          11.1      1,078         13,843         173.3       8.9      6.2
Total                  100.0       100.0    100.0        7.851       100,822      1,262.2         100.0      9.711        124,713       1,561,3    100.0   100.0
1/   1 UPC = Or$ 77.87
(as of Dec. 1973)
2/   1 US$ = Cr$ 6.22
(as of Dec. 1973)



ANNEX 1 1
Page 11 of 14 pages
To support forecast operations BNH assumes that its net receipts
from FGTS would increase by 60% during the period 1974-1980, 1/ and that
its returns from and amortization of its loan and equity investments will
increase in the same proportion as its investment program. BNH does not
assumo a substantial increase in foreign loans, which are expected to be
maintained at US$22 million a year. 2/
If forecast resources and disbursements materialize, annual net
income would more than triple over the period 1974-1980 (from US$145 million
in 1973 to US$500 million equivalent in 1980). Administrative expenses are
assumed to increase by 50% during the same period, while total assets
increase four times.
1/   The pluriannual (1974-1976) BNH program presents a study on the possible
evolution of FGTS funds through 1982, on which this assumption is based.
This study is well conceived and its results are reasonable.
2/   This amount includes only loans already signed.



BNH Water and Sewerage Programs
Budget Realized           Total
1968      1969       1970      1971       1972            1973              1968-1973           1974       1975       1976
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Realized - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -               - - - - Fore cast----
(UPC Thoasands)
SOIJRCES
BNH 1/   EFISAN (W)                        -         206        695      409         -            -          -          1,310              -          -          -
REFINAG (W)                      73      1,113      2,268    1,978       3,041        9,716      7,910        16,383           11,270      8,270      8,8140
FTSA( (FAF-W)                    -         -          -         -          864        2,378        797         1,661            1,350        460        270
REFINESG (S)                     -         -          218      137         733        4,575      1,806         2,8914           6,100      5,850      7,830
FICO3 (FAE-S)                    -         -          _         _          175        1,375        264           439              420        220        710
FIDREN (Drainage)                                               -       -                          239           239            1,360_   1,200    2_,oo
Total                    73       1,319      3,181    2,524       4,813       18,041L    11,016       22,926            20,500    16,000    19,750
Local Loans                                 -         -          -        - -         -                       -            -               1,600      2,170     2,000
FAE (States)                              47       1,121      1,596    1,572       2,744                  4,363        11,14)13          15,600    13,1410    15,690
Grants (Fhndos Perdidos)                   4       4,722      9,454      991       3,856                  7,389        26,416             2,480      1,680     1,090
Others                                     -                                                                                              1,360      1,200      2,100
124      7,162    14,231    5,087       11,413                 22,768        60,785            39,940    32,320    38,630
APPLICATIONSr
Water Supply hWorks                       1214     7,162    13,650    14,821       7,856                 17,1014        50,717           24,leO    17,1480    17,820
Sewerage Works                             -         -          581      266       3,557                  5,196          9,600           13,040    12,4140    16,610
Drainage                                   -         -          -         -          -                       1468          1468           2 20   2+             4 200
27       7162    1=231   T 7            11, 4F13               22,765         0,5             39m, -to   ~
Or$ million (1974 - 1 UPC
equal to Cr$ 83.73)          10         600      1,192      426         956                  1,906         5,090             3,344     2,706      3,234
US$ million (I US$ = cr$ 6.50)             1.5        923       183.4     65.5       147.1                 293.1          783.1            514.5      416.3     497.5
1/ Includes IDB and AID Loans
May 1974



Page 13 of 14 pages
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA HAEITACAO
INCOME AND CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
----- US$ Million --------
Your ending December 31                   1971         1972        1973
----------- Audited -----------
REVEBUES FPDM OPERATIONS
Loan Income                              120.3        120.4       173.8
Service Income                            36.8        47.5         65.2
Other Income                               5.9        60.3        102.1
Total                               163.0_      227o         341 . 1
OPERATING EXPENSES
Administrative Expenses                   14.5         17.6        24.5
Financial Expenses                        83.5        115.3       159.0
Othsr Expenses                             3.7         10.6        13.0
Total                               102_.0_      143.$       196.5
Internal Cash GenematiDn             61.0        84.7        144.6
CAPITAL RESOURCES
Employees' Indemnity Fund (FGTS)         716.3        901.9     1,188.3
Amortization of loans, bonds, etc.       221.5        723.1       456.o
AID/IDB Loans                              4.2          8.7         8.7
Miscellaneous Resources                   24.2        102.4        53.4
Total                               966.2_    1,736.1      1,706.4
FUIrDS AVAILABLE FOR INVESTMENTS       1,027.2      1,820.8     1,851.0
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Housing Loans, Treasury Borxs, etc.      618.4      1,413.9     1,333.7
Withdrawals from FGTS                    291.8        378.1       482.6
Debt Service AID/IDB                       0.8          o.8         0.8
Others                                   116.2         28.0        33.9
Total                             1,027.2              1,851.0
May 1974



AN=EX 1
Page Th0 of Th- P8eU
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
BALANCE SHEET STATEMEhITS
Year Ending December 31                1971         1972        1973
--------- US$ Million ---------
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                        4.4         9.6          6.6
Treasury Bonds                       73.3        56.7         56.3
Other Accounts                        5.7         5.0          4.9
- 3           71.3          67.-
Long Term Receivables
Housing Loans                     1,545.3     2,302.7      3,326.7
Treasury Bonds                      203.8       546.9        801.4
Mortgages                           249.8         7.3          0.8
Other Investmsnts                    15.2         1.5          2.0
Collecting Agents - I.N.P.S.          7.7         2.8          2.3
Property for Resale                   5.0        10.3         12.9
Other Accounts                        1.6           -            -
2,028.4     2,o71.5     4,146.1
Fixed Assets
Land and Buildings                   14.0         17.6        23.4
Equipsant and Irstallations           1.8         1.5          2.8
Other Fixed Assets                    o.8         1.1          1.6
1 .      -20.2       -7
Accumulated Depreciation             (1.4)        (1.7)
15.2    2  5   .  1   __ __
Other Assets
Prepaid Insurance                     0.1
Material in Transit                   0.1
0.2         17          0.3
Total Assets              2127.2        9=7 
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Entities of the National
Housing System (Deposits)          26.1        69.5         58.1
Sundry Creditors                      3.3         4.2          3.1
29.4        73.7     --
Long Term Debt
Employees' Indemnity Fund         1,741.5     2,379.5      3,373.3
BNH Housing Bonds                    31.2        35.4         36.3
Foreign Loans:
I.D.B. (IDB/BNH 1o4/SF-BR)         18.9        18.0         17.4
I.D.B. (IDB/BNH 296/SF-BR)            -         3.0          8.0
A.I.D.                             10.2        15.8         19.4
Miscellaneous                       0.3         0.1            -
0           2,          3,54.
Other Liabilities
Unallocated Collections and
Repayments                         12.0
Deferred Income
12.0        29.3        26.12
Capital. ard Reserves
Capital                             177.5       160.9        h88.9
Reserves                            106.3       247.0        208.6
2 =3.       1407.9      6977
Total Liabilities        2,127.2      2962.7    41239,3
May 1974



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 11 pages
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY OF ALEM PARAIBA - REGION II
1.   Introduction
Alem Paraiba has a population of 2,758 (1970 census). It is
located 485 km from Belo Horizonte and 180 km from Rio de Janeiro near
the southeast border of the state with Rio de Janeiro State. The city
is well-served by public transportation. It is connected by bus lines and
trains with the major cities of the State of Minas Gerais and other states.
The average temperature is 23C with 70% humidity. The average rainfall is
1,500 mm/year. Alem-Paraiba is the center of a cattle and dairy producing
region.
2.   Existing Water and Sewer Systems
Water System
The city is supplied by two poor and deficient water systems. The
systems were built by the municipality and have been operated by COMAG since
1966. The main system is from surface water and supplies 60% of the water.
It consists of a gravity intake at the Aventureiro River (a tributary of the
Paraiba Piver), with a capacity of 34 lt/sec (1,072 x 106 m3/d). The water
flows by gravity to a conventional-type treatment plant (capacity 34 lt/sec)
that has a low efficiency. Before leaving the plant, the water is chlorinated
to have a residual chlorine of 9.6 - 0.7 p.p.m.
From the plant the water is conducted to two reservoirs with a
total capacity of 680 m3. The largest, Sao Geraldo of 400 m3 capacity, is
fed by a booster station and force main. These are considered to be of
adequate capacity for the needs until 1993.
The secondary system obtains water from the Rio Paraiba (see Map
No. 10637) and two small groundwater sources. Polluted raw water is pumped
from the river into a separate water/distribution network for the section of
the town not served by the Rio Aventureiro supply. The Paraiba River source
will be put out of service when the subproject is built.
The distribution network fed by the Aventureiro River source con-
sists of galvanized and cast iron pipe of 1/2" to 3" in diameter. The consul-
tants planned to replace all the pipes but the mission estimates that 30% of
the existing lines can be used and recommends that a study be made to deter-
mine what part of the distribution network can be used.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 11 pages
There are no water meters and the house connections have flow con-
trol devices in the line to limit the volume of water delivered. Individual
storage tanks are common because only 40% of the area served has 24 hours
service.
Sewer System
The sewer system is owned and operated by the Municipality. The
city has more sewer than water connections as some areas served by private wells
are connected to the sewer system.
The Municipal sewerage charges amount to 10% of the property tax.
3.   The Subproject
The subproject consists of an expansion of the surface water intake
at the Rio Aventureiro, a new supply line parallel to the existing one (3.5
lans., 400 mm diameter), a new water treatment plant, a booster station, the
addition of 47.1 km of 2" to 12" diameter pipe to the distribution system,
new reservoirs and more house connections and water meters.



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 11 pages
Cost Estimates
The following cost estimates are based on the selected least cost.
Cost in
Item                                US$ '(000
Service Road to Intake                          8.3
Intake Improvements                              1.7
New Supply Line                                 87.5
New Treatment Plant                            166.6
Booster Station                                 18.3
Reservoirs                                     78.6
Distribution System                           316.0
House Connections and Meters                    44.0
Sub-Total                                721.0
Engineering and Administration                  73.3
Contingencies                                  78.4
Total                                    827.7 /1
/1   That is, per capita construction cost of 4.2 UPC for the incremental
population to be served. This per capita cost was computed as follows:
Population well-served in 1973 = (98 x 16.5) - 9.4 million
172
Incremental population served = 24.0 - 9.4 - 14.6 million
IPC - Construction Cost                      -        4.2
Incremental population served x valor UPC        *
The subproject selected was based on the analysis of three alter-
natives for taking water from the Rio Aventureiro:
A.   New water intake located 2.5 km upstream of the existing
one at Aventureiro River, and connecting with the existing
300 mm transmission line;
B.   Utilization of the existing water intake at Aventureiro
River and installing a new 400 m transmission line, parallel
to the existing one. (This was recommended by the mission
because of the proven reliability of the intake works and
the added security from the parallel supply lines); and
C.   Utilization of the existing intake and transmission line
and the installation of a booster pumping station on the
transmission line at a convenient point to increase its
capacity to the maximum, 76 lps.



ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 11 pages
Gomparison of Alternate Designs
Cost Estimates of Alternate Designs
-(in US$1000) ---__
Item                            A            B          C
1. Construction of service road to
water intake                             10.0y      8.3         8. -
2.  Intake Works                             16.6'     1.7k".
3.  Transmission Line to treatment
plant                                    50.0      87.5           -
4.  Treatment Plant                         166.6     166.6       166.6
5.  3ooster Station (raw water)               -          -         11.0
6.  Booster Stations (treat. water)          18.3      18.3        18.3
7. Reservoirs                                78.6      78.6        78.6
8.  Distribution System                    350.0      350.o       350.0
9. House Water Connections                   10.0      10.0        10.0
tG. Engineering and Supervision               70.0      73.0       65.8
1. Contingencies                            45.0       41.7       43.3
L2. Price escalation                         35.o       36.7       33.3
Sub-total             850.1     872.7       786.9
Operational Cost-Present Value            8.9       8.8        63.1
Total                 859.0     881.5       850.0
j/ Improve part of existing road and construction of new extension.
j Improve existing road.
31 Construction of new intake.
b4 Improvement of existing intake.
/ Using 30% of existing distribution system.
Connections to be constructed during the two years of construction.
Present value of operation and maintenance cost only for the 3
different water intakes and transmission lines.



ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 11 pages
Although alternative C does not completely satisfy the needs of the
proposed subproject, it was calculated to compare its present cost value with
solutions A and B.
A more precise engineering study of alternatives A and B needs to be
made. Alternative B has the advantage of using the existing water intake works
that have proven to be well constructed, can be expanded to meet the future
needs of the city, and will provide more security by means of two gravity
water mains feeding the treatment plant.
The estimated cost of alternative B has been used for the economic
and financial projections.
4. Execution
The engineering study for the subproject was prepared for COMAG by
SAENGE, a local consulting firm. The technical staff of CONAG and the Bank
are requiring design changes in the subproject with respect to the intake
works, population estimates, and utilization of part of the old distribution
system. COMAG will execute the subproject.
5. Environmental Aspects
Approximately 40% of the city is served by unsafe water from the
Paraiba River, which constitutes a health hazard. When the new system is
built, the use of this unsafe supply will be discontinued.
The new system will expand the intake from the Aventureiro River,
which has been in use for many years without affecting the river. The raw
water quality is superior to that of the Paraiba River.
6. Justification
Alem Paraiba's population growth has been estimated to 1.7% per
year. The project would provide safe water to 80% of the city's population
between 1976 (population served 19,300) and 1984 (population served 22,000).
This would be an improvement on the present performance of the existing system
which provides water to only 72% of the population. Approximately 40% of the
population is served by water from a contaminated river, and the rest by water
where quality is not controlled. The project provides for the improvement of
water quality through the construction of a new treatment plant and better
water services through an increase of the storage capacity and extension of
the distribution system. The most important benefits of the project, however,
would be to satisfy a substantial increase in demand, which would rise from an
average of 98 liters per person per day in 1973 to 172 liters in 1984.
BNH has not compiled any investment per capita costs which could
serve as a basis for judging the cost estimates of the Alem-Paraiba project.
Therefore, the incremental rate of return will be used to judge whether the
subproject needs special justification or not.



ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 11 pages
In the absence of the socioeconomic study, the incremental rate of
-return is calculated on the basis of the following assumptions:
(i) Minimum tariff equal to 5X of the minimum salary;
(ii)  the beneficiaries of the project are distributed according to
the actual consumption pattern in Minas Gerais, which gives an
average tariff for the incremental consumption of 1.13, the
minumum tariff;
(iii)  the minimum salary and the water tariff are increasing by 32
a year;
(iv)  reductions in unaccounted-for water in the system are considered
incremental revenues attributable to the project;
(v) operating costs increase in the same proportion as volume of
water sold; and
(vi)  subproject life is 30 years.
With these assumptions, the incremental rate of return of the
Alem Paraiba subproject is about 11% (see table next page). The subproject
will not need special economic justification.
7.   Finance
Data available for 1973 show that the existing system has been
operating in a satisfactory way, although uncollected bills represented
about 37% of total billing. Operating costs were around 49% of total
revenues and the system generated some surplus.



ALEM PARAIBA SUBPROJECT
INCREMENTAL REVENUES AND COSTS (1.000 Cruzeiros)
1973  ~1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979  1280   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985-2004
Incremental Volume Sold         -      169    324    440    469    562    648    689    724    779    793    837          837
(m3 x 10 )
Average tariff (Cr$)            -    1.00   1.03   1.06   1.13   1.16   1.19   1.23   1.27   1.30   1.34   1.34          1.60
Incremental Revenues
(Cr$ thousand)                    169    334    466    511    635    752    820    890    989   1.031  1.122    1.339
Project Cost (Cr$ thousand)          (3,868)(1,888)   -       -      -      -              -       -      -        -       -
Increment Operating
Expenses (Cr$ thousand)             (61)  (117) (161)  (172)  (207)  (237)  (252)  (266)  (286)   (291)  (331)    (331)
Net Benefits                         (3,760)(1,671)  305    339    428    515    568    624    703        740    791    1.008
Incremental Rate of Return = 11%
IU



ANNEX 12
Page 8 of 11 pages
A detailed financial table (Income and Cash Flow Statement) for the
period 1972-1978 is in Exhibit 2. The financial plan of Alem Paraiba for
1973-74 is summarized below:
Cr$
Thousand             %
Applications
Project Cost                            5,324              87
Interest during Construction              432               7
Total Works                       5,756              94
Increase in Working Capital               362               6
Total Applications                6,118             100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                  362               6
Borrowings (BNH and FAE)                5,756              94
Total Sources                    J618               100
The plan is based on BNH and FAE financings (50% each) of Cr$5.8
million. Internal cash generation would provide for the increase in working
capital, estimated at about 6% of total cost of works.
Water is sold presently at the minimum rate of Cr$12 per month
for 15 m3. The commercial rate is twice the domestic tariff and the industrial
twice the commercial one. The average rate per m3 sold in 1973 has been esti-
mated at Cr$0.90. This figure includes a 15% social welfare tax. After
the period of construction, Alem Paraiba finances would be adequate, provided
the average tariff per m3 is increased by 28% in 1976 (from Cr$0.90 to Cr$1.14
per m3). Minimum tariff would represent in this case about 5% of the minimum
salary in the region (maximum fixed by PLANASA - 5% - Present minumum tariff
- 4.4%) - Operating ratio is assumed to decrease from 47% in 1973 to 37% in 1976
and remain at this level in subsequent years. Uncollected bills are assumed
to drop from 37% in 1973 to 15% in 1978.
8.   Recommendations
It is recommended that:
(i) the engineering design be revised using the parameters shown
in Exhibit 1;



ANNEX 12
Page 9 of 11 pages
(ii) a new supply line from the existing intake to the water
treatment plant be designed with full capacity for the
demand at the end of the design period;
(iii) the conditions of the existing water distribution network
is investigated to determine what part can be utilized in
the new distribution network to be built;
(iv) a water metering program be started as soon as possible
and in accordance with Exhibit 1;
(v)  all house storage tanks except in high buildings be eliminated;
(vi) all operation and maintenance personnel receive the courses
for waterworks given by the COMAG Training Center;
(vii) COMAG negotiate with the Municipality of Alem Paraiba the
taking over of the operation, maintenance and improvement
of the sewer system; and
(viii) COMAG establish a program for the collection and testing
of routine water samples with the state or regional labora-
tory controlling the quality of the water.



BRAZIL
COMPANHIA MINEIRA DO AGUAS E 0000T00 '1CO9AG'
PAST AND PROJECTED DATA FOR ALOM PARlAIBA
(Eoti-ita modt:  Jun  1923)
1970   19171    1972         1973    1974    i973    1976    1977    1979    1979    1990    1991    1992    1993               1994      1985    1986      1997     1999     1999     1990     1991    1992       1993
Total Population (thoo....de) (r 1.7)                21.7   22.1    22.5          22.9    23.3    23.7    24.1    24.9    24.9    25.3    29.7    26.1    26.1    27.0                27.5     27.9    29.4      29.9    29.4    29.9       30.4    30,9    31.4    32.0
Population Servad (2)                                72.0   72,0    72,0,         72.0    72.0    73.0    80.0    80.0    00.0    80.9    90.0    90.0    90.0    80.0    90.0    90.0    82.0    84.0    86.0    89.0                      90,0      90.0    90.0    90.0
PPupoltou- Served (thoo-do)                          10.6   13.0    16.2               16.3 1.8    17.9    19.3    1.          20.0          20.2 0.      20.9    21.4    21.6    22.0    22.3    23.3           24.3    25.3    26.3       27.4    27.8    28.4    28.8
Total Water Cooecti... (a-ita)                                       3,299       3,290   3,300   3,560   3,174   3.629   3,704   3.741   3,796   3,830   3,963   4,000   4.074   4,129   4,313    4,5090   4.685   4,870   0.074   5.148   0,259  -5.333
Motored Coonetione (1)                                                 -           -       20.0    30.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    20.0    00.0    50.0    30.0    30.0    00.0    00.0    60.0    60.9    60.0    60.0                      70.0    70.0    79.0       70.0
Motored Coaoeti... (..it.)                                                   -            660.0   1,068   1,429   1.432   1,667   1.870   1,893   1,933   0,981   2,000   2.027   2,064   2.389   2,700   2,911   2,922   35,02   3.694   3,68R   3.733
Type "A" Uloatered Co....ctiaoan..it.)                               3,027       3,028   2,640   2,492   2,043   2,077   2,037   0.871   0,893   1.933   1,982   2,000   2.027   2,060   1,726    1,800   0,874   1,948   1,522    1,54.4   0,579    16900
Type "B" Uonterod Cerneetio.a (anita)                                200.9       2150.      -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        .        -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -
Type "C" Uamoterod Cnetua(o-it.)                                       7.0         7.0      -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -             -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -
PupuDation Served with Metered Co-eattie..                                         -        3.6      3.7      7.7      7.9      9.0    10.0    10.2    10.4    00.7    00.9          01.0    01.1    14.0        14.6    10.2    11.9       19.2    19.5    19.9    20.8
Population Serve -d with Uoetered Cun..onrio-                         06.2        16.0    13.2    12.1    11.6    i1.0         10.0    10.1    00.3    10.0        10.7    10.9      01.0    10.2        9.3      9.7    10.1    00.2        9.2       8.3      9.3      8.6
Metered Wat-r Sold (1/a/d)                                             -           -      220.0   223.0   230.0   235.0   240.0   240.0   210.0   250.0   260.0   260,0   265.0   263.0   270.0   270.0   273.0   273.0   280.0   288.0   299,0   290.0
Meter-d Water Sold (,,3 a 006)                                         -           -      0.206   0.460   0.6444   0.649   0.760   0.903   0.940   0.969    0,013   1,020    0,064   0,074   0,390    1,439   1,026   1,306   1,962   0,993   2,070   2,138
Uoctered Watee Sold
(,u3/_oitee-d  o-ootlo-/m-th(                                      41       .0  11 .0    15.9 10        .0 10 .0    15.0 13 .0 03            .0 13 .0 13 .0 00          .0 03    .0 13 .0 00       .0 10 .0 13 .0 13.8               15.0 19 .0 10.          5.0    00.0
Uoetered Wdoter Sold (a3 a 106)                                      0,592       0.092   0.475   0.440  (0.386   0.392   0.366   0.332   0.341   0.340   0.306   0.360   0.360   0,372   0.310   0,324   0.337   0.330    0.274   0.278   0,284   0.288
Tata1 Water Oalea (.3 a 106)                                         0.392       0,392   0.761   0.906   1,032   1,061   1,104   1,240   1,280    1.316   0,371   1,385   0,429   1,446   1,690   1,763   1,863   1,937   2,236   2,271   2,334   2,426
Average Wot-r Sa1ea (1/a/d)                                          100.0        90.0   124.0   141.0   146.0   040.0   020,0   060.0   171.0   172,8               -        -        -        -        -        -         -       -         -        -        - 
Wata- Produce.d (.  o 106)                                           1,825 1/   1,823   0,823   1,032   1,076   1,632   1,773   1,770    1,830   1,000   0,930    1,970    2,041   2,060   2,414   2,000    2,661   2.767   2,981   3,029    3,138   3,211
U......oted-f-r Water(-                                                           67,0    10,0    00.0    45,0    33,0    35,0    30,0    30.0    30,0    30,0    30,0    30.0    30,0    30,0                   30.0    30,0    30.0    20.0    25,0    25,0    25.0
Avorge  Outer Prodantior (lt/oar)                                     60,0        58,0    30.0    08.0    60,0         52,0    56,0    16.0    18,0    60,0    62,0    63.0    65.0    60.0    76,0    90,0    84.0    88,0    94.0                   96,0    99,0   102,8
Maoteuo  Dolly Water Do,aad (11/oat)                                  00.0        97.0    02.0    87,0    90.0    78.0    84,0    94.0    87,0    90,0    93,0    94,0    97.0    97.0   114.0   120,0   126,0   132,8   041.8   144,0   148,0   15303,                               ,'
Mooto-  Hooly Oeoad (It/eec)                                         033,0       130.0   130,0   030,0   130,0   107.0   126.0   126,0   130,0   030,0   139.0   141.0   140.0   145.0   121.0   180,0   189,0   193.0   211.0   216.8   222.0   229,0
Wat.e L...e(.. )                                                       -           30.0    30,0    23.0    25,0    20.0         20.0    20,0    20,0    20,0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20,0    20.0    20,0    20,0    20.0    20.0    20,0                   28,0    20,0          'v
Uopoid Water ()                                                        -          37,0    20.0    11,0    20.0    11,0    53.0    10,0    50.0    10.0    10,0    10.0    10,8                 000  10.0    10.0    10 ,0 10 ,0 10.0               5    ,0  0.0      3.0  1.
1L/  1,072 treated.  Total rapacity of exietlog rawter lotake pipe  t Aveotreira River,  Tha rive  itoelf ha. a oieoi  dry weather flow of 300 lc/nec (13,760 r 186 o3/yer).
Navebher 1973



ANNEX 12
Exhibit 2
Page 11 of 11 pages
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SERAGE PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
ALEI4 PARAIBA
Total
1272   19573   1974   1975   1974-75   1976   1977   1978
Total Population (Thousand)    22.5   22.9   23.3   23.7         ¶      24.1   24.5   24.9
Population Served (%)             72      72     72      75      _         80     80     80
Average rate per m3 (Cr$)       0.68   0.79   0.79   0.79                1.00   1.00   1.00
Water Sold (m3 thousand)         592    592    761    916               1,032  1,061  1,154
Uncollected Bills (%)             37      37     28      25               20      15     15
--------------Cr$ Thousand in 1973 prices-----
Revenues                         402    467    601    724    1,325   1,032  1,061  1,154
Uncollected Bills               (149)  (173)  (168)  (181)    (349)   (206)  (159)  (173)
Qperating Costs        ~(196)  (218)  (2792 )    5       64    (379)  (390) _(425)
Operating Costs                         --)(3)                   64    -~      1- -5
Internal Cash Generation       57    76    154                362752                 56
Less: Debt Service             -       -             -         -      427)  (427)  (427)
Net Internal Cash Guiatron                                                           1 29 208  2  20  129
BNH (8% -18 years)            2- -T9                94      28         -       -      -
FAE (5% - 18 years)                    -    1      .. .944    2.878    -       _     _
Total Borrowings               -       -    3,868 1,9888    575        _ 5 
Total Resources          _L      76  4.022 2.096    6,118         20     B5    129
Project Cost                   -       -    3,755 1,569    5,324      100    100    150
Interest during Construction           -      113   312        32      -       -      -
Total Works                    -       -    3,868 1,888    5,756      100    100    150
Increase in Workino C4pital .          z      154   208       362    S(      (       (21)
Total Applications                           2 76  022        6   20            129
Operating Ratio  (%)           49      47      46    46       -        37      37     37
Minimum Monthly Salary = Cr$275
Average Rate/m3 = Cr$0.90/1.15 (28% increase in 1976)
Minimum Rate/m3 (-13%) = Cr$0.80/1.02
Minimum Monthly Consumption (15 m3) = Cr$12/15
Rate + Minimum Salary = 4.4%/5.5%
November 1973






BRAZI L
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
SISTEMA FINANCEIRO DO SANEAMENTO
FUND FLOWS
_  DISBURSEMENT        EXTERNAL                FINANCING
SF             REPAMEN            FINANCING               ENTITY
SFS         _ REPAYMENT _  _ I(IBRD, OTHERS)           [(STATE
_                                                              o
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
FINANCIA L                  DISBURSEMENT                  ADMINISTRATIVE
AGENCY                      REPAYMENT                     AGENCY
STATE BANK                                             so FOR FAE
_ _ _
z  z <   z/ In most cases the State Bank
W    LL.   LU
() 00 E
w      UJ
cn  E  e 
Dz    Z uj 
m      Li
FINAL
BENEFICIARY
STATE WATER
iCOMPANY
z
V     PROJECT WORKS
I rs    (CONSTRUCTOR)
MUNICIPALITY
World Bank-7907






BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITA,CO (BNH)
ORGANIZATION CHiART
MINISTRY  OF TIE INTERIOR
|  MINISTRY OF    |*l@|||§||......,,.....,.I. ...................... .               ...... *     ......**.** I       MINISTRY OF.       l
PLANNING                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FINANCE
ADMINISTRATIV  COUNCIL..FIDERA.     SVICE FOR
ADMINlsTRAriv  COUNCIL   |                 |ROUJSING AND UIRBANIZATION|
BOARD OF DIRECT-ORS
INTERNAL  I/    G,,,,,,,,,,, 1NATION
AUDITING            .......                                                                   UDi  . 
s.,.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*.,, . - ~ ~ ~  ~            ~            ~           ~           ~           .OI           ......:
FOR                  SFS    IS,I1I11O DATA
,.,... ...,nm  it~~~~~~~~**                  -.*gb~~~~~fl. ....... ......    rI.....,...                                                                                                                ..........,.,,,.,.  sellSB
1/ PresenIv under ErSamNzalion
PERIN EN. NCY ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ WrI Bn-Bl






BRAZI L
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND
SEWERAGE PROJECT
NATIONAL HOUSING BANK (BNH)
SUPERINTENDENCY OF THE SANITATION FINANCE SYSTEM (SFS)
ORGANIZATION CHART
SUPERINTENDENT
ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT
ANALYSIS AND                     TECHNICAL
PLANNING                        CONTROL                         FINANCES
PLANNING AND                    CONSTRUCTION                      FINANCIAL
_                                _       OPERATIONS
PROGRAMMING                      CONTROL _                      PROGRAMMING
|  TECHNICAL                                                    FINANCIAL
ANALYSIS                       ASSISTANCE                      OPERATIONS
_________________     CONTROL
COST ANALYSIS                    TECHNICAL                    CONTROL OF STATE
AUDITING                    SANITATION FUNDS
World Bank-7952






BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
CASH-FLOW CHART
SOURCES                                                                                      |     SSUES OF                FOREIGN
|AHOUSING BONDS |OUINLOA NSA
FtVNE                          t1e-                                                              <r                                                             Se4
APPLICATIONS                                                                                         NI                                                                                            FINANCIAL
L  XPENDITURE L}                    L   E~~~~XPENSE    |                                  SITAC                                          XPENSES
_OPERATING
EXPENSES
INVESTMENTS
SANITARY
HOUSING LOANS                                                                                                                            LOANS
PROGRAMS          *Housin                                                                                                                                                  'h
. MaterielI = FIMACO                                                                                                                         8NH  37.5%
I(Fnanci.n..i ot MaWerajill                                                                                                      FAE 37S5%
REINVES                                                                                                                   MUNICIPALITIES 25.0%               LFitg iWat.r          FA
RIEPAT                                                                                                          PLANAA   PI..  N.il. 4. S.-                    FRe- (SeweraWI      FA
IRefinanclemenlo Matorierel                                                                       PAB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SN  50.0%
RECON                                                                                             SNN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 50.0%}
*COMPLEMENTARY
F IPLAN
IFundo de Fina-ciemento
INOCOOPS
ICooporotctlvs
EXECUTING                          BNH                                              SBPE
AGENCIES
(Safi-e Brai ciro d PouPa... 
SAF  Superirrrc-doncro de Agentes F--anceiros E-prostiroci                                                                           E
COE = Crlteira de Op-- acoe ErpeC-a-               SCI  Sociedades do Crtdiro IroObiInrio I-                                         EXECUTING AGENCIES
COS  Carloir a de OperaCc-e d Natroeza Social      APE  C.i_as EcocFr(o.as e Aseociacoes de    I                                        FAE Brrowertsabtse CA ipgenyioSl
CHP -Car. a do Hipoteas                                  PoApancaE Ad.in!atie Agey (Stete B.klth
CPC - Car-ia dc P-oXcro Cooeretivoos               locld 5dvq,                                 I                                         tcnca Aencies
BNH                          AGENCIES                                                     t
DSret Loans                  CAHABs = Coop-rativos Habi-ac-oneis                            I        -
Inoitutros de Pic -.de.cra                                    I      ' Ocararty
Icladores de Me-cado de Hwl-olcac                                      Fuod  I
World Ira-8008






BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND
SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPANHIA MINEIRA DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS "COMAG"
ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF MAY 1973
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
PRESI DENT
VICE PRESIDENT|VICE PRESIDENT
FINANCES    ENGINEERING
PUBLIC RELATIONS                              NI NG
FDATA PROCESSING]
H    I"NES           ADMIN IR ATION       ORAT                 DESIGN &PERSON
SUPERVISIONPESNL
I     I                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~7  I 
REGIONAL
MANAGER
PUBLIC RELATIONS]
r------                                  ,______,-I--
FINANCES         ADMINISTRATION                           OPERATIONS        CONSTRUCTION
L___J                                                                         L____1
(For Belo Horizonte only)                                                    (For Belo Horizonte only)
*~~~~~
LOCAL MAGE
[ADMINISTRATION                           OPERATIONS
World Bank-7953






BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
NATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAM
Definition of
Training Needs
Planning
-F-- I----------n
Project 1                       Project 3
Manuals and                     Courses for Engineers
training Materials              and High Level Technicians             I         Other
Project 2                       Project 4                              I        Projects
Training Courses                Courses for Administrators
for Trainers                    and Managers
'    Evaluation       -      m  m  ---
World Bank-7991






0           ~~~STATE OF MINAS GERAIS                                                           (                    4'* S" 
LOCATION OF WATER SUPPLY PROJECTS  t>_                                                            P°2 j EriCO+1
0     CITIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT - XMruVre L\
SYSTEMS OPERATED BY                                   \      (Jmra9                                                      
COMAGB AS OF DECEMBER 1973        r  E.DS                                                                                                         l  Pordo de Mins
=   RIVERtS                          ",SRASILI LIA                                          S..Fro F-6,\;
F*11REGIONAL BOUNDARIES                 -    -    -                                                       kMr   -~                                                                          t 
--STATE BOUNDARIES /j  bl     lea; 
o                          b        0                                        JoPhio61    tm                                      X      g                                          T.6til. DOt.i    N Luque O0
KlLOMETEAS                                                                                                                                                         0:   g; 
5~~~~~~~~P.                                                                  M.                                                                          0 |c   ;\ > < f i 2 D   
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 S. .






I BRD 10637
SEPTEMBER 1973
BRAZIL---
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ALEM PARAIBA SUBPROJECT
Existing pipelines
Proposed pipeline                                                                  .10
o      Existing pumping stations
O      Existing reservoirs                                                INTAKE
BOX 
r-N     Bridges
,g INTAKE DAM
170                         TREATMENT PLANT
2 |-                  \    ~~~~~~~~~35 m3                            BO S e O TER
35 \ / 35
: ..    :         ,, R -
To be discontinLged
)~Brasilia DE
'BOLIVIA1' 
P~~cj6c    r--Alem Paraiba
W-py dd   --  1 11p   by tbhh~0u



