Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4588-PK 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Pakistan Higher Education Support Program) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 15, 2009  
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 15, 2009, entered into between the ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “Association”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the 
actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described 
in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
sixty six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 66,900,000
)
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Secretary of the Recipient’s Economic 
Affairs Division of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics, or any 
Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in that 
Division. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Facsimile:  
Telephone: 
 
92-51 9218976   
92-51 9203815   
Page  4
-3- 
 
5.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Islamabad,  Islamic Republic of Pakistan, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By 
 
/s/ Farrakh Qayyum 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
 
/s/ Said N. Al Habsy 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-4- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Finance Division has issued a letter No. F.4(10)R.4/02(Vol.I) approving the 
model tenure track statues for faculty staff in public higher education institutions; 
which statues have been notified by the HEC to said institutions pursuant to 
Notification No.F.P.2-103/HEC/2007/726; 
 
2. 
The Planning Commission, through Office Memorandum No. 8(35)S&T/ 
PD/2005, has notified to the HEC the agreed policy criteria allowing high quality 
private sector higher education institutions to qualify for funding for 
developments project for up to fifty percent (50%) of their costs, subject to the 
adoption of a merit-based and 
“need-blind” admission policy for the enrollment 
of students.  
 
3. 
The HEC has: (i) through letter No 15-05/HEC/A&A/2007/121, notified to the 
private sector higher education institutions HEC’s approval of the revised policy 
criteria facilitating the establishment of private higher education institutions; and 
(ii) through letters No.15-35/HEC/A&A/2007/363, No 15-22/HEC/A&A/2002, 
No. 15-25/HEC/A&A/2008/1118, and 15-61/HEC/ A&A/2005/54, applied such 
policy criteria in the establishment of new higher education institutions.  
 
4. 
Quality Enhancement Cells have been established in at least twenty (20) public 
higher education institutions pursuant to the criteria set forth by the HEC in its 
quality assurance manual for higher education. 
 
5. 
The HEC has: (i) prepared a draft manual of procurement policies and standard 
operating procedures for the procurement of goods, civil works and routine 
services; and (ii) through letter No. 111/HEC/Services/2008, has submitted such 
manual to the PPRA for comments.  
 
6. 
The MoF has approved, through Dy.1704/S/FS/2009, the Medium-Term 
Financing Framework (MTFF) for the HEC for the triennium commencing in 
FY2009/2010 through FY2011/2012. 
 
7. 
The MoF has released the funds for recurrent and development expenditures for 
the third and fourth quarter grants according to FY2008/2009 budgetary 
allocations. 
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General
.
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
.
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Tranche 
66,900,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
66,900,000 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
 
1. 
the withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon deposit of the amount of the Financing into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
Commencing December 15, 2019, to and including 
June 15, 2029 
1.25% 
Commencing December 15, 2029, to and including 
June 15, 2044 
2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-7- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions
1. 
“Finance Division” means the Finance Division of the Recipient’s Ministry of 
Finance. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
Page  9
-8- 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
3. 
“FY” means a fiscal year of the Recipient commencing on July 1 of each year 
and closing on June 30 of each year.  
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. 
“HEC” means the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Presidential Ordinance LIII (2002).  
 
6. 
“Medium-Term Financing Framework” and the acronym “MTFF” mean HEC’s 
medium term financial envelope setting out HEC’s estimates resources and 
expenditures (recurrent and developmental) for FY2009/10 through FY2011/12. 
 
7. 
“MoF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient.  
 
8. 
“need-blind” admission policy means a policy for the admission/enrollment of 
students on a strictly merit-based basis, regardless the applicants’ financial 
situation. 
 
9. 
“Planning Commission” means the Recipient’s Planning Commission. 
 
10. 
“PPRA” means the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority of the Recipient 
established pursuant to the Recipient’s Presidential Ordinance XXII of 2002 
issued on May 15, 2002, (the PPRA Ordinance). 
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
11. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated May 2, 2009, from the Recipient to the Association 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
12. 
“Quality Enhancement Cells” means the units within higher education 
institutions responsible for, 
inter alia
:
(i) ensuring quality and standards of 
knowledge being imparted for the award of tertiary/university degrees; (ii) 
reviewing higher education institutions’ academic affiliations; and (iii) develop 
quality assurance process and methods of evaluations, including, 
inter alia,
 
procedures for institutional audits, subject and departmental reviews, student and 
employer feedback, and quality improvements in institutional 
management/leadership. 
 
13. 
“Rupees” and the acronym “PKR” means the currency of the Recipient.  
 
14. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
Page  11
-10- 
 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8(c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and 
its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
