                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR00001579



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-45880)



                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 66.9 MILLION
                    (US$ 100.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                   FOR A

                HIGHER EDUCATION SUPPORT PROGRAM



                                June 14, 2010




Human Development Department
South Asia Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2009)

            Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (PKR)
                    PKR1.00 = US$ 0.0118
                    US$ 1.00 = PKR 84.24


                        FISCAL YEAR
                        July 1 ­ June 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CMS         Campus Management Solutions
DPC         Development Policy Credit
GoP         Government of Pakistan
HE          Higher Education
HEC         Higher Education Commission
HEI         Higher Education Institution
HEMIS       Higher Education Management Information System
HEPN        Higher Education Policy Note
HESP        Higher Education Support Program
IDP         Internally Displaced Persons
MoF         Ministry of Finance
MTDF-HE     Medium Term Development Framework for Higher Education
MTFF        Medium Term Financing Framework
NCRC        National Curriculum Revision Committees
PRESO       Poverty Reduction and Economic Support Operation




                Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
              Country Director: Rachid Benmessaoud
               Sector Manager: Amit Dar
             Task Team Leader: Naveed Hassan Naqvi
             ICR Team Leader: Naveed Hassan Naqvi
           ICR Primary Author: Shahid Kardar
                                        PAKISTAN
                            HIGHER EDUCATION SUPPORT PROGRAM


                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS




 
    1.    Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ..................................... 1 
    2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ....................................... 4 
    3.    Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................... 12 
    4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................. 16 
    5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .............................................. 16 
    6.    Lessons Learned................................................................................................. 19 
    7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.... 20 
    Annex 1          Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes....... 21 
    Annex 2.   Beneficiary Survey Results ..................................................................... 21 
    Annex 3.   Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................. 23 
    Annex 4.   Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............... 24 
    Annex 5.   Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................ 34 
    Annex 6.   List of Supporting Documents ................................................................ 35 
        MAP .......................................................................................................................... 36 
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Higher Education
Country:                Pakistan                Program Name:
                                                                          Support Program
Program ID:             P102607                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-45880
ICR Date:               06/24/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 66.9M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 66.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 66.9M
Implementing Agencies:
 Higher Education Commission
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/29/2008     Effectiveness:             09/18/2009           09/18/2009
Appraisal:            04/20/2009     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             09/10/2009     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2009           12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                            Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem         No                    Quality at Entry        None


                                                i
Program at any time                                (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Tertiary education                                                100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                                 80                  80
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                    20                  20
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                  Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:          John W. Wall                        Yusupha B. Crookes
Sector Manager:            Amit Dar                            Amit Dar
Program Team Leader:       Naveed Hassan Naqvi                 Naveed Hassan Naqvi
ICR Team Leader:           Naveed Hassan Naqvi
ICR Primary Author:        Shahid Kardar


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Create the conditions to enhance the stock of skilled Pakistanis able to contribute to an
economy increasingly based on knowledge and technology, through an overhaul of the
university sector.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)




                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally          Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                   approval          Target         Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values          Target Years
                   At least one third of increase in enrollments in university sector between 2007
Indicator 1 :
                   /08 and 2008/09 is attributable to students enrolled in science and engineering
                                                                                 Total enrolment in
                                                                                 Universities:
                                                                                 333,966 (of which
                                                                                 enrolment in
                   Total enrolment in        So the share of
                                                                                 Science and
Value              universities:316,278 (of science/engineerin
                                                                                 Engineering
(quantitative or   which enrolment in        g in total
                                                                                 177,488). So the
Qualitative)       Science and               enrolment increase
                                                                                 share of
                   Engineering 170,920) should be >33%
                                                                                 science/engineering
                                                                                 in total enrolment
                                                                                 increase is
                                                                                 6588/17688=37%
Date achieved      06/01/2008                10/09/2009                          10/11/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Number of PhD graduates produced by Pakistani universities increases to at
Indicator 2 :
                   least 550 by 2008/09
Value
                                            550 produced in                    613 produced in
(quantitative or   420 produced in 2007-8
                                            2008-9                             2008-9
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/01/2008               10/09/2009                         10/11/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Number of International Journal Publications from Pakistani scholars increases
Indicator 3 :
                   to at least 3500 by 2008/09 from 2500 in 2007/08
Value
(quantitative or   2474                     3500                               3639
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/01/2008               10/09/2009                         10/11/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)




                                                 iii
                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
      Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                   The full budgeted allocation for Recurrent and Development Expenditures for
Indicator 1 :
                   HEC, been released to HEC by Ministry of Finance.
                                                                             Actual Releases for
                                                                             FY 2008-09:
                   The full budgeted                                         Recurrent Budget =
                   amount: Recurrent                                         PKR Actual
Value
                   Budget = PKR 15.7                                         Releases: 15.7
(quantitative or
                   billion, Development                                      billion,
Qualitative)
                   Budget = PKR 16.1                                         Development
                   billion                                                   Budget = PKR 16.1
                                                                             billion for FY
                                                                             2008-09
Date achieved      06/24/2008                                                09/24/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                             DO                         IP               Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1      03/11/2010          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  105.99


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               iv
1.     Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

From the turn of the century to 2006/07, Pakistan's economic growth proceeded at a
healthy pace. However, the sharp rise in the international prices of oil, commodities and
other food products in 2007/08 and the Government of Pakistan's failure to pass on the
related impacts rapidly weakened the fiscal and external accounts. The current account
deficit widened and Pakistan's foreign exchange reserves declined sharply. Reduced net
capital inflows and an inadequate adjustment of the exchange rate exacerbated the
problem. While the Government borrowed directly from the State Bank of Pakistan to
finance the budget deficit GDP growth declined from 6.8% in 2006/07 to 5.8% in
2007/08. The situation was worsened by political uncertainty. As a result, Pakistan's
international risk rating deteriorated, forcing the Government to embark on a program to
correct the growing macroeconomic imbalances. The stabilization package subsequently
developed by the Government, and backed up by the IMF, aimed to reduce
macroeconomic imbalances. The fiscal deficit was to be reduced by curtailing
expenditures and increasing revenues. The Bank's Poverty Reduction and Economic
Support Operation (PRESO) was also instituted to support Government policies intended
to ensure greater macroeconomic stability. It was at this time that the Higher Education
Support Program (HESP) was conceived.

Pakistan's education sector in general and the higher education in particular were beset
with a host of problems, with access and quality being the most significant challenges.
Participation rates in higher education were low, without any aid instruments and systems
to cope with the number of students who wished to pursue a post-secondary degree,
leading to an inequitable and inaccessible higher education system.

The higher education sector had been continuously neglected, and in particular, was
starved of resources prior to 2002. This reflected in poor quality teaching and learning
outcomes. No meaningful effort had been undertaken to institutionalize quality assurance
and improvement mechanisms, nor had incentive structures or accountability mechanisms
been put in place to both enhance and monitor the qualifications of existing faculty. At
the same time, markers of competency and excellence such as value-added research
outputs remained minimal and of poor quality. The higher education sector also suffered
from pervasive governance issues, including limited academic and administrative
autonomy, that constrained the smooth functioning and management of universities.

The Higher Education Commission's Medium-Term Development Framework (MTDF-
HE) developed a comprehensive set of reforms to address these issues, marked by clarity
of direction and purpose for the 2005-2010 time period. These were also raised in a
comprehensive Higher Education Policy Note (HEPN) , prepared by the World Bank in
2006 (upon the request of the Ministry of Finance), in which the Bank supported the
reform program enunciated by the HEC. The Bank designed the Higher Education
Support Program (HESP) as a Development Policy Credit (DPC) in support of the




                                           1
objectives of the MTDF-HE, and consistent with the macro-MTDF prepared by the
Government of Pakistan (GoP).

The HESP was embedded in the FY06-09 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
identified sustainable growth as an essential prerequisite for long-term poverty reduction
in Pakistan. By supporting Pakistan's drive to enhance access to higher education and to
improve the quality and relevance of teaching and research in a competitive global
environment, thereby enlarging the pool of the skilled workforce that could spearhead the
country's growth, the HESP was consistent with the objectives of the CAS.

The Bank's program enabled the HEC to sustain the momentum of its core reforms, spelt
out in the MTDF-HE, through the difficulties that Pakistan faced at the start of 2009. A
primary objective of the HESP was to ensure that the initial reforms undertaken by the
HEC ­ to increase equitable participation, make an impact on the quality and relevance of
teaching in higher education institutions and improve the governance structure of the
higher education sector ­ would not suffer on account of the Government's fiscal stress.

The Bank's support for the higher education sector was predicated upon the GoP's
decision to locate the associated initiatives in a medium-term budgetary/financing
framework to ensure the predictability of adequate resource flows for sustainably
financing the extensive reform agenda developed by the HEC. To this end the assistance
was linked to prior actions and performance indicators that would demonstrate the
commitment of both the HEC and the GoP to the achievement of the envisaged objectives.

While the HESP was initially conceived as a programmatic series of development policy
credits, however, following the sharp deterioration in the country's macroeconomic
indicators, the operation was redesigned in the form of a single tranche credit, focusing
on certain policy actions that the Bank deemed most important for laying the foundation
for improvements in Pakistan's higher education sector indicators.

1.2    Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
       approved)

The original program development objective was to create conditions that enhanced the
stock of skilled Pakistanis able to contribute to an economy that would be increasingly
based on knowledge and technology. This was to be achieved through a comprehensive
overhaul of the universities in Pakistan.

The purpose of the overarching objective was to support the four basic pillars of the
HEC's MDTF-HE: i) enhancing the access and equity of higher education; ii)
improvement in the quality and relevance of academic and research programs to produce
an adaptable and skilled labor force; iii) enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of
government spending on the sector; and iv) improving the governance and management
of higher education.

The key indicators for the HESP in its first year were as follows:



                                             2
1.       At least 1/3 of the increase in enrollments in the university sector between
2007/08 and 2008/09 should be students enrolled in Science and Engineering
2.       The number of PhD graduates produced by Pakistani universities was to increase
to at least 550 by 2008/09.
3.       The number of publications in journals of international repute by Pakistani
scholars was to increase to at least 3500 by 2008/09 from 2500 in 2007/08.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
       Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

There were no revised program development objectives, nor was there any revision in the
key outcome indicators to the program as approved by the Board of the World Bank.

1.4    Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The main policy areas supported by the program were as follows:

a) Access and equity. To address this policy area the aim was to introduce a variety of
interventions to increase equitable access to higher education and simultaneously
incentivize the participation of the private sector in higher education.

b) Quality and relevance of teaching and research. This objective was to be realized
by increasing the number of skilled faculty, improving the quality of academic courses
and programs, bringing teaching and research outputs in line with overall development
objectives, and finally improving the quality, synergy and relevance of research
undertaken in HEIs to address the needs of Pakistan as a developing country.

c) Fiscal sustainability and streamlining expenditure. To tackle this objective the
program aimed to ensure availability of adequate Government funding for higher
education within a sustainable financial framework, diversification of the sources of
funds for higher educational institutions (HEIs) and appropriate resource allocation
formulas and mechanisms for the HEC's financing of HEIs.

d) Governance and management. To deal with the issues of governance and
management in higher education the HESP focused on: i) mechanisms to strengthen
initiatives and institutional arrangements geared to the quality assessment of academic
programs; ii) enhancing the capacity of the HEC to undertake the ambitious reform
program; iii) widening the use of a Higher Education Management Information System
(HEMIS); iv) streamlining the overall financial planning and management of higher
education; and v) improving the procedures and transparency of procurement in public
sector HEIs.

To address these policy areas, the Bank identified seven prior actions and made financial
assistance conditional on their implementation. These actions, as outlined in the Program
Document, were as follows:




                                           3
       a) To improve the quality and relevance of teaching and research:
            The Finance Division issuing and the HEC notifying model Tenure Track
               statutes for faculty staff in public HEIs
       b) To expand access and increase equity in higher education:
            Planning Commission notifying the approval of policy that allowed high
               quality private sector HEIs to qualify for up to 50% funding for
               development projects, subject to them meeting "need-blind" access
               requirements
            The HEC notifying the approval of, and implementing, revised criteria for
               establishment of private HEIs
       c) To strengthen the governance and management of higher education:
            Public HEIs establishing Quality Enhancement Cells (QECs) as per agreed
               criteria
            the HEC preparing a comprehensive Draft Procurement Handbook for
               goods, works and services and forwarding them to PPRA for its comments
       d) To improve financial sustainability and streamline expenditure in higher
           education:
            The MOF approving the Medium-Term Financing Framework (MTFF) for
               HEC for FY2009/10-FY2011/12
            The MOF releasing quarterly recurrent and development grants to HEC as
               per FY2008/09 allocations for the third and fourth quarters

1.5    Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

The policy areas were not revised during the course of the program.

1.6     Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

There were no major changes in the HESP once the program was approved by the Board.
While there was initial discussion of a three year program, the HESP was appraised and
taken to Board as a single tranche operation that would help maintain momentum of key
reforms and lay the foundation for a longer-term future support.

It is noteworthy that in the HEC has continued to implement the variety of interventions
outlined in its MTDF-HE, steadfast in its resolve to pursue the reform program through
political change, even without the Bank's financial support in the first four years of the
MTDF-HE's period.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Program Performance




                                            4
The HESP was successful in ensuring that the executing agency ­ the HEC ­
implemented the prior actions, as set out in the program document. As a result of its
successful and timely implementation of these prior actions, the program appeared to be
well on its way to achieving the long-term goals that had been set out in the HEC's
MTDF. The complete set of program development objectives could understandably not
have been achieved within one year. However, the HEC's remarkable progress in
implementing its reform agenda through the initiatives agreed under the three year
program, even without the Bank's continued financial and technical support, has laid an
excellent foundation on which a sound, sturdy, equitable and high-quality higher
education sector can be built to support Pakistan's development objectives.

The prior actions selected by the World Bank had a key role to play in this. A steady
commitment of financial resources was obtained through the prior actions identified
under 1.4 (d) to facilitate the financial viability of the reform program.

The tenure-track system helped public sector universities attract and retain a number of
qualified teachers. Representatives of universities interviewed for the preparation of this
ICR were of the opinion that this facility had enabled the public sector to maintain the
quality of instruction at a time where it seemed that teaching resources would be lost to
the private universities that were offering more competitive remuneration packages.

However, some prior actions and desired outcomes of the program did not appear to have
any immediate and direct linkage with the stated objectives. An example of this was the
prioritization of measures to encourage the participation of the private sector (1.4 (b))
over and above other measures to directly increase access to education ­ such as
improvements and expansion in distance-learning facilities. Prioritizing the expansion of
distance-learning facilities might have more directly impacted both the goals of access
and equity. While promotion of the private sector through approvals that would enable
already established and planned private universities to qualify for financial assistance
would help achieve the objective of access, with longer-term payoffs, the equity objective
would only have been served tangentially through this route since just a small percentage
of students enrolled in such institutions would be able to get financial assistance on need
basis and the payoffs would come in the long-term. Selecting actions on the basis of long-
term payoffs was a recognition of the fact that the program's objectives could not be
accomplished over the course of a single year; the prior actions simply being an integral
part of the complete set of initiatives set out in the HESP. These actions were also
selected based on the implementation capacity of both the HEC and the GoP and on what
could meaningfully be achieved within this time period.

The HEC, as the executing agency, ensured that all 3 key outcome indicators were met
within the first year of the program. The indicators included an increase in enrollments,
an increase in the number of PhDs produced by domestic universities, and an increase in
the number of publications in international refereed journals by faculty in Pakistani
universities. The actual outcomes at the end of the first year were: a) more than one-third
(37%) of the increase in total enrollment was attributable to students enrolled in science
and engineering; b) the number of PhDs produced by Pakistani universities exceeded the



                                            5
target of 550 (reaching a total of 613); and c) Pakistani publications in journals of
international repute easily met the required target of 3500 publications (a total of 3639).

Assessing the program's performance pillar by pillar:

i) Improving the quality and relevance of teaching and research.
To ensure the quality and relevance of teaching and research and incentivize a stable,
secure and continuous improvement in the quality of human capital at the higher
education level, the HEC developed a) a scholarship/PhD program to augment the size of
the pool of skilled and qualified faculty, including the foreign training of all PhD
candidates; b) a performance-based tenure track system and support linkages for faculty;
and c) programs and systems to support linkages with industry through the financing of
research of commercial value.

To increase the supply of skilled faculty in HEIs, the HEC satisfied the prior condition
for ensuring tenure track positions for faculty. The tenure track statutes were revised and
finalized, with 31 public sector universities implementing them by mid-2009, hiring over
500 teachers under the tenure track system. As mentioned above, this was one of the
outstanding achievements of the HESP, enabling public sector universities to remain
competitive. The other actions and performance indicators outlined in the HESP under
this objective were also met. These included the expansion of the overseas and
indigenous scholarship programs (2,138 such scholarships were granted in 2008 alone)
and the increase in grants for the indigenous PhD program (613 Pakistani PhD graduates
were produced in early 2008/09). A review of the "Professional Competency
Enhancement Program for Teachers" was undertaken and a Teaching and Learning
Resource Material was developed by the HEC, through which the baseline targets of
2008/09 were satisfied.

The second policy goal under this pillar was improving the quality of courses and
programs taught in HEIs. While none of the actions listed in the HESP or the HEC's
MDTF were labelled as prior actions, significant progress was made on many of them,
yet another demonstration of the HEC's commitment to reform. A uniform framework
was developed for a 4-year Bachelor's program in the Basic and Social Sciences, as well
as in Engineering. A standardized format for courses in all these disciplines was
circulated after 44 National Curriculum Revision Committees had convened. By 2008/09,
22 new curricula were ready to be sent to universities for implementation. In addition to
Universities, twenty-six provincial colleges have been selected by the Government of
Punjab to make the shift to a 4-year undergraduate program. This new academic structure
was to become operational from the academic year 2008/09. Guidelines for new
assessment techniques ­ a necessary adaptation to changes in the structure of the
academic program ­ were prepared and shared with all public sector universities for
feedback. Eleven awareness workshops were conducted and 401 faculty members were
trained in implementing the semester examination system. Again, all outcome indicators
tied to these actions were met. Thirty-two post-graduate programs were also reviewed on
the basis of criteria developed by the HEC in consultation with all relevant stakeholders.




                                            6
Finally, to deal with the problem of outreach of distance education, Directorates of
Distance Education were established at 6 public sector universities.

The third policy goal under this pillar was to bring teaching and research outputs in line
with development objectives. For this purpose, the National Curriculum Revision
Committees included 15% representation from industry, related professions and relevant
stakeholders. To further facilitate this, a University-Industry Technology Support
Program was designed by the HEC, which provided research grants up to Rs. 6 million
for a period of two years for particular projects. Simultaneously, a process of rigorous
peer review has been implemented for any research proposals to receive funding. PERN-
II was launched in accordance with the targets laid out in the HESP, 1 GB internet
connectivity has been provided to 17 public and private HEIs, and access to an online
library with over 45,000 books and 23,000 journals has been made available to 42 HEIs.
24 linkage programs with international universities were also put in place to improve
research quality ­ these offered joint split PhD programs, joint research programs, and
joint faculty visits. To maintain the quality of research, the HEC decided to earmark
particular journals that qualified for publications; 129 such research journals were being
recognized by HEC by 2008/09. At the same time, the HEC approved a policy that
allowed faculty from private sector universities to receive 100% research funding through
the HEC's Research Support Program.

ii) Expanding access and increasing equity in higher education.
To enhance access and equity objectives through inclusion and opportunities for all, the
HEC supported the establishment of universities in underserved areas, expansion of
physical and associated infrastructural capacities and services in existing institutions of
higher learning, extension of facilities and scope of disciplines on offer by institutions
offering distance-learning opportunities and needs-based scholarships to ease the
financial burden of talented children from less affluent households to enable them to
pursue tertiary education in both public and private universities. In total, 803,507 students
were enrolled in HEIs in Pakistan in 2008/09, as opposed to 738,373 students in 2007/08.
Given the focus on expansion of enrollments and universities in increasing access,
concerns have been expressed about the short-term tradeoffs between expansion and
quality. The HEC has been mindful of this and has addressed these issues through a
variety of interventions: the tenure track statutes for faculty members, improved research
grants, Faculty/Professional Development Programs to improve pedagogical skills,
critical non-salary inputs such as technology, improved laboratory facilities and qualified
support staff and by launching its consolidation phase in 2008/09 under which there
would be no new construction activity and all resources would be devoted to the
completion of the already-approved development schemes.

The first action taken to enhance equitable access to higher education has been to
increase enrollments in AIOU and VU; to further the same objective, funding was
allocated to 5 new distance-learning institutes. Financial aid offices were established in
32 public institutions and 8 private institutions, and an agreement was signed with
USAID to help establish and strengthen 25 more by assisting in fund-raising, and provide
initial support in setting up a Student Loan program. Through this the target of 750



                                             7
needs-based scholarships for the 2008/09 year was easily met. Moreover, the HEC's
efforts to enhance access through the establishment of universities in underserved areas
and improving opportunities for distance-learning were particularly successful in
increasing the enrollment of females in higher level education.

To promote private sector participation in the sector, identified as an important resource
for complementing Government efforts to expand access and equity in higher education,
both the actions outlined in the HEC's MTDF-HE were selected as prior actions for the
HESP. The first action was the approval of the policy of transfer of public funds to high-
quality private sector universities, as long as they met "need-blind" admission
requirements. The policy was approved, and at the end of the first year, 18 private sector
universities met the requirements set out by this policy, and hence qualified for public
funding. The second action, the HEC's approval and implementation of specific criteria
for the establishment of private HEIs, was put into immediate effect. In addition, the
HEC began to recommend particular institutions (5 so far) to the Federal and Provincial
Governments for the grant of a charter under the new criteria.

iii) Strengthening the governance and management of higher education.
Within this policy area, the assigned prior action was adequately completed; 20 HEIs
were equipped with functional Quality Enhancement Cells (QECs) by the end of the
program. Some of Pakistan's premier institutions, having greater capacity to implement
quality assurance measures, had made appropriate headway on this front. However, since
traditional mindsets in several HEIs are not familiar with ways of assessing quality
enhancement and HEC presently also lacks the capacity to play a much more active hand-
holding and mentoring role this pillar will continue to pose a challenge in the foreseeable
future. This appears to be an area where the Bank can play a major role by providing
technical assistance. With respect to the rest of the actions outlined under the governance
aspect of higher education, a Draft Framework for Institutional Performance Review was
prepared, and a "Quality Assurance Manual for Higher Education in Pakistan" to
streamline assessment of quality enhancement cells was issued. The existing Quality
Assurance Agency under the HEC was strengthened and made responsible for
formalizing agreements with existing councils in Pakistan and for forming 4 new
accreditation councils, dealing with information technology education, business
education, agricultural education, and teachers' education; this was in addition to HEC's
role in overseeing the QECs.

Not much progress has been realized in bolstering the capacity of the HEC with respect
to enhancing the capability of its human capital and its ability to develop a robust
communication strategy with stakeholders. Moreover, only the software module relating
to Campus Management Higher Education Management Information System (HEMIS)
was successfully launched in 8 universities. To address the issue of financial planning
and management, the Ministry of Finance made certain that recurring and development
grants were released to the HEC in accordance with budgetary allocations. At the same
time, the HEC ensured that an integrated budget and expenditure reporting system was in
place at the level of HEC; through which, financial statements were made available
within 4 months of the end of each financial year. There is a need to make similar



                                            8
arrangements in HEIs, and to expand the scope of the HEMIS beyond the Campus
Management module so that it eventually becomes a comprehensive, sectoral
management system. The Bank is ready to assist in this effort.

Finally, a major component of the goal pertaining to management reform related to
procurement of goods and services; for this, a draft HEC Procurement Manual was
prepared in consultation with the PPRA. This was one of the prior actions necessary for
the development credit and was successfully fulfilled. Currently, procurement notices and
notices of awards are posted on the HEC website.

iv)    Improving financial sustainability and streamlining expenditure in higher
education.
The final pillar of the HESP encompassed three goals. The first was to ensure funding for
the higher education sector within a sustainable framework; these were prior actions and
were met. Ensuring that the higher education sector received a commitment for its full
share of funding at a time when fiscal resources were strained was a major achievement
of the HEC's and Bank's lobbying efforts with the GoP under the HESP. A Medium-
Term Financing Framework was approved by the MOF for FY2009-10 and FY2011-
2012, guaranteeing funding for these years. The MOF released the recurrent and
development grants to the HEC in accordance with the commitment for FY2008-09.

To address the goal of resource diversification for HEIs, the HEC organized international
conferences on mobilizing resources for higher education, funded the travel abroad of
relevant individuals in the higher education sector to attend training workshops and
brought together Vice-Chancellors and Rectors of universities around the country for
consultation on these topics. Here, the Bank maintained its engagement and presence by
assisting the organization of these conferences and by providing related support.

List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                          Status
Finance Division issues, and HEC notifies model Tenure Track statutes     Met
for faculty staff in public HEIs
The Planning Commission notifies approval of policy allowing high         Met
quality private sector HEIs to qualify for up to 50% funding for
development projects, subject to meeting "need-blind" access
requirements
HEC notifies approval of, and implements, revised criteria for            Met
establishment of private HEIs
Public HEIs establish Quality Enhancement Cells (QECs) as per agreed      Met
criteria
HEC prepares a comprehensive Draft Procurement Handbook for goods,        Met
works and services and forward to PPRA for comments
MOF approves the Medium-Term Financing Framework (MTFF) for               Met
HEC for FY2009/10-FY2011/12
MOF releases quarterly recurrent and development grants to HEC as per     Met
FY2008/09 allocations for the third and fourth quarters



                                               9
2.2    Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

The implementation of the HESP was completed successfully. Some of the major factors
that enabled this are discussed below:

The operation had been designed to support the HEC's medium-term development
framework, and therefore had the full commitment and ownership of the implementing
agency. Not only did this facilitate significant progress on all the actions outlined in the
MTDF but also ensured continuity in the implementation of the reform agenda even after
Bank support was discontinued.

The prior actions selected were all within the capacity of the HEC, and were managed,
performed, and monitored successfully by the HEC itself, to the satisfaction of the Bank.

All proposed actions were clear, straightforward, and realistic, building towards the
achievement of the PDOs over a period of time. This meant that the program was
efficiently implemented, without unnecessary delays in sorting out overtly complex
program requirements. It was also a testament to the commitment displayed by the HEC
and the GoP in the concerted attention paid to higher education over a number of years.

The HEC's earnestness, flexibility and resolve in taking timely corrective measures,
adjusting its interventions, benchmarks, criteria for funding allocations, norms and
standards relating to workload of universities, academic operations (with respect to
awards of degrees), quality, accreditation and monitoring and mechanisms and processes
of interaction between students and teachers, as and when required to achieve the
underlying objectives, were critical in ensuring the successful implementation of the
program. Just one example of this was the shift in favor of quality assurance instead of
enrollment expansion, when a debate started on the tradeoffs between an accelerated
growth in enrollment and the quality of education imparted. To address this, the HEC is
now preferring the completion of ongoing schemes to expand facilities to accommodate
increased enrollment, rather than starting new ones. The focus is clearly on completion of
approved development schemes, consolidation, development of human resources,
strengthening quality assurance mechanisms and associated management tools.

As already explained above, the 3-year HESP could not be implemented. This was not
owing to any slippages on account of the executing agency, the HEC, in fulfilling the
obligations within its control. It performed admirably and not only met the program's
prior actions but has continued to faithfully implement its own reform agenda. The risks
of an uncertain macroeconomic situation had been identified earlier in the program
document, although given a moderate ranking on the assumption that such a risk would
be mitigated by an IMF Stand-by arrangement, the Bank's PRESO and the Fiscal
Responsibility and Debt Limitation Act of the GoP. The rapid turn of events that
followed could not have been predicted. A combination of external factors, weak
economic management during the tenure of the interim government in the transition to
democracy, mounting militancy trends and resulting political instability added to these




                                            10
anxieties, making the stabilization of the macroeconomic environment a difficult
endeavour.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the reforms outlined in the
HESP was undertaken by the HEC itself. However, the Bank continued to maintain
contact with the HEC to keep itself abreast of developments and to provide technical
support through sustained dialogue, with the intention of developing another program
building on the strong foundations of the HESP. The Monitoring and Evaluation
department of the HEC, in conjunction with the HEC's regional centers, was responsible
for making sure that the reforms proceeded as planned; each department gathered data
that allowed the HEC to assess whether outcome indicators had been met. Both the HEC
and HEIs put forward some baseline data to ensure that a proper comparison would be
possible by the time the HESP's reforms came to fruition. By instituting conditions such
as peer reviews the academic community as a whole was made responsible for making
certain that quality improvement reforms made an impact. Reforms related to financial
sustainability and the streamlining expenditures were managed by the HEC and the
Expenditure Unit of the Ministry of Finance; this cooperation was critical in ensuring that
program funding was not disrupted.

To monitor the new tenure track system the HEC's Quality Assurance Division carried
out periodic assessments. In addition, on-site visits conducted by the HEC to collect
information that would facilitate an objective ranking of universities in Pakistan enabled
it to assess the implementation of the tenure track system. Similarly, concerns about the
quality of indigenous PhD graduates were addressed by introducing an external examiner
for the final PhD dissertation, an automatic monitor for ensuring quality in local PhD
programs.

While the above initiatives ensured that the reforms were being implemented as planned,
some monitoring and evaluation measures were built into the HESP itself. These included
steps dealing with the strengthening of the governance and management systems in
higher education. A comprehensive Higher Education Management Information System
(HEMIS) has been set up under the program, reaching out to 8 universities in its early
stages. This was not prioritized in the key reforms selected by the Bank, but was carried
forward by the HEC, aiding in speedy and reliable data collection and analysis. It also
facilitated the HEC in its efforts to plan the sector's future strategy, allowing for easy
monitoring and a rigorous follow-up mechanism. There is, as mentioned earlier, a need to
extend the entire HEMIS to HEIs, going beyond the installation of the Campus
Management module alone. This should incorporate budgeting and expenditure reporting
systems. The aim should be to make this a national HEMIS, contributing to better
monitoring of the higher education sector.




                                            11
2.4     Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

The Bank is in the process of designing a follow-up operation for the HESP. Instead of an
instrument based on budgetary support, rendered doubtful by the sensitively poised
macroeconomic situation, the Bank is considering a project that would be in the form of a
results-based programmatic Investment Loan with Disbursement Linked Indicators
(DLI).Preparatory meetings for such an engagement are underway.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance of objectives: The objectives of the HESP ­ intended to create a large skilled
workforce in Pakistan that could contribute to the country's rapid economic growth ­ are
fully consistent with the FY06-09 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the mutually
reinforcing Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The HESP's objectives clearly
endeavour to accomplish the CAS's goals of sustainable growth and improved
competitiveness, along with improved public service delivery in the realm of higher
education. Finally, the larger and more general goal of improving lives and protecting the
vulnerable will be served by the HESP's aim to support Pakistan's economic growth by
creating a skilled workforce.

Design: The success of the program depended to a large extent in the HEC's commitment
to its own MDTF, which formed the basis of the reforms proposed by the Bank in the
HESP. The overarching design of the project, spread as it was over a three year period,
was relevant. The goals outlined (for example, increasing the supply of skilled faculty
and improving quality and relevance of research in HEIs, to name only a couple) were
integral parts of a project designed to revamp the state of the higher education sector in
Pakistan. The actions set out under each policy goal were realistic and achievable,
aspiring to contribute to the PDOs over a period of time.

Implementation: The program was successfully implemented; all prior actions were met
and significant progress was made on most of the other actions identified for the
subsequent years of the program. The HEC, in conjunction with the World Bank,
managed to not only meet but also exceed most of the outcome indicators chalked out for
the year 2008/09 under the HESP. The overall PDOs were not met, but this could not be
attributed to implementation failure; this was simply owing to the fact that the HESP was
scaled down from a 3-year programmatic series to a 1-year development policy credit.

Most importantly, from the point of view of implementation, the HEC continuously
undertook policy adjustments and revisions if the outcomes of a particular action did not
meet the required objectives. To ensure that the outcome indicators indicated in the
project design to increase the supply of skilled faculty addressed the goal of improving
the quality of teaching ­ instead of simply being an increase in numbers, as some
departmental Deans and Vice-Chancellors in public universities interviewed for this ICR
had suggested ­ HEC was determined to standardize the level of skill attained by PhD


                                                12
graduates in Pakistani universities. This was done by introducing external examiners for
PhD programs. Similarly, recognizing that the initial scholarship program discriminated
against students studying social sciences, the HEC has introduced a quota for social
science students in all new scholarship awards, which is now being strictly adhered to.
The quota for students studying natural and applied sciences having been exhausted, all
remaining scholarships are now being availed by those studying social sciences.
Correctional measures of this nature meant that implementation of all actions was
inextricably linked to outcomes and objectives, making sure that all measures taken were
always consistent with the aims of the program.

3.2     Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)

As mentioned earlier, the HESP was originally meant to be a 3-year programmatic series;
this was shortened to a single credit because of macroeconomic imbalances. As a result, it
would not be fair to assess the PDOs in terms of their completion or incompletion; the
HESP can only be assessed by reviewing the achievements of the objectives laid out for
FY2008/09, and whether these objectives and the actions taken to achieve them would
lead to the fulfillment of the PDOs if progress continues as planned. In our view, all the
actions taken by the HEC have been necessary steps towards the achievement of the
HESP's goal to create an adaptable and skilled labor force by significantly enhancing the
quality and reach of higher education in Pakistan.

Most importantly, the HEC's commitment to the PDOs has continued even after the
Bank's financial assistance ­ through the HESP ­ was terminated. This is evidenced by
the progress made by the HEC on all aspects of its reform program, ensuring that the
Bank, in any follow-up engagement with the HEC, will not be starting from a benchmark
based on the actions prescribed for the first year of the HESP, but rather from the
significant achievements made by the HEC even after Bank support was discontinued.
The HEC has laid solid and strong foundations on which the edifice of a vibrant higher
education sector can be built.

Detailed progress on each outcome indicator is given below:

Key Outcome Indicator 1: One-third of the increase in enrollments in HEIs between
2007/08 and 2008/09 should be attributable to students studying science and engineering.
This target was an illustration of the HESP's aim to create a skilled workforce to meet the
country's needs, focusing to a large extent on developing graduates with the requisite
scientific expertise to contribute to industry and technical research in Pakistan. Between
the years 2007/08 and 2008/09, there was a 6% increase in student enrollments (an
increase of 17688 students). Of these, 6,568 students enrolled in scientific disciplines­ a
37% increase, exceeding the target of 33%.

Key Outcome Indicator 2: The number of PhD graduates produced by Pakistani
universities was to increase to 550 by the year 2008/09.



                                               13
This target was a reflection of a number of policy goals delineated by the HEC: an
increase in the pool of skilled faculty available to universities, an improvement in the
capacity of Pakistani HEIs, and the development of an indigenous and self-sufficient
faculty development mechanism ­ allowing the HEC to move away from the expensive
foreign scholarship scheme over a period of time. This performance indicator was in fact
exceeded, with 613 PhD graduates produced by Pakistani universities by 2008/09,
reflecting progress in all the policy areas sketched out above. Various adjustments
undertaken by the HEC during the course of the reform program ­ such as the
introduction of external examiners for PhD dissertations ­ ensured that this indicator truly
reflected an increase in the quality of graduates and potential teachers in Pakistan.

Key Outcome Indicator 3: The number of publications put forward by Pakistani
scholars in journals of international repute was to increase to at least 3,500 by 2008/09
from 2,500 in 2007/08.
This target was linked to the objectives of increasing quality research outputs from
Pakistani universities through revised curricula and a peer review process for funding
research, expanding the capacity of qualified faculty, and acting as an indicator of the
research capabilities and skills of Pakistani scholars. This target was again exceeded. By
the end of the HESP, 3,639 articles were published in 2008 in major international
journals, as opposed to the 2,474 publications of 2007.

3.3       Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

Rating:         Satisfactory

There has been remarkable progress on most of the key indicators of the HESP, and
almost all of the intermediate targets charted in the HEC's MTDF have been met. In
many cases, the required targets have been exceeded, showing exemplary advancement
on all fronts. These substantial achievements have meant that there have been noticeable
improvements in the quality of, and access to, higher education in Pakistan. The well-
structured design made certain that all actions supported the achievement of the PDOs,
and by allowing room for readjustments and corrections as the program progressed,
ensured that the PDOs remained relevant and that the reforms continued to facilitate the
achievement of the declared objectives.

3.4       Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a)       Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The aim of the HESP was to create a skilled workforce that could substantively
contribute to Pakistan's economic growth. This required fracturing the monopoly of the
elite over higher education and ensuring equitable access to HEIs; by doing this, the
program aimed not only to reduce poverty by allowing more individuals to attain higher
levels of education and therefore have access to more job opportunities, but also to
contribute to social development by neutralizing the role of some social biases that


                                               14
discriminate in favor of the educated elite. The continuation of the international and
domestic scholarship schemes put in place by the HEC were significantly bolstered by
the HESP; by ensuring that funds committed by the MoF were transferred to the HEC,
the program managed to meet all the targets relating to scholarships to be handed out in
FY2008/09, thereby making the desired impact on poverty reduction.

The program did not specifically operate under a gender-specific approach in increasing
equitable access to higher education ­ rather, it was cast solely in terms of those who
were not economically privileged to have access to HEIs, and those who were. However,
by expanding the pool of individuals who were able to enroll in HEIs, the HESP was
expected to have a positive impact on the number of women who graduated from
university in Pakistan. Although between 2007/08 and 2008/09, the number of women
enrolled in university in Pakistan increased by a mere 0.1%, their enrollment had risen
dramatically in previous years, their share in the student population having risen from just
under 37% in 2001/02 to 46.4% in 2006/07 as a result of the expansion of universities in
underserved areas and in the provision of distance learning opportunities.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

Much of the focus of the HESP was on institutional development; this was especially true
of the policy areas of the project that focused on governance, management and fiscal
sustainability. Significant progress was made in the following ways:
I.      Instituting the Campus Management module of the HEMIS was a major step to
ensure that the use of a Management Information System becomes widespread in HEIs
across Pakistan over time. This system will make available, to the HEC, information on
indicators and statistics relevant to higher education, thereby improving efficiency in
management and strategic future planning.
II.     Procurement reforms were ensured through the prior actions selected by the Bank.
III.    Some progress was made towards fiscal sustainability by ensuring that the MOF
granted the HEC funds to continue with many of its expensive reform policies (such as
the scholarship program).

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Nothing of significance. There was enough flexibility in the interventions and the reform
program that enabled necessary corrections to be made in a timely manner.

3.5     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
No such surveys or workshops were conducted. However, the team visited a number of
public and private HEIs around the country, holding discussions with faculty members
and members of the administration in several universities as part of an attempt to gauge
the relative merits and demerits of the reform program. (See Annex 2 for details).




                                                15
4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating:         Substantial

A number of risks that might have threatened the outcome of the program were identified
at the outset. These were: (i) the turbulent political situation; (ii) the shaky
macroeconomic situation; (iii) a concern about inter- and intra-sectoral trade-offs that
might not favor the higher education sector; (iv) internal resistance from faculty,
administrators, and even students; (v) capacity constraints at the level of both the HEC
and the individual administration of HEIs; and (vi) finally, fiduciary issues that create
concerns related to weak financial management and procurement.

It was felt that these would be mitigated by the wide-spread and unanimous support
within Pakistan for higher education despite frequent political changes; coordinated
action taken by the Bank, the IMF and other donors to help the GoP to ensure that
stabilization measures proceeded as planned; by engaging all stakeholders in continuous
dialogue to reduce these risks; addressing capacity constraints through a gradual
implementation of reforms and by ensuring that the HEC remained an autonomous body;
and finally, through improved accounting practices under the PIFRA regime, combined
with the enhancement of the financial management capacity in the HEC and through the
revamping of the procurement rules and regulations.

However, as already noted above, one of the outlined risks ­ the uncertain
macroeconomic situation ­ affected the continuation of original design of the HESP as a
programmatic credit series over a period of 3 years. It was transformed into a single
tranche program.

5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1       Bank Performance

(a)       Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performed satisfactorily in meeting all its commitments under the HESP. Upon
the successful completion of all prior actions, the Bank transferred the development
policy credit immediately. The assurance of financial support, contingent upon the HEC
continuing to implement its MTDF-HE, allowed the Bank to play a positive role, by
influencing the dialogue between HEC and the MOF on the availability of funding for
the recurrent expenditures and development programs of the higher education sector
within the constraints imposed by the fiscal consolidation efforts of the GoP's. During the
program the Bank coordinated with the HEC regularly, maintaining a strong process of


                                              16
dialogue through both formal and informal meetings, as well as assisting the HEC in
organizing conferences, workshops and introducing other key measures that strengthened
the HEC's ability to implement the program. The PDOs formulated by the Bank remained
relevant throughout the program and the design of the project ­ including the prior
actions selected ­ made sure that all development objectives could be met through the
steps taken under the HESP.

(b)     Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)

Rating:         Satisfactory

The Bank staff made regular visits to the HEC to oversee progress on prior actions, but
allowed all other monitoring and evaluation measures to be undertaken by the HEC itself.
The Bank's task team, composed of its Team Leaders, Procurement Specialists, Financial
Management Specialists, Senior Economists and consultants, was adequately equipped
for the work assigned to it. Even after the closure of the HESP, the Bank maintained its
dialogue with the HEC with the specific aim of supporting the development of the higher
education sector through a different financing instrument. Presently, preparatory
meetings for a follow-up operation are underway (the last such mission was completed in
May, 2010), allowing the Bank to keep itself abreast of current developments and to
assess the HEC's continued commitment to pursuing its reform agenda.

(c)       Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating:         Satisfactory

The Bank continued to engage with the GoP, in particular the MOF, and the HEC in
providing technical support and ensuring the continued flow of resources to the HEC
through the commitments made under the letter of intent signed by the GoP. Furthermore,
the Bank is in the process of developing a new instrument to provide technical and
financial support to the HEC and the GoP, with appropriate performance indicators and
Disbursement Linked Indicators (DLI).

5.2       Borrower Performance
NOTE: When the government and implementing agency are indistinguishable, provide rating and
justification only for Overall Borrower Performance.

(a)       Government Performance

Rating:         Satisfactory

In terms of complying with the terms set out in the HESP, the Government was
responsive; the MOF released recurrent and development funds as committed for the first
year of the program in its letter of intent, despite the budget cuts that were being made in
other areas. However, in view of the overall resource crunch, the availability of funding
for development spending in subsequent years is now being affected, although the sector


                                                17
has not been discriminated against in the allocations for the Federal PSDP, i.e. it is no
more worse off than any of the other sectors. The budgetary support that was indicated in
the letter of intent of the Government of Pakistan was as follows:
Years                       Recurring (Billion Rs.)        Development (Billion Rs.)
FY 2009/10                  21.5                           22.5
FY 2010/11                  28                             30
FY 2011/12                  38                             40


While the GoP met its commitments on allocations for the recurrent budget, the amount
eventually released for the development program for FY 2009/10 was only Rs. 11 billion
compared with the program pledge of Rs. 22.5 billion ­ a sharp cut in proportional terms
compared with the budgetary allocations and releases during the first seven years of the
investment program.

As drawn up in the HESP, the GoP's support was only meant to be financial. It must be
noted, however, that the Government played a strategic role in granting the HEC
considerable financial and administrative autonomy; this was a critical component of the
institutional arrangement designed to enable the HEC to successfully implement its
ambitious reform agenda.

The Bank decided it was no longer possible for it to support the HEC and the GoP
through a new budgetary support instrument because continued fiscal weaknesses and
shortfalls in external financing impeded sustainable macroeconomic stability. Spending
on security related issues, the resettlement of Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) placed a
huge additional burden on the Government's already stretched resources. However, in
view of the HEC's success in implementing all the strategic reform initiatives within its
control, the Bank is now planning to support the higher education sector in Pakistan
through a different financing instrument.

(b)       Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating:         Highly Satisfactory

The performance of the implementing agency, the HEC in this case, was exemplary. The
HESP was based on the HEC's MDTF-HE to such a degree that the HEC had complete
ownership of the reforms outlined under the HESP; because of this, not only did the HEC
implement the prior actions the Bank had selected but also made significant progress in
meeting the other targets marked out in the policy framework. The HEC also ensured the
efficient and effective monitoring of activities conducted under the program, updating
information that it shared regularly with stakeholders. Significant gains have been made
in the higher education sector even after the Bank's financial support was withdrawn,
auguring well for continued Bank engagement with the HEC.




                                              18
(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory
The Borrower largely complied with the terms and conditions set out in the HESP; other
than the GoP's inability to fulfill its commitment on financing in the years following the
HESP, Borrower performance ­ and specifically that of the implementing agency, the
HEC ­ was satisfactory.

6.      Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)
Complete ownership by the Borrower is essential for the momentum of reforms to be
sustained. The Bank's financing was tied only to the achievement of the prior actions in
the HESP. Had the HEC not fully owned the program and not been committed to its own
MTDF, substantial progress could not have attained in implementing other components
of the reform program.

Committed leadership and political will is extremely important in spearheading reforms.
Without the professional and competent leadership of the HEC, and the commitment of
the GoP to continue to support higher education, the reform agenda of the HEC could not
have been pursued in this manner.

Flexibility in project design is critical. A large measure of the successful performance of
the HEC stemmed from its commitment to monitor progress and institute corrective
measures when it felt that the outcomes of its policies were not consistent with, or
hampering, the achievement of the overall objectives of the program. While all key
players in the higher education sector were going up a learning curve, the flexibility with,
and the timely manner in, which, actions were carried out have been critical to this
success.

In an environment in which resource availability is uncertain or constrained the financial
sustainability aspects need to be factored early into the program design. These
considerations should influence the nature and scope of the proposed interventions,
instruments and mechanisms to achieve the desired goals without unduly compromising
the objectives of access and equity.

Sustained support by the Bank, outside the realm of assured funding, is necessary. There
were a number of areas in this program where ­ while progress was made ­ the provision
of technical assistance could have made it easier for all principle stakeholders to
implement the reforms speedily, efficiently, and in a cost-effective manner. An example
of this is the establishment of Quality Enhancement Cells in universities; with extended
guidance and external support, HEIs in Pakistan would have found the institution of self-
assessment systems a simpler exercise than their experience to date.




                                               19
7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

No major issues were raised.

(b)     Co-Financiers

Not applicable.

(c)     Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           20
Annex 1     Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Naveed Hassan Naqvi       Senior Education Economist           SASED   TTL
Benoit Millot                                                  SASHD   CO-TTL
Yoko Nagashima            Education Specialist                 SASED   Education
Saeeda Sabah Rashid       Financial Management Specialist      SARFM   FM
Asif Ali                  Senior Procurement Specialist        SARPS   Procurement
Javaid Afzal              Senior Environmental Specialist      SASDI   Environment
Shahzad Sharjeel          Senior Communications Officer        AFREX   Communication
Mohammed Allak            Consultant                                   Education
                                                                       Private-Public
Norman LaRocque           Consultant
                                                                       Partnerships
Kai-Ming Cheng            Consultant                                   Endowment Funds
Supervision
Naveed Hassan Naqvi       Senior Education Economist           SASED   TTL
Benoit Millot             Consultant                           SASHD   Education
Saeeda Sabah Rashid       Financial Management Specialist      SARFM   FM
Asif Ali                  Senior Procurement Specialist        SARPS   Procurement




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                           USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                          19.26                    256.87
  FY08                                          32.72                    258.98
  FY09                                          25.30                     95.92
                          Total:                                         611.77
Supervision/ICR
  FY10                                           7.57                     42.70
                          Total:                77.28                     42.70




                                           21
Annex 2.      Beneficiary Survey Results        (if any)

While no Beneficiary Survey was held, the ICR team visited several universities across
Pakistan to discuss the progress and outcomes of the higher education reform program
with the Vice Chancellors and Deans and gather their views on the achievement and
shortcomings of the ongoing interventions in the sector, and identify the way forward.
These universities are listed below:

1.     Lahore University of Management Sciences, Lahore (LUMS)
2.     Government College University, Lahore (GCU)
3.     University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore (UET)
4.     University of Sindh, Jamshoro
5.     Quaid-e-Azam University, Islamabad




                                           22
Annex 3.   Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Nil




                                  23
Annex 4.      Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of the HEC's ICR

The Higher Education Support Program (HESP) of the World Bank was instrumental in
ensuring that the implementation of all projects and programs of reform and development
of the higher education sector in Pakistan continued uninterrupted; allowing it to meet or
exceed the targets of the outcome indicators identified in the HESP Policy Framework.
Universities are complex enterprises and any support program envisioning their
development must address numerous inter-dependent aspects of university operation,
while also ensuring sustainability of the initiatives once the program has been completed.
The ambitious plan of action developed under the HESP, therefore, addressed issues
including undergraduate programs, postgraduate education and research, promotion of
research, faculty development, aligning university outputs with industry requirements,
enhancement of equitable access to university education and implementation of a
comprehensive program of program and institutional accreditation and quality assurance.
The plan also outlined important fiscal sustainability, governance and management
initiatives that were required for enhanced effectiveness of the interventions.

Quality remained at the heart of all activities of the Higher Education Commission as a
matter of policy. Tremendous demand exists in Pakistan for higher education, especially
in the professional disciplines of engineering, medicine, pharmacy, etc. It was therefore
important to institutionalize quality assurance systems that would place an effective
check in quantitative increases in student numbers at that expense of quality. The HEC
managed to effectively balance the push-pull forces of quantity and quality, increasing
enrollment in science and engineering disciplines with 37% of new enrollments
attributable to these subjects. Similarly the strong growth in PhD student output was in
conjunction with an equally impressive growth in International Journal publications from
Pakistan. While funding of indigenous PhD scholars ensured that an enhanced number of
students were facilitated to pursue advanced degrees, strong quality requirements of
entrance examinations, structured postgraduate curriculum, vetting of dissertation by
international referees and the requirement of international journal publication for award
of PhD ensured that quality objectives were also met. Similarly the availability of an
international research opportunity for PhD students created a strong demand for it but the
requirement that the students get placement at a top ranked university of the world
ensured that participation in this activity led to improvement in quality of the PhD work.
It was heartening indeed to see that more than 50% of the students on the 6 month
scholarship obtained other funding to stay another 6 months and that each award resulted
in at least a journal publication in a leading international journal.

The scholarship program of the HEC was designed with the primary objective of
producing PhD qualified future faculty members and it was therefore important to ensure
that the maximum number of institutions adopted the Tenure Track System of
appointment allowing young fresh PhD scholars to be absorbed in universities as
Assistant Professors. A significant majority of all public sector higher education



                                           24
institutions adopted TTS, hiring over 835 tenure track faculty and consequently the target
of increasing PhD qualified faculty by 300 was met. A considerable effort was required
for the introduction of a new system of appointment of faculty members of universities
and this system has already fundamentally altered the faculty landscape of universities.
Becoming a university faculty member is an employment of choice in Pakistan.
The introduction of the four-year integrated Bachelor (Hons) degree provided myriad
new opportunities to school leavers to pursue the discipline of their choice in a university
environment in Pakistan. The curriculum for 4 ­ Year programs have been developed in
2008-09 and 22 in 2009-10 in a systematic manner in consultation with industry to
ensure their relevance. The first two years of these programs were specifically structured
to allow delivery at affiliated colleges offering 14-year traditional Bachelor degree
programs. Thus the HEC has been able to ensure that the new system undergraduate
education introduced in the universities is not at variance with system at the affiliated
colleges in the country. The Provinces were brought on board using the platform of the
Steering Committee of higher education, which has secretary level representation from all
the Provinces, regarding the transition to the new four-year Bachelor (Hons) program,
and various mechanisms for their gradual introduction in leading affiliated colleges were
discussed. As a consequence 26 colleges in Punjab are going to pilot the four-year
program starting Fall 2010.

Traditional methods of provision of higher education in Pakistan include the regular on-
campus university and college programs as well as the distance education programs
offered via the Allama Iqbal Open University and the Virtual University. Yet another
mechanism is that of "private" admissions whereby a student only enrolls for taking final
examinations of the University. Recognizing that the method of "private" admissions
may lead to compromise in quality of higher education, a program was launched for the
establishment of Directorates of Distance Learning for providing full distance learning
program support to "private" students. The BZ University, Multan is now functional and
the enrollment of external students is now being made in distance mode of education in
five disciplines.

The development of an environment conducive to research in universities that is relevant
to the socio-economic development needs of the country has been a core strategic
objective of programs launched by the Commission. To support high speed
audio/video/data communication between the institutions (Intranet) and to the world
(Internet) an exclusive IP based network (PERN II) having a 10GB backbone and
providing exclusive linkage between the higher education institutions was strengthened to
provide 1GB link to each institution. Work was also completed for the establishment of
video-conference rooms at each public sector university which allowed more than 70
universities and degree awarding institutions in the country to simultaneously interact
using video conferencing. This computer network also facilitated the bilateral funded
programs for linkage of Pakistani researchers with their counterparts in the UK and USA
respectively. Additional interaction opportunities were provided through the Travel
Grants program for presentation of research at local and international conferences as well
as the organization of local events. The HEC Digital Library Program ensured that more
than 70% of the world's published academic and scientific journals were made available



                                            25
to every institution, laying the foundation of an environment where access to information
was free and unfettered across all Institutions.

With research thriving in the country it was necessary to take steps to develop the
innovation support mechanisms to provide close linkage to existing industry requirements,
as well as the launch of new companies. For this purpose an exercise to understand the
innovation "Eco-System" was launched in collaboration with the Competitive Support
Fund (CSF). Leading innovators, industrialists, academicians, legal experts and
specialists are being consulted for the Innovation Strategy report currently under
preparation. CSF also partnered with HEC for the development of a Technology
Incubator at the Agricultural University of Faisalabad to help transition of research from
that institution to commercial world. Institutions of higher learning, whether public or
private, must be involved in research and for this purpose HEC research support
initiatives were made accessible to 16 private sector universities and degree awarding
institutions operating on not-for-profit basis. These private sector institutions also had full
access to the peer evaluated research grants provided by the HEC to support original
research work. These multitudinous efforts to promote research in Pakistan resulted in
publications in impact factor journals rising to beyond 4,000 for the first time in the
history of the country.

Enhancement of equitable access to higher education has remained a key objective of the
program for transformation and reform of the higher education system of Pakistan. It is
clear that the Government alone does not have the resources to provide solutions to all
the higher education needs of the country; therefore the private sector has to be facilitated
to support the efforts of the Government. A comprehensive policy to support private
sector higher education institutions, truly operating on a not-for-profit basis, was
approved and implemented allowing the Government to provide financial resources to the
private sector institutions primarily for supporting research activities and the launch of
programs in areas having direct relevance to the socio-economic development of the
country such as engineering and applied science and technology. The two premier
distance education providers in the country, AIOU and Virtual University, were also
encouraged and facilitated to enhance program offerings as well as to outreach the under-
served areas of the country- 13 sub-campuses of Virtual University are functional in
various parts of the country, mostly in remote and far flung areas. As a consequence both
enrollment and program offerings increased substantially, exceeding targets specified for
this purpose. To address issues of equity the number of scholarships available under the
needs-based scholarship program was also increased along with hostel facilities for
meritorious students from remote areas of the country. HEC has added residential
facilities to accommodate more than 10,000 students in all public HEIs during last 7
years. The availability of hostel facilities along with transportation for students living far
away from campus also had a positive impact on female enrollment in the country, which
continued to increase, thus narrowing the gender gap. An illustrative example is that of
the University of Gujrat, located in rural Punjab and enrolling more than 6,000 students
of which 53% are female students. Presently, 4 universities for women are operational in
the country and plans are under way to establish four more women universities in Multan,
Suikkur, AJK, and Faisalabad. Substantial headway was also made towards the



                                             26
development of a student loan scheme facility to be provided through the commercial
banks with first-loss support from the Government as well as donor agencies.

The mission of the Higher Education Commission identified it to be an organization
facilitating higher education institutions, helping build their capacity to serve as engines
of growth. Improvement in the governance and management of the HEIs was therefore an
important issue to be addressed to ensure long term fiscal and administrative
sustainability of reforms. Ownership of "Quality of Academic and Research Programs"
was considered to be the most important issue here since once a self-correcting system of
quality assurance and quality audit is in place, progress towards meeting the core
objectives of the higher education institutions is assured. The quality assurance agency
(QAA) of the HEC has the responsibility for the implementation of quality assurance
policies developed by the quality assurance department (QAD). At the institutional level
quality assurance cells play the role of "institutional owners" of quality and information
repositories that not only interface with all university departments and administrative
units but also liaise with external quality assurance bodies such as the accreditation
councils. A program for the establishment of these quality enhancement cells (QEC) at 61
institutions was implemented along with training of QEC staff and development of a
scorecard of Institutional QEC performance. The Quality Assurance Manual containing a
complete overview of procedure to be followed for internal quality assurance along with
standardized forms for data collection was developed and launched to support the work
of the QECs. The QECs helped launch a system of "internal" quality review of academic
and research programs, while the accreditation councils provide an "external" review
mechanism. Four new accreditation councils in Teacher Education, Computer Science
and IT, Agriculture, and Business Studies were launched to enhance quality of these
important undergraduate study programs having very large enrollments. For external
review of MS and PhD level programs, regional committees were constituted by the HEC
to visit each institution and assess degree of implementation of HEC quality policies.
Programs of 45 public and private sector institutions have been reviewed by the
Committee and recommendations have been placed before the Commission. Finally, to
enhance the performance at the Institutional level, a framework for institutional
performance assessment covering all aspects of operation of an institution of higher
learning was developed and launched. Thus the core framework placing quality at the
center of operation of HEIs was put in place.

The HEC is the central organization coordinating the efforts for improvement of higher
education in the country and it is clear that the capacity of HEC impacts its ability to
implement the ambitious programs for the development of higher education in the
country. For this purpose a two-pronged approach was adopted, focusing on hiring
talented young university graduates as well providing extensive training to the new hires
as well as existing employees. A program in collaboration with the Leadership
Foundation of the UK was launched to also provide exposure to HEC personnel to best
practices in the UK in their respective domains of operation. Good governance and
management also requires access to timely and accurate data for which the capacity of the
HEC statistics section was enhanced along with provision of a comprehensive campus
management solution to 8 pilot universities allowing for streamlining of university



                                            27
business processes, maintenance of accurate student data and provision of efficient
services to the university community. This program has been extremely successful and
remaining modules of HEMIS which includes HR and Financial Management System are
planned to be implemented in Phase-II. Additionally, every effort is being made to
implement HEMIS for all the other institutions as well in a phased manner. After two
years (by 2011-12) about 60% public HEIs will have HEMIS. The implementation of the
SAP software based financial management system in the Higher Education Commission
ensured that an integrated budget and expenditure reporting mechanism was in place
providing expedited processing as well as complete visibility into all financial matters.
This system must now be implemented at the institutional level as well so that the entire
financial system of higher education institutions in the country operates as one unit.

An area of concern for the HEC, first highlighted in the 2006 policy note of the World
Bank is that of communication of HEC to the stakeholders. To address this deficiency, a
comprehensive report on the first six years of achievements of the higher education
development program was documented and a special effort was launched to develop a
support base for work of the HEC. This included extensive meetings with legislators,
compilation of sectoral reports on HEC support to the Agriculture, IT, Engineering and
other sectors, focused meetings with education sector newspaper reporters. These
initiatives are integral to the communication strategy under preparation.

Macro-economic imbalances and the resulting fiscal stress means that public financial
support to the higher education sector would be impacted. It is clear that a major
challenge being faced by the higher education sector today pertains to funding in the
short and medium term.




                                           28
Higher Education Commission's Comments on the Bank ICR:


      Goal / Action                ICR Findings                  HEC Comments

Pillar 2: Expanding Access   Some prior actions and          It is clear that the
and Enhance Equity in        desired outcomes of the         Government alone does
higher education             program did not appear to       not have the resources to
                             have any immediate and          provide all solution to the
Goal 2: Promote              direct linkage with the         higher education needs of
participation of private     stated      objectives.   An    the country and the private
sector                       example of this was the         sector, therefore, has to be
Action: Approve policy       prioritization of measures to   facilitated to support the
allowing high quality        encourage the participation     efforts of the Government.
private sector HEIs to       of the private sector.          The policy has direct
qualify for up to 50%                                        impact on the objectives to
funding for development      Prioritizing the expansion of   promote quality higher
projects, subject to         distance-learning facilities    education in Pakistan. It
meeting `need-blind'         might have more directly        can be gauged from the
access requirements          impacted both the goals of      fact that enrollment in
                             access and equity.              private sector universities
                                                             has increased side by side
                                                             the enrollment in private
                                                             HEIs. The quality
                                                             initiatives of HEC are
                                                             being implemented in
                                                             private HEIs.
                                                             Additionally, HEC has
                                                             paid significant importance
                                                             to expand distance learning
                                                             facilities in the country and
                                                             enhance enrollment in
                                                             distance learning
                                                             universities. 13 additional
                                                             campuses of Virtual
                                                             University are functional
                                                             in various parts of the
                                                             country, mostly in remote
                                                             and far flung areas of the
                                                             country. To promote
                                                             distance education HEC
                                                             also provide funds for
                                                             establishment of TV
                                                             channels, Radio Stations
                                                             and e-lectures facilities.
                                                             The enrollment of VU and


                                         29
                                                              AIOU has increased
                                                              manifold from 89,749 in
                                                              2002 to 339,704 in 2009.
Goal 2:       Enhanced          In addition to Universities, 26 colleges in Punjab are
quality of courses and          twenty-six         provincial going to pilot the four-year
programs                        colleges have been selected program starting Fall 2010.
                                by the Government of
Action:         Hold            Punjab to make the shift to a
consultations for aligning      4-year         undergraduate
undergraduate programs          program.       This      new
       at affiliated colleges   academic structure was to
with universities.              become operational from the
                                academic year 2008/09
Pillar I: Improving quality     Simultaneously, a process of Research funding remained
and relevance of teaching       rigorous peer review has      concentrated in scientific
and research                    been implemented for any      and technological fields as
                                research proposals to         evident from following
Goal 3: Alignment of            receive funding.              from 2002-2008 as under:
teaching and research                                            Basic Sciences
outputs with development                                                      31%
objectives                                                       Biological Sciences
                                                                              28%
                                                                 Agricultural/Food
                                                                     Sciences16%
                                                                 Medical Sciences
                                                                                      11%
                                                                 Engineering
                                                                              9%
                                                                 Social Sciences
                                                                              11%

                                                              By introducing peer review
                                                              process, HEC is aligning
                                                              Pakistani research with
                                                              mechanisms used in
                                                              advanced countries, and is
                                                              departing from earlier
                                                              practices funded on ad hoc
                                                              decisions and/or alliances
                                                              of interests.
Pillar I: Improving quality     PERN-II was launched in       To support high speed
and relevance of teaching       accordance with the targets   audio/video/data
and research                    laid out in the HESP, 1 GB    communication between
                                internet connectivity has     the institutions (Intranet)
Goal 4: Improved quality        been provided to 17 public    and to the world (Internet)
and relevance of research       and private HEIs              and exclusive IP based


                                            30
undertaken in HEIs                Access to an online library   network (PERN II) having
Action :Introduce initiatives     with over 45,000 books and    a 10GB backbone and
to strengthen research            23,000 journals has been      providing exclusive
quality (inter/intra university   made available to 42 HEIs     linkage between the higher
IT structures ­ digital                                         education institutions was
resources ­ linkage                                             strengthened to provide
programs ­ publications)                                        1GB link to each
                                                                institution. Work was also
                                                                completed for the
                                                                establishment of video-
                                                                conference rooms at each
                                                                public sector university
                                                                which allowed more than
                                                                70 universities and degree
                                                                awarding institutions in the
                                                                country to simultaneously
                                                                interact using video
                                                                conferencing.

                                                                The HEC Digital Library
                                                                Program ensured that more
                                                                than 70% of the world's
                                                                published academic and
                                                                scientific journals were
                                                                made available to every
                                                                institution, laying the
                                                                foundation of an
                                                                environment where access
                                                                to information was free
                                                                and unfettered across all
                                                                Institutions

                                                                Plagiarism software
                                                                availability to 61 HEIs
Pillar I: Improving quality        24 linkage programs with
and relevance of teaching         international universities    More than 500 Teachers
and research                      were also put in place to     granted Travel Grant to
                                  improve research quality      participate in International
Goal 4: Improved quality                                        Conferences.
and relevance of research
undertaken in HEIs                                              Moreover, 31 linkage
Action :Introduce initiatives                                   programs with
to strengthen research                                          international universities
quality (inter/intra university                                 are in place.
IT structures ­ digital
resources ­ linkage                                             Criteria for HEC



                                              31
programs ­ publications)                                       recognized journals
                                                               developed and
                                                               implemented, so far 129
                                                               research journals have
                                                               been recognized by HEC.
Pillar II: Expanding access and enhancing equity in higher education
Goal 1: Increased equitable   Given the focus on               The issue raised in ICR has
access to higher education    expansion of enrollments         already been addressed in
                              and universities in              the self -assessment report
                              increasing access, concerns      of HESP, prepared by ED.
                              have been expressed about
                              the short-term tradeoffs
                              between expansion and
                              quality.
Goal 1: Increased equitable   to increase enrollments in            5          Development
access to higher education    AIOU and VU; funding was              projects included in
Action: Promote distance      allocated to 5 new distance-          PSDP           2009-10
learning through increasing   learning institutes                   mentioned in ICR
Virtual University and                                              instead of 5 new
AIOU enrollments                                                    distance       learning
                                                                    institutes.
                                                                Needs           also     to
                                                                    incorporate
                                                                    establishment of 13
                                                                    VU campuses mostly
                                                                    in remote and far
                                                                    flung areas which is
                                                                    already mentioned in
                                                                    status report sent for
                                                                    preparation of ICR.
Goal 1: Strengthen QA         traditional mindsets in          HEC has strong capacity
mechanisms for academic       several HEIs are not             for quality assurance in
programs                      familiar with ways of            HEIs, as demonstrated
                              assessing quality                with various concrete
Establish Quality             enhancement and HEC              programs and
Enhancement Cells             presently also lacks the         achievements in this
(QECs) at 30 public HEIs      capacity to play a much          respect.
                              more active hand-holding         The issue has been well
                              and mentoring role this          addressed in self-
                              pillar will continue to pose a   assessment report of HESP
                              challenge in the foreseeable     prepared by HEC.
                              future
                              2.3 Monitoring and               HEC QA Division is
                                     Evaluation (M&E)          working to implement and
                                     Design,                   monitor Tenure Track


                                          32
       Implementation and     System in letter and spirit.
       Utilization:
To monitor the new tenure
track system the HEC's
Quality Assurance Division
carried out periodic
assessments. In addition, on-
site visits conducted by the
HEC to collect information
that would facilitate an
objective ranking of
universities in Pakistan
enabled it to assess the
implementation of the
tenure track system.

2.3    Monitoring and          Only one initiative has
       Evaluation (M&E)        been highlighted in this
       Design,                 ICR. There are array of
       Implementation and      programs / steps taken by
       Utilization:            HEC to assure quality of
Concerns about the quality     PhD output, as highlighted
of indigenous PhD              in self-assessment report of
graduates were addressed by    HESP prepared by HEC.
introducing an external
examiner for the final PhD
dissertation, an automatic
monitor for ensuring quality
in local PhD programs.




            33
Annex 5.   Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    34
Annex 6.    List of Supporting Documents


      1. Project Document: Higher Education Support Program, 2009
      2. ISR for HESP from March 2010
      3. Aide Memoires from the following missions in 2008 and 2009
         a. March 10 ­ 20, 2008
         b. October 27 ­ 31, 2008
         c. January 26 ­ February 3, 2009
         d. April 15 ­ 21, 2009
      4. Higher Education Policy Note, 2006
      5. Pakistan Country Assistance Strategy, 2006-2009.




                                       35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33460


                                                                                             PA K I S TA N
                                                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                              MAIN ROADS
                                                    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                      RAILROADS
                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                    RIVERS                                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                                                                 65°E                                                         70°E                                    TAJIKISTAN                                  75°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHI N A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                h                 ra            K2

                                                                                                                                                                         K   us           NORTHERN k o r (Mt. Godwin-
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Austen)
                                                                                                                                                                  u                        AREAS        a m (8,611 m)
                                              PAKISTAN                                                                                                     i   nd     Chitral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ind
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           us
                                                                                                                                                       H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ra
                                                                                                                  FED. CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ng
                                                                                                                     TERRITORY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e
 35°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Approximate
                                                                                                                    ISLAMABAD                                              F. P.
                                                                                                                                                                   N . W . F. P.                                                Line of Control

                                                                                                                                                                                  Saidu

                                                                                                                               To                                                                     Muzaffarabad                       Kargil
                                                                                                                              Kabul                                                                                    Srinagar
                                                                                                                                                                Peshawar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jammu
                                                                                                                                                                                                ISLAMABAD              and Kashmir
                                                                                                                                                                                                Rawalpindi
                                                                                                                                                   Kahat

                                                  AF G H ANI S TAN                                                                  Bannu

                                                                                                                                                                                  lum
                                                                                                                                                                               Jhe                    Gujrat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Gujranwala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mandi




                                                                                                                                                                                         ab
                                                                                                                                      D.I. Khan                                          n
                                                                                 To                                                                                                 C he
                                                                              Kandahar
                                                                                                                       Zhob                                                                                      Lahore
                                                                                                                                                                                                Faisalabad

                                                                                                                                                                                                 vi
                                                                                         Chaman                                                            PUNJAB                              Ra                                       To
                                                                                                                Zhob                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ludhiana
                                                                                                                                                                                                Sahlwal           Bhatinda

 30°N                                                                                        Quetta
                                                                                                                              D.G. Khan                           Multan              tl e j                                             30°N
                                                                                                                                                                                    Su
                                                                                                                                                  us
                                                                                                                                                In d




  To
Kerman                                                                                                                                                             Bahawalpur
                            Nok Kundi
                                                                B A L O C H I S TA N
                                                                                  Surab                                                           rt
                                                                                                                                               se
ISLAMIC                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                           e
REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                               INDIA
                                                                                                                               r
   OF To                                                                                                           Ranipur
                                                                                                                           a




                                                                      ge
                                                                                                                        h




                                        Panjgur
  IRAN Khash                                                      n
                                                                                                                       T




                                                               Ra
                                                                          i
                                                                     s hka




                                                        ran
                                                 M ak
                                                                                                         Moro
                                                                  Ma




                                             l
   To                    Turbat   C e n tr a                                      Bela
                                                                                                                SINDH
 Kerman
                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                               Jodhpur

                    Gwadar
                                      Pasni                                                                  Hyderabad
 25°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25°N

                                                                                 Karachi                 Thatta    Badin
                                                                                                   us
                                                                                                  I nd




This map was produced by
the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                       Rann of Kutch
World Bank. The boundaries,
colors, denominations and
                                              Arabian                         Sea
                                                                                                                                                                              0      50         100      150 200 Kilometers
any other information shown
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                                    0                50         100        150 Miles
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or
acceptance of such
boundaries.                                             65°E                                                                       70°E                                                                                          75°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JANUARY 2005
