Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3534 
Operation Name 
Natural Resources and Environmental Governance Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Forestry (34%);Mining and other extractive (33%);Sanitation 
(33%) 
Project ID 
P102971 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCES AND ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Date PID Prepared 
December 18, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 1, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 3, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Ghana’s growth has historically been fuelled by natural resources. However, recent impressive growth 
rates, in the range of 6-7 percent per year, cannot be sustained in the face of alarmingly high rates of 
NRE depletion, which reduces Ghana’s potential economic growth by one per cent per year . The 
forestry, wildlife, and mining sectors account for 15 percent of Ghana’s GDP, 25 percent of government 
revenues, and 60 percent of foreign exchange. The Country Environmental Analysis (CEA, 2007) 
stressed that the resource base is at an important transition point. For instance, forests and nontimber 
forest product stocks are decreasing rapidly, while wildlife populations and biodiversity are in serious 
decline. This calls into question the sustained utilization of these resources. Over 70 percent of the 
population is dependent on natural resources for their basic food, water, and energy requirements. 
Decreasing environmental quality, notably through air pollution and inadequate water supply and 
sanitation, drastically constrains the quality of life and productivity of Ghana’s population. 
GoG faces serious challenges if it is to achieve its aims of securing the natural resource base, reducing 
environmental degradation, protecting natural resource-dependent communities, and increasing revenues 
from timber and mining sectors. The proposed DPO-1 selectively supports reform efforts by GoG in 
three key natural resources and environment (NRE) sectors—forestry and wildlife, mining, and 
environmental protection—for sustainable growth and development. 
 
2.  Proposed objective(s)   
 
The proposed Credit is the first in a planned series of three development policy operations (DPOs) over 
the period 2008-2010 designed to provide annual budget support and to sustain the implementation of a 
broad program of reforms under Ghana’s planned five-year natural resources and environmental 
governance (NREG) program.  The NREG program has been developed and is fully owned by Ghana’s 
relevant governmental agencies. This proposed first DPO focuses on a set of policies and reforms in the 
inter-related sectors of forestry and wildlife, mining, and environmental protection intended to (a) ensure 
predictable and sustainable financing of the forest and wildlife sectors and effective forest law 
enforcement; (b) improve mining sector revenue collection, management, and transparency in line with 
the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI) “plus plus” agenda ; (c) address social issues in 
forest and mining communities; and (d) mainstream environment into growth through Strategic 
Page  2
Environmental Assessment, Environmental Impact Assessment, and development of a climate change 
strategy. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
This “sector budget support” (SBS) operation is an innovative approach to natural resources governance 
and an innovation for Ghana. It draws on the Framework Memorandum of Understanding that has been 
developed under the leadership of the Government of Ghana (GoG) with five participating development 
partners (DPs)—Agence Française de Développement (AFD), the United Kingdom’s Department for 
International Development (DFID), the European Commission (EC), the Royal Netherlands Embassy in 
Ghana (RNE), and IDA—to provide support to the Ghana’s NREG program. It comprises a three-year 
rolling Performance Assessment Framework and a review process aimed at reducing transactions costs 
for all parties. 
The proposed programmatic DPO series is expected to provide three types of benefits. First, direct 
benefits expected at completion of the proposed series include (a) improved management of government 
revenues and finances in the forestry and mining sectors; (b) reduced illegal logging; (c) reduced social 
conflict in forestry and mining communities; and (d) integration of environmental considerations into 
policy formulation and implementation across government, including risks associated with climate 
change. In addition, there are two intermediate benefits. The first is providing the framework for IDA to 
deepen and expand its engagement in Ghana’s natural resources governance reforms, which to date have 
been supported to a more limited extent under the Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSC).The 
policy dialogue in this area will now be taken up under the NREG program with the aim of achieving 
greater impact. The second is that by leveraging contributions from multiple DPs and harmonizing 
contributions at the sector level, the proposed series lays a strong foundation for GoG to implement 
natural-resource related reforms outlined in the GPRS II policies and increase aid effectiveness in line 
with the Paris Declaration. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
By its very nature, a programmatic DPO to the NRE sectors will provide support for institutional and 
regulatory reform of these sectors in a manner intended to promote reduction in environmental 
depletion.  Therefore, most of these objectives can only have positive impacts on the environment.
 
However, it is possible that a handful of specific objectives related to forestry and mining in the program 
matrix could have some unintended environmental effects. Specifically, these include the objectives of 
attracting investment into the forest and wildlife and mining sectors, diversification of the mineral 
production base, and integration of mining into the economy. All of these, while good for economic 
growth and employment, may induce greater rates of extraction than previously, albeit with a heightened 
focus on environmental impacts due to the program. Consequently, an environmental evaluation 
regarding targets and particularly triggers that could entail risk of environmental damage will be 
undertaken. 
Where obvious, measures to mitigate negative environmental impacts are being included as part and 
parcel of the program. For instance, an increased rate of forest extraction is conceivable under the 
program. Mitigation measures envisaged as part of the program to avoid unsustainable extraction 
include (a) measures to strengthen log-tracking; (b) a move to reflect in investment strategies for forest 
and wildlife sectors mechanisms to define sustainable extraction and sustainable forest certification 
systems; (c) provision of adequate budget to FC; (d) clarification of protected area boundaries; and (e) 
wild fire control systems. Likewise, increased investments in mining, also an aim under the program, 
Page  3
poses social and environmental risks. These will be addressed through (a) the development of guidelines 
on corporate social responsibility (including ALPs); (b) strengthened mine closure/post closure policies 
(including land reclamation/rehabilitation); (c) better enforcement of environmental standards in mining; 
and (d) policies to better organize the activities and introduce more environmentally friendly techniques 
to small-scale miners to mitigate detrimental environmental impacts from this activity.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
RNE, DFID, EC, and AFD have made firm commitments to support the NREG program for the coming 
five years, totaling about US$11 million for the first year and US$16 million for each of the two 
su
bsequent years. IDA’s commitment would be US$20 million for the first year and approximately the 
same amount for each of the two subsequent years. Recognizing the important role of civil society, to 
enable non-state actors to interact more systematically with state institutions related to natural resource 
and environmental governance, DPs (other than IDA) will provide support (approximately US$0.5-1 
million per year) for a civil society facility. The intention is to create a platform for multi-stakeholder 
dialogue enabling civil society to engage with and help achieve the objectives under both NREG and 
Ghana’s Second Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS II). In addition, given its importance 
to natural resources governance, co-financing for initial capacity building and technical assistance 
activities in the emerging oil sector through a parallel PHRD technical assistance  grant may be 
pursued. 
 
SOURCE 
 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 2 
International Development Association (IDA) 
15 
 Total 17 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Jean-Christophe Carret 
Title: Sr Natural Resources Economist. 
Tel: (202) 473-5965 
Fax:  
Email: jcarret@worldbank.org
 
