Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3726 
Operation Name 
Natural Resources and Environmental Governance Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Forestry (34%); Mining and other extractive (33%); Sanitation 
(33%) 
Project ID 
P102971 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCES AND ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Date PID Prepared 
March 10, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 25, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
June 3, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Ghana’s growth has historically been fuelled by natural resources. However, recent impressive 
growth rates, in the range of 6-7 percent per year, cannot be sustained in the face of alarmingly 
high rates of NRE depletion, which reduces Ghana’s potential economic growth by one per cent 
per year . The forestry, wildlife, and mining sectors account for 15 percent of Ghana’s GDP, 25 
percent of government revenues, and 60 percent of foreign exchange. The Country 
Environmental Analysis (CEA, 2007) stressed that the resource base is at an important transition 
point. For instance, forests and nontimber forest product stocks are decreasing rapidly, while 
wildlife populations and biodiversity are in serious decline. This calls into question the sustained 
utilization of these resources. Over 70 percent of the population is dependent on natural 
resources for their basic food, water, and energy requirements. Decreasing environmental 
quality, notably through air pollution and inadequate water supply and sanitation, drastically 
constrains the quality of life and productivity of Ghana’s population. 
GoG faces serious challenges if it is to achieve its aims of securing the natural resource base, 
reducing environmental degradation, protecting natural resource-dependent communities, and 
increasing revenues from timber and mining sectors. The proposed DPO-1 selectively supports 
reform efforts by GoG in three key natural resources and environment (NRE) sectors—forestry 
and wildlife, mining, and environmental protection—for sustainable growth and development. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
Ghana’s growth has historically been fuelled by natural resources. However, recent impressive 
growth rates, in the range of 6-7 percent per year, cannot be sustained in the face of alarmingly 
high rates of NRE depletion, which reduces Ghana’s potential economic growth by one per cent 
per year . The forestry, wildlife, and mining sectors account for 15 percent of Ghana’s GDP, 25 
percent of government revenues, and 60 percent of foreign exchange. The Country 
Environmental Analysis (CEA, 2007) stressed that the resource base is at an important transition 
point. For instance, forests and nontimber forest product stocks are decreasing rapidly, while 
wildlife populations and biodiversity are in serious decline. This calls into question the sustained 
utilization of these resources. Over 70 percent of the population is dependent on natural 
Page  2
resources for their basic food, water, and energy requirements. Decreasing environmental 
quality, notably through air pollution and inadequate water supply and sanitation, drastically 
constrains the quality of life and productivity of Ghana’s population. 
GoG faces serious challenges if it is to achieve its aims of securing the natural resource base, 
reducing environmental degradation, protecting natural resource-dependent communities, and 
increasing revenues from timber and mining sectors. The proposed DPO-1 selectively supports 
reform efforts by GoG in three key natural resources and environment (NRE) sectors—forestry 
and wildlife, mining, and environmental protection—for sustainable growth and development. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Given the broadness of the Multi-Donor Budget Support (MDBS) agenda, the depth and range of 
the policy dialogue on NRE issues is not sufficient to achieve all that is envisaged in the NRE 
sectors. In developing a sector-specific program—covering the critical areas of forestry and 
wildlife, mining, and environment—GoG and DPs are committing to a more profound 
partnership. The decision to develop a separate program with a focus on natural resources 
governance rather than to include additional natural resource governance issues in the MDBS is 
an acknowledgement by GoG and DPs of the complexity of natural resources governance issues 
and the need to have a focused, in-depth, sector-specific dialogue and program if significant 
reforms are to be realized. This is especially important given the emerging oil sector, where the 
risk of not “getting it right” can have far-reaching impacts. The GoG-DP Environment and 
Natural Resources Management (ENRM) sector group and MDBS group will continue to work 
closely together so that dialogue and program matrices are fully aligned and complementary, 
rather than overlapping. 
 
4. Financing 
RNE, DFID, EC, and AFD have made firm commitments to support the NREG program for the 
coming five years, totaling about US$11 million for the first year and US$16 million for each of 
the two subsequent years. IDA’s commitment would be US$20 million for the first year and 
approximately the same amount for each of the two subsequent years. Recognizing the important 
role of civil society, to enable non-state actors to interact more systematically with state 
institutions related to natural resource and environmental governance, DPs (other than IDA) will 
provide support (approximately US$0.5-1 million per year) for a civil society facility. The 
intention is to create a platform for multi-stakeholder dialogue enabling civil society to engage 
with and help achieve the objectives under both NREG and Ghana’s Growth and Poverty 
Reduction Strategy (GPRS II). In addition, given its importance to natural resources governance, 
co-financing for initial capacity building and technical assistance activities in the emerging oil 
sector through a parallel PHRD technical assistance  grant may be pursued. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Ministry of Finance and economic of Planning (MoFEP will) be in charge of overall 
implementation of the proposed operation. The relevant line Ministries— Ministry of Lands, 
Forestry and Mines (MLFM) and Local Government, Rural Development and Environment 
Page  3
(MLGRDE)
—will be responsible for conducting the sectoral discussions and assessment of the 
program matrix. All DPs involved in the program are part of the ENRM sector group
1
and will 
review progress of implementation on the basis of the targets and triggers of the PAF agreed with 
the MDAs involved.  
 A High Level NREG  Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister of Finance and Economic 
Planning and including the Ministers of Lands, Forestry and Mines and Local Government, 
Rural Development and Environment, has been established for the purpose of taking policy and 
strategic decisions in regard to the NREG program. A Technical Coordination Committee, in 
which all relevant MDAs are represented, has also been established to organize and coordinate 
the policy dialogue and the annual reviews of the NREG Performance Assessment Framework 
(PAF). The Technical Coordination Committee and its Technical Secretariat have the key 
responsibility of coordinating cross-sectoral and common issues reflected in the sub-sectoral 
matrices of the MDAs involved in the NREG program. 
The ENRM sector group conducts a continuous sector policy dialogue between GoG sector 
representatives and interested DPs. This dialogue will not only relate to the formulation of NRE 
sector strategies and implementation plans, but also to assessing the coherence of NRE sector 
strategic plans and sector budgets vis-a-vis the GPRS II. The ENRM sector group will also 
exchange views and seek agreement on the definition of suitable sector level indicators, expected 
outcomes, and realistic targets, as input to the GPRS II results matrix. It reviews the performance 
of the NRE sector and exchange views on progress towards agreed outcomes as well as on 
actions that could contribute to improved performance. These NRE sector reviews will 
contribute to the performance assessment processes of the annual budget cycle, the MDBS and 
the NREG program. The signatory DPs to the FM will appoint one DP as focal point to facilitate 
easy communication between GOG and DPs . 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed programmatic DPO series is expected to provide three types of benefits. First, 
direct benefits expected at completion of the proposed series include (a) improved management 
of government revenues and finances in the forestry and mining sectors; (b) reduced illegal 
logging; (c) reduced social conflict in forestry and mining communities; and (d) integration of 
environmental considerations into policy formulation and implementation across government, 
including risks associated with climate change. In addition, there are two intermediate benefits. 
The first is providing the framework for IDA to deepen and expand its engagement in Ghana’s 
natural resources governance reforms, which to date have been supported to a more limited 
extent under the Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSC). The policy dialogue in this area 
will now be taken up under the NREG program with the aim of achieving greater impact. The 
second is that by leveraging contributions from multiple DPs and harmonizing contributions at 
the sector level, the proposed series lays a strong foundation for GoG to implement natural-
resource related reforms outlined in the GPRS II policies, increase aid effectiveness in line with 
1
The ENRM sector group consists of sector MDAs and DPs involved in the sector and has a GOG and DP agreed TOR and 
mandate. The sector group is chaired by a DP and a GOG representative whereby the DP sector lead is also a signatory of the 
NREG Framework Memorandum.
 
Page  4
the Paris Declaration, and strengthen mechanisms for planning and accountability across sectoral 
ministries and agencies and the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MoFEP). 
Natural resource and environmental governance is highly sensitive and contested with a complex 
institutional and contextual history. The ongoing PRSCs in Ghana have identified as a risk the 
country’s inadequate management of its natural resources. As such, there is growing pressure on 
GoG to increase transparency in the management of such resources (heightened by the recent 
discovery of petroleum off the coast of Ghana), ensure the long-term sustainability of renewable 
natural resource assets, and maximize benefits, in a socially and environmentally sustainable 
manner, from the exploitation of non-renewable natural resource assets. Risks to achieving this 
include inadequate capacity in the supported sectors and poor coordination between the sectors. 
The NREG program addresses this by channeling resources to enhance capacity as well as a 
mechanism to promote inter-sector collaboration. The shift from investment projects to sector 
budget support also poses a risk, given that government counterparts in the NREG sectors are 
familiar with investment projects, but less familiar with budget support. In this first year, the 
transition may prove difficult; however the intense dialogue with government counterparts 
during preparation of the NREG program has helped to mitigate this risk. Thorough stakeholder 
consultations and active dissemination of information will also aim to make the transition easier 
and help manage expectations in the highly political nature of the sectors involved. In addition, 
while GoG has been receiving support through PRSCs for the past six years, there remain 
weaknesses in the government’s financial management capacity. These include: (a) sector 
ministries, departments, and agencies low capacity to prepare comprehensive work plans that are 
accurately costed; (b) low budget ceilings given by MoFEP to line ministries to accommodate 
the additional financing requirements for implementing the NREG program; and (c) delays in the 
release of funds. These risks will be mitigated through technical assistance financed by the 
PHRD preparation and eventually technical assistance grant and targets/triggers related to 
strengthening public financial management under the PRSC and the MDBS. A few program 
matrix activities may also have negative distributional impacts for certain stakeholder groups. To 
manage the potential political and social risks, a poverty and social impact analysis has identified 
mitigation measures and opportunities to increase positive impacts. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
A
preliminary analysis of the key poverty and social aspects was undertaken based on existing 
literature, country consultations, and rapid appraisals during the scoping mission. The analysis 
focused on (a) the social dynamics of NRE governance; (b) poverty and social issues of forestry 
and wildlife, (c) social tensions and the social license to operate in the mining sector; and (d) 
social and geographical dimensions of environmental challenges and climate change. As a result 
of the analysis and extensive consultations with key stakeholder groups, the DPO will support 
policy changes that improve management of revenues and financial flows, secure livelihoods in 
the forestry, wildlife and mining sub-sectors, and build citizens voice. These policy changes are 
outlined in the policy matrices. 
In recognition of some knowledge, gaps a two-phased PSIA was designed to focus in more depth 
on the poverty and social impacts of the prior actions and triggers. These include, for forestry 
and wildlife, effective law enforcement, and predictable and sustainable financing; for mining, 
addressing social issues, enhanced policy and regulatory framework and effective coordination, 
Page  5
and improved revenue collection, management and transparency; for environmental protection, 
cross-sectoral environmental management, application of SEA to inform decision-making and 
mainstream environment in sectors, improved EIA processes and compliance. The aim of this 
two-phased process is to support inclusive policy making by providing further evidence with 
which policy makers and other stakeholders can inform their discussions with the wide range of 
actors engaged in the natural resource management debate in Ghana. Hence, each of these phases 
will be closely coordinated with the design of the program and the policy dialogue among 
government, civil society, private sector, and DPs.  
 
The first phase, now underway, focused on the Stakeholder and Risk Analysis dimensions of the 
PSIA. It provided input into program design for 2008 and 2009 indicative triggers and targets. In 
Ghana, extensive stakeholder analysis for the mining and forestry sectors already exists. Building 
on this work, the first phase undertook a quick scoping to list and plot the stakeholders and their 
relationship to the policy process. As such, it served as a first step towards understanding better 
the political economy surrounding the reforms. The Stakeholder and Risk Analysis emphasized 
the complexities of the sectors, the risk factors, and political/regulatory considerations. During 
the second phase, a more in-depth PSIA will be conducted for key reforms, building on the 
results of the stakeholder and risk analysis. The results of the PSIA will provide inputs into the 
public discussions around the NREG’s indicative triggers and targets and design for 2009 and 
will be conducted in 2008. 
 
By its very nature, a programmatic DPO to the NRE sectors will provide support for institutional 
and regulatory reform of these sectors in a manner intended to promote reduction in 
environmental depletion.  Therefore, most of these objectives can only have positive impacts on 
the environment.
 
However, it is possible that a handful of specific objectives related to forestry 
and mining in the program matrix could have some unintended environmental effects. 
Specifically, these include the objectives of attracting investment into the forest and wildlife and 
mining sectors, diversification of the mineral production base, and integration of mining into the 
economy. All of these, while good for economic growth and employment, may induce greater 
rates of extraction than previously, albeit with a heightened focus on environmental impacts due 
to the program. Consequently, an environmental evaluation regarding targets and particularly 
triggers that could entail risk of environmental damage will be undertaken. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Jean-Christophe Carret 
Title: Sr Natural Resources Economist. 
Tel: (202) 473-5965 
Fax:  
Email: jcarret@worldbank.org 
 
Page  6
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
